biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
somatic muscle that is part of the first abdominal segment .
multicellular anatomical structure that transduces some sensory stimulus to the nervous system .
anatomical structure that has multiple cells as parts .
material anatomical entity that has inherent 3d shape ,  whose parts are all connected and that is generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical structure that is a primary subdivision of whole organism .
organism subdivision that protrudes from the head or trunk .
paired locomotory organ on the ventrolateral side of all thoracic segments ,  which is used for locomotion .
somatic muscle that is part of the second abdominal segment .
somatic muscle that is part of the third abdominal segment .
somatic muscle that is part of the fourth abdominal segment .
somatic muscle that is part of the fifth abdominal segment .
somatic muscle that is part of the sixth abdominal segment .
somatic muscle that is part of the seventh abdominal segment .
somatic muscle that is part of the eighth abdominal segment .
somatic muscle that is part of the ninth abdominal segment .
somatic muscle that is part of the larval abdomen .
somatic muscle that is part of the pupal abdomen .
somatic muscle that is part of the abdomen .
somatic muscle that is part of the first abdominal segment in the larva .
somatic muscle that is part of the second abdominal segment in the larva .
paired walking leg on the ventrolateral side of the adult thoracic segments .
somatic muscle that is part of the third abdominal segment in the larva .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of the species tribolium castaneum .
the early developmental stage of an animal while it is in the egg or within the uterus of the mother .
the developmental stage after hatching from the egg and before starting metamorphosis to the pupa .
the pupa is the name given to the organism at the period of the life cycle that begins once larval / pupal apolysis is complete ,  as indicated by the expulsion of the larval armature .
sexually reproductive organism after eclosion / after the pupal stage .
somatic muscle that is part of the fourth abdominal segment in the larva .
paired locomotory organ on the ventrolateral side of the pupal thoracic segment ,  which is unsuitable for locomotion .
paired locomotory organ on the ventrolateral side of the three larva thoracic segments ,  which is used for locomotion .
the leg that is located on the prothorax .
the leg that is located on the mesothorax .
the leg that is located on the metathorax .
any appendage segment  ( fbbt:00007018 )  that is part of some leg  ( fbbt:00004640 )  .
the leg that is located on the adult prothorax ,  the thoracic segment that is located between the head and the mesothorax and is composed of the pronotum ,  the propectus and the fore leg .
somatic muscle that is part of the fifth abdominal segment in the larva .
somatic muscle that is part of the sixth abdominal segment in the larva .
somatic muscle that is part of the seventh abdominal segment in the larva .
most posterior of the gnathal segments bearing the labium .
the leg that is located on the larval prothorax ,  the thoracic segment that is located between the head and the mesothorax and is composed of the pronotum ,  the propectus and the fore leg .
the leg that is located on the prothorax of the pupa ,  the thoracic segment that is located between the head and the mesothorax and is composed of the pronotum ,  the propectus and the fore leg .
the basalmost podomere of the thoracic leg ,  which is adjoining to the thorax through specific sclerites  ( episternum ,  epimeron )  .
proximal most segment of the adult leg .
the first ,  basalmost part of the thoracic pupal leg ,  which is adjoining to the thorax ,  through specific sclerites  ( episternum ,  epimeron )  .
the first ,  basalmost part of the thoracic larval leg ,  which either adjoining to the thorax through specific sclerites  ( episternum ,  epimeron )  .
the coxa located on the prothoracic leg pair /  fore legs .
the coxa located on the mesothoracic leg pair /  middle legs .
the coxa located on the metathoracic leg pair /  hind legs .
the coxa of the prothoracic adult leg pair /  fore legs .
the coxa of the prothoracic pupal leg pair /  fore legs .
the coxa of the prothoracic larval leg pair /  fore legs .
the coxa of the mesothoracic adult leg pair /  middle legs .
somatic muscle that is part of the eighth abdominal segment in the larva .
the coxa of the mesothoracic pupal leg pair /  middle legs .
the coxa of the mesothoracic larval leg pair /  middle legs .
the coxa of the metathoracic adult leg pair /  hind legs .
the coxa of the metathoracic pupal leg pair /  hind legs .
the coxa of the metathoracic larval leg pair /  hind legs .
somatic muscle that is part of the ninth abdominal segment in the larva .
first larval instar .
the smallest leg segment and the second most proximal segment / joint of the leg located proximal to the femur and distal to the coxa .
third podomere of the thoracic leg between the trochanter and the tibia .
fourth most proximal podomere of the leg .
the distal constituent part of the leg consisting of five subsegements ,  the tarsomere ,  in the first and second pairs of legs and only four in the third pair of legs .
a larva - specific condition of the leg where the tibia and the tarsus are fused without joint .
in the adult the large ,  third most proximal segment of the adult thoracic leg between the trochanter and the tibia .
in the pupa the large ,  third most proximal segment of the pupal thoracic leg between the trochanter and the tibia .
in the larva the large ,  third most proximal segment of the larval thoracic leg between the trochanter and the tibia .
the femur of the prothoracic leg pair /  fore legs .
the femur of the metathoracic leg pair /  hind legs .
the femur of the mesothoracic leg pair /  middle legs .
in the adult the femur of the prothoracic leg pair /  fore legs .
in the adult the femur of the mesothoracic leg pair /  middle legs .
in the adult the femur of the metathoracic leg pair /  hind legs .
the leg that is located on the adult mesothorax ,  the thoracic segment that is located between the prothorax and the metathorax and is delimited by the mesopectus and the mesonotum .
the leg that is located on the larval mesothorax ,  the thoracic segment that is located between the prothorax and the metathorax and is delimited by the mesopectus and the mesonotum .
the leg that is located on the mesothorax of the pupa ,  the thoracic segment that is located between the prothorax and the metathorax and is delimited by the mesopectus and the mesonotum .
the leg that is located on the adult metathorax ,  the thoracic segment that is located between the mesothorax and the first abdominal tergum and is delimited by the metanotum and the metapectus .
the leg that is located on the larval metathorax ,  the thoracic segment that is located between the mesothorax and the first abdominal tergum and is delimited by the metanotum and the metapectus .
the leg that is located on the pupal metathorax ,  the thoracic segment that is located between the mesothorax and the first abdominal tergum and is delimited by the metanotum and the metapectus .
in the pupa the femur of the prothoracic leg pair /  fore legs .
in the pupa the femur of the mesothoracic leg pair /  middle legs .
in the pupa the femur of the metathoracic leg pair /  hind legs .
the chorion ,  or eggshell ,  is commonly pierced by respiratory openings that lead to an air - filled meshwork inside the shell .
a row of setae and bristles located in the dorsal and lateral part of the anterior prothorax posterior to cervix .
1 .the mostly narrow connection between the occiput and the thorax ,  the major components derive from the occipital region .
in the larva the femur of the prothoracic leg pair /  fore legs .
in the larva the femur of the mesothoracic leg pair /  middle legs .
in the larva the femur of the metathoracic leg pair /  hind legs .
most posterior of the adult gnathal segments .
hairs and bristles which build densely surface on the hind femur ,  which supposedly emits odoriferous substance playing a role in finding the partner .
the trochanter that is located on the fore legs .
the trochanter that is located on the mid leg .
the trochanter that is located on the hind leg .
small ,  second most proximal segment of the adult leg .
the smallest leg segment and the second most proximal segment / joint of the pupal leg located proximal to the femur and distal to the coxa .
the smallest leg segment and the second most proximal segment / joint of the larval leg located proximal to the femur and distal to the coxa .
the anal appendage probably derived of the tenth abdominal segment .
pygopodium of the pupa .
the trochanter of the adult prothoracic leg pair .
the trochanter that is located on the mid leg of the adult .
the trochanter of the adult metathoracic leg pair .
the trochanter of the pupal prothoracic leg pair .
the trochanter of the pupal mesothoracic leg pair .
the trochanter of the pupal metathoracic leg pair .
the trochanter of the larval prothoracic leg pair .
the trochanter of the larval metathoracic leg pair .
the trochanter of the larval mesothoracic leg pair .
also called fore tibia .the tibia of the prothoracic legs .
also called middle tibia .the tibia of the mesothoracic legs .
also called hind tibia .the tibia of the metathoracic legs .
the tibia of the adult stage .
the tibia of the pupal stage .
the tibia of the adult prothoracic legs .
the tibia of the adult mesothoracic legs .
the tibia of the adult metathoracic legs .
the tibia of the pupal prothoracic legs .
the tibia of the pupal mesothoracic legs .
the tibia of the pupal metathoracic legs .
the tarsus in the adult stage .
the tarsus in the pupal stage .
the tarsus of the prothoracic leg .
the tarsus of the mesothoracic leg .
the tarsus of the metathoracic leg .
the tarsus of the prothoracic leg of the adult stage .
the tarsus of the mesothoracic leg in the adult stage .
the tarsus of the metathoracic leg of the adult stage .
the tarsus of the metathoracic leg of the pupal stage .
the tarsus of the mesothoracic leg in the pupal stage .
the tarsus of the prothoracic leg of the pupal stage .
the tibiotarsus of the larval leg .
the tibiotarsus of the prothoracic leg .
the tibiotarsus of the mesothoracic leg .
the tibiotarsus of the metathoracic leg .
in the larva the tibiotarsus of the prothoracic leg .
a condition of the larval mesothoracic leg when the tibia and the tarsus immoveably fused .
in the larva the tibiotarsus of the mesothoracic leg .
one of the components of the tarsus .
fifth ,  - and most distal -  ,  segment of the larval leg .
the pretarsus of the adult leg .
the pretarsus of the pupal leg .
the pretarsus of the larval leg .
the pretarsus of the prothoracic leg .
the pretarsus of the mesothoracic leg .
the pretarsus of the metathoracic leg .
most posterior of the larval gnathal segments .
in the adult the pretarsus of the prothoracic leg .
in the adult the pretarsus of the mesothoracic leg .
in the adult the pretarsus of the metathoracic leg .
in the pupa the pretarsus of the prothoracic leg .
in the pupa the pretarsus of the mesothoracic leg .
in the pupa the pretarsus of the metathoracic leg .
in the larva the pretarsus of the prothoracic leg .
in the larva the pretarsus of the mesothoracic leg .
in the larva the pretarsus of the metathoracic leg .
most posterior of the pupal gnathal segments .
a division of the whole organism into specialized systems .
anatomical structures which is a primary subdivision of the whole organism from the anterior to the posterior end  .
a specialized grouping of multiple segments or metameres into a coherently functional morphological unit ,  for instances the three main subdivisions  ( head ,  thorax ,  abdomen )  of an insect .
any tagma  ( fbbt:00000002 )  that is part of some adult  ( fbbt:00003004 )  .
any tagma that is part of some pupa .
the tagma that is located in the larva .
the tagma posterior to the thorax .
the tagma between head and abdomen ,  comprising three segments .
the tagma that is located anterior to the thorax .
thorax of the adult .
abdomen of the adult .
head of the adult organism .
pygopodium of the larva .
the most posterior part of the abdomen derived from abdominal segments 9 , 10 and non - segmental posterior tissue .
gnathal appendage derived from the labial segment .
anatomical structure ,  which consists of a specific set of the members of  ( predominantly )  one organ or organ part subclass interconnected by zones of continuity or body substances ;  is demarcated from other subdivisions of the same organ system by one or more zones of continuity or anatomical lines ;  together with other subdivisions of the same organ system ,  it constitutes an organ system .
a region of cuticle and its underlying epidermis .
a tagmatic subdivision of the integument of the whole animal .
one of the repeated divisions of the whole organism .
any segment  ( fbbt:00000003 )  that is part of some thorax  ( fbbt:00000015 )  .
any segment  ( fbbt:00000003 )  that is part of some adult thorax  ( fbbt:00000015 )  .
segment of the adult .
the adult thoracic epidermis with the overlying exosceleton .
a segmental subdivision of the integument of the whole animal .
the adult prothoracic epidermis with the overlying exosceleton .
the first  ( most anterior )  segment of the adult thorax .
the second  ( middle )  segment of the adult thorax .
the third  ( most posterior )  segment of the adult thorax .
subdivision of integument largely defined by patterns of sclerotization and sutures .
the dorsal part of the first  ( most anterior )  segment of the thorax .
the ventral part of the first  ( most anterior )  segment of the thorax of the adult animal .
the dorsal exoskeletal plate of a segment .
dorsal exoskeletal plate of the first thoracic segment  ( prothorax )  .
the dorsal part / aspect of the prothorax which is heavily punctate .
specialisation of regions of the cuticle and its underlying epidermis .
the plate or small plates directly behind each coxa .
in the general sense ,  the ventral half / plate of a body segment ,  more specifically ,  the underside of the three thoracic segments in insects that may be a unified whole or may comprise several parts .
the prosternum is the ventral plate of the prothoracic segment .
the prosternum rounded to carinate medially ,  with anterior margin sinuate ,  medial convexity continuous onto prosternal process .
also pleuron .the lateral exoskeletal plate or plates between the tergum and the sternum of a segment .
also pleuron .the lateral exoskeletal plate or plates between the tergum and the sternum of the prothoracic segment .
the anterior plate of the pleuron  ( lateral region of the adult thorax )  .
posterior terminus of the larval stage .
the adult mesothoracic epidermis with the overlying exosceleton .
the ventral part of the second  ( middle )  segment of the thorax .
the dorsal part of the second  ( middle )  segment of the thorax .
posterior terminus of the pupal stage .
dorsal exoskeletal plate of the second  ( middle )  thoracic segment  ( mesothorax )  .
the upper ,  dorsal part of the mesothorax .
a small triangular plate posterior of the pronotum and between the anterior elytra .
labium of the adult .carries the distal glossa and jointed labial palps .
also pleuron .the lateral exoskeletal plate or plates between the tergum and the sternum of a the mesothoracic segment .
the anterior part of the pleuron  ( lateral plate of the adult thorax )  of the mesothoracic segment .
in the pupa one of the facets of the compound eye .
the posterior plate of the pleuron  ( lateral region of the adult thorax )  above the coxa .
the posterior part of the pleuron  ( lateral plate of the adult thorax )  of the mesothoracic segment .
part of the pupal mouthparts and located between the maxillae and continuous anterodorsally with the hypopharyngeal wall .
the most ventral ,  usually largest ,  part of the sternum and located between the coxae .
anterior ventral plate of the mesothorax .
one of the thoracic sterna .
the adult metathoracic epidermis with the overlying exosceleton .
the ventral part of the third  ( most posterior )  thoracic segment .
the dorsal part of the third  ( most posterior )  thoracic segment .
in the adult one of the facets of the compound eye .
the thickened line that delimits the periphery of the hindwing .
dorsal exoskeletal plate of the third  ( last )  thoracic segment  ( metathorax )  .
the upper ,  dorsal part of the metathorax .
the anterior part of the metapleuron  ( lateral plate of the adult thorax )  of the metathoracic segment .
also pleuron .the lateral exoskeletal plate or plates between the tergum and the sternum of a metathoracic segment .
sternite of the metathoracic sternum  ( metasternum )  with the median groove ,  which projects anteriorly to the mesobasisternite with the intercoxal process .
the posterior part of the pleuron  ( lateral plate of the adult thorax )  of the metathoracic segment .
sternum of the metathorax .consists of the metabasisternite and the metasternellum  ( or metafurcasternite )  bearing a prominent  \ nmedian groove .
an inner sclerite between the trochantin and the episternum ;  the lateral sclerites of the clypeus .
the prominent ventral furrow of the metasternum of the metathorax which extends anteriorly from the median plate of the sternum where external grooves or internal ridges meet ,  incising the metathorax about three - fifths of the way to metasternal median process .
thorax of the pupa .
in the pupa the thoracic epidermis with the overlying exosceleton .
the thickened line that delimits the periphery of the adult hindwing .
the first  ( most anterior )  segment of the thorax .
the second  ( middle )  segment of the thorax .
the third  ( most posterior )  segment of the thorax .
any segment of the larva .
any segment  ( fbbt:00000003 )  that is part of some larva thorax  ( fbbt:00000015 )  .
the larval tagma that is composed of the prothorax ,  mesothorax and metathorax and is located between the head and the abdomen .
the first  ( most anterior )  segment of the larva three segmented thorax .
the second  ( middle )  segment of the larval three segmented thorax .
the third  ( most posterior )  segment of the larva three segmented thorax .
segment of the pupa .
any segment  ( fbbt:00000003 )  that is part of some pupal thorax  ( fbbt:00000015 )  .
the first  ( most anterior )  segment of the pupal three segmented thorax .
the second  ( middle )  segment of the pupal three segmented thorax .
the third  ( most posterior )  segment of the pupal three segmented thorax .
in the pupa the prothoracic epidermis with the overlying exosceleton .
in the pupa the mesothoracic epidermis with the overlying exosceleton .
in the pupa the metathoracic epidermis with the overlying exosceleton .
the thickened line that delimits the periphery of the pupal hindwing .
the dorsal part of the first most anterior segment of the adult thorax ,  the prothorax .
on any body region of the adult ,  a sensillum with a long ,  unicellular ,  setiform outgrowth that is strongly sclerotized .
in the adult  the upper ,  originally dorsal unpaired exoskeletal plate of the prothoracic segment .
in the pupa  the upper ,  originally dorsal unpaired exoskeletal plate of the prothoracic segment .
the dorsal part of the adult prothorax .
the dorsal part of the first  ( most anterior )  segment of the pupal thorax .
the dorsal part of the pupal prothorax .
the ventral part of the first  ( most anterior )  segment of the thorax .
in the adult one of the thoracic sternum ,  which are all the plates combined on the ventral aspect of thorax .
the ventral part of the first  ( most anterior )  segment of the thorax of the pupa .
in the pupa one of the thoracic sternum ,  which are all the plates combined on the ventral aspect of thorax .
the dorsal part of the second  ( middle )  segment of the adult thorax .
the dorsal part of the second  ( middle )  segment of the pupal thorax .
the ventral part of the second  ( middle )  segment of the thorax of the adult animal .
the ventral part of the second  ( middle )  segment of the thorax of the pupa .
in the adult  the upper ,  originally dorsal unpaired exoskeletal plate of the mesothoracic segment .
in the pupa  the upper ,  originally dorsal unpaired exoskeletal plate of the mesothoracic segment .
in the adult the upper ,  dorsal part of the usually wingless mesothorax .
on any body region of the pupa ,  a sensillum with a long ,  unicellular ,  setiform outgrowth that is strongly sclerotized .
in the pupa the upper ,  dorsal part of the usually wingless mesothorax .
in the adult one of the thoracic sterna .
in the pupa one of the thoracic sterna .
labium of the larva .does not have a glossa .
on any body region of the larva ,  a sensillum with a long ,  unicellular ,  setiform outgrowth that is strongly sclerotized .
the dorsal part of the third  ( most posterior )  thoracic segment of the adult animal .
the dorsal part of the third  ( most posterior )  thoracic segment of the pupa .
on the abdominal segments of the animal ,  a sensillum with a long ,  unicellular ,  setiform outgrowth that is strongly sclerotized .
on the abdominal segments of the pupa ,  a sensillum with a long ,  unicellular ,  setiform outgrowth that is strongly sclerotized .
in the adult  the upper ,  originally dorsal unpaired exoskeletal plate of the metathoracic segment .
in the pupa  the upper ,  originally dorsal unpaired exoskeletal plate of the metathoracic segment .
in the adult the upper ,  dorsal part of the usually wingless metathorax .
in the pupa the upper ,  dorsal part of the usually wingless metathorax .
in the adult the sternum of the metathorax .
in the pupa the sternum of the metathorax .
the ventral part of the third  ( most posterior )  thoracic segment of the thorax of the adult animal .
the ventral part of the third  ( most posterior )  thoracic segment of the thorax of the pupa .
in the larva the thoracic epidermis with the overlying exosceleton .
in the larva the prothoracic epidermis with the overlying exosceleton .
the dorsal part of the first  ( most anterior )  segment of the larva thorax .
on the abdominal segments of the adult ,  a sensillum with a long ,  unicellular ,  setiform outgrowth that is strongly sclerotized .
on the abdominal segments of the larva ,  a sensillum with a long ,  unicellular ,  setiform outgrowth that is strongly sclerotized .
the ventral part of the first  ( most anterior )  segment of the thorax of the larva .
in the larva  the upper ,  originally dorsal unpaired exoskeletal plate of the prothoracic segment .
the dorsal part of the larval prothorax .
in the larva one of the thoracic sternum ,  which are all the plates combined on the ventral aspect of thorax .
in the larva the mesothoracic epidermis with the overlying exosceleton .
the dorsal part of the second  ( middle )  segment of the larva thorax .
in the larva  the upper ,  originally dorsal unpaired exoskeletal plate of the mesothoracic segment .
in the larva the upper ,  dorsal part of the usually wingless mesothorax .
any structure and part of the labium .
the ventral part of the second  ( middle )  segment of the thorax of the larva .
in the larva one of the thoracic sternum ,  which are all the plates combined on the ventral aspect of thorax .
in the larva the metathoracic epidermis with the overlying exosceleton .
the dorsal part of the third  ( most posterior )  thoracic segment of the larva .
in the larva  the upper ,  originally dorsal unpaired exoskeletal plate of the metathoracic segment .
in the larva the upper ,  dorsal part of the usually wingless metathorax .
the ventral part of the third  ( most posterior )  thoracic segment of the thorax of the larva .
in the larva the sternum of the metathorax .
in the adult lateral exoskeletal plate or plates between the tergum and the sternum of the prothoracic segment .
medially ,  behind the sternellum of the adult prothorax ,  is the basisternum of the adult mesothorax  ( adult mesobasisternum )  .
in the adult lateral exoskeletal plate or plates between the tergum and the sternum of a the mesothoracic segment .
in the adult the lateral exoskeletal plate or plates between the tergum and the sternum of a metathoracic segment .
in the adult the sternite of the metathoracic sternum  ( metasternum )  with the median groove ,  which projects anteriorly to the mesobasisternite with the intercoxal process .
in the adult the anterior part of the pleuron  ( lateral plate of the adult thorax )  of the mesothoracic segment ,  above the middle coxa .
in the adult the anterior part of the metapleuron  ( lateral plate of the adult thorax )  of the metathoracic segment .
in the adult the posterior part of the pleuron and the lateral plate of the mesothoracic segment .
in the adult the posterior part of the pleuron  ( lateral plate of the adult thorax )  of the metathoracic segment .
the paired  ( membranous )  organ of insects on the dorsolateral margin of the meso - and / or metathorax .
heavily ,  chitinized ,  fore wing protecting the soft abdomen and the membranous hind wing .
the paired membranous flight organ articulating at the meeting point of the metanotum and the metapleuron .
singular elytron .in the adult heavily ,  chitinized ,  leathery fore wing protecting the soft abdomen and the membranous hindwing .
developing elytra at the pupal stage .
the paired membranous flight organ of a pupa articulating at the meeting point of the metanotum and the metapleuron .
the paired membranous flight organ of an adult articulating at the meeting point of the metanotum and the metapleuron .
the pupal tagma that is located posterior to the thorax .
the larval tagma that is located posterior to the thorax .
metameric subdivision  ( segment )  of the abdomen .
the abdominal segment that is located between the metathorax and abdominal segment 2 .
the abdominal segment that has a sternum and that is anterior to all other abdominal segments with a sternum .
the abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 2 and abdominal segment 4 .
the abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 3 and abdominal segment 5 .
the abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 4 and abdominal segment 6 .
the abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 5 and abdominal segment 7 .
the abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 6 and abdominal segment 8 .
the abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 7 and abdominal segment 9 .
the abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 8 and abdominal segment 10 ,  the posterior terminus of the animal .
any abdominal segment  ( fbbt:00000021 )  that is part of some adult abdomen  ( fbbt:00003023 )  .
any abdominal segment 1  ( fbbt:00000022 )  that is part of some adult abdomen  ( fbbt:00003023 )  .
any abdominal segment 2  ( fbbt:00000023 )  that is part of some adult abdomen  ( fbbt:00003023 )  .
any abdominal segment 3  ( fbbt:00000024 )  that is part of some adult abdomen  ( fbbt:00003023 )  .
any abdominal segment 4  ( fbbt:00000025 )  that is part of some adult abdomen  ( fbbt:00003023 )  .
any abdominal segment 5  ( fbbt:00000026 )  that is part of some adult abdomen  ( fbbt:00003023 )  .
any abdominal segment 6  ( fbbt:00000027 )  that is part of some adult abdomen  ( fbbt:00003023 )  .
any abdominal segment 7  ( fbbt:00000028 )  that is part of some adult abdomen  ( fbbt:00003023 )  .
the organ system that forms the covering layer of the animal .
the organ system that forms the covering layer of the adult .
the adult animal the abdominal epidermis with the overlying exosceleton .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
the outer non - living extracellular layer of the integumentary system ,  the exosceleton ,  derived from the epidermis .
the adaptational diversity of an insect is best expressed by the chemical as well as structural specialization of the chitinous cuticle covering the body  ( neville ,  1975 )  ,  which is different in different species and different body parts of the same individual .
a hard plate of the adult external body wall .
a subdivision of the sternum  ( the ventral exoskeletal plate of a segment )  .
a subdivision of the tergum  ( the dorsal exoskeletal plate of a segment )  .
any sclerite and structure of the adult labium .
in the larva metameric subdivision  ( segment )  of the abdomen .
the larval abdominal segment that is located between the metathorax and abdominal segment 2 .
the larval abdominal segment that has a sternum and that is anterior to all other abdominal segments with a sternum .
the larval abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 2 and abdominal segment 4 .
the larval abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 3 and abdominal segment 5 .
the larval abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 4 and abdominal segment 6 .
the larval abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 5 and abdominal segment 7 .
the larval abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 6 and abdominal segment 8 .
the larval abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 7 and abdominal segment 9 .
the abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 8 and abdominal segment 10 ,  the posterior terminus with the urogomphi and the pygopodien .
the segment that is located in the abdomen of the pupa .
the pupal abdominal segment that is located between the metathorax and abdominal segment 2 .
the pupal abdominal segment that has a sternum and that is anterior to all other abdominal segments with a sternum .
the pupal abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 2 and abdominal segment 4 .
the pupal abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 3 and abdominal segment 5 .
the pupal abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 4 and abdominal segment 6 .
the pupal abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 5 and abdominal segment 7 .
the pupal abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 6 and abdominal segment 8 .
the pupal abdominal segment that is located posterior to abdominal segment 7 and the posterior terminus of the pupa with the urogomphi and the genital lobes  .
in the adult the external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of a single abdominal segment .
the adult external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of a the abdominal segment 1 .
the adult external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of a the abdominal segment 2 .
the adult external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of a the abdominal segment 3 .
the adult external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of a the abdominal segment 4 .
the adult external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of a the abdominal segment 5 .
the adult external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of a the abdominal segment 6 .
the adult external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of a the abdominal segment 7 .
in the adult a subdivision of the tergum  ( the dorsal exoskeletal plate of a segment )  .
the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of the adult abdominal segment 1 .
the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of the adult abdominal segment 2 .
the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of the adult abdominal segment 3 .
the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of the adult abdominal segment 4 .
the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of the adult abdominal segment 5 .
the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of the adult abdominal segment 6 .
the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of the adult abdominal segment 7 .
the organ system that forms the covering layer of the pupa .
the organ system that forms the covering layer of the larva .
in the larva the abdominal epidermis with the overlying exosceleton .
the external sclerite of the larva that straddles the ventral midline of a single abdominal segment .
in the pupa the abdominal epidermis with the overlying exoskeleton .
the external sclerite of the pupa that straddles the ventral midline of a single abdominal segment .
in the pupa the external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of the abdominal segment 1 .
in the pupa the external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of the abdominal segment 2 .
in the pupa the external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of the abdominal segment 3 .
in the pupa the external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of the abdominal segment 4 .
in the pupa the external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of the abdominal segment 5 .
in the pupa the external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of the abdominal segment 6 .
in the pupa the external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of the abdominal segment 7 .
in the pupa the external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of the abdominal segment 8 .
in the pupa a subdivision of the tergum  ( the dorsal exoskeletal plate of a segment )  .
in the pupa the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of the abdominal segment 1 .
in the pupa the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of the abdominal segment 2 .
in the pupa the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of the abdominal segment 3 .
in the pupa the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of the abdominal segment 4 .
in the pupa the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of the abdominal segment 5 .
in the pupa the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of the abdominal segment 6 .
in the pupa the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of the abdominal segment 7 .
in the pupa the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of the abdominal segment 8 .
in the larva the external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of the abdominal segment 1 .
in the larva the external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of the abdominal segment 2 .
in the larva the external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of the abdominal segment 3 .
in the larva the external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of the abdominal segment 4 .
in the larva the external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of the abdominal segment 5 .
in the larva the external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of the abdominal segment 6 .
in the larva the external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of the abdominal segment 7 .
in the larva the external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of the abdominal segment 8 .
in the larva the external sclerite that straddles the ventral midline of the abdominal segment 9 .
in the larva a subdivision of the tergum  ( the dorsal exoskeletal plate of a segment )  .
in the larva the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of the abdominal segment 1 .
in the larva the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of the abdominal segment 2 .
in the larva the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of the abdominal segment 3 .
in the larva the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of the abdominal segment 4 .
in the larva the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of the abdominal segment 5 .
in the larva the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of the abdominal segment 6 .
in the larva the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of the abdominal segment 7 .
in the larva the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of the abdominal segment 8 .
in the larva the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of the abdominal segment 9 .
all muscles comprising skeletal and visceral muscles ,  the muscle system consist of a multitude of contractile fibers arranged in groups and layers .
muscle system of the adult .
muscle system of the pupa .
contractile tissue found in animals ,  the function of which is to produce motion .
the larval tagma that is located anterior to the thorax .
head of the pupal organism .
somatic muscle that is part of the thorax .
somatic muscle that is part of the abdomen .
somatic muscle that is part of the head .
somatic muscle that is part of the larval thorax .
somatic muscle that is part of the adult thorax .
somatic muscle that is part of the pupal thorax .
somatic muscle that is part of a leg .
skeletal muscle that draws part of the body down .
the muscle bundles that raises any body part for example the podomeres .
somatic muscle that is part of the prothorax .
somatic muscle that is part of larval the prothorax .
somatic muscle that is part of and that inserts on the prothoracic leg pair /  fore legs .
skeletal muscle bundle that draws  ( depresses )  part of the prothoracic structures including the parts of the prothoracic legs down .
muscle of the larva .
muscle of the adult animal .
muscle of the pupa .because of its small size tribolium has not been extensively studied in regard to musculature .
most common of the three types of muscle in the body .
the visceral musculature comprises circular and longitudinal fibers which surround the entire intestinal tract ,  with the exception of the recurrent layer of the proventriculus .
somatic muscle of the larva .
somatic muscle of the adult animal .
somatic muscle of the pupa .
muscle of the embryonic / larval intestinal tract .
visceral muscle of the adult .
visceral muscle of the pupa .
somatic muscle that is part of and that inserts on the prothoracic leg pair /  fore legs of the larva .
skeletal muscle bundle that draws  ( depresses )  part of the prothoracic structures including the parts of the prothoracic legs of the larva down .
skeletal muscle bundle that draws the trochanter down /  that depresses the trochanter .
one of the depressors of the trochanter ,  arising on the lateral wall of the coxa and inserting on the inner or median rim of the trochanter .
muscle system of the larva .
somatic muscle that is part of the larva leg .
skeletal muscle that draws part of the larval body down .
the muscle bundles that raises any body part of the larva .
skeletal muscle bundle that draws the trochanter down /  that depresses the trochanter of the larva .
in the prothoracic leg pair ,  one of the depressors of the trochanter ,  arising on the lateral wall of the coxa and inserting on the inner or median rim of the trochanter .
in the larva ,  one of the depressors of the trochanter ,  arising on the lateral wall of the coxa and inserting on the inner or median rim of the trochanter .
in the prothoracic leg pair of the larva ,  one of the depressors of the trochanter ,  arising on the lateral wall of the coxa and inserting on the inner or median rim of the trochanter .
any sclerite and structure of the pupal labium .
a general name for one of the muscles in the coxa of the larva .
any sclerite and structure of the larval labium .
a muscle with its main part inside the coxa of the prothoracic leg pair of the larva .
the muscle bundle that raises the trochanter of the larva .
the muscle bundles that raises any part of the prothoracic leg pair /  fore legs .
the muscle bundles that raises any part of the prothoracic leg pair /  fore legs of the larva .
the muscle bundle that raises the trochanter .
one of the levators of the trochanter ,  arising on the anterior wall of coxa and inserting on the anterior rim of the trochanter .
in the larva ,  one of the levators of the trochanter ,  arising on the anterior wall of coxa and inserting on the anterior rim of the trochanter .
in the prothoracic leg pair ,  one of the levators of the trochanter ,  arising on the anterior wall of coxa and inserting on the anterior rim of the trochanter .
in the prothoracic leg pair of the larva ,  one of the levators of the trochanter ,  arising on the anterior wall of coxa and inserting on the anterior rim of the trochanter .
the second of the levators of the trochanter ,  arising on the posterior wall of the coxa and inserting on the posterior rim of the trochanter .
the last of the levators of the trochanter ,  a slender fibre arising on the lateral wall of the coxa and inserting on the lateral rim of the trochanter .
in the prothoracic leg pair ,  the second of the levators of the trochanter ,  arising on the posterior wall of the coxa and inserting on the posterior rim of the trochanter .
in the larva the second of the levators of the trochanter ,  arising on the posterior wall of the coxa and inserting on the posterior rim of the trochanter .
in the prothoracic leg pair of the larva ,  the second of the levators of the trochanter ,  arising on the posterior wall of the coxa and inserting on the posterior rim of the trochanter .
in the larva the last of the levators of the trochanter ,  a slender fibre arising on the lateral wall of the coxa and inserting on the lateral rim of the trochanter .
in the mesothoracic leg pair ,  the last of the levators of the trochanter ,  a slender fibre arising on the lateral wall of the coxa and inserting on the lateral rim of the trochanter .
in the mesothoracic leg pair of the larva ,  the last of the levators of the trochanter ,  a slender fibre arising on the lateral wall of the coxa and inserting on the lateral rim of the trochanter .
muscles of the coxa .
a muscle with its main part inside the coxa of the prothoracic leg pair .
skeletal muscle bundle that depresses the tibia .
skeletal muscle bundle that depresses the tibia of the larva .
one of the depressors of the tibia arising on the inner wall of femur near its base and inserting on the inner rim of the tibia .
in the larva ,  one of the depressors of the tibia arising on the inner wall of femur near its base and inserting on the inner rim of the tibia .
in the prothoracic leg pair ,  one of the depressors of the tibia arising on the inner wall of femur near its base and inserting on the inner rim of the tibia .
in the prothoracic leg pair of the larva ,  one of the depressors of the tibia arising on the inner wall of femur near its base and inserting on the inner rim of the tibia .
a second depressor of the tibia which arises on the anterior wall of the femur and inserts on the inner rim of the tibial base .
in the larva a second depressor of the tibia which arises on the anterior wall of the femur and inserts on the inner rim of the tibial base .
in the prothoracic leg pair ,  a second depressor of the tibia which arises on the anterior wall of the femur and inserts on the inner rim of the tibial base .
in the prothoracic leg pair of the larva ,  a second depressor of the tibia which arises on the anterior wall of the femur and inserts on the inner rim of the tibial base .
the muscle bundle that raises the tibia .
the muscle bundle that raises the tibia of the larva .
the levator of the tibia which arises on the outer femoral wall ,  between the heads of the pretarsal depressors ,  and inserts on the outer rim of the tibial base .
in the larva the levator of the tibia which arises on the outer femoral wall ,  between the heads of the pretarsal depressors ,  and inserts on the outer rim of the tibial base .
in the prothoracic leg pair ,  the levator of the tibia which arises on the outer femoral wall ,  between the heads of the pretarsal depressors ,  and inserts on the outer rim of the tibial base .
in the prothoracic leg pair of the larva ,  the levator of the tibia which arises on the outer femoral wall ,  between the heads of the pretarsal depressors ,  and inserts on the outer rim of the tibial base .
muscle attached via a long tendon to the unguitractor plate of the pretarsus .
skeletal muscle bundle that depresses the pretarsus of the larva .
a second set of depressors of the pretarsus arising within the tibia and inserting on the pretarsal apodeme .
in the larva a second set of depressors of the pretarsus arising within the tibia and inserting on the pretarsal apodeme .
in the prothoracic leg ,  a second set of depressors of the pretarsus arising within the tibia and inserting on the pretarsal apodeme .
in the prothoracic leg of the larva ,  a second set of depressors of the pretarsus arising within the tibia and inserting on the pretarsal apodeme .
part of the labium which is attached to the alaglossa and .
the second of the depressors of the trochanter ,  arising on the pleural apophysis and inserting on the inner rim of the trochanter .
in the larva the second of the depressors of the trochanter ,  arising on the pleural apophysis and inserting on the inner rim of the trochanter .
in the prothoracic leg pair ,  the second of the depressors of the trochanter ,  arising on the pleural apophysis and inserting on the inner rim of the trochanter .
in the prothoracic leg pair of the larva ,  the second of the depressors of the trochanter ,  arising on the pleural apophysis and inserting on the inner rim of the trochanter .
somatic muscle that is part of the mesothorax .
somatic muscle that is part of the metathorax .
somatic muscle that is part of the larval mesothorax .
somatic muscle that is part of and that inserts on the mesothoracic leg pair /  middle legs .
the muscle bundles that raises any part of the mesothoracic leg pair /  middle legs .
skeletal muscle bundle that draws  ( depresses )  part of the mesothoracic structures including the parts of the mesothoracic legs down .
somatic muscle that is part of and that inserts on the mesothoracic leg pair /  middle legs of the larva .
skeletal muscle bundle that draws  ( depresses )  part of the mesothoracic structures including the parts of the mesothoracic legs of the larva down .
the muscle bundles that raises any part of the mesothoracic leg pair /  middle legs of the larva .
in the mesothoracic leg pair ,  one of the depressors of the trochanter ,  arising on the lateral wall of the coxa and inserting on the inner or median rim of the trochanter .
in the mesothoracic leg pair of the larva ,  one of the depressors of the trochanter ,  arising on the lateral wall of the coxa and inserting on the inner or median rim of the trochanter .
in the mesothoracic leg pair ,  one of the levators of the trochanter ,  arising on the anterior wall of coxa and inserting on the anterior rim of the trochanter .
part of the adult labium which is attached to the alaglossa .
in the mesothoracic leg pair of the larva ,  one of the levators of the trochanter ,  arising on the anterior wall of coxa and inserting on the anterior rim of the trochanter .
in the mesothoracic leg pair ,  the second of the levators of the trochanter ,  arising on the posterior wall of the coxa and inserting on the posterior rim of the trochanter .
in the mesothoracic leg pair of the larva ,  the second of the levators of the trochanter ,  arising on the posterior wall of the coxa and inserting on the posterior rim of the trochanter .
in the mesothoracic leg pair ,  the last of the levators of the trochanter ,  a slender fibre arising on the lateral wall of the coxa and inserting on the lateral rim of the trochanter .
in the mesothoracic leg pair of the larva ,  the last of the levators of the trochanter ,  a slender fibre arising on the lateral wall of the coxa and inserting on the lateral rim of the trochanter .
in the mesothoracic leg pair one of the depressors of the tibia arising on the inner wall of femur near its base and inserting on the inner rim of the tibia .
in the mesothoracic leg pair of the larva ,  one of the depressors of the tibia arising on the inner wall of femur near its base and inserting on the inner rim of the tibia .
in the mesothoracic leg pair ,  the levator of the tibia which arises on the outer femoral wall ,  between the heads of the pretarsal depressors ,  and inserts on the outer rim of the tibial base .
in the mesothoracic leg pair of the larva ,  the levator of the tibia which arises on the outer femoral wall ,  between the heads of the pretarsal depressors ,  and inserts on the outer rim of the tibial base .
in the mesothoracic leg pair ,  a second depressor of the tibia which arises on the anterior wall of the femur and inserts on the inner rim of the tibial base .
in the mesothoracic leg pair of the larva ,  a second depressor of the tibia which arises on the anterior wall of the femur and inserts on the inner rim of the tibial base .
in the mesothoracic leg ,  a second set of depressors of the pretarsus arising within the tibia and inserting on the pretarsal .
in the mesothoracic leg of the larva ,  a second set of depressors of the pretarsus arising within the tibia and inserting on the pretarsal apodeme .
in the mesothoracic leg pair ,  the second of the depressors of the trochanter ,  arising on the pleural apophysis and inserting on the inner rim of the trochanter .
in the mesothoracic leg pair of the larva ,  the second of the depressors of the trochanter ,  arising on the pleural apophysis and inserting on the inner rim of the trochanter .
somatic muscle that is part of the larval metathorax .
somatic muscle that is part of the of and that inserts the metathoracic leg  /  middle leg .
the muscle bundles that raises any part of the metathoracic leg pair /  hind legs .
skeletal muscle bundle that draws  ( depresses )  part of the metathoracic structures including the parts / podomeres of the metathoracic legs down .
skeletal muscle bundle that draws  ( depresses )  part of the metathoracic structures including the parts of the metathoracic legs of the larva down .
somatic muscle that is part of the of a metathoracic leg  /  middle leg in the larva .
the muscle bundles that raises any part of the metathoracic leg pair /  hind legs of the larva .
in the metathoracic leg pair ,  one of the depressors of the trochanter ,  arising on the lateral wall of the coxa and inserting on the inner or median rim of the trochanter .
in the metathoracic leg pair of the larva ,  one of the depressors of the trochanter ,  arising on the lateral wall of the coxa and inserting on the inner or median rim of the trochanter .
in the metathoracic leg pair ,  one of the levators of the trochanter ,  arising on the anterior wall of coxa and inserting on the anterior rim of the trochanter .
in the metathoracic leg pair ,  the second of the levators of the trochanter ,  arising on the posterior wall of the coxa and inserting on the posterior rim of the trochanter .
in the metathoracic leg pair of the larva ,  the second of the levators of the trochanter ,  arising on the posterior wall of the coxa and inserting on the posterior rim of the trochanter .
in the metathoracic leg pair ,  the last of the levators of the trochanter ,  a slender fibre arising on the lateral wall of the coxa and inserting on the lateral rim of the trochanter .
in the metathoracic leg pair ,  one of the depressors of the tibia arising on the inner wall of femur near its base and inserting on the inner rim of the tibia .
in the metathoracic leg pair of the larva ,  one of the depressors of the tibia arising on the inner wall of femur near its base and inserting on the inner rim of the tibia .
in the metathoracic leg pair ,  the levator of the tibia which arises on the outer femoral wall ,  between the heads of the pretarsal depressors ,  and inserts on the outer rim of the tibial base .
in the metathoracic leg pair of the larva ,  the levator of the tibia which arises on the outer femoral wall ,  between the heads of the pretarsal depressors ,  and inserts on the outer rim of the tibial base .
in the metathoracic leg pair ,  a second depressor of the tibia which arises on the anterior wall of the femur and inserts on the inner rim of the tibial base .
in the metathoracic leg pair of the larva ,  a second depressor of the tibia which arises on the anterior wall of the femur and inserts on the inner rim of the tibial base .
in the metathoracic leg pair ,  the second of the depressors of the trochanter ,  arising on the pleural apophysis and inserting on the inner rim of the trochanter .
in the metathoracic leg pair of the larva ,  the second of the depressors of the trochanter ,  arising on the pleural apophysis and inserting on the inner rim of the trochanter .
in the metathoracic leg ,  a second set of depressors of the pretarsus arising within the tibia and inserting on the pretarsal apodeme .
in the metathoracic leg of the larva ,  a second set of depressors of the pretarsus arising within the tibia and inserting on the pretarsal apodeme .
any sense organ  ( fbbt:00005155 )  that is part of some adult  ( fbbt:00003004 )  .
multicellular anatomical structure that transduces some sensory stimulus to the nervous system of the pupa .
any sense organ  ( fbbt:00005155 )  that is part of some larva  ( fbbt:00001727 )  .
a light sensitive sense organ .
the compound eye is a light sensing organ composed of ommatidia .
the compound eye in the adult .
the eye in the larva .
the compound eye in the pupa .
one of the facets of the compound eye .
a moveable joint or junction between two sclerites .
the tarsomere of the tarsus of the prothoracic leg .
the tarsomere of the tarsus of the mesothoracic leg .
the tarsomere of the tarsus of the metathoracic leg .
in the adult one of the components of the tarsus .
in the adult the tarsomere of the tarsus of the prothoracic leg .
in the adult the tarsomere of the tarsus of the mesothoracic leg .
in the adult the tarsomere of the tarsus of the metathoracic leg .
part of the pupal labium which is attached to the alaglossa .
the most distal and first joint of the tarsus counted from the apex of the tibia .
the second most distal tarsomer of the tarsus in a leg .
the third tarsomer of the tarsus in a leg .
the fourth and in the hind legs / in the third pair of legs the most proximal tarsomer .
in the fore and middle legs / in the first and second pair of legs the most proximal tarsomer .
the most distal and first joint of the tarsus of the prothoracic counted from the apex of the tibia .
the second most distal tarsomer of the tarsus in the prothoracic leg .
the third tarsomer of the tarsus in prothoracic leg .
the fourth tarsomer of the tarsus of the prothoracic leg .
in the prothoracic leg the most proximal tarsomer .
in the adult the most distal and first joint of the tarsus of the prothoracic counted from the apex of the tibia .
in the adult the second most distal tarsomer of the tarsus in the prothoracic leg .
in the adult the third tarsomer of the tarsus in prothoracic leg .
in the adult the fourth tarsomer of the tarsus of the prothoracic leg .
in the fore legs of an adult  ,  the prothoracic leg pair ,  the most proximal tarsomer .
in the adult the most distal and first joint of the tarsus of the mesothoracic counted from the apex of the tibia .
in the adult the second most distal tarsomer of the tarsus in the mesothoracic leg .
in the adult the third tarsomer of the tarsus in mesothoracic leg .
in the adult the fourth tarsomer of the tarsus of the mesothoracic leg .
in the middle legs ,  the mesothoracic leg pair ,  the most proximal tarsomer of an adult .
the most distal and first joint of the tarsus of the mesothoracic counted from the apex of the tibia .
the second most distal tarsomer of the tarsus in the mesothoracic leg .
the third tarsomer of the tarsus in mesothoracic leg .
the fourth tarsomer of the tarsus of the mesothoracic leg .
in the mesothoracic leg the most proximal tarsomer .
the most distal and first joint of the tarsus of the metathoracic counted from the apex of the tibia .
the second most distal tarsomer of the tarsus in the metathoracic leg .
the third tarsomer of the tarsus in metathoracic leg .
the fourth tarsomer of the tarsus of the metathoracic leg .
in the adult the most distal and first joint of the tarsus of the metathoracic counted from the apex of the tibia .
in the adult the second most distal tarsomer of the tarsus in the metathoracic leg .
in the adult the third tarsomer of the tarsus in metathoracic leg .
in the adult the fourth tarsomer of the tarsus of the metathoracic leg .
the 5th larval instar and just before the 6th larval instar .
generally kidney - shaped ,  white to cream colored .
the prepupa is the name given to the organism at the period of the life cycle that begins at puparium formation and ends when larval / pupal apolysis is complete ,  as indicated by the eclosion of the pupa libera .
any segment  ( fbbt:00000003 )  that is part of the head  ( fbbt:00000004 )  including labial ,  maxillary ,  mandibular ,  intercalary and antennal segments .
segment of the adult head .
a head segment at the pupal stage .
any segment that is part of some larval head .
the head epidermis with the overlying exosceleton .
the adult head epidermis with the overlying exosceleton .
the head epidermis of the larva with the overlying exosceleton .
the head epidermis of the pupa with the overlying exosceleton .
any appendage  ( maxillae ,  labium ,  labrum ,  antennae )  that develops of the gnathal segments .
appendages that protrudes from the procephalic segment  ( antennae and labrum )  .
the part of the head that arises from the embryonic tissue anterior to the gnathal segments .
the gnathum consists of the gnathal segments that develop posterior to the embryonic / larval mouth .
the adult gnathum consists of the gnathal segments that develop posterior to the embryonic / larval mouth .
the pupal gnathum consists of the gnathal segments that develop posterior to the embryonic / larval mouth .
the larval gnathum consists of the gnathal segments that develop posterior to the embryonic / larval mouth .
the anterior part of the adult head or more commonly the anterior - lower part including the mouthparts .
the anterior part of the pupal head or more commonly the anterior - lower part including the mouthparts .
the anterior part of the larva head or more commonly the anterior - lower part including the mouthparts .
in the adult appendages that protrudes from the adult procephalic segment  ( labrum and antennae )  .
in the pupa appendages that protrudes from the pupal procephalic segment  ( labrum and antennae )  .
in the larva appendages that protrudes from the larval procephalic segment  ( labrum and antennae )  .
any adult gnathal appendage maxillae ,  labium ,  labrum ,  antennae ,  that develop of the gnathal segments .
any larval gnathal appendage maxillae ,  labium ,  labrum ,  antennae ,  that develop of the gnathal segments .
any larval gnathal appendage maxillae ,  labium ,  labrum ,  antennae ,  that develop of the gnathal segments .
the fused compact cephalic plates that form the head ,  excluding the eyes ,  antennae and mouthparts .
the fused compact cephalic plates that comprise the adult head ,  excluding the eyes ,  antennae and mouthparts .
the fused compact cephalic plates that comprise the pupal head ,  excluding the eyes ,  antennae and mouthparts .
the fused compact cephalic plates that comprise the head of the larva ,  excluding the eyes ,  antennae and mouthparts .
a segment that is anterior to the gnathal segments .
in the larva head the segment that is anterior to the gnathal segments .
in the pupa head the segment that is anterior to the gnathal segments .
in the adult head the segment that is anterior to the gnathal segments .
segment anterior to the intercalary segment .
segment anterior to the intercalary segment .
segment anterior to the intercalary segment .
segment anterior to the intercalary segment .
paired ,  jointed ,  sensory appendage attached to the head capsule and derived from the antennal segment .
paired ,  segmented ,  jointed ,  sensory appendage  ( the antennal segments possess long or short ,  stiff ,  stout ,  thick - walled ,  and pigmented bristles )  attached to the adult head capsule .
paired ,  segmented ,  jointed ,  sensory appendage  ( the antennal segments possess long or short ,  stiff ,  stout ,  thick - walled ,  and pigmented bristles )  attached to the pupal head capsule .
paired ,  segmented ,  jointed ,  sensory appendage  ( the antennal segments possess long or short ,  stiff ,  stout ,  thick - walled ,  and pigmented bristles )  attached to the larva head capsule .
the head segments from which arise the gnathal appendages .
the head segments that has been developed posterior to the adult mouth and which bears and from which the gnathal appendages has been developed .
the head segments that has been developed posterior to the embryonic / larval mouth and which bears and from which the gnathal appendages of the pupa has been developed .
the head segments that develop posterior to the larval mouth .
most anterior of the gnathal segments .
most anterior of the adult gnathal segments .
most anterior of the pupal gnathal segments .
most anterior of the larval gnathal segments .
the mandible is a gnathal appendage which develops from the mandibular segment and is associated with the mouth in the adult ,  larva and the pupa .
mandible of the adult .consists of an incisor lobe ,  a molar and submolar lobe ,  a distal proximal and middle tooth ,  a prostheca ,  a condlye ,  a cavity and a ductor muscles .
the mandible of the pupa .
the mandible of the larva .
any structure and part of each mandible  ( for example the molar lobe )  in the larva ,  in the pupa and in the adult .
also called molar tooth .one of the grinding teeth on the inner margin of the mandible close the base .
these are two incisors .an incisor is one of the apically situated sharp teeth of the mandible ,  which cuts the food into pieces .
any structure and part of the adult mandible .
any structure and part of the pupal mandible .
any structure and part of the larval mandible .
one of the grinding teeth on the inner margin of the larva mandible close the base .
one of the grinding teeth on the inner margin of the pupal mandible close the base .
one of the grinding teeth on the inner margin of the adult mandible close the base .
these are two adult incisors .
these are two larva incisors .
these are two pupal incisors .
part of the larval labium which is attached to the alaglossa .
the maxilla as paired segmented head appendage involved in sensing and feeding .
second gnathal segment ,  between the mandibular and labial segments in the embryo and later on in the larva and in the adult .
in the adult ,  the second gnathal segment  ( structure is maxilla )  ,  between the mandibular and labial segments .
in the pupa ,  the second gnathal segment  ( structure is maxilla )  ,  between the mandibular and labial segments .
in the larva ,  the second gnathal segment  ( structure is maxilla )  ,  between the mandibular and labial segments .
any structure and part of the maxilla .
the paired maxilla of the adult consists of the following parts: the cardo ,  the stipes ,  the palpifer and the palps which consists of four segments .
the maxilla like all the other mouthparts in the pupa are completely protected by the legs and the prothorax .
the maxilla as structure associated with the mouth are similar in the larva ,  the pupa and in the adult .
any structure and part of the adult maxilla .
any structure and part of the pupal maxilla .
any structure and part of the larval maxilla .
the paired sensory appendage of the adult maxillary segment .
the paired sensory appendage of the adult maxillary segment .
the paired sensory appendage of the pupal maxillary segment .
the paired sensory appendage of the larval maxillary segment .
the structure of the antenna consists of eleven segments .
the structure of the adult antenna consists of eleven segments .
the structure of the larval antenna consists of eleven segments .
proximal - most segment of the antenna .
second segment of the antenna .
the last enlarge 3 segments of the antennal flagellum .
the upper 6 segmented part of the antennal flagellum .
the adult antennal flagellum which consist of 9 segments ,  also called flagellomer ,  distal to the pedicel .
the bilateral part of the head capsule posterior to the eyes ,  delimited by the occipital suture behind and the mouthparts below .
the bilateral part of the adult head capsule below the eyes ,  delimited by the occipital suture behind and the mouthparts below .
the bilateral part of the pupal head capsule below the eyes ,  delimited by the occipital suture behind and the mouthparts below .
the bilateral part of the larval head capsule below the eyes ,  delimited by the occipital suture behind and the mouthparts below .
a region of the lateral head capsule posterior to the gena .
a posterior region of the head capsule of the pupa behind the gena .
in the adult the area of the head behind the compound eye and lateral to the gular sutures .
a posterior region of the head capsule of the larva behind the gena .
an anterior part of the head capsule between the vertex and the clypeus ,  bounded laterally by the frontal suture .
the dorsal area of the head that is delimited anteriorly by the clypeolabral region including the frons ,  by the eyes and posteriorly by the joint between head and thorax .
in the adult animal the dorsal area of the head that is delimited anteriorly by the clypeolabral region including the frons ,  by the eyes and posteriorly by the joint between head and thorax .
in the pupa the dorsal area of the head that is delimited anteriorly by the clypeolabral region including the frons ,  by the eyes and posteriorly by the joint between head and thorax .
in the larva the dorsal area of the head that is delimited anteriorly by the clypeolabral region including the frons ,  by the eyes and posteriorly by the joint between head and thorax .
an anterior part of the adult head capsule between the vertex and the clypeus ,  bounded laterally by the frontal suture and bearing a median ocellus .
an anterior part of the pupal head capsule between the vertex and the clypeus ,  bounded laterally by the frontal suture and bearing a median ocellus .
an anterior part of the larval head capsule between the vertex and the clypeus ,  bounded laterally by the frontal suture and bearing a median ocellus .
the anterior part of the head between the frons and the labrum ,  which occasionally may fuse with either one to form the frontoclypeus or the clypeolabrum .
the anterior part of the adult head between the frons and the labrum ,  which occasionally may fuse with either one to form the frontoclypeus and the clypeolabrum .
the anterior part of the pupal head between the frons and the labrum ,  which occasionally may fuse with either one to form the frontoclypeus and the clypeolabrum .
the anterior part of the larval head between the frons and the labrum ,  which occasionally may fuse with either one to form the frontoclypeus and the clypeolabrum .
a triangular region between the diagonal glare sutures between and behind the compound eyes and located behind the pregula .
in the adult a triangular region between the diagonal glare sutures between and behind the compound eyes and located behind the pregula .
an unpaired sclerite that is part of the labium .
the proximal part of the labium originally paired ,  secondarily fused into one broad plate .
the basal part of the postmentum in mandibulate insects ,  joined to the head capsule ,  basally and apically to the mentum .
mentum of the adult .
an unpaired sclerite that is part of the adult labium .
in the adult the basal part of the postmentum ,  joined to the head capsule ,  basally and apically to the mentum .
the two structures of the maxilla ,  the cardo and the stipes ,  build the maxillary base .
the two structures of the adult maxilla ,  the cardo and the stipes ,  build the adult maxillary base .
the two structures of the pupal maxilla ,  the cardo and the stipes ,  build the pupal maxillary base .
the two structures of the larval maxilla ,  the cardo and the stipes ,  build the l1 larval maxillary base .
second / third maxillary sclerite .
the middle portion of the maxilla between cardo and the terminal appendages .
in the adult maxilla the second / third maxillary sclerite .
in the pupal maxilla the second / third maxillary sclerite .
in the larva maxilla the second / third maxillary sclerite .
the middle portion of the larva maxilla between larval cardo and the terminal appendages .
the middle portion of the pupal maxilla between pupal cardo and the terminal appendages .
the middle portion of the adult maxilla between adult cardo and the terminal appendages .
all the nerve centers and nerve fibers in the central ,  visceral and peripheral nervous systems .
the nervous system of the adult .
the nervous system of the pupa .
the nervous system of the larva .
the peripheral nervous system of the adult .
the peripheral nervous system of the pupa .
the peripheral nervous system of the larva .
a sense organ embedded in the integument and consisting of one or a cluster of sensory neurons and associated sensory structures ,  support cells and glial cells forming a single organized unit .
any sensillum  ( fbbt:00007152 )  that is part of some adult  ( fbbt:00003004 )  .
in the pupa a sense organ embedded in the integument of the whole body and consisting of one or a cluster of sensory neurons and associated sensory structures ,  support cells and glial cells forming a single organized unit with a largely bona fide boundary .
sensillum in the larva .
any sensillum  ( fbbt:00007152 )  that is part of the head  ( fbbt:00000004 )  .
any sensillum  ( fbbt:00007152 )  that is part of some adult head  ( fbbt:00003007 )  .
any sensillum which is located on the head of the pupa .
any sensillum  ( fbbt:00007152 )  that is part of some larval head  ( fbbt:00001730 )  .
a sensillum with a long ,  unicellular ,  setiform outgrowth that is strongly sclerotized .
a small unicellular ,  setiform outgrowth that is strongly chitinized and may be in connection with a sensory nerve .
the upper ,  unpaired lip of the insect head involved in feeding .
the upper ,  unpaired mouthpart of the insect adult head ,  below the cylpeus ,  partly covering the mandibles and the rest of the mouthparts .
the upper ,  unpaired mouthpart of the pupal head ,  below the cylpeus ,  partly covering the mandibles and the rest of the mouthparts .
the upper ,  unpaired mouthpart of the larva head ,  below the cylpeus ,  partly covering the mandibles and the rest of the mouthparts .
the double moveable points of the wing joined to the notal and pleural plates .
the paired  ( membranous )  flight organ of an adult on the dorsolateral margin of the meso - and / or metathorax .
the developing wing at the pupal stage .
the double moveable points of the adult wing joined to the notal and pleural plates .
the double moveable points of the pupal wing joined to the notal and pleural plates .
wing veins are epidermal sclerotizations above hemolymph lacunae that run between the dorsal and the ventral wing surfaces and carry trachea and nerves .
the area that is linear and sclerotized and acts as support for the adult wing membrane .
the area that is linear and sclerotized and acts as support for the pupal wing membrane .
in anatomy ,  the joint between the arm ,  or forelimb ,  and the trunk ,  together with the adjacent tissue ,  particularly the tissue over the shoulder blade ,  or scapula  ( shoulder blades )  .
the lateral salient angle on the fore margin of the pronotum .
the lateral salient angle on the hind margin of the pronotum .
the basisternum of the metathorax projects anteriorly between the coxae of the mesothoracic legs into a intercoxal process which fuses with the caudal region of the mesosternal median process between the coxae of the mesothoracic legs .
the more or less triangular outgrowth on the anterior margin of the sternite of the abdominal segment 3 .
the organs which effect the circulation of oxygen including the tracheal openings and the tracheae .
in the adult the organs which effect the circulation of oxygen including the spiracles ,  the tracheae and the air - sacs .
in the pupa the organs which effect the circulation of oxygen including the spiracles ,  the tracheae and the air - sacs .
in the larva the organs which effect the circulation of oxygen including the spiracles ,  the tracheae and the air - sacs .
bristles on abdominal tergites in the pupa .
urogomphi  ( plural )  form a dorsal pair of outgrowths located on the posterior terminus of larvae and pupae .
urogomphi  ( plural )  are short dorsal pair of appendage located at the last posterior abdominal segment of the larva .
a general name for any plates having some connection with the genital apparatus .
gonochoristic adult that can produce female gametes .
gonochoristic adult that can produce male gametes .
a bigger pair of genital lobes characterize the female pupa .
a smaller pair of genital lobes characterize the male pupa .
any plates having some connection with the genital apparatus of the male .
any plates having some connection with the genital apparatus of the female .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which ,  through specific morphogenetic processes ,  forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
any of a number of aggregations of neurons ,  glial cells and their processes ,  and surrounded by a glial cell and connective tissue sheath  ( plural: ganglia )  .
ganglia of the gnathal ,  thoracic and abdominal segments and the respective connectives and commissures ,  which connect them .
collective name for all the nerve centers ,  the brain and their connective in the insect's body .
central nervous system of the adult .
central nervous system of the pupa .
central nervous system of the larva .
the ventral nerve cord in the larva .
the organ system involved in the absorption of nutrients .
digestive system of the pupa or adult .
digestive system of the pupa or adult .
the sum of all the structures in the embryo that will develop into the embryonic / larval digestive system .
digestive system ,  usually a long straight tube which runs from the mouth to the anus .
a posterior part of the alimentary canal derived from the ectoderm .
hindgut of the adult digestive system .
hindgut of the pupal digestive system .
hindgut of the larval digestive system .
structure consisting of the adult foregut ,  midgut and hindgut .
the pupal gut as a part of the pupal digestive system .
in the larva a digestive system ,  usually a long straight tube which runs from the mouth to the anus .
opening of the tracheal system to the lateral surface of the abdominal and the mesothoracic body segments .
opening of the tracheal system on the lateral surface of the adult body segments .
in the pupa opening of the tracheal system on the surface of the body segments .
opening of the tracheal system on the lateral surface of abdominal segments and the mesothorax .
in the larva the opening of the tracheal system on the lateral surface of the abdominal segments .
a muscle with its main part inside the coxa of the mesothoracic leg pair .
a muscle with its main part inside the coxa of the mesothoracic leg pair of the larva .
a muscle with its main part inside the coxa of the metathoracic leg pair .
a muscle with its main part inside the coxa of the metathoracic leg pair of the larva .
in the metathoracic leg pair of the larva ,  one of the levators of the trochanter ,  arising on the anterior wall of coxa and inserting on the anterior rim of the trochanter .
in the metathoracic leg pair of the larva ,  the last of the levators of the trochanter ,  a slender fibre arising on the lateral wall of the coxa and inserting on the lateral rim of the trochanter .
a muscle with its main part inside the tibiotarsus .
a muscle with its main part inside the tibiotarsus of the prothoracic leg pair /  fore legs .
a muscle with its main part inside the tibiotarsus of the mesothoracic leg pair /  middle legs .
a muscle with its main part inside the tibiotarsus of the metathoracic leg pair /  hind legs .
a muscle with its main part inside the tibiotarsus of the larva .
a muscle with its main part inside the tibiotarsus of the prothoracic leg pair /  fore legs of the larva .
a muscle with its main part inside the tibiotarsus of the mesothoracic leg pair /  middle legs of the larva .
a muscle with its main part inside the tibiotarsus of the metathoracic leg pair /  hind legs of the larva .
a muscle with its main part inside the femur .
a muscle with its main part inside the femur of the prothoracic leg pair / fore legs .
a muscle with its main part inside the femur of the mesothoracic leg pair / middle legs .
a muscle with its main part inside the femur of the metathoracic leg pair / hind legs .
a muscle with its main part inside the femur of the larva .
a muscle with its main part inside the femur of the prothoracic leg pair / fore legs of the larva .
a muscle with its main part inside the femur of the mesothoracic leg pair / middle legs of the larva .
a muscle with its main part inside the femur of the metathoracic leg pair / hind legs of the larva .
all organs ,  structures and appendages of the animal which are used for releasing and perceive odors .
the stink glands are the glandular structures ,  which produce and secrete odoriferous and defensive substances . \ ncontains two types of secreting cells and a reservoir .
stink glands located in the posterior end of the abdomen .
stink gland located in the anterior lateral part of the thorax  ( prothorax )  .
any chaeta  ( fbbt:00005177 )  and bristle that is part of the head capsule  ( fbbt:00004482 )  .
any seta  ( fbbt:00005177 )  and bristle that is part of some adult head capsule  ( fbbt:00004482 )  .
any chaeta  ( fbbt:00005177 )  and bristle that is part of some pupal head capsule  ( fbbt:00004482 )  .
any chaeta  ( fbbt:00005177 )  and bristle that is part of some larva head capsule  ( fbbt:00004482 )  .
a group of sense hairs  ( setae and bristles )  or sense organs which appear on the surface of body parts .
3 head setae arranged in a triangle and located on the lateral region of the head capsule ,  the gena .
the posterior most of the three setae forming the gena triplet ,  which is part of the head sensillum pattern .
the anterior most of the three setae forming the gena triplet ,  which is part of the head sensillum pattern .
the dorsal most of the three setae forming the gena triplet ,  which is part of the head sensillum pattern .
component of the head sensillum pattern .
the anterior most of the 3 vertex triplet .
the anterior most of the 3 vertex triplet .
the anterior most of the 3 vertex triplet .
a seta which is located at the anterior part of the labrum and is part of the head sensillum pattern .
a seta which is located at the posterior part of the labrum .
an eo - type sensillum in which the cuticular part typically has the form of a papilla ,  bell or hollow cone receiving the distal process of a sensory neuron .
campaniform sensillum which is located in the head region .
row of 3 - 5 campaniform sensilla located at the lateral posterior head capsule and part of the head sensillum pattern .
part of the antenna and divided into a number of similar annuli with sensilla joined to each other by membranes so that the flagellum as a whole is flexible .
the reproductive system consists of the sex glands ,  or gonads  ( male testes and female ovaries )  ,  the ducts through which the sexual products are carried to the exterior ,  and the accessory glands .
the reproductive system of the female consists of the sex glands ,  or gonads  ( female ovaries )  ,  the ducts through which the sexual products are carried to the exterior ,  and the accessory glands  .each of the two ovaries consists of a number of ovarioles .
the reproductive system of the male consists of the testes ,  the vasa deferentia ,  the ejaculatory duct and two pairs of accessory glands .
the organ of the reproductive system in which the germ cells reside .
one of the most important parts of the female reproductive system in which ova are produced .
one of the efferent tubules ,  the functional units of the ovary ,  leading into the median oviduct .
one of the most important parts of the female reproductive system in which ova are produced . \ nin the beetle tribolium castaneum the whole ovar consists of two ovaries . \ nto be reviewed .
in each ovariole the nurse cells of all cysts are kept in at the terminal region ,  the tropharium ,  and the oocytes will be nourished by elongating nutritive cords connecting the growing oocytes with the tropharium .
anatomical structure that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
a cell that is within the developmental lineage of gametes and is able to pass along its genetic material to offspring .
gamete ,  sex ,  or reproductive ,  cell containing only one set of dissimilar chromosomes ,  or half of the genetic material necessary to form a complete organism  ( i .e . ,  haploid )  .
the germarium / tropharium is a mass of undifferentiated cells that form oocytes ,  nurse cells ,  and follicular cells .
a developing unit of gametogenesis consisting of germline cells encapsulated by a layer of somatic cells .
a cyst of female germ cells interconnected by ring canals .
female germline cyst that is not part of a germarium / tropharium .
ovariole excluding the germarium ,  in the adult animal the tropharium .
upper part of the vitellarium .
the middle and lower part of the vitellarium .
female germ cell is a germ cell that supports female gamete production .
the anterior region of the telotrophic meroistic ovarioles ,  the tropharium  (  common nurse cell chamber )  ,  harbours the all nurse cells .
the long ,  paired tubes  ( y - shaped consisting of lateral and common oviduct )  of the inner genital organ of the female in which the ova migrate from the ovariole to the genital chamber .
epithelial tube that connects the lateral oviducts to the uterus .
epithelial tube that connects an ovary to the common oviduct .
anatomical structure that is a direct part of a cell .
the nutritive substance contained in the egg .
chorionated egg with much of yolk which leaves the egg chamber of vitellarium and enters the lateral oviduct .
the line that delimits the periphery of an area .
the thickened line that delimits the periphery of the an area in the adult animal .
the thickened line that delimits the periphery of the an area in the adult animal .
the outer parts of the nervous system that perform sensory and motor functions .
jointed appendages attached to the head capsule involved in sensing and feeding .
opening of the tracheal system on the laterally surface of the abdominal segments .
opening of the tracheal system on the laterally surface of the thoracic segments .
in the larva the opening of the tracheal system on the laterally surface of the thoracic segments .
opening of the tracheal system on the lateral surface of the mesothoracic segment .
in the larva the opening of the tracheal system on the laterally surface of the mesothoracic segment .
in the adult animal the glandular structures and the cells of which secrete malodorous fluid usually for repelling purposes .
a gland that functions in secretion of defensive compounds located in the posterior end of the adult abdomen .
in the adult the stink gland located in the anterior lateral part of the prothorax .
distributed bristles on the abdominal tergites of the pupal abdominal segment 1 .
distributed bristles on the abdominal tergites of the pupal abdominal segment 2 .
distributed bristles on the abdominal tergites of the pupal abdominal segment 3 .
distributed bristles on the abdominal tergites of the pupal abdominal segment 4 .
distributed bristles on the abdominal tergites of the pupal abdominal segment 5 .
distributed bristles on the abdominal tergites of the pupal abdominal segment 6 .
distributed bristles on the abdominal tergites of the pupal abdominal segment 7 .
somatic muscle that is part of the posterior terminus .
the egg - laying chitinous tube of the female consisting of two valves .
somatic muscle that is part of the pupal prothorax .
somatic muscle that is part of the pupal mesothorax .
somatic muscle that is part of the pupal metathorax .
muscle bundle within the dorsal thoracic cavity .
a longitudinally orientated hypodermal muscle of the of the thoracic musculature .
a dorsally located hypodermal muscle of the thoracic musculature that runs from a dorsal anterior muscle attachment site to a ventral posterior one .
muscle bundle within the dorsal thoracic cavity of the pupa .
a longitudinally orientated hypodermal muscle of the pupal musculature which is located in the thoracic segments .
any dorsal oblique muscle that is part of some pupal thoracic segment .
the last larval instar before the prepupa .
organism subdivision and anatomical structure that protrudes from the head or trunk of the larva .
organism subdivision and anatomical structure that protrudes from the head or trunk of the pupa .
organism subdivision and anatomical structure that protrudes from the head or trunk of the adult .
in the larva the outer non - living extracellular layer of the integumentary system ,  the exosceleton ,  derived from the epidermis .
in the pupa the outer non - living extracellular layer of the integumentary system ,  the exosceleton ,  derived from the epidermis .
in the adult the outer non - living extracellular layer of the integumentary system ,  the exosceleton ,  derived from the epidermis .
jointed ,  sensory ,  feeding and no walking appendage attached to the anterior of the head capsule of the larva .
jointed ,  sensory ,  feeding and no walking appendage attached to the anterior of the head capsule of the pupa .
jointed ,  sensory ,  feeding and no walking appendage attached to the anterior of the head capsule of the adult .
in the larva a small unicellular ,  setiform outgrowth that is strongly chitinized and may be in connection with a sensory nerve .
in the adult organism a small unicellular ,  setiform outgrowth that is strongly chitinized and may be in connection with a sensory nerve .
in the pupa a small unicellular ,  setiform outgrowth that is strongly chitinized and may be in connection with a sensory nerve .
urogomphi  ( plural )  form a dorsal pair of outgrowths located on the posterior terminus of the pupae .
somatic muscle that is part of the larval head .
area that is linear and sclerotized and acts as support for the non - membranous wing ,  the elytra .
the area that is linear and sclerotized and acts as support for the pupal non - membranous wing ,  the elytra of the pupa .
the area that is linear and sclerotized and acts as support for the adult non - membranous wing ,  the elytra .
posterior terminus of the adult stage ,  used for mating and egg laying and carries the duct of the stink glands .
