material anatomical entity that has inherent 3d shape and is generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
non - material anatomical entity of one dimension ,  which forms a boundary of an anatomical surface or is a modulation of an anatomical surface .
non - material anatomical entity of zero dimension ,  which forms a boundary of an anatomical line or surface .
non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions ,  that is demarcated by anatomical lines or points on the external or internal surfaces of anatomical structures .
anatomical group that is has as its parts distinct anatomical structures interconnected by anatomical structures at a lower level of granularity .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
anatomical structure that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
anatomical structure that is a direct part of the cell .
the excretory system is the system of an organism that mainly performs the function of excretion ,  the bodily process of discharging wastes .
the minimum setting for an eye involves a photo - receptor in the vicinity of shading pigment ,  which allows the detection of the direction of light .
an appendage is an external body part ,  or natural prolongation ,  that protrudes from an organism's body ,  such as a vertebrate's limbs .
multi - tissue structure that is part of a compound organ .
multi - tissue structure that is not part of a compound organ .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
gonochoristic organism that can produce male gametes .
gonochoristic organism that can produce female gametes .
multi - cellular organism that can produce both male and female gametes .
multi - cellular organism that does not produce gametes .
anatomical structure which is a primary subdivision of whole organism .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
anatomical structure that is contiguous with the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells that will not contribute to the embryo .
anatomical structure ,  that consists of similar cells and intercellular matrix ,  aggregated according to genetically determined spatial relationships .
hermaphroditic organism that produces gametes first of one sex ,  and then later of the other sex .
hermaphroditic organism that produces both male and female gametes at the same time .
multi - cellular organism that has male and female sexes .
sequential hermaphroditic organism that produces \ ngametes first of the male sex ,  and then later of the \ nfemale sex .
sequential hermaphroditic organism that produces \ ngametes first of the female sex ,  and then later of the \ nmale sex .
anatomical structure consisting of at least two non - overlapping organs ,  multi - tissue aggregates or portion of tissues or cells of different types that does not constitute an organism ,  organ ,  multi - tissue aggregate ,  or portion of tissue .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
anatomical space that is part of a cell .
portion of organism substance located within a cell .
cell that is an individual member of a species .
acellular anatomical structure that consists of a thin sheet of fibrous proteins that underlie and support the cells of an epithelium .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of cuboidal cells .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of columnar cells .
epithelium that consists of more than one layer of epithelial cells .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of squamous cells .
epithelium that consists of epithelial cells not arranged in one ore more layers .
compound organ that contains one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
epithelium that consists of a single layer of epithelial cells .
compound organ that does not contain macroscopic anatomical spaces .
cell which has as its part a cytoskeleton that allows for tight cell to cell contact and which has apical - basal cell polarity .
in physiological terms ,  a cns integrates and processes sensory information coming from the periphery ,  and initiates body - wide responses via neurosecretion into the body fluid or direct stimulation of the body musculature .
the head of an animal is the anterior part that usually comprises the brain ,  eyes ,  ears ,  nose ,  and mouth .
a relationship between two classes  ( terms )  .
