subdivision of trunk that consists of those organs that separate the body cavity from the body's exterior ;  together with the body cavity and its contents ,  the body wall constitutes the trunk  ( one of the principal body parts )  .
subdivision of chest wall which includes the ribcage ,  muscle group of thoracic wall and costal pleura .
syndesmosis which consists of the ligaments of the vertebral column that join the spines  ( interspinous and supraspinous ligaments and ligamentum nuchae )  ,  laminae ,   ( ligamenta flava )  and transverse processes  ( intertransverse ligaments )  of adjacent vertebrae .
trunk of systemic vein which is formed by the union of the right common iliac vein and the left common iliac vein and  terminates in  the right atrium .
cavity of serous sac surrounded by serous pericardium .
cavity of atrium which is surrounded by the wall of right atrium and is continuous with the lumen of superior vena cava and inferior vena cava .
region of myocardium which is continuous with the chorda tendinea and the wall of heart .
organ component layer which is attached to the leaf of cardiac valve and is continuous with the endocardium of the papillary muscle .
compartment of trunk which is enclosed by a body wall subdivision and is demarcated from another body cavity subdivision by an anatomical structure or a conduit ,  it contains one or more serous sacs ,  viscera and other organs ;  together with the other body cavity subdivisions ,  it constitutes the body cavity .
anatomical cavity ,  which is surrounded by all morphological parts of an organ ;  is continuous within the organ ;  contains one or more body substances .
general anatomical term that refers to a cavity that is enclosed by a serous membrane and contains serous fluid .
space of compartment of trunk bounded by the upper and lower surfaces of two consecutive ribs .
transudate contained in the pleural cavity .
excretion in liquid state processed by the kidney .
secretion produced by a sweat gland .
body substance in liquid state ,  which is derived from plasma by passage through the  ( intact )  wall of capillaries without further processing by secretory cells or glands .
transudate contained in the synovial cavity of joints ,  and in the cavity of tendon sheaths and bursae .
organ with organ cavity which is connected to the optic nerve .
organ with a cavity which consist of dentine and enamel .
myocardium of auricle which is continuous with the myocardium proper of right atrium .
myocardium of auricle which is continuous with the myocardium proper of left atrium .
epicardium of auricle which is attached to the myocardium of right auricle .
epicardium of auricle which is attached to the myocardium of left auricle .
region of wall of right atrium which is continuous with the wall of right atrioventricular junction .
region of wall of left atrium which is continuous with the wall of left atrioventricular junction .
cavity of cardiac chamber which is surrounded by the wall of cardiac chamber .
cavity of cardiac chamber which is surrounded by the wall of cardiac chamber .
region of wall of heart which consists of endocardium ,  myocardium and epicardium that surrounds the cavity of a cardiac chamber .
membranous part of cardiac septum which has as its parts the endocardium of interatrial septum and fibroelastic connective tissue of endocardium and is continuous with the membranous part of interventricular septum .
long bone which is part of the arm .
conducting system of subdivision of heart which consists of the sinuatrial node ,  atrial septal branch of anterior internodal tract ,  middle and posterior internodal tracts and the atrioventricular node .
conducting system of subdivision of heart which consists of the sinuatrial node and the atrial branch of the anterior internodal tract .
conducting system of subdivision of heart which consists of the atrioventricular node ,  right branch of atrioventricular bundle and the subendocardial branch of right branch of atrioventricular bundle .
conducting system of subdivision of heart which consists of the atrioventricular node ,  atrioventricular bundle ,  anterior ,  posterior and septal divisions of left branch of atrioventricular bundle and their respective subendocardial branches .
wall of cardiac chamber that surrounds the cavity of an atrium .
wall of cardiac chamber that surrounds the cavity of a ventricle .
cavity of hemithorax demarcated from the mediastinum by the medial surface of the right mediastinal pleura .
cavity of hemithorax demarcated from the mediastinum by the medial surface of the left mediastinal pleura .
branch of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery which supplies both the cardiac ventricles and the interventricular septum .
cardinal organ part which is bounded predominantly by bonafide boundaries .
striated muscle cell which has as its direct parts one or two centrally placed nuclei .
tissue which consists of cardiac myocytes surrounded by cardiac endomysium .
tissue which consists of skeletal muscle fibers surrounded by endomysium .
tissue which consists of smooth muscle fibers surrounded by a reticulum of collagen and elastic fibers .
muscle cell which has as its direct parts myofilaments attached to cytoplasmic dense bodies .
simple squamous epithelium of mesodermal origin which lines serous membranes .
specialized cardiac myocyte that is subendocardially interpersed with the regular cardiac muscle cell .
vascular tree ,  the organ parts of which are veins .
organ part cluster ,  which consists of some members of two or more organ subdivision subclasses which are grouped together according to some shared attributes .
organ component of the liver ,  which consists of irregular dense connective tissue sheath which surrounds each portal triad .
organ with organ cavity which is continuous proximally with the cecum and distally terminates in the tip of the appendix .
organ part which is continuous with the cecum proximally and the transverse colon distally .
hollow tree organ ,  the organ parts of which consists of the bile ducts .
cavity of serous sac surrounded by the peritoneum .
region of parenchyma of kidney representing the outer portion .
zone of kidney located at its superior end .
zone of kidney located at its inferior end .
organ segment in the kidney defined by the distribution of the segmental renal arteries .
renal segment supplied by the superior segmental renal artery .
renal segment supplied by the anterior superior segmental renal artery .
renal segment supplied by the anterior inferior segmental renal artery .
renal segment supplied by the inferior segmental renal artery .
renal segment supplied by the posterior segmental renal artery .
organ with organ cavity which is continuous proximally with the rectum and distally terminates with the anus .
zone of spleen located at its inferior end .
zone of spleen located at its superior end .
serous sac ,  which has as parts the tunica vaginalis and the cavity of tunica vaginalis .
serous membrane ,  which partially surrounds the testis and lines the wall of a hemiscrotum .
visceral serous membrane which partially surrounds the testis .
parietal serous membrane ,  which is attached to inner surface of wall of a hemiscrotum
region of parietal serous pericardium which is attached to the anterior part of fibrous pericardium .
region of parietal serous pericardium which is attached to the lateral part of fibrous pericardium .
region of parietal serous pericardium that is attached to the diaphragmatic surface of heart .
organ with organ cavity which is continuous proximally with the right and left ureters and distally with the urethra .
general anatomical term which refers to either the anterior ramus of fifth ,  sixth ,  seventh ,  eighth cervical or first thoracic nerve .
transudate contained in the peritoneal cavity .
anatomical structure which is a remnant of an embryonic structure in the postnatal period .
subdivision of free lower limb ,  which is the proximal segment of a lower limb and links the free lower limb to the trunk ;  it is demarcated by the plane of the surface of the acetabular fossa from the free lower limb ;  together with the free lower limb ,  it constitutes the lower limb .
organ with organ cavity which is continuous proximally with the right and left uterine tubes and distally is connected to the vagina .
renal segment supplied by the superior segmental branch of right renal artery .
renal segment supplied by the superior segmental branch of left renal artery .
renal segment supplied by the anterior superior segmental branch of right renal artery .
renal segment supplied by the anterior superior segmental branch of left renal artery .
renal segment supplied by the anterior inferior segmental branch of right renal artery .
renal segment supplied by the anterior inferior segmental branch of left renal artery .
renal segment supplied by the inferior segmental branch of right renal artery .
renal segment supplied by the inferior segmental branch of left renal artery .
renal segment supplied by the posterior segmental branch of right renal artery .
renal segment supplied by the posterior segmental branch of left renal artery .
organ with organ cavity which connects the uterine cavity to the peritoneal cavity .
general anatomical term which refers to ovary or testis .
germ cell of the female sex .
nucleated cell which has a haploid set  ( 23 pairs )  of chromosomes .haploid nucleated cell
transudate contained in the vesicular ovarian follicle  ( ta )   ( graafian follicle )  .
muscle  ( organ )  which is a part of the pelvis .
cavernous organ ,  located on the ventral aspect of the penis .
secretion produced by preputial gland .
organ with organ cavity which connects the cavity of the urinary bladder to the exterior .
irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a sparse irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
organ component of superficial fascia which forms a membrane on the posterior surface of the corpus mammae and is separated from the deep fascia of the pectoralis major by the retromammary space .
zone of testis located at the superior end .
zone of testis located at its inferior end .
organ with organ cavity which connects the cervical canal of uterus to the vestibule of vagina .
lobular organ the parenchyma of which consists of glandular acini which communicate with the vestibule of vagina .
connective tissue ,  which consists of fibroblasts ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a regular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
connective tissue ,  which consists of a population of connective tissue cells ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains an irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
irregular connective tissue is an irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a dense irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
dense irregular connective tissue ,  which predominantly consists of adipocytes .
loose connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which consists predominantly of mucoid ground substance .
loose connective tissue which contains melanocytes .
loose connective tissue which consists of an irregular network of cells and reticular fibers and is spatially associated with myeloid and lymphoid cells .
adipose tissue ,  cells of which contain a single large lipid droplet .
adipose tissue ,  cells of which contain multiple small lipid droplets .
anatomical cavity that connects an organ cavity ,  organ cavity subdivision or cavity of body part subdivision to the exterior ,  completely or partially surrounded by organs or organ parts that are lined by epithelium .
organ with cavitated organ parts ,  which consist of fibrous trabeculae and endothelial wall that surround cavernous  ( vascular )  spaces .
cavernous organ ,  located in labium minus  .
serous sac ,  which has as parts the conjunctiva and the cavity of conjunctiva .
anatomical cluster which consists of all or some members of two or more body part subdivision subclasses which are grouped together according to some shared attributes .
anatomical structure which is the aggregate material substance of an individual member of the homo sapiens species .
transudate contained in a serous sac .
transudate contained in the subarachnoid space .
nonparenchymatous organ that primarily consists of dense connective tissue aggregated into fasciculi by connective tissue .
leaflet of mitral valve which is attached to the commissural chorda tendinea of left ventricle .
commissural leaflet of mitral valve which is attached to the anterior head of the posterior papillary muscle of left ventricle .
commissural leaflet of mitral valve which is attached to the posteromedial head of the posterior papillary muscle of left ventricle .
gray matter component of neuraxis which is located in the interior of the neuraxis .
cranial nerve - tract complex which has as its parts the right and left sets of olfactory nerves ,  right and left olfactory bulbs and  right and left olfactory tracts .
tract of brain which is continuous with left olfactory bulb and the cerebral cortex .
tract of brain which is continuous with right olfactory bulb and the cerebral cortex .
olfactory bulb which is continuous with the right set of olfactory nerves and the right olfactory tract .
olfactory bulb which is continuous with the left set of olfactory nerves and the left olfactory tract .
set of nerves that is continuous with the right olfactory bulb and the right olfactory bulb .
set of nerves that is continuous with the left olfactory bulb and the left olfactory bulb .
neural tree organ which has as its parts neural components of one or more special sense organs and nerve trunks .
zone of heart which has as its parts the left atrium and the inflow part of right atrium .
zone of heart which has as its parts the outflow part of right atrium ,  right ventricle and mid zone part of left ventricle .
zone of heart which has as its parts the apical zone of myocardium of left ventricle and the epicardium of left ventricle .
organ region with floating fiat boundary which has as its parts the endocardium of left ventricle ,  mid zone of myocardium of left ventricle ,  epicardium of left ventricle and cavity of left ventricle .
anatomical compartment which consists of the cell cavity and the cytoplasm with or without the cell nucleus .
regular connective tissue ,  which consists of osteocytes and related cells ,   the intercellular matrix of which is ossified .
region of myocardium of right ventricle which has as its parts the basal anterior zone ,  basal septal zone ,  basal inferior zone and basal lateral zone of myocarium of right ventricle .
region of basal  zone of myocardium of right ventricle which is continuous with the basal septal zone ,  basal lateral zone and mid anterior zone of myocardium of right ventricle .
region of basal  zone of myocardium of right ventricle which is continuous with the basal anterior zone ,  basal inferior zone and mid septal zone of myocardium of right ventricle .
region of basal  zone of myocardium of right ventricle which is continuous with the basal septal zone ,  basal lateral zone and mid inferior zone of myocardium of right ventricle .
region of basal  zone of myocardium of right ventricle which is continuous with the basal anterior zone ,  basal inferior zone and mid lateral zone of myocardium of right ventricle .
region of myocardium of right ventricle which has as its parts the mid anterior zone ,  mid septal zone ,  mid inferior zone and mid lateral zone of myocardium of right ventricle .
region of mid  zone of myocardium of right ventricle which is continuous with the mid septal zone ,  mid lateral zone ,  basal anterior zone and apical anterior zone of myocardium of right ventricle .
region of mid  zone of myocardium of right ventricle which is continuous with the mid anterior zone ,  mid inferior zone ,  basal septal zone and apical septal zone of myocardium of right ventricle .
region of mid  zone of myocardium of right ventricle which is continuous with the mid septal zone ,  mid lateral zone ,  basal inferior zone and apical inferior zone of myocardium of right ventricle .
region of mid  zone of myocardium of right ventricle which is continuous with the mid anterior zone ,  mid inferior zone ,  basal lateral zone and apical lateral zone of myocardium of right ventricle .
region of myocardium of right ventricle which has as its parts the apical anterior zone ,  apical septal zone ,  apical inferior zone and apical lateral zone of myocardium of right ventricle .
region of apical  zone of myocardium of right ventricle which is continuous with the apical septal zone ,  apical lateral zone and mid anterior zone of myocardium of right ventricle .
region of apical  zone of myocardium of right ventricle which is continuous with the apical inferior zone ,  apical anterior zone and mid septal zone of myocardium of right ventricle .
region of apical  zone of myocardium of right ventricle which is continuous with the apical septal zone ,  apical lateral zone and mid inferior zone of myocardium of right ventricle .
region of apical  zone of myocardium of right ventricle which is continuous with the apical anterior zone ,  apical inferior zone and mid lateral zone of myocardium of right ventricle .
anatomical compartment that consists of the cell cavity with protoplasm .
anatomical compartment that consists of the cell cavity with cytoplasm .
protein which consists of alpha helices .
protein which consists of beta sheets .
protein which consists of alpha helices and beta sheets .
anatomical orientation which is the standard position of the human body: erect ,  upper limbs adducted with palms facing anteriorly and lower limbs straight with soles facing inferiorly .
anatomical location which specifies the relationship between one or more physical anatomical entities in terms of  . . .
cardinal body part ,  which consists of a maximal set of diverse subclasses of organ and organ part spatially associated with the vertebral column and ribcage .
wall of synovial tendon sheath of ring finger
subdivision of free upper limb ,  which is the proximal segment of an upper limb and links the free upper limb to the trunk ;  it is demarcated by the plane of the surface of the glenoid fossa from the free upper limb ;  together with the free upper limb ,  it constitutes the upper limb .
set of organ system subdivision which consists of all the bones in the body .
organ system subdivision which consists of the skeleton and the articular system .
cell region demarcated by one or more floating fiat boundaries .
subdivision of long bone which forms its expanded proximal or distal articular end ;  together with other the subdivisions of long bone ,  it constitutes the long bone .
subdivision of long bone which forms the part of the bone between the two epiphyses ;  together with other the subdivisions of long bone ,  it constitutes the long bone .
subdivision of diaphysis which forms the proximal or distal end of diaphysis next to the epiphysis ;  together with diaphysis proper ,  it constitutes the diaphysis .
anatomical cavity ,  which is surrounded by an organ part ;  is separated from the cavity or lumen of other organ parts of the same organ by anatomical structures .
anatomical boundary entity which has two spatial dimensions .
anatomical surface ,  which is the external surface of a body part or a body part subdivision .
subdivision of neck ,  which is demarcated from the front of the neck by the plane of the anterior part of the prevertebral fascia ;  together with the front of the neck ,  it constitutes the neck .
cc chemokine that attract eosinophils ,  basophils ,  mast cells and th2 lymphocytes .
neural tissue which consists of all the neuron cell bodies ,  neuronal processes and neuroglia in the spinal cord .
anatomical surface ,  which is the internal or external surface of an organ .
anatomical surface ,  which is the subdivision of the surface of an organ .
subdivision of thorax ,  which is the posterior part of the thorax and is demarcated from the chest by the external surface of the posterolateral part of the rib cage and the anterior surface of the thoracic vertebral column ;  together with the chest ,  it constitutes the thorax .
subdivision of neck ,  which is demarcated from the back of the neck by the plane of the anterior part of the prevertebral fascia ;  together with the back of the neck ,  it constitutes the neck .
cell region demarcated by one or more anchored fiat boundaries .
anatomical surface which marks a physical discontinuity between two or more anatomical structures or is an interface between an anatomical space and one more anatomical structures .
anatomical surface which ,  as an imaginary plane ,  bisects an anatomical structure or an anatomical space .
anatomical line which corresponds to the intersection of two bona fide anatomical surfaces .
anatomical line which corresponds to the intersection of two anatomical planes .
subdivision of head which consists of the viscerocranium and all layers superficial to it .
subdivision of thorax which is anterior to the plane of the posterior boundary of the middle mediastinum .
subdivision of the chest wall which is demarcated from the anterior part of the chest by the anterior axillary lines and form the posterior part of the chest by the posterior axillary lines .
subdivision of limb ,  which is the proximal segment of a limb and links the free limb to the trunk ;  it is demarcated by the plane of the surfaces of the glenoid and acetabular fossae from the free limb ;  together with the free limb ,  it constitutes the limb .
subdivision of limb ,  which is distal to the limb girdle and demarcated by the plane of the surfaces of the glenoid and acetabular fossae from the limb girdle ;  together with the limb girdle ,  it constitutes the limb .
free limb ,  which is distal to the pectoral girdle and demarcated by the plane of the surface of the glenoid fossa from the pectoral girdle ;  together with the pectoral girdle ,  it constitutes the upper limb .
free limb ,  which is distal to the pelvic girdle and demarcated by the plane of the surface of the acetabular fossa from the pelvic girdle ;  together with the pelvic girdle ,  it constitutes the lower limb .
subdivision of trunk which is demarcated from the back of trunk by the external surface of the posterolateral part of the rib cage ,  the anterior surface of the thoracic vertebral column and the posterior axillary lines ,  the external surface of the posterior abdominal wall and from the limbs by the inguinal folds ;  together with the back of trunk ,  it constitutes the trunk .
subdivision of trunk which is demarcated from the trunk proper by the external surface of the posterolateral part of the rib cage ,  the anterior surface of the thoracic vertebral column and the posterior axillary lines ,  the external surface of the posterior abdominal wall ;  together with the trunk proper ,  it constitutes the trunk .
anatomical relation which asserts the instantiation of types .
taxonomic anatomical relation which asserts the instantiation of a broader type by two or more narrower  ( more specific )  types  ( subtypes )  .
anatomical structure which is the aggregate material substance of an individual member of a species .
ligament organ that primarily consists of regular dense connective tissue aggregated into fasciculi ;  connects bone and cartilage organs .
ligament organ that primarily consists of dense connective tissue aggregated into fasciculi which may be admixed with smooth muscle .
structural anatomical relation which holds between each anatomical entity of one to three dimensions and some immaterial anatomical entity of one lower dimension such that the latter demarcates  ( delimits )  the former from its neighborhood .
synovial sac ,  the synovial membrane of which together with articular cartilage encloses a synovial cavity
sac of tunica vaginalis contained in the compartment of right hemiscrotum .
synovial capsule of joint ,  which is surrounded by the fibrous capsule of glenohumeral joint .
serous membrane ,  which has as its parts a parietal serous membrane and a visceral serous membrane that together forms a serous sac that encloses a serous cavity .
region of serous pericardium surrounding the heart .
subdivision of trunk which has as its parts the thorax and the back of thorax .
subdivision of trunk which has as its parts the abdomen and the back of abdomen .
tissue cavity consisting of intercommunicating trabecular spaces in the cancellous bone .
fiat anatomical line which subdivides an anatomical surface across one or more anatomical landmarks .
fiat anatomical line which subdivides an anatomical structure independent of anatomical landmarks .
taxonomic anatomical relation which asserts the instantiation of a type by two or more instances  ( individuals )  .
anatomical relation which associates an anatomical entity with the number of its spatial dimension .
structural anatomical relation which associates an anatomical entity with some geometric shape .
anatomical cranial point  where the coronal and sagittal suture lines intersect .
anatomical cranial point which is midline at the inferior tip of the bony septum between the upper central incisors .
anatomical cranial point where the upper central incisors meet at the occlusal surface .
cavity of serous sac surrounded by the tunica vaginalis .
sac of tunica vaginalis contained in the compartment of left hemiscrotum .
anatomical term that represents more than one concept .
tubular organ part ,  the wall and lumen of which are continuous with those of the ventricles of the heart ,  directly or indirectly through branches of the aorta and pulmonary trunk .
tubular organ part ,  the wall and lumen of which are continuous with those of the atria of the heart ,  directly or indirectly through tributaries of the venae cavae ,  pulmonary veins and the hepatic and portal veins .
segment of lymphatic tree organ ,  the wall and lumen of which are continuous with those of the veins ,  directly or indirectly ;  together with other lymphatic vessels and lymph nodes ,  it constitutes the lymphatic tree organ .
anatomical coordinate which is a plane ,  line or point defined with reference to visible or palpable organ parts ;  used as a reference in establishing the location and measurement of organ ,  organ parts or body spaces .
anatomical cluster which consists of all or some members of one or more organ subclasses which are grouped together according to some shared attributes .
set of organs located in the abdominal cavity .
viscera located in the pelvis .
intrinsic muscle of shoulder which attaches to the spine of scapula ,  clavicle and humerus .
synovial joint between the bases of adjacent metacarpals .
general anatomical term which describes an elongated ,  organ part ,  the trilaminar wall of which consists of tunica intima ,  media and adventitia ;  its lumen  ( organ cavity )  is continuous with the cavity of the heart ,  directly or indirectly through the branches of arteries and the tributaries of veins ;  it conveys blood between the heart and other organs and body parts ;  together with other blood vessels and the heart ,  it constitutes the cardiovascular system .
hollow tree ,  the organ parts of which are arteries ,  veins or lymphatic vessels .
anatomical conduit space that connects two adjacent body spaces ,  surrounded by two or more subdivisions of two or more organs or organ parts .
specialized connective tissue is a connective tissue ,  which consists of osteocytes and chondrocytes ,  the intercellular matrix of which is chondrified or calcified .
regular connective tissue ,  which consists of chondrocytes and related cells ,  the intercellular matrix of which is chondrified .
branch of right coronary artery which runs over the anterior part of conus arteriosus and supplies the pulmonary conus and the upper part of right ventricle .
ventricular branch of right coronary artery which courses at nearly perpendicular to the trunk of the right coronary artery  ,  curving upward and then downward to supply the anterior wall of right ventricle and the apex .
anterior ventricular branch of right coronary artery which runs downward along the the acute margin and supplies the anterior wall of right ventricle and the apex .
atrial branch of right coronary artery which runs between the right auricle and the aorta ,  along the interatrial sulcus ,  traversing around the orifice of superior vena cava .
atrial branch of right coronary artery
ventricular branch of right coronary artery which runs obliqually to the right upper and middle third of the posterior interventricular sulcus to supply the posterior wall of right ventricle .
branch of right coronary artery which runs along the upper third of the posterior interventricular sulcus to supply the posterior wall of right and left ventricles and the posterior third of the interventricular septum .
branch of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery which arises from the terminal end of the left coronary artery between the angle formed by the anterior interventricular branch and the circumflex branch of the left coronary artery and supplies the left ventricle .
branch of left coronary artery which is the direct continuation of the left coronary artery along the anterior interventricular sulcus ,  consisting of the conus branch of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary ,  the anterior ventricular branch of anterior interventricular artery ,  the left diagonal artery and the septal branch of anterior interventricular artery that supplies both the cardiac ventricles and the anterior two thirds of the interventricular septum .
branch of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery which arises from the proximal part of the anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery and crosses over the top of the conus arteriosus and the base of the anterior cusp of the pulmonary artery and supplies the outflow part of the right ventricle .
anterior branch of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery which arises from the right side to supply the anterior wall of the right ventricle .
anterior branch of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery which arises at an acute angle to supply the anterior wall of left ventricle .
branch of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery which enters the muscular part of the interventricular septum .
septal branch of anterior interventricular artery which supplies the anterior two thirds of the interventricular septum .
septal branch of anterior interventricular artery which supplies the posterior third of the interventricular septum .
branch of left coronary artery which runs perpendicular to the anterior interventricular branch of the left coronary artery on the left side of the interventricular sulcus and supplies the left side of the heart .
branch of circumflex coronary artery which courses downward along the obtuse margin of heart to the apex and supplies the left ventricle .
branch of circumflex coronary artery which runs parallel to the upper part of the atrioventricular sulcus and around the obtuse margin of the heart to supply the posterior wall of left atrium .
variant coronary artery which comes from the right coronary artery or from the circumflex branch of left coronary artery to supply the posterior wall of right ventricle .
variant coronary artery which supplies the anterior wall of right ventricle .
variant coronary artery which originates from the left aortic sinus to supply both the right and left ventricles .
variant coronary artery which provides the anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery to supply both the right and left ventricles .
organ component cluster which consists of a tendinous vinculum surrounded by synovial membrane of the synovial tendon sheath .
synovial sac which surrounds parts of one or more tendons  .
epithelium which consists of a single layer of epithelial cells .
epithelium which consists of more than one layer of epithelial cells that may or may not be in contact with a basement membrane .
multilaminar epithelium which consists of more than one layer of squamous cells only one layer of which is in contact with a basement membrane .
multilaminar epithelium which consists of more than one layer of columnar cells ,  only one layer of which is in contact with a basement membrane .
unilaminar epithelium which consists of a single layer of squamous cells .
unilaminar epithelium ,  which consists of a single layer of cuboidal cells .
unilaminar epithelium ,  which consists of a single layer of columnar cells .
keratinized stratified squamous epithelium is a stratified squamous epithelium ,  the cells of which synthesize and accumulate keratin .
stratified squamous epithelium is a stratified squamous epithelium ,  the cells of which synthesizes but does not accumulate keratin .
simple columnar epithelium in which not all the cells may reach the luminal surface of the epithelium and the nuclei are aligned in more than one row .
subdivision of cardiovascular system which has as its parts the pulmonary arterial and venous tree organs .
subdivision of cardiovascular system which has as its parts the left side of heart and the systemic arterial tree .
subdivision of cardiovascular system which has as its parts the right side of heart ,  the superior vena cava and the inferior vena cava .
subdivision of urinary system which consists of the kidney and the ureters .
*subdivision of urinary system which consists of the urinary bladder and the urethra .
subdivision of respiratory system which consists of the nose ,  nasopharynx ,  oropharynx and larynx
subdivision of respiratory system which consists of the tracheobronchial tree ,  right lung and left lung .
conceptual anatomical entity that represents an anatomical concept in non - structural context or in multiple contexts .
anatomical surface ,  which is the external surface of a subdivision of a solid organ or the external or internal surface of a subdivision of a cavitated organ .
non - physical anatomical entity which asserts an association between two or more physical and / or non - physical anatomical entities .
organ component constituted by specialized tissues which are organized into acini ,  lobules ,  segments ,  and lobes ,  or corticomedullary units and supported by stroma .
vascular tree ,  the organ parts of which are arteries .
arterial tree organ connected to the right ventricle .
venous tree  ( organ )  connected to the gut ,  liver ,  pancreas and spleen .
subdivision of head proper which consists of the frontal bone and all layers superficial to it .
*subdivision of face which consists of the nasal skeleton ,  nasal septum and nasal cavity .
subdivision of skeletal system which consists of the skeleton of the head and its joints .
anatomical set which consists of a scattered group of muscle fibers innervated by a single alpha motor neuron .
segment of neural tree organ which is continuous with the olfactory epithelium and an olfactory bulb .
trunk of systemic vein which is formed by the union of the great cardiac vein and the left marginal vein and terminates in the right atrium .
trunk of systemic vein  which is  formed by the union of the right and left brachiocephalic veins and  terminates in the right atrium .
organ component cluster which consists of the fusion of the tendons of origin of the four rectus muscles of the eye .
subdivision of head proper which consists of the occipital bone and all layers superficial to it .
region of wall of left ventricle which is continuous with the wall of outflow part of left atrium .
region of wall of left ventricle which is continuous with the wall of the ascending trunk of aorta .
endocardium of region of atrium which surrounds the cavity of inflow part of right atrium .
endocardium of region of atrium which surrounds the cavity of inflow part of left atrium .
endocardium of region of atrium which is continuous with the leaflet of tricuspid valve .
endocardium of region of atrium which is continuous with the leaflet of mitral valve .
endocardium of region of ventricle which is continuous with the cusp of pulmonary valve .
endocardium of region of ventricle which is continuous with the cusp of the aortic valve .
endocardium of region of ventricle which is continuous with the leaflet of mitral valve .
endocardium of region of ventricle which is continuous with the leaflet of tricuspid valve .
myocardium of region of atrium which is continuous with the tunica media of superior and inferior vena cavae .
myocardium of region of atrium which is continuous with the tunica media of the superior and inferior pulmonary veins .
myocardium of region of atrium which is attached to the fibrous ring of tricuspid valve .
myocardium of region of atrium which is attached to the fibrous ring of mitral valve .
myocardium region of ventricle which is continuous with the tunica media of pulmonary trunk .
myocardium of region of ventricle which is continuous with the tunica media of aorta .
myocardium of region of ventricle which is continuous with the fibrous ring of mitral valve .
subdivision of epicardium which is continuous with the visceral serous pericardium of the superior and inferior vena cavae .
subdivision of epicardium which is continuous with the visceral serous pericardium of the pulmonary vein .
subdivision of epicardium which is continuous with the epicardium of the inflow part of the  \ nright ventricle .
subdivision of epicardium which is continuous with the epicardium of the inflow part of the left ventricle .
subdivision of epicardium which is continuous with the epicardium of the ourflow part of right atrium .
subdivision of epicardium which is continuous with the epicardium of the ourflow part of left atrium .
subdivision of epicardium which is continuous with the visceral serous pericardium of pulmonary trunk .
subdivision of epicardium which is continuous with the visceral serous pericardium of the aorta .
anatomical structure ,  which has as its parts a heterogeneous collection of  organs ,  organ parts ,  cells ,  cell parts or body part subdivisions that are adjacent to ,  or continuous with one another ;  does not constitute a cell part ,  cell ,   tissue ,   organ ,  organ system or organ system subdivision ,  cardinal body part ,  body part subdivision or anatomical junction .
subdivision of thoracic cavity demarcated from the left half of thoracic cavity by the median plane .
subdivision of thoracic cavity demarcated from the right half of thoracic cavity by the median plane .
systemic artery which supplies the heart .
arterial tree  ( organ )  connected to the left ventricle .
venous tree  ( organ )  connected to the right atrium .
venous tree  ( organ )  connected to the left atrium .
coronary artery which emerges from the anterior aortic sinus ,  between the right auricle and the pulmonary trunk ,  and supplies the right side of the heart .
coronary artery which emerges from the left posterior aortic sinus ,  between the left auricle and the pulmonary trunk ,  and supplies the left side of the heart .
subdivision of thorax which includes all structures from the skin to the costal pleura .
organ with cavitated organ parts ,  which primarily consists of compact  ( cortical )  and cancellous bone ,  which surround bone marrow cavities ;  together with other bones ,  cartilages and joints ,  it constitutes the skeletal system .
nonparenchymatous organ that primarily consists of skeletal muscle tissue aggregated into macroscopic fasciculi by connective tissue ;  together with other muscles ,  it constitutes the muscular system .
nonparenchymatous organ that consists of organ parts composed of various types of connective tissue ;  it surrounds and interconnects various organs and body parts ,  and establishes the anatomical integrity of body parts and organ systems .
vascular tree ,  the organ parts of which are lymphatic vessels and  lymph nodes .
systemic venous tree  ( organ )  ,  the trunk of which is the coronary sinus or the small cardiac vein .
cardiac venous tree which consists of the coronary sinus and all its tributaries .
lymphatic trunk that connects all tributaries of the thoracic duct tree to the trunk of the left brachiocephalic vein .
entity with spatial dimension .examples: point ,  line ,  surface ,  volume .
anatomical relationship which describes the subclass - superclass relationships between anatomical entities .
anatomical relation which asserts associations of a physical nature between two or more anatomical entities .
anatomical location which specifies the relationship between one or more material anatomical entities and anatomical space .
immaterial anatomical entity of one less dimension than the anatomical entity it bounds or demarcates from another anatomical entity .
spatial association relationship which describes the containment ,  adjacency and anatomical coordinates of physical anatomical entities .
adjacent_to relation which holds between each physical anatomical entity in type a and some anatomical plane ,  line or point .
subdivision of arterial tree  ( organ )  which consists of branching sets of tubes  ( arterial trunk )   that form a tree ;  together with other arterial trees  ( organ part )  ,  it constitutes an arterial tree  ( organ )  .
subdivision of venous tree  ( organ )  which consists of branching sets of tubes  ( venous trunks )   that form a tree ;  together with other venous trees  ( organ part )  ,  it constitutes a venous tree  ( organ )  .
segment of neuraxis that has as its parts gray matter and white matter that surround the cerebral ventricular system ;   examples: there is only one brain .
nerve trunk which is continuous with the retina and the optic chiasm .
cranial nerve which connects the midbrain to the extra - ocular and intra - ocular muscles .
optic nerve which is continuous with the right retina and the optic chiasm .
optic nerve which is continuous with the left retina and the optic chiasm .
subdivision of cardiac septum which is continuous with the membranous part of cardiac septum and the wall of cardiac chamber .
subdivision of epicardium which is attached to the myocardium proper .
myocardium proper which consists of the superficial and deep layers of myocardium of atrium .
structural anatomical relation which describes the location ,  orientation and connectivity of physical anatomical entities .
segment of neural tree organ which is continuous with the olfactory epithelium and the right olfactory bulb .
segment of neural tree organ which is continuous with the olfactory epithelium and the left olfactory bulb .
neural cell which consists of a cell body  ( soma )  ,  axon and  dendrites ;  the neuron is the structural and functional unit of the nervous system .
subdivision of head which consists of the neurocranium and all layers superficial to it including the cranial cavity and its contents .
subdivision of the viscerocranial mucosa located above the superior constrictor of the pharynx and extends upwards and backwards toward the occipital bone .
subdivision of viscerocranial mucosa behind the opening of the pharyngotympanic tube .
subdivision of viscerocranial mucosa in front of the opening pharyngotympanic tube .
region of surface of viscerocranial mucosa which overlies the medial end of the pharyngotympanic tube .
region of surface of viscerocranial mucosa which overlies that part of the levator veli palatini that curves into the soft palate below the opening of the pharyngotympanic tube .
region of surface of viscerocranial mucosa ,  which is a depression located between the median and lateral glosso - epiglottic folds .
subdivision of the viscerocranial mucosa which located between the epiglottis and the base of the tongue .
heterogeneous cluster that connects the pharynx to the tracheobronchial tree .
region of surface of viscerocranial mucosa overlying the lymphoid tissue between the soft palate and the pharyngeal recess .
organ region with one or more floating fiat boundaries .
6 .5 .01: this is present only in the lactating gland .
subdivision of the larynx which consists of the right and left vocal cords and the rima glottidis .
ectopic thyroid gland which is located in the vicinity of the thyroid gland proper without any direct connection with it .
set of organs located in the thoracic cavity .
set of organs located in the body cavity .
organ component layer which consists of the endothelium and the fibroelastic connective tissue .
substance of tooth produced by odontoblasts ;  surrounds the pulp of the tooth and is subjacent to enamel and cement .
substance of tooth produced by cementoblasts ;  surrounds the dentine of the root of the tooth .
material anatomical entity which consists of the maximum number of discontinuous members of the same class .
solid organ which consists of parenchyma and connective tissue stroma ;  the stroma subdivides the parenchyma into lobes ,  segments ,  lobules ,  acini ,  or cortex and medulla .
parenchymatous organ the stroma of which subdivides the parenchyma into lobes ,  segments ,  lobules and acini .
parenchymatous organ the stroma of which subdivides the parenchyma into cortex and medulla .
parenchymatous organ the stroma of which does not subdivide the parenchyma into distinct morphological organ parts .
solid organ which consists of organ parts that are arranged as fascicles or sheets .
organ the unshared parts of which do not surround macroscopic anatomical spaces ;  only its shared parts  ( subdivisions of hollow tree organs )  contain anatomical spaces .
organ the unshared parts of which surround one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
cavitated organ in which its unshared parts surround one continuous anatomical space .
cavitated organ in which its unshared parts surround two or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
organ with organ cavity which consists of gray matter and white matter .
organ region of neuraxis with one or more fixed or anchored fiat boundaries .
organ with organ cavity ,  which consists of an arborizing set of tubular organ parts ,  the walls of which are continuous and surround a continuous lumen .
organ with organ cavity which connects the rete testis to the prostatic urethra .
skeletal ligament  ( organ )  that connects a tooth to the maxilla or mandible .
subdivision of bone  ( organ )  in the jaw ,  which consists of the alveolar processes ,  sockets and septa  ( excluding the teeth )  .
anatomical set which consists of all the lactiferous glands of one breast .
chamber of eyeball
lobular organ the parenchyma of which consists of acini connected to the surface of the areola or to a lactiferous duct by the duct of areolar gland .
muscle organ which is a part of the trunk .
layer of wall of eyeball which is continuous with optic nerve .
layer of wall of right eyeball which is continuous with right optic nerve .
layer of wall of left eyeball which is continuous with left optic nerve .
neural tree  ( organ )  which is directly continuous with the spinal cord .
neural tree organ which is continuous with the brain .
general anatomical term applied to nerves in which somatic efferent nerve fibers predominate .
general anatomical term applied to nerves in which somatic afferent nerve fibers predominate .
general anatomical term applied to nerves in which somatic efferent somatic afferent nerve fibers are intermingled .
body substance in liquid state contained in the anterior and posterior chambers of the eyeball .
general anatomical term applied to nerves in which somatic efferent and / or somatic afferent nerve fibers predominate .
body substance of semisolid state which constitutes the vitreous body of the eye .
mucoid tissue in the vitreous chamber of the eyeball .
vitreous humor which fills the canal occupied by the hyaloid artery .
subdivision of neural tree  ( organ )  which primarily consists of cell bodies of neurons located outside the neuraxis  ( brain and spinal cord )  ;  together with a nucleus and its associated nerve ,  it constitutes a neural tree  ( organ )  .
immaterial anatomical entity which has three spatial dimensions .
anatomical structure in which parts of two or more anatomical structures establish physical continuity with one another or intermingle their component parts .
anatomical junction where subdivisions of two or more neural trees interconnect with one another to form a network through which nerve fibers of the constituent nerve trees become regrouped ;  together with other nerve plexuses ,  nerves and ganglia ,  it constitutes the peripheral nervous system .
conjunctival sac which is part of the right eye .
conjunctival sac which is part of the left eye .
lobular organ the parenchyma of which consists of glandular acini which communicate the lacrimal sac .
segment of neural tree organ which consists of nerve fiber bundles aggregated to form a cable - like structure that branches off to different nerves ;  together with all nerves of the same tree constitutes a neural tree .
*subdivision of face ,  the exterior of the nose ,  which consists of a root ,  dorsum ,  tip ,  columella ,  and right and left alae .
nonparenchymatous organ which consists of mucosae of the nose ,  mouth ,  pharyngotympanic tube ,  pharynx and larynx .
region of surface of viscerocranial mucosa which overlies the upper part of the major alar cartilage .
secretion produced by the lacrimal gland .
region of surface of viscerocranial mucosa in the middle meatus .
transudate contained in the osseous labyrinth outside the membranous labyrinth .
organ with organ cavity which consists of the vestibular labyrinth and the cochlear labyrinth .
organ with organ cavity which connects the vestibule of the conjunctival sac to the nasal cavity .
transudate contained within the membranous labyrinth .
neural tree organnonparenchymatous organ which has as its parts an aggregate of neurons  ( nuclei or ganglia )  and their axons which are grouped into fasciculi by connective tissue to form elongated ,  cable - like structures that are arranged into a tree .
lymph mixed with fats absorbed by the small intestine .
subdivision of abdomen which is demarcated from the pelvis by the plane of the superior pelvic aperture .
subdivision of abdomen which is demarcated from the front of the abdomen by the posterior surface of the anterior layer of the thoracolumbar fascia and the anterior surface of the lumbar vertebral column ;  together with the front of the abdomen ,  it constitutes the abdomen .
anatomical surface ,  which is the external surface of the whole body .
subdivision of head proper which consists of the temporal bone and all layers superficial to it ,  including the pinna .
subdivision of head proper which consists of the parietal bones and all layers superficial to them .
epithelium the cells of which do not conform to the typical arrangement of unilaminar and multilaminar epithelium .
anatomical structure which is demarcated by bona fide or fiat boundaries within a cell .
segment of esophagus at the level of t8 vertebra .
anatomical entity which has three or fewer spatial dimensions .
cell appendage of the neuron which includes the axon and the dendrite .
organ region of brain with one or more fixed or anchored fiat boundaries .
one of two bilateral ,  largely symmetrical organ subdivisions within the telencephalon which contain the cerebral cortex and cerebral white matter .
left cerebral hemisphere is one of two bilateral ,  largely symmetrical organ subdivisions within the telencephalon which contain the cerebral cortex and cerebral white matter .
subdivision of telencephalon which is one of five subdivisions of each hemisphere separated by both real landmarks  ( sulci and fissures )  and arbitrary boundaries .
frontal lobe is the anterior - most of five lobes of the cerebral hemisphere .
temporal lobe is the ventrolateral lobe of five lobes comprising each cerebral hemisphere .
parietal lobe is the one of five lobes of the cerebral hemisphere which occupies the dorsal - posterior portion of the hemisphere .
nucleus of  brain which is an elongated crescent - shaped mass lying parallel and adjacent to the lateral ventricle throughout its extent .
nucleus of  brain which lies ventral to the caudate nucleus and internal capsule and medial to the external capsule .
nucleus of  brain which is located medially to the putamen and laterally to the internal capsule .
subdivision of basal ganglion of telencephalon  which is an almond - shaped gray mass in the dorsomedial part of the temporal lobe .
subdivision of the telencephalon on the midline between the lateral ventricles which contains the septum pellucidum and the septal nuclei .
subdivision of the septum which contains the dorsal septal nucleus ,  the lateral septal nucleus ,  medial septal nucleus ,   triangular septal nucleus ,  septofimbrial nucleus ,  nucleus of diagonal band ,  nucleus of anterior commissure and nucleus of stria terminalis .
anatomical connectivity which is established between cell appendages of a neuron  and the body  ( soma )  of a neuron .
subdivision of telencephalon which is an area of gray matter containing cell islands  ( basal nucleus )  within the telencephalon which lies ventral to the head of the caudate nucleus ,  putamen ,  globus pallidus and anterior perforated substance .
subdivision of telencephalon which is actually several islands of neurons lying within the substantia innominata ,  located ventral to the basal ganglia and anterior to the hypothalamus .
subdivision of telencephalon which is a small field of the cerebral cortex located beneath the rostral corpus callosum bounded anteriorly by the anterior parolfactory sulcus .
subdivision of telencephalon which is a region on the ventro - medial aspect of the telencephalon penetrated by numerous blood vessels .
internal capsule is an organ subdivision of the telencephalon which is made up primarily of myelinated axonal neural tissue  ( white matter )  .
external capsule is an organ subdivision of the telencephalon which is made up primarily of myelinated axonal neural tissue  ( white matter )  .
extreme capsule is an organ subdivision of the telencephalon which is made up primarily of myelinated axonal neural tissue  ( white matter )  .
fornix of forebrain is an organ subdivision of the telencephalon which is made up primarily of myelinated axonal neural tissue .
organ component of neuraxis that has as its parts the telencephalon ,  diencephalon ,  lateral ventricles and third ventricle .
organ component of neuraxis that has as its parts the tectum ,  cerebral peduncle ,  midbrain tegmentum  and cerebral aqueduct .
organ component of neuraxis that has as its parts the cerebral cortex ,  cerebral white matter ,  basal ganglia ,  septum and fornix ,  as well as subcortical gray and white matter structures .
organ component of neuraxis that has as its parts the epithalamus ,  thalamus ,  hypothalamus ,  subthalamus .
rostral segment of the hindbrain that has as its parts the pons and the cerebellum .
organ component of neuraxis that has as its parts the medullary reticular formation ,  inferior olivary complex and cochlear nuclear complex ,  among other structures .
habenula is a segment of the epithalamus that has as its parts the lateral and medial habenular nuclei and the habenular commissure .
pineal body is an unpaired glandular organ subdivision shaped somewhat like a pine cone .
nerve trunk which is continuous with right and left optic nerves and right and left optic tracts .
nerve trunk which is continuous with the optic chiasm and the lateral geniculate nucleus .
stria medullaris of thalamus is a slender fiber bundle on the dorsal surface of the diencephalon which terminates posteriorly in the habenular nuclei .
lobular organ which consist of a lactiferous duct tree and the set of lactiferous acini that are connected to duct tree .
organ component of the mammary gland which consists of an aggregate of mammary alveoli that communicate with a lobular lactiferous duct .
secretion produced by the mammary gland .
cranial nerve - tract complex which has as its parts the right and left retinas ,  right and left optic nerves ,  optic chiasm and right and left optic tracts .
optic tract which is continuous with the optic chiasm and the right lateral geniculate nucleus .
subdivision of the midbrain lying anterior to the tectum and posterior to the substantia nigra and cerebral peduncle .
anatomical plane which bisects an anatomical structure or anatomical space across two or more anatomical landmarks .
anatomical surface which is an aggregate of the surfaces of its constituent organs .
secretion produced by type 2 pulmonary alveolar cell .
spatial association relation which holds between each anatomical structure of type a and some anatomical structure of type b such that each structure shares some part of its bona fide anatomical surface with that of the other .
connected_to relation which holds between each anatomical entity of type a and some anatomical entity of type b such that there is no bona fide boundary between their contiguous constitutional parts .
connected_to relation which holds between each anatomical structure of type a and some structure b such that some of the constitutional parts of the structure in type a are intermingled with some of the constitutional parts of the structure in type b across a fiat part of their maximal boundary which the related structures share .
general anatomical term which refers to nucleated and non - nucleated differentiated hemal cells .
segment of lymphatic tree organ which consists of one or more lymph nodes connected by two or more lymphatic vessels ;  together with other lymphatic chains form a lymphatic organ part tree .
general anatomical term which refers to an elongatyed anatomical structure which may be a cell ,  e .g .
general anatomical term which refers to component of a fiber ,  e .g .
tissue fluid of connective tissue mixed with macromolecules produced by connective tissue cells .
organismal continuant entity which is enclosed by the bona fide boundary of an organism or is an attribute of its structural organization .
lymph proper contained in a lymph trunks and in efferent and afferent lymphatic vessels of higher than primary order .
lymph proper contained in lymphatic capillaries and primary afferent lymphatic vessels .
ingested food admixed with gastric secretions contained in the stomach .
cell substance contained in lipid vacoule .
body substance ,  which consists of food admixed with saliva contained in the oral cavity ,  pharynx or esophagus .
body substance which consists of spermatozoa and seminal plasma .
secretion produced prostatic glands ,  bulbourethral glands or the seminal vesicles .
body substance in liquid state contained in the lumen of arterial and venous trees ,  blood capillary and the cardiac chambers ;  constitutes the liquid phase of blood .
neural tissue which consists of schwann cells .
body substance in solid state produced by odontoblasts ,  amyloblasts or cementoblasts .
body substance derived from plasma by the elimination of fibrinogen .
subdivision of venous tree  ( organ )  which is directly continuous with the capillary vessel .
set of organs located in the pelvic cavity .
subdivision of arterial tree  ( organ )  which is directly continuous with capillary vessel .
subdivision of vascular tree  ( organ )  which connects an arteriole to a venule or vice - versa .
structural relation which holds between an anatomical structure and some segment of the spinal cord .
has_part relation which holds between each anatomical set and any of its elements .
general anatomical term that is an arbitrary subdivision of an anatomical structure .
cell compcell component which is surrounded by a portion of cytosol .
membranous cytoplasmic organelle the interior of which is subdivided by cristae .
organelle which has as its direct parts a nuclear membrane and nuclear matrix .
cell component which has as its parts a maximal phospholipids bilayer and two or more types of protein embedded in the bilayer .
anatomical structure which consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
subdivision of head bounded by the hairline and the eyebrows .
anatomical structure which has as its parts one or more ordered aggregates of nucleotide ,  amino acid fatty acid or sugar molecules bonded to one another .
loose connective tissue located at the outer and inner layers of organs .
multilaminar epithelium ,  which consists of more than one layer of cuboidal cells ,  only one layer of which is in contact with a basement membrane .
multilaminar epithelium ,  which consists of more than one layer of cuboidal and columnar cells ,  only one layer of which is in contact with a basement membrane .
multilaminar epithelium ,  which of consists of more than one layer of epithelial cells ,  in contact with a basement membrane ,  that can undergo distention and contraction without losing its integrity and consistency .
simple squamous epithelium which lines pulmonary alveoli .
simple squamous epithelium which lines blood and lymphatic vessels and the heart  .
anatomical structure ,  which is the developmental form of a vertebrate animal or any of its parts at any given time from fertilization of the egg by the sperm to parturition .
fetal structure ,  which is a developmental form of a vertebrate animal at any given time point from 8 weeks of gestation to birth  ( or hatching )  .
gestational structure ,  which is the developmental form of a vertebrate animal or any of its parts at any given time point from 8 weeks of gestation to parturition .
anatomical space within a gestational structure .
excretion in semisolid state processed by the intestine .
dense irregular connective tissue of the skin that consists of fibroblasts ,  various connective tissue cell types ,  and collagen ,  predominantly type iii .
dense irregular connective tissue that consists of elastic fibers and collagen ,  predominantly type i .
regular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which consists predominantly of collagen fiber bundles arranged in parallel arrays .
regular connective tissue ,  which consists of fibroblasts and of intercellular matrix ,  which contains elastic fiber bundles oriented predominantly in definable directions .
cartilage  ( tissue )  which consists of chondrocytes and collagen ,  the intercellular matrix  of which is an amorphous gel with a perichondrium .
cartilage  ( tissue )  which consists of chondrocytes and collagen ,  the intercellular matrix  of which is an amorphous gel without a well - defined perichondrium .
cartilage  ( tissue )  which consists of chondrocytes and collagen ,  the intercellular matrix  of which consists of elastic fibers .
simple columnar epithelium in which the luminal side of the cells bears cilia .
simple columnar epithelium in which the luminal side of the cells bears microvilli .
simple columnar epithelium that constitutes the secretory part of a gland .
simple columnar epithelium without surface specialization .
synovial capsule of joint ,  which is surrounded by the fibrous capsule of knee joint .
skeletal ligament  ( organ )  that connects the bones and cartilages of the skull .
anatomical cluster which consists of all or some members of one or more organ subclasses and one or more organ part subclasses which are grouped together according to some shared attributes .
anatomical cluster which consists of all or some members of one or more organ part subclasses which are grouped together according to some shared attributes .
general anatomical term  ( a functional entity )  which consists of the scapula ,  the ribcage and the muscles that connect them and allow for the movement  ( sliding )  of the scapula on the ribcage .
general term for any space in the body .
segment of neural tree organ which has as its parts a nerve trunk and its branches ;  together with other nerves of the same tree it constitutes a neural tree .
neural tree  ( organ )  which is directly continuous with the neuraxis .
lymphatic tree  ( organ )  connected to the confluence of the right subclavian and internal jugular veins .
segment of lymphatic tree organ which consists of branching sets of lymphatic vessels with or without interspersed lymph nodes ;  together with other lymphatic trees  ( organ part )  ,  it constitutes a lymphatic tree  ( organ )  .
serous sac ,  which has as parts a synovial membrane and a synovial cavity .
body cavity subdivision which is surrounded by the internal surface of the right or left side of the rib cage ,  the right or left lateral surface of the mediastinum and the superior surface of a hemidiaphragm .
somatic cell which has as its part a cytoskeleton that allows for tight cell to cell contact and for cell polarity where apical part is directed towards the lumen and the basal part to the basal lamina .
thyroid gland located anterolateral to the upper part of the trachea .
osteoid impregnated by hydroxyapatite crystals .
cell component which has as its direct parts a portion of cytosol and one or more organelles .
portion of cell substance contained in the cell cavity proper and in which cytoplasmic organelles and intracellular biological macromolecules are suspended .
part of plasma membrane which consists of oligosaccharides and polysaccharides attached to proteins or lipids on the outer layer of the cell ;  forms the outermost layer of the plasma membrane .
part of plasma membrane which consists of an outer and inner layer of lipid molecules .
region of cytoplasm which comprise the peripheral zone of the cytoplasm and which contains a dense meshwork of microfilaments .
region of cytoplasm which comprises the central zone of cytoplasm and which contains microtubules and organelles .
portion of body substance in liquid state contained in a cell cavity proper ,  cavity of cell nucleus or cavity of cytoplasmic organelle .
secretion produced by a mucous gland or goblet cell .
organelle part which consists of nucleotides arranged linearly into three regions ,  dna replication origin ,  centromere and telomere .
specialized cardiac myocyte in the sinuatrial and atrioventricular nodes .
nodal myocyte which consists of the pacemaker cell and the transitional myocyte of sinuatrial node .
nodal myocyte which consists of the transitional and purkinje myocytes of the atrioventricular node
specialized cardiac myocyte in the atrium and interventricular septum .
physical anatomical entity which is a three - dimensional space ,  surface ,  line or point associated with a material anatomical entity .
anatomical entity which has no spatial dimension .
protein that binds to actin filaments and modulates their properties and functions .
anatomical space within the protoplasm .
material anatomical entity which is generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genes that guide its morphogenesis ;  has inherent 3d shape ;  its parts are connected and spatially related to one another in patterns determined by coordinated gene expression .
specialized cardiac myocyte which is in the internodal tract and atrioventricular node .
physical anatomical entity which has mass .
cell body which consists of the plasma membrane and the cytoplasm surrounding the nucleus of the neuron .
cell part cluster consisting predominantly of somas of neurons in the brain and the spinal cord .
plasma membrane that surrounds the cytoplasm and the organelles of an axon .
part of cytoplasm of neuron which do not have nissl bodies .
cell component which has as its direct parts a maximally connected part of cytoplasm and one or more cell nuclei .
neuron with an axon and no dendrites .
neuron with an axon and a single dendrite on opposite sides of the soma .
neuron with an axon and two or more dendrites .
the right cerebral hemisphere is one of two bilateral ,  largely symmetrical organ subdivisions within the telencephalon which contain the cerebral cortex and cerebral white matter .
protein that primarily constitutes an intermediate filament which provide strength or anchorage of other cellular structures .
cell component which consists of the plasma membrane and the cytoplasm surrounding the nucleus .
cell component which consists of parts of the cytoplasm and plasma membrane protruding from the cell body .
neuron with two neurites that are fused grossly when they protrude from the soma and bifurcate a short distance from the soma .
cell appendage of a neuron that consists of an axon hillock ,  an axon proper ,   axon collaterals and an axon terminal .
cell appendage of a neuron that consists of the dendrite proper and the dendritic spines .
occipital lobe is the one of five lobes of the cerebral hemisphere which occupies the posterior - most portion of the hemisphere .
somatic cell which has as direct parts of its cytoplasm myofibrils organized in various patterns .
the insula is the one of five lobes of the cerebral hemisphere .
definitive germ cell of the male sex .
viscus located in the abdomen .
viscus in the thorax  ( contained in the thoracic cavity )  .
viscus in the pelvis  ( contained in the pelvic cavity )  .
vitreous humor which constitutes the vitreous body proper of the eye .
adjacent_to relation which holds between each physical anatomical entity of type a and some anatomical entity of the same dimension in type b such that the proximate bona fide boundaries of the related entities are adjacent for most of their extent .
anatomical location relation which holds between each physical anatomical entity in type a and some anatomical entity of the same dimension in type b such that their bona fide boundaries are spatially proximate ,  share no parts ,  and are separated by no physical anatomical entity of the same dimension .
subdivision located in the telencephalon which is a member of the anatomical set  \ "basal ganglia \ " .
anatomical structure which has as its direct parts portions of two or more types of tissue or two or more types of cardinal organ part which constitute a maximally connected anatomical structure demarcated predominantly by a bona fide anatomical surface .
anatomical structure ,  which is a subdivision of a cardinal body part ;  it may exclude bones ;  is demarcated from other subdivisions of the same cardinal body part by anatomical surfaces or lines or topographical references ;  together with other contiguous subdivisions of the same cardinal body part ,  it constitutes a cardinal body part .
anatomical structure ,  which consists of a specific set of the members of  ( predominantly )  one organ or organ part subclass interconnected by zones of continuity or body substances ;  is demarcated from other subdivisions of the same organ system by one or more zones of continuity or anatomical lines ;  together with other subdivisions of the same organ system ,  it constitutes an organ system .
cell which has as its direct part a maximally connected part of protoplasm .
structural anatomical relation which holds between each entity of type a and some anatomical entity of the same dimension of type b such that if a has_part b ,  there is a complement c which together with b accounts for the whole  ( 100% )  of a .
anatomical structure ,  which is a subdivision of tissue demarcated by fiat boundaries .
anatomical space which contains  portions of one or more body substances and is  bounded by the internal surface of one  maximally connected anatomical structure .
anatomical space which is surrounded by one type of tissue .
organ component which is attached to the chorda tendinea and the fibrous rings of tricuspid and mitral valves .
cardinal organ part which is a fiat subdivision of an organ .
anatomical surface ,  which is the surface of the plasma membrane .
organ component of neuraxis that has as its parts the pons ,  cerebellum and medulla oblongata  .
subdivision of breast which consists of skin ,  connective tissue and smooth muscle bundle ,  modified sebaceous glands and papillary part of lactiferous duct .
subdivision of breast which consists of skin ,  connective tissue and smooth muscle bundle and modified sebaceous glands and which surrounds the nipple .
*anatomical line of skin ,  the course ,  of which ,  is modulated by the action of underlying muscles .
*anatomical line of skin ,  the course ,  of which ,  is modulated by the action of underlying joints .
calcium - independent adhesion molecule found mostly in nerve cells .
tissue which consists of striated muscle fibers surrounded by endomysium .
class of unpaired telencephalic white matter structures consisting of fiber pathways which  project across the midsagittal plane and which serve to interconnect telencephalic structures lying within the contralateral cerebral hemisphere .
optic tract which is continuous with the optic chiasm and the left lateral geniculate nucleus .
organ component of neuraxis that has as its parts the pontine tegmentum and basal part of pons .
organ component of neuraxis that has as its parts the cerebellar cortex ,  cerebellar nuclear complex and cerebellar white matter .
subdivision of the midbrain anterior to the midbrain tegmentum which contains darkly pigmented neurons .
cardiac myocyte that is connected together by transverse intercalated discs at a regular interval .
cardiac myocytes that are excitable cells in the myocardium ,  specifically in the conducting system of heart .
anatomical structure which has as its boundary the external surface of a maximally connected plasma membrane .
cell which has as its direct part a maximally connected part of cytoplasm .
epithelium that derives from the ectoderm .
epithelium that derives from the endoderm .
dense irregular connective tissue which consists of a papillary layer and a reticular layer .
general anatomical term that refers to any organ that is located within the body cavity  ( or in its extension ,  in the scrotum )  ;  it consists of organ parts that are embryologically derived from endoderm ,  splanchnic mesoderm or intermediate mesoderm ;  together with other organs ,  the viscus constitutes the respiratory ,  gastrointestinal ,  urinary ,  reproductive and immune systems ,  or is the central organ of the cardiovascular system .
viscus ,  some organ parts of which constitute a wall ;  the viscus wall surrounds the organ  ( viscus )  cavity .
viscus ,  some organ parts of which constitute lobes ,  segments ,  lobules ,  acini ,  or cortex and medulla .
organ with cavitated organ parts ,  which is continuous with the systemic and  \ npulmonary arterial and venous trees .
organ chamber which consists of a wall that surrounds the cavity of a cardiac atrium or ventricle .
neural tissue which consists of all the neuron cell bodies ,  neuronal processes and neuroglia in the brain and the spinal cord .
neural tissue which consists of all the neuron cell bodies ,  neuronal processes and neuroglia in the brain .
right cardiac chamber which is continuous with the superior vena cava and inferior vena cava .
left cardiac chamber which is continuous with the pulmonary venous trunk .
right cardiac chamber which is continuous with the pulmonary arterial trunk .
cardiac chamber which consists of a wall that surrounds the cavity of an atrium .
cardiac chamber which consists of a wall that surrounds the cavity of a ventricle .
left cardiac chamber which is continuous with the aorta .
cardiac septum which separates the right atrium from the left atrium .
anatomical valve which has as its parts the endocardium and fibroelastic connective tissue  attached to the fibrous ring of heart .
subdivision of urinary system which consists of the right kidney and right ureter .
*subdivision of urinary system which consists of the left kidney and the left ureter .
dorsal subdivision of the pons .
*subdivision of skeleton which consists of the bones of the vertebral column ,  the thoracic cage and the pelvis .
*subdivision of skeleton which consists of the bones of the upper and lower limbs .
subdivision of skeleton which consists of the bones of the head excluding its joints .
organ with organ cavity which is continuous superiorly with  the pharynx and inferiorly with the stomach .
cardiac septum which separates the right ventricle from the left ventricle .
muscular part of cardiac septum which is continuous with the membranous part of interventricular septum and the  myocardium of free wall of right and left ventricles .
membranous part of cardiac septum which has as its parts the endocardium  of interventricular septum  ,  central fibrous body part  and the atrioventricular septum and is continuous with the membranous part of interatrial septum .
region of membranous part of interventricular septum which is continuous with the membranous part of interventricular septum proper and is attached to the septal leaflet of tricuspid valve and the right posterior cusp of the aortic valve .
anatomical organ component composed of a double layer of serous membrane that suspends a viscus from the body wall or connects adjacent viscera and in doing so conveys blood vessels ,  lymphatics and nerves to and from the viscera .
nonparenchymatous organ that primarily consists of dense connective tissue organized into a sheet which interconnects two or more organs ,  separates two or more body spaces from one another ,  or surrounds an organ or body part .
organ with organ cavity which is continuous proximally with the esophagus and distally with the small intestine .
anatomical structure ,  which has as its direct parts instances of one or more organ types which are interconnected with one another by zones of continuity .
anatomical structure ,  which has as its direct parts instances of anatomical sets of organs and cardinal organ parts spatially associated with either the skull ,  vertebral column ,  or the skeleton of a limb ;  in their aggregate are surrounded by a part of the skin examples: head ,  body proper ,  right upper limb .
cardinal body part ,  which consists of a maximal set of diverse subclasses of organ and organ part spatially associated with the skull ,  it is partially surrounded by skin of head .
subdivision of body proper ,  which consists of a maximal set of diverse subclasses of organ and organ part spatially associated with the cervical vertebral coumn ,  it is partially surrounded by skin of neck .
organ system which consists of structures involved in respiration .
organ system which consists of the heart ,  the systemic and pulmonary arterial and venous system ,  the  lymphatic and the portal venous system .
nonparenchymatous organ that consists of the epidermis ,  dermis and sets of hair and nails and which surrounds the entire body .
region of heart which has as its parts the right atrium and right ventricle .
region of heart which has as its parts the left atrium and left ventricle .
border of heart between the posterior and lateral walls of the left ventricle .
muscular part of cardiac septum which is continuous with the membranous part of interatrial septum and the walls of right and left atria .
septum of organ which has as its parts the  membranous and muscular parts that separates the right side of the heart from the left side of the heart .
subdivision of body proper ,  which consists of a maximal set of diverse subclasses of organ and organ part spatially associated with the ribcage ,  thoracic and lumbar vertebral column ,  sacrum and coccyx ,  it is partially surrounded by skin of trunk .
cardinal body part ,  which consists of a maximal set of diverse subclasses of organ and organ part spatially associated with a complete set of bones of the appendicular skeleton ,  it is partially surrounded by skin of limb .
trunk of portal vein that connects the portal vein proper to the hepatic portal vein .
lobular organ which has as its parts alveoli connected to the tracheobronchial tree .
lobular organ which has as its parts lobules connected to the biliary tree .
lobular organ the parenchyma of which consists of glandular acini which communicate via a duct system with the duodenum .
organ with organ cavity which is continuous proximally with the stomach and distally with the large intestine .
organ with organ cavity which is continuous proximally with the small intestine and distally with the anal canal .
organ with organ cavity which is continuous proximally with the cystic duct and distally terminates in the fundus of the gallbladder .
lobular organ the parenchyma of which consists of seminiferous tubules which communicate with the duct of the epididymis .
outflow part of ventricle which is continuous with the pulmonary trunk .
osteoid devoid of hydroxyapatite crystals .
zone of fibrous pericardium which is continuous with the tunica adventitia of aorta and pulmonary trunk .
zone of fibrous pericardium which is attached to the diaphragm .
zone of fibrous pericardium which is attached to posterior surface of body of the sternum .
ventral subdivision of the pons which consists of the massive pontine pertuberance on pontine ventral surface .
nucleated cell which has a diploid set  ( 46 pairs )  of chromosomes .
organ component which has as its parts the cusp proper ,  lunule and nodule of semilunar valvule .
cardiac valve which has as its parts the leaf of cardiac valve that separates the atrium from the ventricle .
atrioventricular valve which has as its parts the anterior ,  posterior and septal leaflets ,  attached to the fibrous ring of tricuspid valve .
atrioventricular valve which has as its parts the anterior and posterior leaflets ,  attached to the fibrous ring of mitral valve .
cardiac valve which has as its parts the anterior ,  right posterior and left posterior cusps ,  attached to the fibrous ring of aortic valve .
leaf of caridac valve which has as its parts the anterior ,  posterior and septal leaflets that is is attached to the chorda tendinea of the right ventricle and the fibrous ring of tricuspid valve .
leaflet of tricuspid valve which is attached to the anterior and septal papillary muscles through the chorda tendinea of right ventricle .
leaflet of tricuspid valve which is attached to the anterior and posterior papillary muscles through the chorda tendinea of the right ventricle .
diploid nucleated cell that results from the union of the sperm and an ovum .
leaflet of tricuspid valve which is attached to the posterior and septal papillary muscles through the chorda tendinea of the right ventricle .
leaf of cardiac valve which has as its parts the anterior ,  and posterior leaflets that is attached to the chorda tendinea of left ventricle and to the frbrous ring of mitral valve .
leaflet of mitral valve which is attached to the anterior head of the posterior papillary muscle of left ventricle through the chorda tendinea of the left ventricle .
leaflet of mitral valve which is attached to the posterior head of the lateral papillary muscle of left ventricle through the chorda tendinea of the left ventricle .
cardiac valve which has as its parts the right anterior ,  left anterior and posterior cusps ,  attached to the fibrous ring of pulmonary valve .
the cerebral crus is the most anterior portion of the midbrain which consists of a massive band of nerve fibers originating primarily from the cerebral cortex .
organ component which is attached to the semilunar fibrous scallop of pulmonary valve anulus .
cusp of pulmonary valve which is adjacent to the left posterior cusp of aortic valve .
cusp of cardiac valve which is attached to the semilunar fibrous scallop of aortic valve anulus .
cusp of aortic valve which is attached to the membranous part of the interventricular septum ,  the atrioventricular septum and the right fibrous trigone of the heart .
cusp of aortic valve which is adjacent to the origin of the ostium of the right coronary artery .
cusp of aortic valve which is adjacent to the origin of the ostium of the left coronary artery and is attached to the left fibrous trigone of heart .
papillary muscle which consists of  the anteiror ,  posterior and septal papillary muscles of right ventricle  and is continuous with the chorda tendinea of the right ventricle .
papillary muscle of right venricle which is attached to the wall of right ventricle below the anteroposterior commissure of tricuspid valve and the septomarginal trabecula .
papillary muscle of right ventricle which is attached to the wall of right ventricle below the posteroseptal commissure of tricuspid valve .
papillary muscle of right ventricle which is attached to the septomarginal trabecula .
papillary muscle of left ventricle which has as its parts the anterolateral and posterior heads  of the lateral papillary muscle of left ventricle that is continuous with the lateral wall of left ventricle .
region of lateral papillary muscle of left ventricle which is attached to the  lateral wall of left ventricle .
papillary muscle of left ventricle which has as its parts the posteromedial and anterior heads of the posterior papillary muscle of left ventricle and is continuous with the inferior wall of left ventricle . .
region of posterior papillary muscle of left ventricle which is attached to the posterior commissural leaflet of mitral valve through the chorda tendinea of left ventricle .
wall of organ which has as its parts the endocardium ,  myocardium  ,  epicardium ,  and the cardiac septum ,  surrounded by the pericardial sac proper and is continuous with the walls of the systemic and pulmonary arterial and venous trees .
tunica intima which has as its parts the endothelium of endocardium and the fibroelastic connective tissue that surrounds the cavity of a cardiac chamber .
endocardium of atrium which is continuous with the tunica intima of the superior and inferior vena cavae .
endocardium of atrium which is continuous with the tunica intima of the trunk of pulmonary vein .
lung which consists of the right upper lobe ,  middle lobe and right lower lobe .
lung which consists of the left upper lobe and left lower lobe .
subdivision of the chest which is posterior to the mid axillary plane .
general anatomical term which is a modulation of the external or internal surface ,  or of the internal organizational pattern ,  of body parts ,  organs and organ parts .
wall of heart which has as its parts the walls of the right atrium and right ventricle  that surrounds its cavities and is attached to the right fibrous ring of heart .
wall of heart which has as its parts the the walls of left atrium and left ventricle  that surrounds its cavities and is attached to the left fibrous ring of heart .
region of cardiac chamber which has as its parts the inflow and outflow parts of the right atrium .
hollow tree organ ,  the organ parts of which consists of the trachea and right and left bronchial trees .
epithelial cell of prostatic gland that together with cells of same kind ,  constitutes the lining of a prostatic acinus .
epithelial cell of prostatic gland that together with cells of same kind ,  constitutes the lining of a prostatic duct .
biological macromolecule which is a segment of a dna molecule and which consists of sets of nucleotide pairs organized into regions of coding ,  noncoding and regulatory sequences .
tunica media of artery which is continuous with the myocardium of left ventricle .
organ system subdivision which consists of the skin and the superficial fascia .
*subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the thoracic skeletal system ,  the vertebral column and the bony pelvis .
*subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the skeleton of the upper and lower limbs and its joints .
heterogeneous cluster which consists of two or more adjacent bones or cartilages ,  parts of  which are interconnected by organ parts that consist of various types of connective tissue .
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by ligaments or fibrocartilage without an intervening synovial cavity .
nonsynovial joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by ligaments .
fibrous joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages of the skull are connected by sutural ligaments  ( scant amount of collagenous dense connective tissue )  .
fibrous joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages of the vertebral column and the limbs as well as articulating ossicles ,  are connected by skeletal ligaments or membranes .
fibrous joint in which the periodontal ligament connects a tooth to the alveolar bone of the maxilla or mandible .
nonsynovial joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by cartilage .
cartilaginous joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by hyaline cartilage .
cartilaginous joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by fibrocartilage .
nonsynovial joint in which the articulating bones are connected by bone .
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by an articular capsule which encloses a synovial membrane and a synovial cavity .
cavernous organ ,  located on the dorsal aspect of the penis .
set of nerves that is continuous with the olfactory bulb and the olfactory bulb .
compartment of trunk ,  which is embryologically derived from the intraembryonic celom ;  is located in the trunk ,  is enclosed by  the body wall ;  contains serous sacs ,  viscera and other organs .
body cavity subdivision which is enclosed by the thoracic wall and the diaphragm .
organ component of neuraxis that has as its parts gray matter and white matter that surround the central canal .
general anatomical term whihc refers to organs of smell ,  sight ,  hearing ,  balance and taste .
cribriform area of renal papilla
general anatomical term which refers to a disk of fibrocartilage interposed between articulating bone .
branch of left coronary artery which crosses the anterior interatrial sulcus and traverses the orifice of the superior vena cava .
branch of right coronary artery which emerges near the orifice of the superior vena cava and supplies the lateral and posterior walls of the right atrium .
nucleus of neuraxis which is located within the spinal cord .
fibrous ring of heart which consists of firbous rings of mitral and aortic valves .
fibrous ring of heart which consists of the fibrous rings of tricuspid and pulmonary valves .
segment of neural tree organ which is continuous with a set of olfactory nerves and an olfactory tract .
tract of brain which is continuous with olfactory bulb and the cerebral cortex .
excretion in gaseous state processed the stomach and small intestine .
ingested food contained in the esophagus .
compartment which is surrounded by the articular capsule and contains all intra - articular structures including the synovial capsule and the synovial cavity of joint .
functional system which consists of structures involved in speech and in the receiving ,  mastication ,  and deglutition of food .
has_part relation which generalizes to all specifications of the part relation .
has_part relation which holds between each maximally connected anatomical structure and its compositionally distinct anatomical element demarcated from the complement by a predominantly bona fide boundary .
has_part relation which holds between each maximally connected anatomical structure and its part demarcated from the complement by a predominantly fiat boundary .
has_part relation which holds between each maximally connected anatomical structure in one or more organ systems .
non - nucleated cell with plasma membrane exclusively or predominantly in contact with extracellular matrix  ( cell - extracellular matrix contact )  .
non - nucleated cell with plasma membrane exclusively or predominantly in contact with the plasma membranes of adjacent cells   ( cell - cell contact )   .
organ component which consists of connective tissue that subdivides parenchyma into lobes ,  segments ,  lobules ,  acini ,  or cortex and medulla and the vascular and the neural networks intermixed with this connective tissue .
anatomical structure which has as its direct parts two or more types of tissue and is continuous with one or more anatomical structures likewise constituted by two or more portions of tissues distinct from those of their complement .
anatomical organ component of a lobular organ .
anatomical organ component  enclosing an organ cavity .
arbitrary organ component that resembles a lobular structure and is not a true lobe .
general anatomical term which refers to a chamber of an organ with cavitated organ parts .
systemic venous tree  ( organ )  the trunk of which ,  the superior vena cava ,  continues with the right atrium and the branches of which are distributed to the head ,  neck upper limbs ,  thorax and upper part of abdomen .
ystemic venous tree  ( organ )  the trunk of which ,  the inferior vena cava ,  continues with the right atrium and the branches of which are distributed to the abdomen ,  pelvis ,  perineum and the lower limbs .
regular cardiac myocyte of a cardiac atrium .
regular cardiac myocyte of a cardiac ventricle .
reticular tissue which surrounds a cardiac myocyte .
conducting system of subdivision of heart which consists of the atrioventricular node ,  atrioventricular bundle with its right and left branches .
conducting system of subdivision of heart which consists of the sinuatrial node and the posterior internodal tract .
organ component which is part of the brain or spinal cord .
subdivision of conducting system of heart which remains in the left stratum of the interventricular septum and is continuous with the subendocardial branch of the septal division of left branch of the atrioventricular bundle .
subdivision of conducting system of heart which is interpersed with the regular cardiac myocyte on the left stratum of the interventricular septum .
internodal tract that is continuous with the atrioventricular node .
cardiac muscle of ventricle which is continuous with the tunica media of the pulmonary trunk .
cardiac muscle of ventricle which is continuous with the tunica media of the aorta .
subdivision of fibrous skeleton of heart which consists of the right fibrous trigone of heart and the membranous part of the cardiac septum .
region of membranous part of interventricular septum which is attached to the right posterior cusp of aortic valve and is continuous with the atrioventricular septum .
region of membranous part of interventricular septum which is continuous with the membranous part of interventricular septum proper ,  the atrioventricular septum and the right fibrous trigone of heart .
wall of heart which has as its parts the walls of the right and left atria that surrounds its cavities and is attached to the fibrous rings of tricuspid and mitral valves . .
wall of heart which has as its parts the walls of the right and left ventricles that surrounds its cavities and is attached to the fibrous rings of heart .
subdivision of fibrous skeleton of heart which consists of areolar connective tissue that is connected together by the intersulcal connective tissue of fibrous ring of tricuspid valve .
subdivision of fibrous skeleton of heart which consists of areolar connective tissue that is connected together by the intersulcal connective tissue of fibrous ring of mitral valve .
myocardium of atrium which consists of the myocardium proper and the conducting system of the the right atrium that is continuous with the tunica media of superior and inferior vena cavae .
myocardium of atrium which is continuous with the tunica media of pulmonary vein .
myocardium of region of heart which is continuous with the tunica media of superior vena cava ,  inferior vena cava ,  and the trunk of pulmonary vein .
myocardium of region of heart which is continuous with the tunica media of pulmonary trunk and aorta .
myocardium of region of heart which is continuous with the myocardium of right and left atria .
myocardium of region of heart which is continuous with the myocardium of right and left ventricles .
region of heart which has as its parts the right atrium ,  left atrium and the interatrial septum and is continuous with the superior vena cava ,  inferior vena cava and superior and inferior pulmonary veins .
zone of heart which has as its parts the right ventricle and left ventricle and is continuous with the pulmonary trunk and aorta .
endocardium which is continuous with the tunica intima of the superior vena cava ,  inferior vena cava and the trunk of pulmonary vein .
endocardium which is continuous with the tunica intima of the pulmonary trunk and the aorta .
endocardium of cardiac septum which is continuous with the endocardium of right  and the left atria .
endocardium of cardiac septum which is continuous with the endocardium of the right  and the left ventricles .
endocardium of papillary muscle which is continuous with the endothelium of chorda tendinea of right ventricle .
endocardium of papillary muscle which is continuous with the endothelium of chorda tendinea of left ventricle .
endocardium of trabecula carnea which is continuous with the endocardium of papillary muscle of right ventricle .
endocardium of trabecula carnea which is continuous with the endocardium of papillary muscle of left ventricle .
myocardium of region of heart which is continuous with the myocardium of trabecula carnea of the right ventricle .
myocardium of region of heart which is continuous with the myocardium of trabecula carnea of the left ventricle .
myocardium of region of heart which is continuous with the myocardium of papillary muscle of right ventricle and the myocardium proper of right ventricle . .
myocardium of region of heart which is continuous with the myocardium of papillary muscle of left ventricle and the myocardium proper of left ventricle . .
internal gray matter component of neuraxis which consists of a discrete aggregate of neuronal soma .
tissue fluid of tissues other than connective tissue .
transudate contained in the duct of the epididymis .
transudate contained in the seminiferous tubule .
transudate contained in the rete testis .
transudate contained in the ductus deferens .
nucleus of neuraxis which is located within the brain .
cell part cluster consisting predominantly of neurites in the brain and the spinal cord .
internal gray matter component which consists of an assemblage of nuclei of neuraxis .
cardiac muscle tissue which consists of the interatrial fasciculus and the fibrocollagenous sheath that  separates the right from the left cardiac atrium .
cardiac muscle tissue which consists of the interventricular fasciculus and the fibrocollagenous sheath that  separates the right from the left cardiac ventricle .
anatomical set of genes in all the chromosomes .
region of serous pericardium surrounding the proximal part of the ascending aorta .
region of serous pericardium surrounding the proximal part of the pulmonary trunk .
region of serous pericardium surrounding the proximal part of the superior vena cava .
internodal tract that terminates in the left atrium .
gas in anatomical space  which consists of atmospheric air contained in the respiratory system .
subdivision of fibrous skeleton of heart which attaches the left posterior cusp of the aortic valve to the wall of heart .
subdivision of fibrous skeleton of heart which attaches the right posterior cusp of aortic valve to the wall of heart .
subdivision of fibrous skeleton of heart which attaches the anterior cusp of aortic valve to the wall of heart .
subdivision of fibrous skeleton of heart which attaches the right anterior cusp of the pulmonary valve to the wall of heart .
subdivision of fibrous skeleton of heart which attaches the posterior cusp of the pulmonary valve to the wall of heart .
subdivision of fibrous skeleton of heart which attaches the left anterior cusp of the pulmonary valve to the wall of heart .
vortex of heart which is continuous with the myocardium of right ventricle .
vortex of heart which is continuous with the myocardium of left ventricle .
region of pericardial sac which surrounds the aorta .
region of pericardial sac which surrounds the pulmonary trunk .
region of pericardial sac which surrounds the superior vena cava .
region of pericardial sac which surrounds the inferior vena cava .
region of serous pericardium surrounding the proximal part of the inferior vena cava .
region of visceral serous pericardium which is continuous with the epicardium of left ventricle and is attached to the aorta .
region of visceral serous pericardium which is continuous with the epicardium of right ventricle and is attached to the pulmonary trunk .
region of visceral serous pericardium which is continuous posterosuperiorly with the epicardium of right atrium and is attached to the superior vena cava .
region of visceral serous pericardium which is continuous posteroinferiorly with the epicardium of right atrium and is attached to the inferior vena cava . .
region of visceral serous pericardium which is attached to the pulmonary vein .
subdivision of epicardium which is attached to the myocardium of the right atrium proper .
subdivision of epicardium which is attached to the myocardium of the left atrium proper .
region of wall of right ventricle which has as its parts the anterior ,  lateral and inferior walls of the right ventricle and is continuous with the septal wall of right ventricle .
region of wall of left ventricle which consists of the anterior ,  lateral and inferior wall of left ventricle and is continuous with the septal wall of left ventricle .
visceral serous membrane which is continuous with the parietal serous pericardium and is attached to the myocardium .
visceral serous pericardium of pulmonary vein which is continuous posterosuperiorly with the epicardium of left atrium and is attached to the superior pulmonary vein .
visceral serous pericardium of pulmonary vein which is continuous posteroinferiorly with the epicardium of left atrium and is attached to the inferior pulmonary vein .
visceral serous pericardium of superior pulmonary vein which is attached to the right superior pulmonary vein .
visceral serous pericardium of superior pulmonary vein which is attached to the left superior pulmonary vein .
visceral serous pericardium of inferior pulmonary vein which is attached to the right inferior pulmonary vein .
visceral serous pericardium of inferior pulmonary vein which is attached to the left inferior pulmonary vein .
region of pericardial sac which surrounds the trunk of pulmonary vein .
pulmonary vein part of pericardial sac which surrounds the trunk of superior pulmonary vein .
superior pulmonary vein part of pericardial sac which surrounds the trunk of the right superior pulmonary vein .
superior pulmonary vein part of pericardial sac which surrounds the trunk of the left superior pulmonary vein .
pulmonary vein part of pericardial sac which surrounds the trunk of inferior pulmonary vein .
inferior pulmonary vein part of pericardial sac which surrounds the trunk of the right inferior pulmonary vein .
inferior pulmonary vein part of pericardial sac which surrounds the trunk of the left inferior pulmonary vein .
region of pericardial sac which surrounds the heart .
region of serous pericardium surrounding the proximal part of the superior pulmonary vein .
region of serous pericardium surrounding the proximal part of the inferior pulmonary vein .
anatomical space which contains two or more anatomical structures demarcated by bona fide boundaries and is bounded by the surface of two or more anatomical structures .
endocardium of free wall of ventricle which is continuous with the endocardium of interventricular septum and tunica intima of the pulmonary arterial trunk .
endocardium of free wall of ventricle which is continuous with the endocardium of interventricular septum and the tunica intima of the aorta .
myocardium of free wall of ventricle which is continuous with the septal myocardium of right ventricle .
myocardium of free wall of ventricle which has as its parts the myocardium of anterior ,  lateral and inferior walls of left ventricle and is continuous with the septal myocardium of left ventricle .
region of visceral serous pericardium which is attached to the myocardium of free wall of ventricle .
epicardium of free wall of ventricle which is attached to the myocardium of free wall of the right ventricle .
epicardium of free wall of ventricle which is attached to the myocardium of free wall of the left ventricle .
body compartment subdivision which consists of the mediastinum ,  and the right pleuropulmonary compartment ,  the left pleuropulmonary compartment .
tunica media of artery which is continuous with the myocardium of right ventricle .
subdivision of interventricular septum which is supplied by the anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery .
subdivision of interventricular septum which is supplied by the posterior septal branch of anterior interventricular artery and the posterior interventricular branch of right coronary artery .
myocardium of region of heart which is continuous with the myocardium of free wall of right ventricle .
zone of continuity which connects the cardiac atrium to the cardiac ventricle .
atrioventricular junction which connects the right atrium to the right ventricle .
atrioventricular junction which connects the left atrium to the left ventricle .
zone of continuity which connects the aorta to the outflow part of the left ventricle .
zone of continuity which connects the pulmonary trunk to the outflow part of right ventricle .
region of wall of heart that separates the wall of an atrium from the wall of a ventricle .
wall of atrioventricular junction which is attached to the fibrous ring of tricuspid valve .
wall of atrioventricular junction which is attached to the fibrous ring of mitral valve .
myocardium of region of heart which consists of the left and middle strata of interventricular septum and is continuous with the myocardium of free wall of left ventricle .
subdivision of fibrous skeleton of heart which connects the anterior filum coronarium to the posterior filum coronarium of tricuspid valve anulus .
subdivision of fibrous skeleton of heart which connects the anterior filum coronarium to the posterior filum coronarium of tricuspid valve anulus .
fibrous connective tissue which connects the sulcal connective tissue of firbous ring of tricuspid valve together .
fibrous connective tissue which connects the sulcal connective tissue of firbous ring of mitral valve together .
subdivision of fibrous skeleton of heart which consists of the anterior and posterior filum coronaria of tricuspid valve anulus .
subdivision of fibrous skeleton of heart which consists of the anterior and posterior filum coronaria of mitral valve anulus .
cardinal cell part which is demarcated from other cell parts by one or more anatomical planes .
general anatomical term which refers to a chamber or cavity to which are connected one or more chambers or passageways .
neural tissue which consists of myelinated and unmyelinated axons and schwann cells .
neural tissue which consists of neuron cell bodies ,  neuron processes ,  and neuroglia within a peripheral ganglion .
anatomical structure which consists of biological molecules held together by intermolecular bonds  ( ionic interaction ,  hydrogen bond ,  dipole -  dipole interaction ,  london dispersion force )  other than covalent bond .
reticular tissue which surrounds a skeletal muscle cell .
region of myocardium which is superiorly bounded  by the plane of fibrous ring of mitral valve and inferiorly by the plane of the tip of papillary muscle of left ventricle .
region of myocardium which is superiorly bounded by the plane of the tip of papillary muscle of left ventricle and inferiorly by the plane of the insertion of the papillary muscle of left ventricle .
region of myocardium which is superiorly bounded by the plane of the insertion of the papillary muscle of the left ventricle and inferiorly by the apex of the heart .
region of myocardium which has as its parts the anteroapical and inferoapical zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
basal zone of myocardium of left ventricle which has as its parts the cardiac musclte tissue ,  anterior leaflet of mitral valve ,  anterior division of left branch of atrioventricular bundle and the trabecula carnea of left ventricle that is adjacent to the basal anteroseptal  and the basal anterolateral zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
basal zone of myocardium of left ventricle which is adjacent to the basal inferoseptal  and the basal anterior zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
basal zone of myocardium of left ventricle which is adjacent  to the basal anteroseptal and the basal inferior zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
basal zone of myocardium of left ventricle which has as its parts the cardiac muscle tissue ,  posterior leaflet of mitral vavle ,  posterior division of left branch of atrioventricular bundle and the trabecula carnea of left ventricle and is adjacent to the basal inferoseptal and the basal inferolateral zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
basal zone of myocardium of left ventricle which is adjacent to the basal inferior and the basal anterolateral zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
basal zone of myocardium of left ventricle which is adjacent to the basal inferolateral and the basal anterior zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
mid zone of myocardium of left ventricle which has as its parts the cardiac muscle tissue ,  anterior head of posterior papillary muscle of left ventricle ,  anterior division of left branch of atrioventricular bundle and the trabecula carnea of left ventricle that is adjacent to the mid anteroseptal and the mid anterolateral zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
mid zone of myocardium of left ventricle which has as its parts the cardiac muscle tissue , posterior papillary muscle of left ventricle ,  septal division of left branch of atrioventricular bundle and the trabecula carnea of left ventricle that is adjacent to the mid anterior and  the mid inferoseptal zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
mid zone of myocardium of left ventricle which has as its parts the cardiac muscle tissue ,  posteromedial head of the posterior papillary muscle of left ventricle ,  septal division of left branch of atrioventricular bundle  and the trabecula carnea of left ventricle that is adjacent to the mid anteroseptal and the mid inferior zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
mid zone of myocardium of left ventricle which has as its parts the cardiac muscle tissue ,  posterior head of the lateral papillary muscle of left ventricle ,  posterior division of left branch of atrioventricular bundle and the trabecula carnea of left ventricle that is adjacent to the mid inferoseptal  and  the mid inferolateral zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
mid zone of myocardium of left ventricle which has as its parts the cardiac muscle tissue ,  lateral papillary muscle of left ventricle ,  posterior division of left branch of atrioventricular bundle and the trabecula carnea of left ventricle that is adjacent to the mid inferior  and  the mid anterolateral zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
mid zone of myocardium of left ventricle which has as its parts the cardiac musle tissue ,  anterolateral head of the lateral papillary muscle of left ventricle ,  anterior division of left branch of atrioventricular bundle and the trabecula carnea of left ventricle that is adjacent to the mid inferolateral and  the mid anterior zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
apical zone of myocardium of left ventricle which is adjacent to the apical septal and the apical anterolateral zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
apical zone of myocardium of left ventricle which is adjacent to the apical anterior and the apical anteroseptal zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
apical zone of myocardium of left ventricle which is adjacent to the apical lateral ,   the apical inferoseptal and the mid inferior zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
apical zone of myocardium of left ventricle which is adjacen to the apical inferior and the apical inferolateral zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
cardinal organ part which is a fiat subdivision of an organ component .
pulmonary arterial trunk which is continuous with the right ventricle .
organ region with one or more anchored fiat boundaries .
anatomical plane which bisects an anatomical structure independent of anatomical landmarks .
organ zone in the kidney .
cardinal cell part which is demarcated from other cell parts by predominantly bona fide anatomical surfaces .
cell part which is a fiat subdivision of a cell component .
apical zone of myocardium of left ventricle which is adjacent  to the apical septal and the apical inferoseptal zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
apical zone of myocardium of left ventricle which is adjacent to the apical anteroseptal and  the apical inferior zones of myocardium  of left ventricle .
apical zone of myocardium of left ventricle which is adjacent to the apical lateral and the apical anterolateral zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
apical zone of myocardium of left ventricle which is adjacent to the apical inferolateral and  the apical anterior zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
region of myocardium which has as its parts the cardiac muscle tissue ,  anterior division of left branch of atrioventricular bundle ,  the cardiac muscle of left ventricle and the fibrocollagenous sheath of cardiac muscle tissue that is located on the anterior part of the apex zone of myocardium of the left ventricle .
region of myocardium which has as its parts the cardiac muscle tissue ,  posterior division of left branch of atrioventricular bundle ,  the cardiac muscle of left ventricle and the fibrocollagenous sheath of cardiac muscle tisuue that is located on the posterior part of the apex zone of myocardium of left ventricle .
zone of left coronary artery which supplies the basal anterior ,  basal anteroseptal ,  inferoseptal zones ,  the mid anterior ,  anteroseptal and inferoseptal zones ,  the apical anterior and septal zones and the apex zone of myocardium of left ventricle .
zone of left coronary artery which supplies the mid and apical anterior zones of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with the zone of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery .
zone of left coronary artery which supplies the basal ,  mid ,  apical  anterolateral zones and the apex zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with the zone of circumflex branch of left coronary artery .
zone of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery which supplies the basal anterior zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zones 2 ,  3 and 7 of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery .
zone of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery which supplies the mid anterior zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zones 1 ,  8 ,  9 and 13 of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery .
zone of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery which supplies the apical anterior zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zones 7 ,  14 and 17 of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery .
zone of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery which supplies the basal anteroseptal zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zone 1 of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery .
zone of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery which supplies the mid anteroseptal zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zone 7 of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery .
zone of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery which supplies the apical septal zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zone 13 of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery .
zone of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery which supplies  the apical anteroseptal zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zone 13 of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery .
zone of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery which supplies the apical inferoseptal zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zone 13 of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery .
zone of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery which supplies the mid inferoseptal zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zone 7 of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery .
zone of left diagonal artery which supplies the mid anterior zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zone 13 of left diagonal artery .
zone of left diagonal artery which supplies the apical anterior zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zone 7 of left diagonal artery .
zone of left marginal artery which supplies the apex zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zone 16 of left marginal artery .
zone of left marginal artery which supplies the anteroapical zone of myocardium of elft ventricle and is continuous with zone 18 of left marginala rtery .
zone of left marginal artery which supplies the inferoapical zone of myocardium of left ventricle .
zone of left marginal artery which supplies the basal anterolateral zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zone 12 of left marginal artery .
zone of left marginal artery which supplies the mid anterolateral zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zones 6 and 16 of left marginal artery .
zone of left marginal artery which supplies the apical lateral zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zones 12 and 17 of left marginal artery .
zone of left marginal artery which supplies the apical anterolateral zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zone 19 of left marginal artery .
zone of left coronary artery which supplies the basal ,  mid ,  apical inferior zones and the basal and mid inferolateral zones of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with the left coronary artery .
zone of circumflex branch of left coronary artery which supplies the basal inferior zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zones 5 and 10 of circumflex branch of left coronary artery .
zone of circumflex branch of left coronary artery which supplies the mid inferior zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zones 4 ,  11 and 15 of circumflex branch of left coronary artery .
zone of circumflex branch of left coronary artery which supplies the mid inferolateral zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zone 10 of circumflex branch of left coronary artery .
zone of circumflex branch of left coronary artery which supplies the apical inferior zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zone 10 of circumflex branch of left coronary artery .
region of lateral papillary muscle of left ventricle which is attached to the posterior leaflet of mitral valve through the chorda tendinea of left ventricle and to the  inferior wall of left ventricle .
region of posterior papillary muscle of left ventricle which is attached to the anterior commissural leaflet  and the anterior leaflet  of mitral valve .
myocardium of region of ventricle which is continuous with the fibrous ring of tricuspid valve .
zone of circumflex branch of left coronary artery which supplies the basal inferior and inferolateral zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
zone of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery which supplies the mid anterior ,  anteroseptal and inferoseptal row of zones of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with the apical zone of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery .
zone of circumflex branch of left coronary artery which supplies the mid inferior and inferolateral zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
zone of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery which supplies the apical anterior ,  anteroseptal and inferoseptal row of zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
zone of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery which supplies the basal inferoseptal zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zone 1 of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery .
muscle cell which has as its direct parts myofilaments organized into sarcomeres .
endocardium of region of wall of left ventricle which is attached to the myocardium of anterior wallof left ventricle .
endocardium of region  of wall of left ventricle which is attached to the myocardium of lateral wall of left ventricle .
endocardium of region of wall of left ventricle which is attached to the myocardium of inferior wall of left ventricle .
myocardium of region of wall of left ventricle which has as its parts the basal anterior ,  mid anterior  ,  apical anterior and anteroapical  zones of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with the myocardium of lateral wall of left ventricle .
myocardium of region of wall of left ventricle which has as its parts the basal anterolateral and inferolateral zones ,  mid anterolateral and inferolateral zones and the apical lateral zones of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with the myocardium of anterior and inferior walls of left ventricle .
myocardium region of wall of left ventricle which has as its parts the basal ,  mid ,  apical inferior zones and the inferoapical zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with the myocardium of lateral wall of left ventricle and the septal myocardium of left ventricle .
epicardium of region of wall of left ventricle which is attached to the myocardium of anterior wall of left vetricle .
epicardium of region of wall of left ventricle which is attached to the myocardium of lateral wall of left ventricle .
epicardium of region of wall of left ventricle which is attached to the myocardium of inferior wall of left ventricle .
anatomical structure which consists of two or more atoms held together by a covalent bond .
apical zone of myocardium of left ventricle which is adjacent to the apical lateral  ,   the apical inferoseptal  and the mid inferior zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
apical zone of myocardium of left ventricle which is adjacent to the apical septal and the apical anterolateral zones of myocardium of left ventricle .
zone of circumflex branch of left coronary artery which supplies the basal inferolateral zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zone 4 of circumflex branch of left coronary artery .
zone of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery which supplies the apical anterior zone 2 of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zone 7 of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery .
zone of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery which supplies the apical inferior zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zone 14 of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery .
zone of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery which supplies the apical inferior zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zone 14 of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery .
zone of left diagonal artery which supplies the apical anterior zone 2 of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zone 7 of left diagonal artery .
zone of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery which supplies the apex zone of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with zone 13 of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery .
zone of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery which supplies the basal anterior ,  anteroseptal and inferoseptal row of zones of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with the mid  zone of anterior interventricular branch of left coronary artery .
region of wall of right atrium which separates the anterior wall of right atrium from the lateral wall of right atrium and is continuous with the valve of inferior vana cava .
vestigial cardiac valve which is continuous with the valve of the coronary sinus and the crista terminalis .
vestigial cardiac valve which is continuous with the valve of the inferior vena cava .
pectinate muscle which is attached to crista terminalis .
region of wall of right atrium which consists of the anterior wall proper ,  the wall of right auricle and the pectinate muscle of the right atrium .
cavity of ventricle which is surroounded by the wall of right vetricle and is contiuous with the lumen of the pulmonary trunk .
region of wall of right ventricle which has as its parts the mural and septal limbs of supraventricular crest .
region of wall of right ventricle which is continuous with the free wall of right ventricle .
chorda tendinea which is attached to the leaflet of tricuspid valve and is continuous with the endocardium of papillary muscle of right ventricle .
organ cavity subdivision that is a part of a serous cavity ,  demarcated from other serous cavity subdivisions by one or more anatomical structures or anatomical surfaces ;  together with other serous cavity subdivisions ,  it constitutes the serous cavity .
anatomical cavity ,  which is surrounded by a morphological subdivision of an organ ;  is continuous with other organ cavity subdivisions of the same organ ;  together with other organ cavity subdivisions ,  it constitutes the organ cavity .
anatomical space which connects two or more compartment spaces or two or more anatomical cavities .
region of wall of left ventricle which is continuous with the free wall of left ventricle  .
region of wall of left ventricle which has as its parts the right and left posterior cusps of aortic valve and the anterior leaflet of mitral valve that is attached to the semilunar fibrous scallop of aortic valve anulus .
chorda tendinea which is attached to the leaflet of mitral valve and is continuous with the endocardium of papillary muscle of left ventricle .
papillary muscle which consists of the lateral and posterior papillary muscles of left ventricle and is continuous with the chorda tendinea of the left ventricle .
chorda tendinea of right ventricle which attaches a papillary muscle to another papillary muscle of right ventricle or to the wall of right ventricle .
chorda tendinea of the left ventricle which attaches the papillary muscle  to another papillary muscle of left ventricle or to the wall of left ventricle .
chorda tendinea of the right ventricle which attaches one leaflet of tricuspid valve to another leaflet of the same valve .
chorda tendinea of the right ventricle which is attached to the commissure of tricuspid valve .
chorda tendinea of the left ventricle which is attached to commissural leaflet of mitral valve .
zone of esophagus located in the thorax .
wall of atrium which is continuous with the wall of superior vena cava an inferior vena cava .
epicardium of atrium which is attached to the myocardium of right atrium .
region of visceral serous pericardium which has as its part ,  the mesothelium ,  subepicardial layer of epicardium and the fibroelastic connective tissue that is  attached to the myocardium and is continuous with the parietal serous pericardium .
muscle layer of organ which has as its parts the myocardium proper and the conducting system of the heart .
cavity of atrium which is surrounded by the wall of left atrium and is continuous with the lumen of the pulmonary vein .
cavity of ventricle which is surrounded by the wall of left ventricle and is continuous with the lumen of the aorta .
outflow part of ventricle which is continuous with the aorta .
conducting tissue of heart which consists of specialized cardiac myocyte in the myocardium .
subdivision of conducting system of heart  at the junction of the right atrium and the superior vena cava ,  around the sinoatrial nodal branch of right coronary artery  and is continuous with the internodal tract .
subdivision of conducting system of heart which is located in the muscular part of the interatrial septum that is continuous with the atrioventricular bundle .
subdivision of conducting systemof heart which consists of the anterior ,  middle and  posterior internodal tracts  beneath the endocardium of interatrial septum and above the attachment of the septal leaflet of tricuspid valve .
internodal tract which consists of the atrial and atrial septal branches .
subdivision of conducting system of heart which consists of the atrial part and the ventricular part of the atrioventricular bundle and is the direct continuation of the atrioventricular node .
subdivision of conducting system of heart which is an abnormal  ventricular myocardium strand that connects the atrial and ventricular myocardial tissues around the atrioventricularjunction and causes the abnormal cardiac rhythm known as the wolff -  parkinson - white syndrome .
subdivision of conducting system of heart which enters the septal myocardium of right ventricle  to reach the anterior papillary muscle and then subendocardially to the apex of the heart .
subdivision of conducting system of heart which enters the septal myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous with the anterior ,  septal and posterior divisions of the left branch of the atrioventricular bundle .
subdivision of conducting system of heart which enters the anterior papillary muscle of left ventricle and is continuous with the subendocardial branch of the anterior division of left branch of atrioventricular bundle .
subdivision of conducting system of heart which enters the posterior papillary muscle of the left ventricle and is continuous with the subendocardial branch of the posterior division of the left branch of the atrioventricular bundle .
subdivision of conducting system of heart which consists of the purkinje myocyte that enters the septomarginal trabecula to interspersed with the regular cardiac myocyte of the right ventricle .
subdivision of conducting system of heart which is interpersed with the regular cardiac myocyte on the anterior wall of the left ventricle .
conducting tissue of heart which consists of purkinje myocytes .
subdivision of conducting system of heart which is interpersed with the regular cardiac myocyte on the posterior wall of the left ventricle .
fibrous connective tissue which attaches the leaf and cusp of cardiac valve to the wall of heart .
left fibrous ring of heart which consists of the anulus proper ,  the interfilar connective tissue ,  the left fibrous trigone and the subaortic curtain of left ventricle that attaches the leaflets of mitral valve to the wall of heart .
right fibrous ring of heart which consists of the anulus proper of tricuspid valve ,  the interfilar connective tissue of tricuspid valve and the right fibrous trigone of heart that attaches the leaflets of tricuspid valve to the wall of heart .
left fibrous ring of heart which consists of the anterior ,  right posterior and left posterior semilunar fibrous scallops of the aortic valve anulus that attaches the cusp of aortic valve to the wall of heart .
right fibrous ring of heart which consists of the right anterior ,  left anteiror and the posterior semilunar fibrous scallops of pulmonary valve anulus that attaches the cusps of pulmonary valve to the wall of heart .
subdivision of fibrous skeleton of heart which connects the posterior cusp of the aortic valve to the leaf of cardiac valve .
subdivision of fibrous skeleton of heart which attaches the right posterior cusp of aortic valve to the septal leaflet of the tricuspid valve and is continuous with the membranous part of cardiac septum .
subdivision of fibrous skeleton of heart which attaches the posterior cusp of the aortic valve to the anterior leaflet of mitral valve .
wall of atrium which is continuous with the wall of pulmonary vein .
epicardium of atrium which is attached to the myocardium of left atrium .
wall of ventricle which is continuous with the wall of pulmonary trunk .
epicardium of ventricle which is attached to the myocardium of right ventricle .
myocardium of ventricle which is continuous with the tunica media of the pulmonary trunk .
endocardium of ventricle which is continuous tricuspid valve ,  pulmonary valve  and with the tunica intima of the pulmonary trunk .
region of wall of right atrium which consists of the lateral wall proper ,  the crista terminalis and the pectinate muscle of the right atrium .
region of wall of heart which surrounds the cavity of right auricle .
subdivision of conducting system of heart which enters the central fibrous body and is continuous with the ventricular part of atriovetnricular bundle .
subdivision of conducting system of heart which is located in the muscular part of the interventricular septum and is continuous with the right and left branches of the atrioventricular bundle .
region of wall of left atrium which is continuous with the walls of the superior and inferior pulmonary veins .
region of wall of heart which surrounds the cavity of left auricle .
outflow part of atrium which consists of wall and cavity of the outflow part of right atrium and the tricuspid valve .
region of wall of right ventricle which is continuous with the lateral and septal walls of right ventricle .
region of wall of right ventricle which is continuous with the anterior and inferior walls of right ventricle .
region of wall of right ventricle which is continuous with lateral and septal walls of right ventricle .
wall of ventricle which is continuous with the wall of aorta .
epicardium of ventricle which is attached to the myocardium of left ventricle .
myocardium of ventricle which is continuous with the tunica media of aorta .
endocardium of ventricle which is continuous with mitral valve  ,  aortic valve ,  atrioventricular septum and the tunica intima of the aorta .
region of wall of left ventricle which consists of the endocardium ,  basal ,  mid and apical anterior zones of myocardium of left ventricle and epicardium of anterior wall of left ventricle and is continuous with the lateral and septal walls of left ventricle .
region of wall of left ventricle which consists of the endocardium ,  basal ,  mid and apical zones of myocardium of left ventricle and epicardium of  inferior wall of myocardium of left ventricle and is continuous witht the lateral and septal walls of left ventricle . .
region of wall of left ventricle which consists of endocardium ,  basal ,  mid and apical lateral zones of myocardium of left ventricle and epicardium of lateral wall of left ventricle and is continuous with the anterior and inferior walls of left ventricle .
subdivision of trunk proper ,  which is demarcated from the neck by the plane of the superior thoracic aperture and from the abdomen internally by the inferior surface of the diaphragm and externally by the costal margin and associated with the thoracic vertebral column and ribcage and from the back of the thorax by the external surface of the posterolateral part of the rib cage ,  the anterior surface of the thoracic vertebral column and the posterior axillary lines ;  together with the abdomen and the perineum ,  it constitutes the trunk proper .
subdivision of trunk proper ,  which is demarcated from the thorax internally by the inferior surface of the sternocostal part of the diaphragm and externally by the costal margin ,  from the back of abdomen by the external surface of the posterior abdominal wall ,   from the perineum by the superior surface of the urogenital diaphragm and from the lower limbs by the inguinal folds ;  together with the thorax ,  and perineum ,  it constitutes the trunk proper .
subdivision of abdomen ,  which is demarcated from the abdomen proper by the plane of the superior pelvic aperture ,  and from the perineum by the inferior surface of the pelvic diaphragm ;  together with the abdomen proper ,  it constitutes the abdomen .
subdivision of trunk proper ,  which is demarcated from the pelvis by the inferior surface of the pelvic diaphragm and from the lower limbs by the perineofemoral lines ;  together with the thorax ,  and abdomen ,  it constitutes the trunk .
serous membrane which has as its parts the epicardium and parietal serous pericardium  that surrounds pericardial cavity .
membrane organ which is attached to the pericardial sac proper and the central tendon of diaphragm and is continuous with the pretracheal fascia .
membrane organ that surrounds the brain and the spinal cord .
lobular organ the parenchyma of which consists of glandular acini which communicate the oral cavity .
lobular organ the parenchyma of which consists of glandular acini which communicate the bulbar part of the urethra .
lobular organ the parenchyma of which has as its parts glandular acini which are continuous with the prostatic part of the urethra .
subdivision of the pectoral part of the chest which consists of the nipple ,  areola and breast proper .
lobular organ the parenchyma of which consists of ductless ,  glandular follicles filled with colloid .
muscle organ which is a part of the head .
muscle organ which is a part of the neck .
muscle organ which is a part of the thorax .
muscle  ( organ )  which is a part of the abdomen .
anatomical structure which has as its parts cells of predominantly one type with or without intercellular matrix .
tissue ,  which consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells and a basement membrane ;  it covers the external surface of the body and lines the internal surfaces of the anatomical structures .
tissue which consists of fibroblasts ,  osteocytes or chondrocytes and intercellular matrix produced by these cells .
tissue which consists of muscle cells surrounded by a reticulum of collagen fibers or fine connective tissue  [ endomysium ]  .
tissue which consists of neurons and their processes and neuroglia .
anatomical cluster ,  which  consists of anatomical compartment space and the contents of the space .
anatomical junction in which two or more anatomical structures intermingle their component parts .
anatomical boundary entity which has one spatial dimension .
anatomical boundary entity which has zero spatial dimension .
subdivision of the hand demarcated from the hand proper by the skin crease in line with the distal edge of finger webs .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ,  with or without the admixture of cells and biological macromolecules ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures .
body substance which consists of plasma and blood cells
transudate contained in the lumen of lymphatic vessel .
body substance which consists of ground substance and connective tissue fibers .
transudate which surrounds cells within a tissue .
body substance derived from ingested substances that have been modified by one or more organs .
body substance in a liquid or semisolid state produced by an exocrine gland .
organ with organ cavity ,  which has as parts a serous membrane and a serous cavity  .
serous sac ,  which has as parts the pleura and the pleural cavity .
synovial sac located in the interstitial space between organs or subdivisions of two or more organs .
organ with organ cavity which connects the renal sinus to the urinary bladder .
organ with organ cavity which connects the cavity of the middle ear to the cavity of the pharynx .
organ component which has as its parts the muscle fiber and the endomysium .
striated muscle cell which has as its direct parts two or more peripherally located nuclei .
reticular tissue which surrounds a muscle cell .
structural relation which holds between an anatomical structure and some organizational pattern .
parietal serous membrane which is continuous with the visceral pleura and is attached to the dome of the diaphragm .
visceral serous membrane which is continuous with the parietal pleura and is attached to the parenchyma of lobe of lung .
cavity of serous sac surropunded by the pleura .
subdivsion of thoracic compartment which has as its parts the superior mediastinum and inferior mediastinum .
pleural sac ,  which surrounds the right lung .
pleural sac ,  which surrounds the left lung .
serous sac ,  which has as parts the serous pericardium and the pericardial cavity  .
organ cluster which has as its parts the fibrous pericardium and the pericardial sac .
parietal serous membrane which is continuous with the visceral serous pericardium and is attached to the central tendon of diaphragm .
transudate contained in the pericardial cavity .
serous sac ,  which has as parts the peritoneum and the peritoneal cavity .
irregular bone that articulates with other vertebrae ,  or with one other vertebra and the skull or the sacrum
