any measurable or observable characteristic of a vertebrate organism .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the portion of the body containing the brain and organs of sight ,  hearing ,  taste ,  and smell .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the fat - storing cells / tissue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the assessment of the overall structure and proportions of the anterior or superior jointed appendages of an animal ,  used for locomotion or grasping .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the right upper chamber of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the part of the digestive canal through which food passes from the pharynx to the stomach .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement of the small trabeculated chamber projecting from the atrium proper .
obsolete: replace with vt:00001586 ,  erythrocyte quantity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the encapsulated adipose tissue in the cavity bounded by the abdominal walls ,  the diaphragm ,  and the pelvis .
the degree to which the separation of the single opening of the digestive ,  urinary ,  and reproductive tracts  ( cloaca )  into multiple isolated openings during development has reached its end point .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the left upper chamber of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the placement of fat - storing cells / tissue on the body .
the degree to which the separation of the trachea and esophagus during development has reached its end point .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the assessment of the overall structure and proportions of the posterior or inferior jointed appendages of an animal ,  used for locomotion or grasping .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of any of the components of the auricles or external acoustic meatus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the membranous portion of the wall between the lower chambers of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the right upper chamber of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the left upper chamber of the heart .
the physical distance from the outer edge of the outer ear to the head .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical form or contours of any of the components of the auricles or external acoustic meatus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the location or arrangement of the outer ears in relation to each other or to the skull .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the small trabeculated chamber projecting from the atrium proper .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the valves that gate the flow of blood from the atria into the ventricles .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the labyrinth ,  including the semicircular canals ,  vestibule and cochlea .
the distance from side to side across the portion of the body containing the brain and organs of sight ,  hearing ,  taste ,  and smell .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the part of the vestibular ganglion that receives fibers from the maculae of the utricle and the sacculae and the ampullae of the anterior and lateral semicircular ducts .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the largest of the three auditory ossicles ,  which resembles a club .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the bony ring at the ear canal to which the tympanic membrane is attached .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the spiral - shaped bony canal in the inner ear containing the hair cells that transduce sound .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the valve between the left atrium and the left ventricle of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the cavity between the semicircular canals and the cochlea of the inner ear .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the complex arrangement of communicating canaliculi and sacs suspended within the cavity of the bony labyrinth of the inner ear .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the valve between the right atrium and the right ventricle of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the lateral long bony tube of the labyrinth that is involved in the sense of balance .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the portion of the body containing the brain and organs of sight ,  hearing ,  taste ,  and smell .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the cartilage or bony capsule surrounding the inner ear mechanism .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the valve between the left ventricle and the ascending aorta .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the small membranous canal ,  connecting with both saccule and utricle of the membranous labyrinth ,  passing through the aqueduct of vestibule ,  and terminating in the endolymphatic sac .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the highly specialized epithelium in the floor of the ductus cochlearis ;  also referred to a spiral organ  ( organum spirale )  ,  or acoustic papilla .
obsolete .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the valve between the right ventricle and the pulmonary trunk .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the sensory epithelial cells of the inner ear .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the transverse groove on the membranous ampulla of each semicircular duct ,  where the nerve enters the ampullary crest .
the distance around the widest part of the portion of the body containing the brain and organs of sight ,  hearing ,  taste ,  and smell .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the stratified ,  secretory epithelium which lines the upper part of the cochlear spiral ligament and maintains k +  homeostasis in the endolymph ;  stria vascularis normally consists of marginal ,  intermediate ,  and basal cells: basal and marginal cell tight junctions preclude paracellular diffusion into and out of the intrastrial space while basal and intermediate cells secrete into this space k +  derived from fibrocytes through gap junctions .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of any of the components of the tympanic cavity or its ossicles .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the pancreas or salivary glands .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the male reproductive glands where sperm production occurs .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the start of opening and spreading out of the outer ear .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the start of the growth of the outer ear .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the fluid and dissolved substances excreted by the kidneys .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process of bone formation or conversion of fibrous tissue or cartilage into bone .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the outer ,  dense layer of the myocardium .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of this multinucleated cell ,  which normally functions in the absorption and removal of osseous tissue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the start of the formation of bone or conversion of fibrous tissue or cartilage into bone .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the striated muscle cells comprising the myocardium ;  depending on the species ,  cells may be mono -  ,  bi -  ,  or multinucleated .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the supporting bundles of muscular fibers lining the walls of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the group of myocardial bundles which terminate in the chordae tendineae that attach to the cusps of the atrioventricular valves ;  each ventricle has an anterior and a posterior papillary muscle ;  the right ventricle sometimes has a septal papillary muscle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of osteoclasts to degrade the organic and inorganic phases of bone by absorption .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the marrow cavity in the shaft of a long bone .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the pancreas or salivary glands .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  veins ,  and capillaries ,  carrying oxygen and nutritive materials and removing waste products and carbon dioxide .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of any inorganic element or compound that has importance in body functions .
any measurable or observable characteristic or state of the developing organism before birth .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in a portion of osseous tissue forming a part of the skeleton ;  consists of a dense outer layer surrounded by the periosteum ,  and an inner spongy substance .
the proportion or number of cells in the craniofacial ,  vertebral ,  rib ,  or sternal bones .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of bone to recover size and shape after deformation in any way .
the proportion or number of offspring born over the reproductive life of a female organism .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the bones of the skull enclosing the brain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the group of barriers and transport systems in the brain capillary endothelium that controls the entrance of substances into the brain extracellular space from the blood .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the upper dome - like portion of the skull .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the bone of the cranium that lies above and anterior to the occipital bone in some mammals .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the bone on the dorsal side of the great foramen of the skull ,  usually forming a part of the occipital in the adult ,  but distinct in the young .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the basilar process of the occipital bone in the base of the cranium ,  frequently forming a direct part of the occipital in the adult ,  but usually distinct in the young .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the bone or region on the lateral sides of the great foramen of the skull ,  which often forms a part of the occipital in the adult ,  but is usually distinct in the young .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the start of fusion of the bones of the skull .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the membranous interval at the margins of cranial bones in neonates .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the group of barriers and transport systems in the choroid plexus located in the lateral ,  third ,  and fourth brain ventricles that controls the entrance of substances into the cerebrospinal fluid from the blood .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the small branching blood vessels that connect arterioles and venules .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the triangular flat bone of the nasal septum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the bone lying between the orbital plates of the frontal bone and anterior to the sphenoid bone ;  it enters into the formation of the anterior cranial fossa ,  the orbits ,  and the nasal cavity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of either of two rectangular bone plates forming the bridge of the nose .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the most irregularly shaped bone of the base of the skull .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the part of the base of the cranium between the basioccipital and the presphenoid ,  which usually ossifies separately in the embryo or in the young ,  and becomes a part of the sphenoid in the adult ;  in many animals it persists as a separate bone between the basioccipital bone and the presphenoid bone .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the bone forming the forehead and roof of the eye orbit .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the curved bone forming part of the vault of the cranium .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the bone - like structures embedded in the jaw .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the cells that give rise to the teeth .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the passage of a tooth through the alveolar process and perforation of the gums .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the patterned arrangement of the upper and lower teeth with respect to each other or arrangement of the upper and lower jaws with respect to each other .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the heart or blood vessels during their formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the tubular channels through which the blood circulates .
the proportion or number of the hard structures of the upper and lower jaws used in mastication .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the primitive epithelial cardiac tube before the division into the chambers of the mature heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of teeth to withstand the application of force without yielding or breaking .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the increase in size of the most posterior teeth ,  located on either side of the jaw and characterized by a large crown and broad chewing surface .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of bone that has a lattice - like or spongy structure .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the head of a long bone which ,  during development and growth ,  is separated from the shaft by the epiphyseal plate .
the distance from side to side of the part of the head of a long bone which ,  during development and growth ,  is separated from the shaft by the epiphyseal plate .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the conical section of bone between the epiphysis and diaphysis of the long bones .
the distance between the surfaces of the superficial layer of solid ,  hard bone that covers spongy bone .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the path through which blood exits the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the small ,  migratory ,  phagocytic ,  interstitial cells derived from myeloid progenitor cells and found in the parenchyma of the central nervous system ;  microglia are scavengers ,  engulfing dead cells and other debris ,  and in alzheimer's disease ,  microglia are found associated with dying nerve cells and amyloid plaques .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the bony segments of the spinal column .
the proportion or number of bony segments of the spinal column .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the bony protrusion on either side of the arch of a thoracic vertebrae .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of part of the posteriorlateral vertebral arch of a thoracic vertebra .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the main portion of the vertebra ,  anterior to the vertebral canal .
the distance between the exterior surface and the interior surface of the auricle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of either or both of the large ,  flat bones of the shoulder girdle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the elongated ,  curved bones forming the bony wall of the chest .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which the right and left sides of the heart become separated .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the rib structures near the spine ;  ribs do not contact vertebrae .
obsolete .any measurable functional characteristic related to the function of or processes in the blood or vasculature .
obsolete .any measurable functional characteristic related to the function of or processes in the flow of lymph through its vasculature or of the lymph or vasculature itself .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the attachment of ribs to the vertebral column or to the sternum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the long ,  flat bone of the chest .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the posterior / inferior tip of the sternum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the nonvascular ,  resilient ,  flexible connective tissue found primarily in joints ,  walls of the thorax ,  and tubular structures ,  but which also comprises most of the skeleton in early fetal life ;  some species have skeletons that are completely composed of cartilage which is never ossified .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the nonvascular ,  resilient ,  flexible connective tissue found primarily in joints ,  walls of the thorax ,  and tubular structures ,  but which also comprises most of the skeleton in early fetal life .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the layer of the epiphyseal plate where no cell division occurs and chondrocytes begin to terminally differentiate .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of non - dividing cartilage cells .
the proportion or number of non - dividing cartilage cells .
any measurable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the tubular channels through which the blood circulates .
any measurable functional characteristic related to the function of or processes in the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  veins ,  and capillaries ,  carrying oxygen and nutritive materials and removing waste products and carbon dioxide .
the proportion or number of cells that make up the core cavities of bones .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the lymph vessels .
any measurable functional characteristic related to the function of or processes in the fluid which is collected from the tissues throughout the body ,  flows in the lymphatic vessels ,  and is eventually added to the venous blood circulation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the circulation of blood throughout the body ,  including both the movement and the forces created by the movement .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportions of proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances in the blood . \ nconsider: vt:0015078
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the most abundant steroid in animal tissues ,  and precursor to steroid hormones and bile salts ;  also component of plasma membranes .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the lipoprotein: cholesterol complex that transports cholesterol out of the arteries and around the body ,  for use by various tissues in normal bodily functions .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the movement of blood within a vessel or tissue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the hydrostatic force exerted by the blood perpendicular to the blood - tissue surface .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the small lipoprotein:cholesterol complex that transports cholesterol out of the arteries and to the liver for reprocessing or excretion .
obsolete .the speed at which blood moves through the vessels .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the mechanical force exerted by the blood parallel to the blood - tissue surface .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in a body tissue or fluid of this molecule ,  glycerol esterified at each of its three hydroxyl groups by a fatty acid ;  triglyceride is an important molecule for storage of fatty acids in adipose tissue .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the monosaccharide that is the end product of carbohydrate digestion ;  d - glucose serves as a primary energy source for living organisms .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the blood vessels  ( tubular channels through which the blood circulates )  to stretch .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of gases ,  liquids ,  or solutes to pass through the blood vessel wall .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in a body tissue or fluid of any inorganic element or compound that has importance in body functions .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process of increasing the number of blood vessels within a given area or volume of tissue . \ nconsider: vt:0010299 ,  vt:0010300
any measurable characteristic related to the ability of a blood vessel to change diameter in response to a chemical or mechanical signal .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of a blood vessel to increase its diameter in response to a chemical or mechanical signal .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of a blood vessel to reduce its diameter in response to a chemical or mechanical signal .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the major blood protein that is important in maintenance of the colloidal osmotic pressure ,  fatty acid transport ,  and transport of large organic molecules .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this enzyme ,  which hydrolyzes orthophosphoric monoesters .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this enzyme ,  which catalyzes the reversible transfer of an amine group from l - glutamic acid to oxaloacetic acid ,  forming alpha - ketoglutaric acid and l - aspartic acid ;  aids in diagnosis of viral hepatitis and myocardial infarction .
the proportion or number of nucleated cells of the myeloid or lymphoid lineages ,  found in blood or other tissue .
the proportion or number of the granular leukocytes that have a three -  to five - lobed nucleus and a cytoplasm containing inconspicuous granules .
the proportion or number of large ,  phagocytic mononuclear leukocytes produced in the vertebrate bone marrow and released into the blood .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to development of the non - nucleated cells of the blood  ( platelets ,  thrombocytes )  involved in blood coagulation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of these very large bone marrow cells which release mature platelets .
any measurable characteristic related to the function of or processes involved in generation and conduction of electrical impulses in the heart .
the proportion or numbers of the various types of blood cells .
the proportion or number of the hematopoietic stem cells that are capable of forming any of the myeloid lineage cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical site where formation and development of blood cells occurs .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the generation of action potentials in cardiac muscle .
obsolete .the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of blood that is ejected from the heart into the aorta .
any measurable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the formation of red blood cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the cells in the blood that carry oxygen ,  red blood cells
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of the serum - like fluid that circulates through the ventricles of the brain ,  the cavity of the spinal cord ,  and the subarachnoid space ,  functioning in shock absorption .
any measurable functional characteristic related to blood flow in a specific region of the body ,  tissue ,  or organ .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of gases ,  liquids ,  or solutes to pass through the capillary wall .
any measurable functional characteristic related to the process of prevention of blood loss .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to blood flow in the arteries .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to blood flow in the veins .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to blood flow in the capillaries .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the organ that pumps blood through the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the organ that pumps blood through the body .
the proportion or number of stiff hairs projecting from the face ,  which act as touch receptors .
any measurable or observable characteristics pertaining to the process by which the embryonic heart tube bends to transform from a straight tube into the final folded configuration of the adult heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the main trunk of the systemic arteries .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the cells in the right lower chamber of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical form or contours of the organ that pumps blood through the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the membranous folds of the heart that prevent reflux of fluid .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the fibroserous membrane covering the heart and beginning of the great vessels .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the group of barriers and transport systems which regulate the transport of various substances from blood to inner ear tissue and maintain the microhomeostasis and functional integrity of the inner ear ;  the endothelial cells of the inner ear blood capillaries ,  linked to each other by tight junctions ,  represent the main component of the blood - inner ear barrier .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the urine of the oxygen - carrying protein of erythrocytes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes involved in the production  ( volume )  or ionic homeostasis of the fluid contained within the membranous labyrinth of the inner ear .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the secretion of the fluid that is normally contained within the membranous labyrinth of the inner ear .
the proportion or number of leukocytes that have abundant granules in the cytoplasm ,  including basophils ,  neutrophils ,  and eosinophils .
the proportion or number of the cells that are found in almost all tissues ,  containing numerous basophilic granules and capable of releasing large amounts of histamine and heparin upon activation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the fluid contained within the osseous labyrinth ,  surrounding and protecting the membranous labyrinth .
the visually perceived hue of the fluid secreted by the liver through the bile duct ,  determined by relative levels of bile pigments .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the distinct population of large ,  bipolar cells ,  distributed in a continuous band along the marginal zone of the cortex extending to the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the metabolic ability to do physical work .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the sensory system responsible for the sense of head position and movement of the body through space .
the proportion or number of the projecting ,  paired ,  jointed appendages of the body used for locomotion or grasping .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a cell that is found in almost all tissues ,  containing numerous basophilic granules and capable of releasing large amounts of histamine and heparin upon activation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the amounts of proteolytic enzymes stored in mast cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the amounts of histamine stored in mast cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the bioelectric potentials produced by the hair cells of the organ of corti in response to sound ;  the cochlear microphonic  ( cm )  is an electric response dominated by ohc receptor potentials from the basal turn of the cochlea and provides a measure of transducer function in ohcs ;  in an active ear ,  cm waveforms show post - stimulus ringing  ( i .e .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes involved in auditory function as it relates to electrical phenomena .
the electrical activity generated in response to short tone bursts ;  may be used to evaluate sensorineural hearing function .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the fine ,  keratinized filamentous growths arising from the epidermis of mammals .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the frequency resolution of the cochlea ,  normally determined by the passive mechanical properties of the basilar membrane and active feedback from the outer hair cells which detect and amplify sound - induced basilar membrane motions .
the proportion or number of the tubular invaginations of the epidermis from which the hair shaft develops .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the location or arrangement in relation to each other or the body of the tubular invaginations of the epidermis from which the hair shafts develop .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the systematic arrangement of the tubular invaginations of the epidermis from which the hair shaft develops .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the tubular invaginations of the epidermis from which the hair shaft develops .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the epidermally derived layer surrounding the hair follicle .
the proportion or number of the long bones in any of the digits .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to maintain the fine ,  keratinized filamentous growths arising from the epidermis of mammals without noticeable loss .
the proportion or number of the fine ,  keratinized filamentous growths arising from the epidermis of mammals .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the fine ,  keratinized filamentous growths arising from the epidermis of mammals .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the increase in length of the fine ,  keratinized filamentous growths arising from the epidermis of mammals .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to maintain the stiff hairs projecting from the margin of the eyelid without noticeable loss .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the cyclical phases of growth  ( anagen )  ,  regression  ( catagen )  ,  and quiescence  ( telogen )  in the life of a hair .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the region of the body that includes the front part of the head from the chin to the top of the forehead ,  where the mouth ,  eyes ,  nose ,  and other features are located ,  and the part of the skull enclosing the brain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the medially directed shelves of the maxillae that ,  with the horizontal plate of the palatine bone ,  form the bony palate .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the outgrowth of the palatine bone ;  normally fuses with maxillary shelf to form secondary palate .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the portion of the body containing the brain and organs of sight ,  hearing ,  taste ,  and smell .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the bones surrounding the brain and bones of the lower face and jaws .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the flesh covered anterior facial part that contains the nose ,  jaws ,  teeth ,  and mouth that projects from the head .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical form or contours of the flesh covered anterior facial part that contains the nose ,  jaws ,  teeth and mouth that projects from the head .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the anterior facial part of the muzzle .
the distance from side to side across the upper part of the ridge of the nose .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the oral cavity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the bony framework of the mouth where the teeth are held .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the upper bony framework of the mouth where the superior teeth are held .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the lower bony framework of the mouth where the inferior teeth are held .
the proportion or number of bony segments of the spinal column anterior / superior to the sacrum / sacral vertebrae .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the components of the system that converts ingested food to nutrients and energy .
the proportion or number of cells in the epithelial layer of the esophagus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the part of the digestive canal through which food passes from the pharynx to the stomach .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the epithelial layer that lines the esophagus ,  the part of the digestive canal through which food passes from the pharynx to the stomach .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the scaly epithelial layer of the part of the digestive canal through which food passes from the pharynx to the stomach .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the sac - like structure of the digestive canal between the esophagus and the small intestine .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the epithelial layer of the stomach .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the scaly epithelial layer of the stomach .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the gland - containing epithelial layer of the stomach .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the cephalic portion of the primitive digestive tube of the embryo .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity to change ,  adjust ,  or alter the electrophysiological recordings from the elongated processes of auditory neurons over time or as a result of internal or external influences .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the digestive tube passing from the stomach to the anus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the digestive tube passing from the stomach to the anus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the cells comprising the digestive tube passing from the stomach to the anus .
the proportion or number of cells comprising the digestive tube passing from the stomach to the anus .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the lateral and smaller bone of the lower / hind limb .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes involved in the form of hearing due to processes occurring in the auditory division of cranial nerve viii or the inner ear .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the artery that conveys unaerated blood to the lungs .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity to change ,  adjust ,  or alter the acoustic energy produced by the cochlea in the presence or absence of sound stimulation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the cellular avascular layer of the digestive tube passing from the stomach to the anus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the distal portion of the digestive tube that extends from the ileocecal valve to the anus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of any of the tubular intestinal glands found in the mucosal membranes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the terminal portion of the intestinal tube adjacent to the anus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the large sac at the ileum and large intestine junction .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the portion of the large intestine between the cecum and the rectum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the upper portion of the digestive tract ,  between the stomach and the large intestine .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the location or arrangement of the small intestinal tract in relation to other organs or to the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of a physiologically active substance  ( usually but not exclusively in liquid form )  from a cell or a gland of the digestive system .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of a physiologically active substance  ( usually but not exclusively in liquid form )  from the mucous membrane of the digestive system .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the mucous lining of the intestine ;  this consists of epithelium ,  lamina propria ,  and a layer of smooth muscle cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the organs involved in the production or excretion of urine .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the outer area of the kidney ,  which contains the glomeruli and the capsules that enclose them ,  as well as the proximal and distal convoluted tubules .
the proportion or number of loops of henle ,  proximal and distal convoluted tubules ,  and collecting ducts in the kidney .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the pyramidal masses ;  contain part of the secreting tubules and collecting tubules .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the paired organs responsible for urine excretion and regulation of ion concentrations .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the start of the induction and / or differentiation of the paired organs responsible for urine excretion and regulation of ion concentrations .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the network of vessels that convey blood in the paired organs responsible for urine excretion and regulation of ion concentrations .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the tube that conducts the urine from the renal pelvis to the bladder .
the proportion or number of cells in the luminal epithelium of the tube that conducts the urine from the renal pelvis to the bladder .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the canal leading from the bladder ,  discharging the urine externally .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the distensible musculomembranous bag for holding urine .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the distensible musculomembranous bag for holding urine .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cellular avascular layer of the distensible musculomembranous bag for holding urine .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the transitional epithelial layer  ( stratified epithelium with large ,  polyploid superfical cells that are dome - shaped when relaxed ,  but broad and flattened when distended )  of the distensible musculomembranous bag for holding urine .
the distance between the surfaces of the transitional epithelial layer  ( stratified epithelium with large ,  polyploid superfical cells that are dome - shaped when relaxed ,  but broad and flattened when distended )  of the distensible musculomembranous bag for holding urine .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the projecting ,  paired ,  jointed appendages of the body used for movement and grasping .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the anterior / superior jointed appendages used for locomotion or grasping .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the bone situated on the lateral side of the ulna in the forelimb .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the nodular bones of the joint between the radius and ulna of the forelimb and the metacarpal bones .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the posterior / inferior jointed appendages used for locomotion or grasping .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the medial and larger of the two bones of the lower leg ,  which articulates with the femur ,  fibula ,  and talus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the long bone of the thigh .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the presence of a fold of skin ,  or web ,  between the fingers or toes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the distal elements of the developing limb of vertebrates that will give rise to the pedal or prehensile appendages  ( e .g .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical dimensions of the rear feet .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the body of fat on the foot .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the thin ,  horny ,  translucent plates covering the dorsal surface of the distal end of each terminal phalanx of the digits .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical form or contours of any of the thin ,  horny ,  translucent plates covering the dorsal surface of the distal end of each terminal phalanx of the digits .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of any of the thin ,  horny ,  translucent plates covering the dorsal surface of the distal end of each terminal phalanx of the digits .
the distance across the appendage at the caudal end of the vertebral column .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the bile - secreting exocrine gland ,  which is important for detoxification ;  for fat ,  carbohydrate ,  and protein metabolism ;  and for glycogen storage .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the bile - secreting exocrine gland ,  which is important for detoxification ;  for fat ,  carbohydrate ,  and protein metabolism ;  and for glycogen storage .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the bile - secreting exocrine gland ,  which is important for detoxification ;  for fat ,  carbohydrate ,  and protein metabolism ;  and for glycogen storage .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the cavities in the liver .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the deposition or aggregation of coloring matter in the bile - secreting exocrine gland ,  which is important for detoxification ;  for fat ,  carbohydrate ,  and protein metabolism ;  and for glycogen storage .
the proportion or number of the main structural components of the liver ;  these are specialized epithelial cells normally organized into interconnected plates called lobules .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the main structural component of the liver ;  these are specialized epithelial cells normally organized into interconnected plates called lobules .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the systematic arrangement of the main structural component of the liver ;  these are specialized epithelial cells normally organized into interconnected plates called lobules .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in this bile - secreting exocrine gland ,  which is important for detoxification ;  for fat ,  carbohydrate ,  and protein metabolism ;  and for glycogen storage .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the saliva - secreting glands of the oral cavity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the salivary gland of the hard palate .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the branches and distal tips of the vesicles of the palatine gland .
the proportion or number of cells that form mucus in the salivary glands .
the proportion or number of cells in the epithelium of the salivary gland .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the tubular canals that carry saliva .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the flow ,  secretion ,  or amount of saliva .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the milk - producing glands in female mammals ,  consisting of lobes containing clusters of alveoli with a system of ducts to convey the milk to an external nipple or teat .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation or differentiation of the milk - secreting gland in female mammals during early embryogenesis or during sexual maturity or reproduction .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the organized aggregations of cells that function as secretory or excretory organs and that release hormones in response to neural stimuli .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the small ,  flattened body located in the depression between the superior colliculi which produces melatonin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the compound gland suspended from the base of the hypothalamus ,  which secretes somatotropins ,  prolactin ,  tsh  ( thyroid - stimulating hormone )  ,  gonadotropins ,  adrenal corticotropin ,  and other related peptides .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the sensory epithelial cells of the cochlea during their formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the endocrine glands located above the kidney responsible for hormone and epinephrine secretion .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the inner portion of the adrenal gland ,  consisting mainly of chromaffin cells which are responsible for secretion of epinephrine .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cells of the adrenal gland .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the holocrine glands of the dermis that secrete sebum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the holocrine glands of the dermis that secrete sebum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the organized aggregations of cells that function as secretory or excretory organs and are associated with reproduction .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of any of the organized aggregations of cells that function as secretory or excretory organs and are associated with reproduction .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the gland surrounding the beginning of the urethra in males that secretes part of the seminal fluid .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the lateral lobe of the prostate .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the ventral lobe of the prostate .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the development of the channels that secrete milk and direct milk to the nipple .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the branches and distal tips of the vesicles of the coagulating gland .
the proportion or number of minute canals that pass the prostatic secretions to the urethra .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the coiled glands of the skin that secrete sweat .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  or pattern of the sweat glands of the palm .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of one of the two small ,  paired endocrine glands ,  usually found embedded in the connective tissue capsule on the posterior surface of the thyroid gland ;  they secrete parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  that regulates calcium and phosphorus metabolism .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the endocrine gland located in the front and to the sides of the upper part of the trachea and which secretes thyroid hormone and calcitonin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the organs or cells associated with the body's defense against foreign organisms or substances and aberrant native cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the organ that functions to filter blood and to store red corpuscles and platelets .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the protruding lymphoid tissue located on the mucosa of the small intestine that is composed of densely packed b cell follicles .
the proportion or number of the oval or bean shaped bodies located along the lymphatic system that consist of densely packed lymphocytes ,  lymph fluid and connective tissue ;  the sites where acquired immune responses are launched .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the oval or bean shaped bodies located along the lymphatic system that consist of densely packed lymphocytes ,  lymph fluid and connective tissue ;  the sites where acquired immune responses are launched .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the primary lymphoid organ that is required for maturation of t cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation or differentiation of the primary lymphoid organ that is required for maturation of t cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the hair cells in the sensory epithelium of the maculae and cristae of the membranous labyrinth of the inner ear .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the cartilage found in the mesenchyme of the second pharyngeal arch in the embryo from which develop the stapes ,  styloid process ,  lesser horn and upper part of the body of the hyoid bone ;  its proximal end gives rise to the stylohyoid ligament .
the proportion or number of immature t cells located in the thymus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cells associated with the body's defense against foreign organisms or substances and aberrant native cells .
the proportion or number of the cells involved in adaptive immune reactions of the body ,  including b cells ,  t cells ,  and natural killer cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to embryonic formation or differentiation of skeletal muscle cells or fibers .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement of an organ or part of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the start of formation and / or differentiation of skeletal muscle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation or differentiation of the part of the somite that develops into the skeletal musculature .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the unstriated ,  involuntary muscle tissue of the internal organs ,  blood vessels ,  hair follicles ,  etc .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the non - striated ,  involuntary muscle tissue surrounding the urinary bladder to shorten or to develop increased tension .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the non - striated ,  involuntary muscle tissue of the portion of the small intestine that extends from the jejunum to the colon to shorten or to develop increased tension .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the striated muscles connected at either or both extremities with the bony framework of the body .
the distance between the surfaces of the thin musculomebranous barrier that separates the abdominal and thoracic cavities .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the mobile mass of muscular tissue and surrounding epithelial tissue occupying the cavity of the mouth and forming part of the floor .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the keratinized projections on the dorsal surface of the tongue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the epithelial layer of the tongue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the scaly epithelial layer of the tongue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the unstriated ,  involuntary muscle tissue of the internal organs ,  blood vessels ,  and other body structures not under willful control .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the united ,  nonampullary ends of the superior and posterior semicircular ducts of the inner ear .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the brain ,  one of the two components of the central nervous system and the center of thought and emotion ;  controls coordination ,  bodily activities and the interpretation of information from the senses  ( sight ,  hearing ,  smell ,  etc .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the paired inferior eminence of the mesencephalic tectum that is involved in preliminary visual processing ,  and control of eye movements .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the paired inferior eminence of the mesencephalic tectum that is involved in preliminary visual processing ,  and control of eye movements .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the bundles of myelinated nerve fibers following a defined path through the brain and / or spinal cord .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the continuous basement membrane found within the membranous labyrinth of the cochlea ,  known to extend from the limbus ,  down to the inner sulcus ,  across the basilar membrane ,  up to the external sulcus to the spiral prominence and radiating into the spiral ligament ensheathing the root cell processes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the thick bundle of nerve fibers comprising a commissural plate connecting the two cerebral hemispheres ;  it consists of contralateral axon projections that provides communications between the right and left cerebral hemispheres .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the commissural plate interconnecting the cortical hemispheres of the brain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the part of the brain developed from the most rostral of the three primary vesicles of the embryonic neural tube from which the diencephalon and telencephalon are derived .
the proportion or numbers of cells in the anterior primitive cerebral vesicle ;  most rostral of three primary vesicles of the embryonic neural tube .
the proportion or number of cells in cerebral cortex and basal ganglia .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which relatively unspecialized cells acquire the specialized features of the epithelial cell layer that lines the neural tube and develops into the nervous system and neural crest cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the paired anteriolateral division of the prosencephalon plus the lamina terminalis from which the olfactory lobes ,  cerebral cortex ,  and subcortical nuclei are derived .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the grey matter on the surface of the cerebral hemisphere that develops from the telencephalon and folds into gyri ;  it is responsible for intellectual faculties and higher mental functions .
the distance between the surfaces of the mantle covering the surface of the cerebral hemispheres .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the layers of the gray cellular mantle covering the surface of the brain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the developing superficial cortical layer located just under the pia matter .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the upper central part of the cerebral hemisphere .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the area of the parietal lobe that receives general sensation from the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the area of the parietal lobe that integrates tactile and visual stimuli .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the area of the frontal lobe that is involved in perception based on sensory stimuli .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the anterior part of the cerebral hemisphere .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the area of the frontal lobe that contains the cell bodies of the primary motor pathways .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the area of the frontal lobe that is involved with integration of voluntary movements and with speech .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the lower lateral part of the cerebral hemisphere .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the longitudinal ridge on the lateral surface of the temporal lobe .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the area of the temporal lobe concerned with hearing .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the posterior part of the cerebral hemisphere .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the area of the occipital cortex concerned with vision .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the deep lying structure of the cerebrum involved with memory storage and spatial navigation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the deep lying structure of the cerebrum involved with memory storage and spatial navigation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of one of two interlocking gyri of the hippocampus that contains granule cells ,  which project to the pyramidal cells and interneurons of the ca3 region of the ammon gyrus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the layers of the laminar structure of the hippocampus ,  the deep - lying structure of the cerebrum involved with memory storage and spatial navigation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of one or both of the two interlocking gyri of the hippocampus ;  a circonvolution of rhinencephalon ,  the grey substance of which is rich in big pyramidal neuronal cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the mechanosensitive hair bundles which are composed of thick long microvilli  ( stereocilia )  and are located at the apical end of cochlear inner and outer hair cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the almond - shaped body of basal nuclei anterior to the inferior horn of the lateral ventricle of the brain ,  within the temporal lobe ;  this area is involved in aggression and fear responses .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the forebrain region that coordinates neuronal signaling involved in the perception of smell ;  it receives input from the sensory neurons and outputs to the olfactory cortex .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the fringe of the tela choroidea of the cerebral ventricles .
the proportion or number of cells in the tela choroidea of the cerebral ventricles .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cavities of the brain filled with cerebrospinal fluid .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cavity in each of the cerebral hemispheres derived from the cavity of the embryonic neural tube ;  they are separated from each other by the septum pellucidum ,  and each communicates with the third ventricle by the foramen of monro ,  through which also the choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles become continuous with that of the third ventricle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the horseshoe - shaped cavities of the cerebrum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the narrow cleft inferior to the corpus callosum ,  within the diencephalon ,  between the paired thalami ;  its floor is formed by the hypothalamus ,  its anterior wall by the lamina terminalis ,  and its roof by ependyma ;  it communicates with the fourth ventricle by the cerebral aqueduct ,  and with the lateral ventricles by the interventricular foramina .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the narrow cleft inferior to the corpus callosum ,  within the diencephalon ,  between the paired thalami ;  its floor is formed by the hypothalamus ,  its anterior wall by the lamina terminalis ,  and its roof by ependyma ;  it communicates with the fourth ventricle by the cerebral aqueduct ,  and with the lateral ventricles by the interventricular foramina .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the irregularly shaped cavity in the rhombencephalon ,  between the medulla oblongata ,  the pons ,  and the isthmus in front ,  and the cerebellum behind ;  it is continuous with the central canal of the cord below and with the cerebral aqueduct above ,  and through its lateral and median apertures it communicates with the subarachnoid space .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the irregularly shaped cavity in the rhombencephalon ,  between the medulla oblongata ,  the pons ,  and the isthmus in front ,  and the cerebellum behind ;  it is continuous with the central canal of the cord below and with the cerebral aqueduct above ,  and through its lateral and median apertures it communicates with the subarachnoid space .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the paired caudal parts of the prosencephalon from which the thalamus ,  hypothalamus ,  epithalamus and subthalamus are derived ;  these regions regulate autonomic ,  visceral and endocrine function ,  and process information directed to the cerebral cortex .
the proportion or number of cells in the paired caudal parts of the prosencephalon from which the thalamus ,  hypothalamus ,  epithalamus and subthalamus are derived
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the large ovoid mass of paired bodies containing mostly gray matter and forming part of the lateral wall of the third ventricle of the brain .
the proportion or number of cells in the large ovoid mass of paired bodies containing mostly grey matter and forming part of the lateral wall of the third ventricle of the brain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the anterior part of the diencephalon that lies between the thalamus ,  hypothalamus ,  and tegmentum of the mesencephalon ,  including subthalamic nucleus ,  zona incerta ,  the fields of forel ,  and the nucleus of ansa lenticularis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the lens - shaped nucleus located in the ventral part of the subthalamus on the inner aspect of the internal capsule that is concerned with the integration of somatic motor function .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the layer of grey substance that separates the posterior parts of the cerebral peduncles  ( tegmentum mesencephali )  from the anterior parts ;  it normally includes a posterior compact part with many pigmented cells  ( pars compacta )  and an anterior reticular part whose cells contain little pigment  ( pars reticularis )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the ventral part of the diencephalon extending from the region of the optic chiasm to the caudal border of the mammillary bodies and forming the inferior and lateral walls of the third ventricle ;  this region regulates the autonomic nervous system via hormone production and release .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  or pattern of the morphologically and biochemically distinct link types that extend between the stereocilia of cochlear hair bundles ;  link types can be distinguished by their relative sensitivities to treatment with calcium chelators and the protease subtilisin .
the proportion or number of cells in the ventral part of the diencephalon extending from the region of the optic chiasm to the caudal border of the mammillary bodies and forming the inferior and lateral walls of the third ventricle ;  this region regulates the autonomic nervous system via hormone production and release .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the small dorsomedial area of the thalamus including the habenular nuclei and associated fiber bundles ,  the pineal body ,  and the epithelial roof of the third ventricle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the caudal region of the brain ;  includes cerebellum ,  pons and medulla oblongata .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the nucleus of neurons on the dorsal part of the lateral surface of the pons ;  it normally receives projection fibers from the cochlear nuclei and is prominently involved in spatial localization of sound .
the proportion or number of neurons in the group of motor neurons in the hindbrain ;  receives fibers from the facial muscles ,  stapedus muscle and stylohyoid muscle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the bend in the developing neural tube that produces a thinning of the roof of the pons and medulla oblongata and defines the boundary between the metencephalon and medulla oblongata in the embryo .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the most caudal region of the brainstem that lies directly rostral to the spinal cord ;  includes regions responsible for autonomic functions such as digestion ,  breathing and control of heart rate .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the anterior part of the rhombencephalon .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the band of nerve fibers in the brain connecting the medulla oblongata and the mesencephalon ;  this region conveys information about movement from the cerebral hemisphere to the cerebellum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the part of the metencephalon that lies in the posterior cranial fossa dorsal to the pons and medulla that is concerned with the coordination of movement and learning of motor skills .
the proportion or number of cells in the part of the metencephalon that lies in the posterior cranial fossa dorsal to the pons and medulla that is concerned with the coordination of movement and learning of motor skills .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the part of the metencephalon that lies in the posterior cranial fossa dorsal to the pons and medulla that is concerned with the coordination of movement and learning of motor skills .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the part of the metencephalon that lies dorsal to the pons and medulla behind the brain stem and controls balance for walking and standing ,  modulates the force and range of movement and is involved in the learning of motor skills .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the major fissures of the cerebellum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the embryonic pseudostratified epithelium of the fourth cerebellar ventricle that eventually forms the vermis and ventral neuroepithelium .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the formation of small offshoots of the cerebellar lobules .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the area of the parietal lobe that lies posterior to the central sulcus and is concerned with receiving and processing general sensations from the body surface .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the area of the postcentral gyrus and central sulcus that is involved in somatic sensation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the systematic arrangement of the discrete functional units of the somatosensory cortex that processes tactile information derived from the vibrissae .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the area of the upper bank of the lateral sulcus that is involved in somatic sensation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the narrow medial zone between the two hemispheres of the cerebellum that is delimited by two longitudinal furrows ;  it may be continuous with the cerebellar hemispheres in some areas of the cerebellum ,  e .g . ,  dorsally ,  or separated by deeper fissures in others  ( e .g . ,  ventrally )  ;  it receives inputs from the spinocerebellar tracts which carry to the vermis information on the position and balance of the torso ,  and it sends projections to the fastigial nucleus of the cerebellum ,  which then sends output to the vestibular nuclei .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the narrow middle zone between the two hemispheres of the cerebellum .
the proportion or number of cells in the narrow medial zone between the two hemispheres of the cerebellum that is delimited by two longitudinal furrows ;  it may be continuous with the cerebellar hemispheres in some areas of the cerebellum ,  e .g . ,  dorsally ,  or separated by deeper fissures in others  ( e .g . ,  ventrally )  ;  it receives inputs from the spinocerebellar tracts which carry to the vermis information on the position and balance of the torso ,  and it sends projections to the fastigial nucleus of the cerebellum ,  which then sends output to the vestibular nuclei .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the anterior portion of the narrow middle zone between the two hemispheres of the cerebellum that is located anterior to the primary fissure .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the anterior portion of the narrow middle zone between the two hemispheres of the cerebellum that is located anterior to the primary fissure .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the posterior portion of the narrow middle zone between the two hemispheres of the cerebellum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of part of the inferior vermis of the cerebellum  ( vermis lobule viii )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the triangular elevation on the vermis of the cerebellum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the transient layer of the cerebellar cortex which is composed of the dividing and migrating granule cells .
the distance between the surfaces of the transient layer of the cerebellar cortex which is composed of dividing and migrating granule cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cell layer that lies just underneath the molecular layer of the cerebellar cortex ;  it contains the neuronal cell bodies of the purkinje cells that are arranged side by side in a single layer ,  and candelabrum interneurons are vertically oriented between the purkinje cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the neurons located at the interface of the molecular and internal granule layers of the cerebellar cortex ;  these inhibitory neurons provide the output of the cerebellar cortex through axons that project into the white matter ,  and extensive dendritic trees from the purkinje cells extend upward in a single plane into the molecular layer where they synapse with parallel fibers of granule cells .
the proportion or number of neuronal cells that are located in the interface of the molecular and granular layers of the cerebellar cortex .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the long ,  single - stranded filaments that form a dense web or mesh around the base of cochlear hair bundles just above the region in which the stereocilia begin to taper down .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the inter - stereocilial links that connect the top of a shorter stereocilium to an adjacent longer stereocilium at a short distance below the tip links ;  the appearance of horizontal top connectors ,  which persist into adulthood ,  occurs concomitant with this loss of ankle links ;  top connectors are essentially unaffected by treatment with subtilisin and egta .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the single ,  three - stranded inter - row filaments that extend obliquely from the tip of one stereocilium to the lateral side of an adjacent taller stereocilium ;  in the mouse ,  tip links are already detectable at e17 and persist throughout life ;  tips links are thought to gate the mechanotransducer channel ,  are lost from the cell surface after exposure to either calcium chelator bapta or lanthanum ,  and resist degradation by the protease subtilisin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the layer of large neuron cell bodies between the molecular and granular layers of the cerebellum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the innermost cortical layer of the cerebellum ;  contains densely packed small neurons ,  mostly granule cells with some golgi cells are found at the outer border .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the deepest of the three layers of the cerebellum that contains granule cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the outermost layer of the cerebral cortex that contains the parallel fibers of the granule cells ,  interneurons such as stellate and basket cells ,  and the dendrites of the underlying purkinje cells .
the distance between the surfaces of the outer of the three cortical layers of the cerebellum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the location or arrangement of inner and / or outer hair cell stereociliary bundles in relation to the hair cells .
the proportion or number of the nonmotile ,  actin - filled specialized microvilli  ( stereocilia )  normally arrayed on the sensory epithelial cells of the cochlea ,  which are normally in synaptic contact with the auditory nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the nonmotile ,  actin - filled specialized microvilli  ( stereocilia )  which are normally arrayed on cochlear inner and outer hair cells .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement ,  distribution or supply of afferent terminals and / or their synapses in the cochlear ihc region . \ nconsider: vt:0010155 ,  vt:0010185
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement ,  distribution or supply of nerve fibers to the normally dense plexus of efferent terminals that contact radial fibers of the spiral ganglion below cochlear ihcs or of the sparser plexus of terminals positioned around ihc somata ;  normally ,  lateral olivocochlear neurons ,  which are found in and / or around the lateral superior olive ,  project mainly to the ipsilateral cochlea and terminate mostly on dendritic fibers below ihcs . \ nconsider: vt:0010157 ,  vt:0010186
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the middle of the three cerebral vesicles of the embryo ;  this region controls sensory and motor functions ,  including eye movement and coordination of auditory and visual reflexes .
the proportion or number of cells in the middle of the three cerebral vesicles of the embryo .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the inferior and / or superior colliculus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the inferior and / or superior colliculus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the systematic arrangement of the inferior and / or superior colliculus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the paired superior eminence of the mesencephalic tectum that is involved in auditory processing .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the paired superior eminence of the mesencephalic tectum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the group of sensory neurons residing in a long ,  narrow plate in the midbrain ;  axons pass with the trigeminal nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the group of sensory neurons residing in a long ,  narrow plate in the midbrain ;  axons pass with the trigeminal nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the group of motor neurons residing in the pons that innervate the muscles of facial expression .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the group of motor neurons residing in the pons that innervate the muscles of facial expression .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the group of motor neurons innervating the muscles of mastication .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the group of motor neurons innervating the muscles of mastication .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the brain during its formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which myelin sheaths are formed and maintained around neurons .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a transient group of neuroepithelial cells located at the dorsal midline of the neural tube that profoundly influences the development of the vertebrate central nervous system .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a transient group of neuroepithelial cells located at the ventral midline of the neural tube that profoundly influences the development of the vertebrate central nervous system .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the floor plate .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the transverse segments in the hindbrain region of the developing neural tube .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the anterior division of the embryonic prosencephalon during its formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the stereotypic invaginations forming the paired diverticula of the telencephalon ,  from which the forebrain develops .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the paired diverticula of the telencephalon ,  from which the forebrain develops .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cells that innervate an effector  ( muscle or glandular )  tissue and are responsible for transmission of motor impulses .
the proportion or number of cells that innervate an effector  ( muscle or glandular )  tissue and are responsible for transmission of motor impulses .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement ,  distribution or supply of the nerve fibers of motor axons to an effector tissue . \ nconsider: vt:0010286 ,  vt:0010289
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of innervating neurons to stop at target site and form terminal arbors .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the projection of innervating motor neurons to endplate targets .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the afferent terminals and / or their synapses in the cochlear ohc region .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the non - neuronal cells of the central nervous system that form the myelin insulation of nervous pathways ,  guide neuronal migration during development ,  and exchange metabolites with neurons .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the neuroglia of the central nervous system that form the insulating myelin sheath of axons .
the proportion or number of cells that differentiate into the neuroglia of the central nervous system that form the insulating myelin sheath of axons .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cylindrical tissue of the vertebral canal that extends from the medulla oblongata to the conus medullaris .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the neural tissue involved in the transmission of sensory signals .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the clusters of neurons in the somatic peripheral nervous system which contain the cell bodies of sensory nerve axons ,  interneurons ,  and non - neuonal supporting cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the group of nerve cell bodies of each segmental nerve projecting from the spinal cord .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the segmentation pattern of one or more dorsal root ganglia .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of one or more of the nerve cell bodies of each segmental nerve projecting from the spinal cord .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cells that innervate an effector  ( muscle or glandular )  tissue and are responsible for transmission of sensory impulses .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement ,  distribution or supply of nerve fibers to sensory termini or to the spinal cord .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the peripheral receptors for pain ,  including receptors sensitive to painful mechanical stimuli ,  extreme heat or cold ,  and chemical stimuli .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of a sensory receptor that may be stimulated by mechanical ,  thermal or chemical means .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of any of the cellular receptors that mediate the sense of temperature ;  in vertebrates ,  these are most often located under the skin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the receptors of the body ,  usually nerve termini ,  that respond to mechanical pressure or distortion .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the receptors that respond to mechanical pressure or distortion in the skin .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the subcutaneous mechanoreceptors that innervate guard hairs .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement ,  distribution or supply of nerve fibers to the hair guard cells .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the subcutaneous mechanoreceptors that innervate tylotrich hair follicles .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement ,  distribution or supply of nerve fibers to hair tylotrich cells .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the subcutaneous mechanoreceptors that innervate vellus hairs .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement ,  distribution or supply of nerve fibers to hair down cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any or all of the numerous oval bodies found in the dermal papillae of thick skin ;  believed to be mechanoreceptors for tactile sensation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of any of the numerous oval bodies found in the dermal papillae of thick skin ;  believed to be mechanoreceptors for tactile sensation .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement ,  distribution or supply of nerve fibers to any part of the numerous oval bodies found in the dermal papillae of thick skin and which are believed to be mechanoreceptors for tactile sensation . \ nconsider: vt:0010187 ,  vt:0010188
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the modified epidermal cells located in the stratum basale and found mostly in areas where sensory perception is acute .
the proportion or number of modified epidermal cells located in the stratum basale and found mostly in areas where sensory perception is acute .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement ,  distribution or supply of nerve fibers to the modified epidermal cells located in the stratum basale and found mostly in areas where sensory perception is acute . \ nconsider: vt:0010148 ,  vt:0010150
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the rapidly adapting mechanoreceptors found in subcutaneous tissue beneath both hairy and glabrous skin ,  and which normally contain an afferent nerve fiber surrounded by a capsule with multiple concentric layers .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the sensory cells in the subcutaneous tissue of the digits specialized to transduce mechanical stimuli .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the receptors that respond to mechanical pressure or distortion in any of the striated muscles connected at either or both extremities with the bony framework of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the sensory organ in muscle ;  involved in the stretch reflex and sensitive to stretch velocity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the sensory organ in muscle ;  involved in the stretch reflex and is sensitive to stretch velocity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the sensory organ in muscle ;  involved in the stretch reflex and not sensitive to stretch velocity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the sensory organ in muscle ;  involved in the stretch reflex and is not sensitive to stretch velocity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the sac that encloses the articulating ends of bones participating in a synovial joint ;  formed by an outer fibrous layer and an inner synovial membrane .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the sensory organ in muscle that is involved in regulating muscle tension .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the cells specialized to detect chemical substances and relay that information centrally in the nervous system .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the small sensory organs located in the tongue that contain gustatory receptor cells ,  basal cells ,  and supporting cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the proteins ,  usually projecting from the cilia of olfactory receptor neurons ,  that specifically bind odorant molecules and trigger responses in the specialized neurons of the olfactory epithelium .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the receptors sensitive to light .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the photoreceptors that contain rhodopsin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the retinal receptors that give rise to color vision .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the part of the autonomic nervous system that innervates smooth muscle ,  cardiac muscle and glands and mediates the body's response to stressful situations .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the groups of neuronal cell bodies of the autonomic nervous system .
the proportion or number of cells in the group of neuronal cell bodies of the autonomic nervous system that are located at intervals along the sympathetic trunks .
the proportion or number of cells in the group of neuronal cell bodies of the autonomic nervous system that are located on the superior part of the abdominal aorta .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the group of neurons that is the largest of the sympathetic trunk ;  normally lies at the base of the skull and innervates the head and neck .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the group of neurons that is the largest of the ganglia of the sympathetic trunk ;  normally lies at the base of the skull and innervates the head and neck .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the small ganglion located at the level of the cricoid cartilage of the laryngeal wall .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the group of neurons formed by the fusion of the inferior cervical and first thoracic ganglia .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the efferent terminals ,  occurring as clusters ,  in the cochlear ohc region ;  normally ,  medial olivocochlear neurons ,  which are primarily found in rostral and ventral periolivary regions ,  project mainly to the contralateral cochlea ,  and terminate directly on ohcs .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the group of nerve cell bodies located on the dorsal spinal roots within the vertebral column at the level of the fourth lumbar vertebra .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the group of nerve cell bodies located on the dorsal spinal roots within the vertebral column at the level of the fourth lumbar vertebra .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the group of nerve cell bodies located on the dorsal spinal roots within the vertebral column at the level of the fifth lumbar vertebra .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the group of nerve cell bodies located on the dorsal spinal roots within the vertebral column at the level of the fifth lumbar vertebra .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the neurons of the part of the autonomic nervous system that innervates smooth muscle ,  cardiac muscle and glands and mediates the body's response to stressful situations .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the neurons that release catecholamines at a synapse after an impulse .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement ,  distribution or supply of nerve fibers of the autonomic nervous system that use norepinephrine as their neurotransmitter to a target tissue or cell . \ nconsider: vt:0010038 ,  vt:0010039
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the mechanosensitive hair bundles located at the apical end of cochlear ohcs ;  each hair bundle is normally composed of ~100 nonmotile ,  actin - filled microvilli  ( stereocilia )  arranged in rows of increasing height and coupled to one another by morphologically distinct links: tip links ,  horizontal top connectors ,  shaft connectors ,  and ankle links ;  most hair bundles also possess a single motile kinocilium immediately adjacent to the tallest  ( outermost )  row of stereocilia ;  a fifth link type ,  the kinocilial link ,  connects the kinocilium to its neighboring stereocilia .
the proportion or numbers of the nonmotile ,  actin - filled specialized microvilli  ( stereocilia )  normally arrayed on the outer sensory epithelial cells of the cochlea ,  which are normally in synaptic contact with the auditory nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the nerve fibers believed to release small peptides as their neurotransmitter .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the part of the autonomic nervous system that innervates smooth muscle ,  cardiac muscle and glands and regulates homeostasis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the ganglia of the parasympathetic nervous system ,  including the ciliary ,  pterygopalatine ,  submandibular ,  and otic ganglia in the cranial region and intrinsic  ( terminal )  ganglia associated with target organs in the thorax and abdomen .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the ganglion associated with the lingual nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the small parasympathetic ganglion of the lingual nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the neurons of the autonomic nervous system that are responsible for innervation of smooth muscle ,  cardiac muscle and glands and regulation of homeostasis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the neurons that utilize acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement ,  distribution or supply of nerve fibers that utilize acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter to a target tissue or cell . \ nconsider: vt:0010041 ,  vt:0010062
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement ,  distribution or supply of nerve fibers to the gland that secretes tears . \ nconsider: vt:0010100 ,  vt:0010123
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement ,  distribution or supply of nerve fibers to the exocrine gland on the floor of the mouth that secretes saliva . \ nconsider: vt:0010121 ,  vt:0010126
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement ,  distribution or supply of nerve fibers to the exocrine gland lateral to the jaw that secretes saliva . \ nconsider: vt:0010103 ,  vt:0010124
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the part of the autonomic nervous system that innervates the gastrointestinal tract ,  the pancreas ,  and the gallbladder and can autonomously sense the tension and the chemical environment in the gut and regulate blood vessel tone ,  motility ,  secretions ,  and fluid transport .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the groups of nerve cell bodies associated with the enteric neurons .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the neurons that innervate the alimentary tube .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the neurons that utilize acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter and innervate the alimentary tube .
the proportion or number of neurons that innervate the alimentary tube .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement ,  distribution or supply of nerve fibers that utilize acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter to the alimentary tube . \ nconsider: vt:0010074 ,  vt:0010099
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the neural tissue involved in the transmission of motor signals .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement ,  distribution or supply of sensory or motor nerve fibers to targets in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement of an organ or part of the body . \ nconsider: vt:0010189 ,  vt:0010262
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the membrane to membrane contact of a motor axon and a muscle myofiber .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the twelve nerves that emerge from the cranium as opposed to the spinal nerves .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the second cranial nerve ,  which is responsible for conveying visual information from the retina to the brain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the 3rd cranial nerve ,  which normally sends motor fibers to the levator muscles of the eyelid and to the superior rectus ,  inferior rectus ,  and inferior oblique muscles of the eye ;  and also sends parasympathetic efferents to the muscles controlling pupillary constriction and accommodation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the nerve of the extraocular muscles ,  iris and ciliary body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the 4th cranial nerve ,  which normally carries the motor innervation of the superior oblique muscles of the eye .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the nerve of the superior oblique muscle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the chief sensory nerve of the face and motor nerve of the muscles of mastication ;  has three major divisions: ophthalmic ,  maxillary and mandibular .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the third division of the trigeminal nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the projected axons of the mandibular nerve ,  the third division of the trigeminal nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the 6th cranial nerve ,  which originates in the abducens nucleus of the pons and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the eye .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the motor axons from the pons to the face .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the sensory nerve innervating the receptor cells of the membranous labyrinth .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of sensory and autonomic axons to the parotid gland ,  carotid body ,  posterior third of the tongue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the autonomic ,  sensory and motor axons of the tenth cranial nerve to the pharynx ,  larynx ,  trachea ,  lungs ,  heart and gi tract .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the 11th cranial nerve ,  which normally originates from neurons in the medulla and in the cervical spinal cord .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of motor axons to the tongue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of any of the paired peripheral nerves formed by the union of the dorsal and ventral spinal roots from each spinal cord segment .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the motor and sensory neuron axons that project to the diaphragm and other tissues .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the groups of nerve cell bodies associated with the twelve cranial nerves .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the group of sensory neuron cell bodies associated with the facial nerve  ( seventh cranial nerve )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the intermediate nerve fibers associated with the facial nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the lower group of sensory neuron cell bodies associated with the glossopharyngeal nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the inferior of two sensory ganglia on the glossopharyngeal nerve immediately inferior to its exit from the jugular formamen .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the large group of sensory neuron cell bodies ,  anterior to the jugular vein ,  associated with the vagus nerve  ( tenth cranial nerve )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the large group of sensory neuron cell bodies ,  anterior to the jugular vein ,  associated with the vagus nerve  ( tenth cranial nerve )  .
the proportion or number of the sensory neurons comprising the nodose ganglion .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the nonmotile ,  actin - filled specialized microvilli  ( stereocilia )  which are normally arrayed on cochlear outer hair cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the group of sensory neuron cell bodies associated with the trigeminal nerve  ( fifth cranial nerve )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the cells of the trigeminal ganglion ,  the group of sensory neuron cell bodies associated with the fifth cranial nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the group of sensory neuron cell bodies associated with the trigeminal nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the group of neuron cell bodies associated with the ninth cranial nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the upper ganglion of the glossopharyngeal nerve located at the jugular foramen .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the upper ganglion of the glossopharyngeal nerve located at the jugular foramen .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the group of sensory neuron cell bodies associated with the vagus nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the upper ganglion of the vagus nerve located at the jugular foramen .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the upper ganglion of the vagus nerve located at the jugular foramen .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the non - neuronal cells of the peripheral nervous system that form the myelin insulation of nervous pathways ,  guide neuronal migration during development ,  and exchange metabolites with neurons .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cells which form the insulating myelin sheaths of peripheral axons .
the proportion or number of the cells that form the insulating myelin sheaths of peripheral axons .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the organs associated with producing offspring in the gender that bears the offspring .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the hollow muscular organ where the embryo / fetus develops .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the immature ova .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the female reproductive gland containing the germ cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the female reproductive gland containing the germ cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the formation of the spherical ovum in the ovary .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the ovarian structure containing an oocyte .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which relatively unspecialized cells acquire the specialized features of the cells of the corpus luteum of the ovary .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the opening of the uterus to the vagina .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the epithelial layer of the cervix .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the scaly epithelial layer of the cervix .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the female reproductive canal located between the uterus and the vulva .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the epithelial layer of the vagina .
the distance between the surfaces of the vaginal epithelial layer .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the opening to the genital canal in the female .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the external vaginal opening .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the organs associated with producing offspring in the gender that produces spermatozoa .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the male reproductive gland ( s )  where sperm production occurs .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the male reproductive gland ( s )  where sperm production occurs .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the external sac of skin that encloses the testes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the loose fold of skin that covers the penis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the tubules in the testes where spermatogenesis occurs .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the formation of the male gametes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the gland surrounding the beginning of the urethra in males that secretes part of the seminal fluid .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the anterior lobe of the prostate .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the prostate epithelium .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the gland in males that lies along the prostate gland and secretes a fluid component of the seminal fluid into the urethra .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the gland in males that lies along the prostate gland and secretes a fluid component of the seminal fluid into the urethra .
the proportion or number of cells found in the ducts through which the bulbourethral glands discharge mucus into the spongy part of the urethra .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of either or both of the spongy organs of respiration contained within the pleural cavity of the thorax .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the either or both of the spongy organs of respiration contained within the pleural cavity of the thorax during its / their formation and differentiation .
the proportion or number of cells in all or part of either or both of the spongy organs of respiration contained within the pleural cavity of the thorax .
the distance between the surfaces of the structure that separates the air sacs  ( alveoli )  in the lung .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the typically linear or u - shaped pattern of arrangement of mechanosensitive hair bundles located at the apical end of cochlear ihcs ;  each hair bundle is normally composed of ~100 nonmotile ,  actin - filled microvilli  ( stereocilia )  arranged in rows of increasing height and coupled to one another by morphologically distinct links: tip links ,  horizontal top connectors ,  shaft connectors ,  and ankle links ;  most hair bundles also possess a single motile kinocilium immediately adjacent to the tallest row of stereocilia ;  a fifth link type ,  the kinocilial link ,  connects the kinocilium to its neighboring stereocilia .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the saclike terminal dilation of the respiratory bronchioles .
the distance between the surfaces of the membranous protective covering of the body .
the ability of light to be transmitted diffusely through the membranous protective covering of the body .
the proportion or number of cells in the membranous protective covering of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the superficial epithelial portion of the skin .
the distance between the surfaces of the superficial epithelial portion of the skin .
the proportion or number of cells in the superficial epithelial portion of the skin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the superficial epithelial portion of the skin during its formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the deepest layer of the epidermis ,  which is composed of dividing stem cells and anchoring cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the layer of polyhedral cells in the epidermis between the stratum granulosum and stratum basale .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the cells of the layer between the stratum granulosum and stratum basale in the epidermis .
the distance between the surfaces of the layer between the stratum granulosum and stratum basale in the epidermis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the layer of flattened cells containing basophilic granules of keratohyalin and lying just above the stratum spinosum  ( spiny layer )  of the epidermis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the outer layer of the epidermis ,  consisting of several layers of flat keratinized non - nucleated cells .
the distance between the surfaces of the outer layer of the epidermis ,  consisting of several layers of flat keratinized non - nucleated cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the layer of the skin deep to the epidermis ,  consisting of a dense bed of vascular ,  connective tissue .
the distance between the surfaces of the layer of skin deep to the epidermis ,  consisting of a dense bed of vascular connective tissue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the physical or functional supporting tissue of the body ,  a major constituent of which is an extracellular matrix of ground substance ,  protein fibers ,  and structural glycoproteins .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the outer layer of the dermis ,  characterized by ridges or papillae protruding into the epidermis .
the vertical dimension of the body of an organism ,  usually measured from the top of the head to the bottom of feet or hindlimbs .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the body of an organism .
the amount of matter in the body of an organism .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical form or contours of the stiff hairs projecting from the face ,  which act as touch receptors .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the systematic arrangement of the stiff hairs projecting from the face ,  which act as touch receptors .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to maintain the whiskers without noticeable loss .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the stiff hairs projecting from the face ,  which act as touch receptors .
obsolete .the amount of space between whiskers .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the organ of vision and its supporting structures .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the beginning of the formation of the transparent structure of the eye responsible for focusing light rays .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the transient vascular system of the eye during its formation ,  differentiation ,  and degeneration .
the stage of development when the eyelids first separate .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the primordium of the lens of the eye during its formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the location or arrangement of the eyes and their supporting structures in relation to each other or in relation to other craniofacial structures .
obsolete .the distance between the eyes . \ nconsider: vt:0001299
the proportion or numbers of the nonmotile ,  actin - filled specialized microvilli  ( stereocilia )  normally arrayed on the inner sensory epithelial cells of the cochlea ,  which are normally in synaptic contact with the auditory nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the transparent structure of the eye responsible for focusing light rays .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the degree of transparency of the structure of the eye responsible for focusing light rays .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the transparent structure of the eye responsible for focusing light rays .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the orientation of the lens during development .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the mucous membrane that lines the inner surface of the eyelids and the front of the eyeball .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the transparent anterior portion of the fibrous coat of the eye that serves as the chief refractory structure .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the degree of transparency of the transparent anterior portion of the fibrous coat of the eye that serves as the chief refractory structure .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the central circular aperture of the iris through which light rays enter the eye .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the degree of transparency of the central circular aperture of the iris through which light rays normally enter the eye .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical form or contours of the aperture of the iris through which light rays enter the eye .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the central circular aperture of the iris through which light rays enter the eye .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the adjustable membrane ,  composed of the stroma and pigmented epithelium ,  located just in front of the crystalline lens within the eye .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the nonmotile ,  actin - filled specialized microvilli  ( stereocilia )  normally arrayed on cochlear inner hair cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the deposition or aggregation of coloring matter in the eye .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the thin layer of neural tissue lining the back of the eyeball which contains visual receptors .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the systematic arrangement of the sheets of cells comprising the optic part of the retina .
the proportion or number of cells in the thin layer of neural tissue lining the back of the eyeball which contains visual receptors .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the second cranial nerve which is responsible for conveying visual information from the retina to the brain ;  it extends from the retina to the optic chiasma where part of its fibers become the optic tract and cross to the opposite side and pass to the geniculate bodies .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement ,  distribution or supply of nerve fibers from the second cranial nerve which is responsible for conveying visual information from the retina to the brain . \ nconsider: vt:0006221 ,  vt:0010141
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the paired bands of optic nerve fibers running from the optic chiasma to the lateral geniculate body and midbrain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the presynaptic active zone of mature cochlear ihcs which usually contain a single synaptic ribbon ,  i .e .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the usually single synaptic ribbon ,  a characteristic osmiophilic ,  electron - dense structure to which synaptic vesicles are tethered at the active zone of the cochlear inner hair cell afferent synapse .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of moisture in the eye .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the skin folds covering the front of the eyeball .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the sebaceous glands embedded in the tarsal plate of each eyelid .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the glands that secrete tears .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the glands that secrete tears .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the secretion of watery saline solution by the lacrimal glands .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the organization of the various cell types within the organ of corti into a set number of distinct rows .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the behavior of animals to approach and examine other animals .
the proportion or numbers of the supporting cells of the spiral organ which are attached to the basement membrane and receive the hair cells between their free extremities .
the proportion or numbers of the supporting cells that form the inner and outer walls of the tunnel in the organ of corti .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the propulsion of semen from the genital ducts and the urethra to the exterior .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the achievement of a rigid and elevated state of the penis when the erectile tissue becomes filled with blood .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the thickened periosteal lining of the bony cochlea that forms the outer wall of the cochlear duct to which the basal lamina attaches .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to change body posture or shift a body part .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to move from place to place .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  or pattern of the tight junctions between basal cells of stria vascularis ,  resulting in the paracellular barrier between basal cells ;  closing the intrastrial space off from the perilymph and establishing its electrical isolation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to scraping of the skin ,  usually with the nails .
the proportion or numbers of the polarized columnar cells of epithelial origin which cover the lateral surface of the cochlear duct ,  secrete k +  and form a continuous sheet in contact with the endolymph .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the overlaying membrane of the cochlear duct .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the division of the spiral canal of the cochlea that contains the organ of corti  ( the neuroepithelial receptor organ for hearing )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the consumption of liquids .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the consumption of solids .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to pull food through the esophagus to the stomach in response to feeding .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to actions or reactions of an organism with regard to the standard behavior of cleaning and / or keeping outward appearance tidy  ( self ,  mate or offspring )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the spiral canal of the cochlea lying on the basal side of the spiral lamina .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the mechanosensitive hair bundles which are composed of thick long microvilli  ( stereocilia )  and are located at the apical end of vestibular hair cells of the utricle and saccule .
any measurable or observable behavioral characteristic related to the construction of a container or shelter made out of available materials .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to ascertain ,  retain or recall information .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure or pattern of the morphologically and biochemically distinct link types that extend between the stereocilia of vestibular hair bundles .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure or pattern of the links that connect the shafts of neighboring stereocilia in vestibular hair bundles ;  each shaft connector is composed of a ruthenium red - reactive ,  electron - dense particle that is connected to the plasma membrane by several fine strands of variable length .
the proportion or numbers of the nonmotile ,  actin - filled specialized microvilli  ( stereocilia )  which are normally arrayed on vestibular hair cells in a staircase - like pattern .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the nonmotile ,  actin - filled specialized microvilli  ( stereocilia )  which are normally arrayed on vestibular hair cells in a staircase - like pattern .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the cartilage or bony capsule surrounding the inner ear mechanism .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the nonsensory epithelial cells located above the vestibular melanocytes and adjacent to the sensory structures in the utricle and in the ampullae at the ends of each of the semicircular canals ;  these cells provide and maintain the high k +  ionic environment within the vestibular labyrinth and are therefore homologous to the marginal cells of the stria vascularis ;  they are joined to each other by tight junctions and provide a barrier between endolymph and perilymph .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the cavity between the semicircular canals and the cochlea of the inner ear .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the middle of the three auditory ossicles .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the largest of the three auditory ossicles ,  which resembles a club .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the behaviors related to the readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity that occurs periodically in many animals .
any measurable or observable behavioral characteristic related to a daily biological activity cycle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the position of the limbs or carriage of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to carriage of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of an animal to maintain skillful and effective interaction of movements or maintenance of equilibrium .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to maintain equilibrium .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to produce sound from the vocal organs .
the proportion or number of the bony segments of the tail ;  in tailless vertebrates ,  these vertebrae may be united to form the coccyx .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in large ,  multinucleated cells that function in the absorption and removal of osseous tissue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of bone to withstand the application of force without yielding or breaking .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the heart or blood vessels .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in a body fluid or tissue of fat - soluble substances  ( molecules composed of carbon and hydrogen and are characteristically insoluble in water )  .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of organic ,  monobasic acids derived from hydrocarbons ,  which are complexed with serum albumin for transport ;  they are saturated and unsaturated .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this polypeptide hormone ,  secreted by beta cells of the pancreas ,  that promotes glucose utilization ,  protein synthesis ,  and the formation and storage of neutral lipids .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this metallic bivalent element .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this salt or ester of phosphoric acid .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this yellow heme breakdown product .
the proportion or quantity in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of any of the proteins that act as catalysts for biological reactions .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this enzyme ,  which transfers amino groups from l - alanine to 2 - ketoglutarate ,  or the reverse  ( from l - glutamate to pyruvate )  ;  serum concentration is increased in viral hepatitis and myocardial infarction .
the proportion or number in the blood of the cells that carry oxygen ,  the red blood cells .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in blood of the oxygen - carrying protein of erythrocytes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the formation of myeloid cells from the pluripotent hematopoietic stem cells in the bone marrow via myeloid stem cells ,  including the production of leukocytes in blood ,  such as monocytes and granulocytes ,  and precursor cells for macrophages and dendritic cells found in the lymphoid tissue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the tubular channels through which the blood circulates .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the fibrocartilagenous union of the two halves of the mandible  ( embryonic stages )  .
the full period of time from birth to death of an organism .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the organ system that converts ingested food to nutrients and energy .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the mechanical ,  chemical ,  and enzymatic conversion of ingested food into material suitable for assimilation for synthesis of tissues or liberation of energy .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the body to take in constituents of food necessary for normal physiologic function .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the body to take in substances composed of carbon ,  hydrogen ,  and oxygen according to the general formula cn ( h2o ) n ;  sugars and starches are examples .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the body to take in this 5 - carbon sugar .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the body to take in the monosaccharide that is the end product of carbohydrate digestion ;  d - glucose serves as a primary energy source for living organisms .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the body to take in any inorganic element or compound that has importance in body functions .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the body to take in any of a group of organic substances ,  present in food ,  that are essential to normal metabolism .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the primary cellular layers from which the organs and tissues develop .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the outermost of the three germ layers during its formation and differentiation during gastrulation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the multilayered ectodermal region at the tip of a limb bud necessary for the proper development of the underlying mesenchyme .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the middle of the three embryonic germ layers during its formation and differentiation during gastrulation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the portion of the middle primary germ layer ,  which gives rise to the notochord ,  during its formation during gastrulation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the innermost of the three germ layers during its formation and differentiation during gastrulation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of any of the paired ,  metamerically arranged cell masses formed in the embryonic paraxial mesoderm .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the start of the process by which relatively unspecialized cells ,  tissues ,  or structures acquire the specialized features of the paired ,  metamerically arranged cell masses formed in the early embryo .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical form or contours of any of the paired ,  metamerically arranged cell masses formed in the embryonic paraxial mesoderm .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the development and invagination of the embryonic germ layers .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the developing organism before birth .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the axial rotation of the germ layers of the embryo during the primitive streak / early somite stage  ( mus:e8 .5 - e9 .5 )  such that the curvature of the entire trunk region is reversed and the neural ectoderm moves to the convex region and the midgut region becomes located in the concave region .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the establishment ,  maintenance ,  and elaboration of a pattern along the axis that runs from the front or lower side of an organism to the back or upper side of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the establishment ,  maintenance ,  and elaboration of a pattern in relation to proximity to the trunk or point of origin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the establishment ,  maintenance ,  and elaboration of a pattern in relation to the left and right sides of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the involutions of the amnion .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the organ of metabolic interchange between fetus and mother ,  partly of embryonic origin and partly of maternal origin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the organ of metabolic exchange between the fetus and mother .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the structure where embryonic blood vessels are surrounded by trophoblast cells and maternal blood .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the highly vascular layer surrounding the yolk of an embryo ;  it contributes to hematopoietic circulation in mammals .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the pools of blood in the yolk sac .
the visually perceived hue of the highly vascular layer surrounding the yolk of an embryo ;  it contributes to hematopoietic circulation in mammals .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the pattern of the primary  ( honeycomb - like )  vasculature of the yolk sac prior to remodeling into a mature vascular network .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the endoderm of the extraembryonic tissue that appears prior to gastrulation and performs critical functions during embryogenesis including nutrient uptake and transport from the mother to the embryo .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the connective stalk between the fetus and the placenta .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the fetal membrane between the chorion and the amnion and yolk sac ,  which contributes to the formation of the umbilical cord and placental blood vessels in mammals .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the mammalian blastocyst to attach to the endometrium of the uterus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the increase in size or mass of an organism after birth .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of physiologically active substances by the suprarenal gland .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release by the adrenal gland of a catecholamine secreted upon stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of this adrenocortical steroid that induces glycogen deposition and regulates sodium conservation and potassium secretion .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of physiologically active substances from the pituitary .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of this pituitary hormone from the pituitary gland that stimulates the secretion of adrenal cortical steroids and induces growth of the adrenal cortex .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of physiologically active substances from the hypothalamus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of this factor ,  which stimulates the pituitary to release adrenocorticotropic hormone ,  from the hypothalamus .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of crh in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma ;  crh is normally released by the hypothalamus and stimulates the release of corticotropin by the anterior pituitary gland .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the production and excretion of the fluid and dissolved substances excreted by the kidneys .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportions of proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances in the fluid and dissolved substances that is excreted by the kidneys .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the urine of the monosaccharide that is the end product of carbohydrate digestion .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to a state of equilibrium in the body with respect to various functions and to chemical composition of the fluids and tissues .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of ions within an organism or cell .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in a body tissue or fluid of this metallic element that normally occurs in the heme of hemoglobin ,  myoglobin ,  transferrin ,  ferritin ,  and iron - containing porphyrins ;  it is an essential component of enzymes such as catalase ,  peroxidase ,  and various cytochromes .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this bioelement .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in a body tissue or fluid of this essential trace element ,  required for glutathione peroxidase and other enzymes .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this metallic element ,  the most plentiful extracellular ion in the body and the principal determinant of extracellular fluid volume .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the control of body heat .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of the thermogenic form of adipose capable of rapid liberation of energy ;  composed of brown adipocytes ,  which contain multiple small droplets of triglycerides and a high number of mitochondria .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of the connective tissue consisting of fat - storing cells and arranged in lobular groups or along minor blood vessels .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the control of intracellular and / or extracellular fluid .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the organs or cells associated with the body's defense against foreign organisms or substances and aberrant native cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to he ability of macrophage phagocytic cells to internalize particulate matter .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the major antibody for antitoxins ,  viruses ,  and bacteria ;  also activates complement .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the principal immunoglobulin in exocrine secretions ;  prevents pathogens from invading the body through the mucosa of the gastrointestinal ,  pulmonary ,  and genitourinary tracts .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the cells associated with associated with the body's defense against foreign organisms or substances and aberrant native cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
the proportion or numbers of the set of t lymphocytes that are able to respond immediately upon contact with cells bearing the appropriate peptide:mhc complex for the cell .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which an antigen - presenting cell expresses antigen  ( peptide or lipid )  on its cell surface in association with an mhc protein complex .
the proportion or number of cells in the layer between the stratum granulosum and stratum basale in the epidermis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the network of vessels which carries lymph around the body .
any measurable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the milk - producing glands in female mammals ,  consisting of lobes containing clusters of alveoli with a system of ducts to convey the milk to an external nipple or teat .
any measurable characteristic related to the production of milk from the mammary gland .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the sac - like structure of the mammary gland that synthesizes and secretes milk after pregnancy .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the tubular structure running from the nipple to the alveoli clusters in the mammary gland .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the deep lying structure of the cerebrum involved with memory storage and spatial navigation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the persistent activity - dependent decrease in synaptic efficacy between neurons ,  often following slow ,  weak stimulation of neurons .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the nervous system to change its reactivity as a result of successive activations .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of this catecholamine neurotransmitter ,  derived from tyrosine and the precursor to norepinephrine and epinephrine .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the portion of the brain in the back of the head between the cerebrum and the pons ,  that controls balance for walking and standing ,  modulates the force and range of movement and is involved in the learning of motor skills .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the area of the parietal lobe that lies posterior to the central sulcus and is concerned with receiving and processing general sensations from the body surface .
the degree of function or response of excitatory synaptic current in the barrel cortex .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the secretion of the fluid that fills the ventricles and other cavities of the brain and spinal cord .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the organs associated with producing offspring .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of a male to produce live offspring .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of a female to produce live offspring .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the sexual cycle of female animals .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the release of an ovum from a rupturing graafian follicle ,  normally regulated by a surge in luteinizing hormone .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the formation or differentiation of germ cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process of nuclear division that results in gametes with one half the normal chromosome number of the original cell .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the formation of female germ cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which immature spermatids become mature sperm .
the proportion or number of offspring produced from a single pregnancy  ( mammals )  or ovulation  ( fish )  or nesting  ( birds ) 
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the time of maturation of the sexual organs .
the proportion or number of cells in the male reproductive glands where sperm production occurs .
the volume of or amount of air contained in the lungs at various points of the respiratory cycle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the movement of gases into and out of the lung .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the organ that secretes pancreatic juice into the duodenum and secretes glucagon and insulin into the bloodstream .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the reduction in the caliber of the bronchus or bronchi .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the mechanism that removes mucus and other foreign particles and microorganisms from the lungs by directed ciliary and secretory activity of the respiratory submucosal glands .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to an involuntary response to a peripheral stimulus .
the point at which one may first detect auditory signals at given frequencies .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the actions or reactions of an organism in response to a tactile stimulus .
the point at which stimulation first elicits the perception of pain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the organs involved in smell .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the series of events required for an organism to receive an olfactory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal ;  olfaction involves the detection of chemical composition of an organism's ambient medium by chemoreceptors .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to a function of or process in the organs involved in the perception of taste .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to perceive a particular flavor or suggestion of something imparting a flavor by the chemoreceptors of the gustatory system .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the sharpness or clarity of vision .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of one of the two folded ,  sac shaped glands that is a diverticulum of the ductus deferens .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to change the frequency or form of a behavior as a result of the influence of the environment .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to actions or reactions of an organism associated with the ability to receive ,  store ,  process or recall informational stimuli .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to actions or reactions of an organism in response to a sensory stimulus ;  a sensory stimulus is any change in the external environment that is perceived and processed by any of the faculties by which outside stimuli are perceived .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the behavior of animals towards offspring .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to actions or reactions of an organism with regard to the consumption of solids or liquids .
obsolete .the function of or processes involved in the amount ,  growth or development of the filamentous appendages growing out of the skin ,  consisting primarily of keratin ,  and comprising a cylindrical shaft and a root which is contained in a follicle . \ nconsider: vt:4000007
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the visual or tactile surface characteristics of the fine ,  keratinized filamentous growths arising from the epidermis of mammals .
any measurable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the tubular invaginations of the epidermis from which the hair shaft develops .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process in the embryo that results in the creation of defined areas or spaces to which cells respond and are eventually instructed to differentiate .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of any cell type or tissue in the embryo .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the membranes involved with embryonic protection and nutrition .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes involved with the ability to see .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the organ of vision and its supporting structures .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the lens or cornea . \ nconsider: vt:0001312 or vt:0001303
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the deposition or aggregation of coloring matter in the membranous protective covering of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the membranous protective covering of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the stiff hairs projecting from the face ,  which act as touch receptors .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the bone - like structures embedded in the jaw and used for mastication .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the organ of hearing ,  responsible for maintaining equilibrium as well as sensing sound and divided in mammals into the external ear ,  the middle ear ,  and the inner ear .
any measurable characteristic related to the function of or processes involved in the perception of sound .
any measurable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement of an organ or part of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement of an organ or part of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the projecting ,  paired ,  jointed appendages of the body used for locomotion or grasping .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the fingers or toes ,  or their corresponding parts in other vertebrates .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the appendage at the caudal end of the vertebral column in some vertebrates including remnant structures in species that normally lack a tail .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the craniofacial ,  vertebral ,  rib ,  or sternal bones .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the bony framework of the limb ,  autopod ,  tail ,  or fin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the bones of the face and / or cranium .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the internal equilibrium of lipids  ( molecules composed of carbon and hydrogen and characteristically insoluble in water )  within an organism or cell .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the processes that cause many of the chemical changes in living organisms ,  including anabolism and catabolism ;  metabolic processes typically transform small molecules ,  but also include macromolecular processes such as dna repair and replication ,  and protein synthesis and degradation .
any measurable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the development of blood cells ;  in the fetus ,  they develop in the aorta ,  genital ridge and mesonephros region and in adults ,  in the bone marrow and lymphatic tissues .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  pattern or maintenance of erythrocytes or oxygen - transporting material in the blood . \ nconsider: vt:0002447
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the heart or blood vessels .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the flow of blood within the body . \ nconsider: vt:0000153 or vt:0000182
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the system responsible for the exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide with the environment .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the system responsible for the exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide with the environment .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the paired organs responsible for urine excretion and regulation of ion concentrations .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the paired organs responsible for urine excretion and regulation of ion concentrations .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of any of the tissues of the liver ,  gall bladder ,  or bile ducts .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the liver ,  gall bladder ,  or bile ducts .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to morphology or physiology during the formation or differentiation of mature b cells ,  lymphocytes of b lineage with the phenotype cd19 - positive and capable of b cell - mediated immunity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to morphology or physiology during the formation or differentiation of mature lymphocytes that are responsible for cell - mediated immunity and immune system regulation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  pattern ,  or morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the epithelial tube formed from the neuroectoderm of the early embryo by the closure of the neural groove ;  develops into the spinal cord and brain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the brain ,  one of the two components of the central nervous system and the center of thought and emotion ;  controls coordination ,  bodily activities and the interpretation of information from the senses  ( sight ,  hearing ,  smell ,  etc .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the organs or tissues involved in the production of offspring .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the production of offspring .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of an organized aggregation of cells functioning as a secretory or excretory organ .
any measurable characteristic related to the function of or processes in an organized aggregation of cells functioning as a secretory or excretory organ .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the migration of embryonic cells during the development and invagination of the primary germ layers .
the amount of matter in the brain ,  one of the two components of the central nervous system and the center of thought and emotion ;  controls coordination ,  bodily activities and the interpretation of information from the senses  ( sight ,  hearing ,  smell ,  etc .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of any of the components of the auricles or external acoustic meatus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any or all brain cell types .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the large neuroglia cells of nervous tissue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement ,  distribution or supply of the connection of nerve fibers to a target tissue or cell .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the lateral and smaller bone of the lower / hind limb .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the blood vessels that carry blood away from the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the nerve fiber tracts that span the longitudinal fissure between the cerebral and / or cerebellar hemispheres of the brain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cavities of the brain filled with cerebrospinal fluid ,  or the associated fringe of their tela choroidea .
obsolete .the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of endogenous signaling molecules secreted by neurons that alter the behavior of neurons or effector cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the communication from a neuron to a target across a synapse in the central nervous system .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the persistent robust synaptic response induced by synchronous stimulation of pre -  and postsynaptic cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the germ cell ,  that is ,  any of the reproductive  ( generative )  cells of a multicellular organism ,  whether they are undifferentiated or fully differentiated .
any measurable characteristic related to the proportion or numbers of any of the reproductive  ( generative )  cells of a multicellular organism ,  whether they are undifferentiated or fully differentiated .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to primary or secondary sexual development or characteristics .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process that results in the initial specification of sexual status of an organism .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the appearance and development of traits ,  other than the sex organs ,  that distinguish the sexes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the tubules in the testes where spermatogenesis occurs .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the organs associated with the body's defense against foreign organisms or substances and aberrant native cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the organ that functions to filter blood and to store red corpuscles and platelets .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the connective tissue that surrounds the spleen .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of one of the veins that feeds the splenic vein .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the midline ridge of embryonic epiblast that later develops into mesoderm and endoderm .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the midline ridge of the embryonic epiblast that later develops into mesoderm and endoderm .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the organ that is specialized for smell and is part of the respiratory system .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the passage between the mouth and the posterior nares and the larynx and esophagus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the anterior opening to the nasal cavity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the portion of the opening of the nasal cavity into the nasal pharynx .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the portion of the respiratory tract that extends from the nares to the pharynx ;  the nasal cavity is lined with ciliated mucosa .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the mucous membrane that lines the nasal cavity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the structure that separates the two nasal cavities .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the paired ,  air - filled cavities surrounded by the bones of the face that are lined by mucous membranes and are continuous with the nasal cavity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the epithelial cells lining the larynx ,  which produce mucins .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the portion of the nasal mucosa that contains the olfactory sensory endings .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the specialized portion of the nasal septum that is composed of chemosensitive cells and lies anteriorly in the nasal cavity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the small curved bones that extend horizontally along the lateral wall of the nasal passage .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of these small spaces found within the ethmoid bone .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of these paired air spaces within the frontal bone .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the paired evaginations of the mucous membrane of the nasal cavity into the air space located within the sphenoid bone ,  and which opens to the upper posterior nasal cavity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the most superior portion of the respiratory tract ,  between the pharynx and the trachea .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the portion of the pharynx that lies below the upper edge of the epiglottis and opens into the larynx and the esophagus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the section of the pharynx that lies above the soft palate .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the portion of the pharynx that lies between the soft palate and the upper edge of the epiglottis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the muscles of the pharynx ,  the inferior ,  middle ,  and superior constrictors ,  palatopharyngeus ,  salpingopharyngeus ,  and stylopharyngeus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the vocal apparatus of the larynx ,  which includes the vocal cords and the opening between them .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cartilaginous structures that support the larynx .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the paired triangular cartilages located postlaterally at the level of the thyroid cartilage .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the most inferior of the laryngeal cartilages .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the most superior of the laryngeal cartilages ,  which is found at the root of the tongue and folds back over the entrance to the larynx during swallowing .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the largest of the laryngeal cartilages .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the mucous lining of the larynx ,  which is composed of squamous epithelium in the upper larynx and ciliated columnar epithelium in the lower larynx .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cells lining the nasal epithelium that produce and secrete mucins .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the muscles associated with the larynx .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the upper conducting airways of the lung ;  these airways arise from the terminus of the trachea .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the conducting airway leading to the left lobe of the lungs .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the conducting airway leading to the right lobe of the lungs .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the conducting airway of the lungs found terminal to the bronchi ;  these structures contain neither cartilage nor mucous - secreting glands ;  the epithelium of the bronchioles becomes thinner with each branching .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the last conducting structure of non - respiratory bronchioles ;  after this point ,  the airways have alveoli in their walls .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the small sac - like dilations of the distal airspace of the lung ;  they are present along the walls of the alveolar sacs ,  alveolar ducts and terminal bronchioles ;  gas exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide between alveolar air and blood in the pulmonary capillaries takes place across the cell walls .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the respiratory conducting tubes distal to the respiratory bronchiole that lead to the alveolar sacs and the alveoli .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the functions of or processes in the nervous system as they relate to electrical phenomena .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cells lining the alveoli .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the epithelial cells lining the alveoli through which gas exchange occurs ;  these are thin cells with a large surface area .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the epithelial cells lining the alveoli that produce surfactant .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the connective tissue located between the respiratory  ( airway and alveolar )  epithelium ,  the capillary endothelium and pleural mesothelium .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the mucous membrane lining the respiratory tract .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the muscles involved in breathing .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the thin musculomebranous barrier that separates the abdominal and thoracic cavities ;  often used for breathing control .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the respiratory muscles that arise from the lower border of one rib and insert into the upper border of the adjoining rib .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cells of the respiratory epithelial lining that produce and secrete mucins .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the tube descending from the larynx and branching into the right and left main bronchi .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the unstriated ,  involuntary muscle lining the tube descending from the larynx and branching into the right and left main bronchi .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the epithelial lining of the trachea which contains numerous ciliated cells .
the length of time between when a fertilized egg implants in the wall of the uterus and the birth of offspring .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the blood flow in the lungs . \ nconsider: vt:0002295
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the action of the lungs ,  diaphragm ,  ribs and chest wall during respiration .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process of gas exchange .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the membrane between the capillary blood and alveolar air ,  comprised of the alveolar epithelium and the capillary epithelium and their adherent basement membranes and epithelial cell cytoplasm .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the processes involved in respiration .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of oxygen and carbon dioxide in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to perform during controlled physical activity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide between the alveolar air and pulmonary capillary blood .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the total volume of gas per minute inspired or expired .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the oval or bean shaped bodies located along the lymphatic system that consist of densely packed lymphocytes ,  lymph fluid and connective tissue ;  the sites where acquired immune responses are launched .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the lymph nodes located around the axillary vein that receive lymphatic drainage from the upper or forelimb ,  scapular region and pectoral region .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the membranous processes on the internal surface of the lymph node capsule ,  consisting of connective tissue and muscle fibers .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the outer area of the lymph node that has b and t cell domains .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the lymph node cortex in which b lymphocytes reside .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the immunologically inactive b cell area of the lymph node cortex .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the immunologically active area of the lymph node cortex .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the area of the lymph node in which t lymphocytes reside .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the area of the lymph node through which lymph flows on its way to the efferent lymphatics ;  it contains macrophages and antibody - secreting plasma cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the lymphatic tube entering the lymph node .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the lymphatic tube exiting the lymph node .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the lymph nodes found near the neck and shoulders .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the lymph nodes which drain the legs .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the lymph nodes located in the groin area .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of one of the branches of the splenic artery .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the parenchymatous tissue network of the spleen that consists of loose plates or cords  ( sinuses )  infiltrated with red blood cells where most of the blood filtration occurs and degenerate erythrocytes are removed from the circulation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the parenchymatous tissue of the spleen that surrounds splenic blood vessels ,  consists of compact masses of lymphatic cells and is where foreign material removed from the blood is used to initiate an immune reaction that results in the production of antibodies .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the area of the spleen within the marginal sinus in which t cells surround the central arteriole .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the area of the spleen secondary b follicle where rapid b - cell proliferation ,  somatic hypermutation ,  and selection for antigen binding occurs .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the area of the spleen secondary b follicle that surrounds the germinal center and harbors the small recirculating b lymphocytes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the blood vessel surrounded by the periarteriolar lymphoid sheath that connects the trabecular artery to the trabecular vein .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the zone between the red and white pulp of the spleen containing numerous macrophages and lymphocytes ,  and a rich plexus of sinusoids supplied by white pulp arterioles carrying blood - borne antigens .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the border region surrounding the spleen b cell follicles and the periarteriolar lymphoid sheath  ( pals )  that separates it from the marginal zone that mediates lymphocyte entry into the white pulp from the blood .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the primary lymphoid organ that is required for the maturation of t cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the basic structural unit of the thymus ,  the primary lymphoid organ that is required for maturation of t cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the fibrous connective tissue surrounding the thymus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the epithelial cells lining the capsule and trabeculae of the thymus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the thymic connective tissue which extends into the parenchyma .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the outer part of a thymus lobule that surrounds the medulla and is composed of closely packed lymphocytes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the inner area of thymus lobules .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the immunocompetent cells of the lymphoid and hemopoietic systems and skin ,  which function to process antigens and present them to t cells ,  thus stimulating cellular immunity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the regional immune system associated with the mucosa .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the regional immune system located in the gut .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the circular lymphoid tissue formed by the lingual ,  pharyngeal ,  and facial tonsils .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of either of the two small almond - shaped masses of lymph tissue found on either side of the oropharynx .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the lymph tissue in the roof and posterior wall of the nasopharynx .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the lymph tissue on the floor of the oropharyngeal passage ,  near the root of the tongue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the lymph tissue associated with the pharyngeal opening of the auditory tube .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the specialized epithelium of the protruding lymphoid tissue located on the mucosa of the small intestine that is composed of densely packed b cell follicles .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the area of the peyer's patch normally occupied by b cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the area of the peyer's patch where b cells proliferate and differentiate into plasma cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the regional immune system located near the bronchus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cells found in the bone marrow .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cells that give rise to most types of cells necessary for fetal development .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the specialized cells that are committed to giving rise to cells with particular functions .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the formation of lymphocytes and plasma cells from lymphoid stem cells which develop from the pluripotent hematopoietic stem cells in the bone marrow ;  lymphoid stem cells differentiate into t - lymphocytes ;  b - lymphocytes ;  plasma cells ;  or nk cells  ( natural killer cells )  ,  depending on the organ or tissues to which they migrate .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cells in the b lymphocyte lineage that have undergone vdj rearrangement of the immunoglobulin heavy chain and are in the process of v - j rearrangement of the light chain: these cells express mu heavy chain on the cell surface .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the subset of t cells found in the thymus that express neither cd4 nor cd8 .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the subset of t cells found in the thymus that express both cd4 and cd8 .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cells found in the bone marrow that give rise to the granulocyte line of blood cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the granular leukocytes that have a three -  to five - lobed nucleus and cytoplasm that contains inconspicuous granules stainable by neutral dyes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the immature ,  nucleated erythrocyte precursors that give rise to reticulocytes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity to change ,  adjust ,  or alter processes in the early phase of the response to infection ;  normally ,  it is present at all times ,  does not increase with exposure to specific pathogens ,  and does not discriminate between pathogens .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the granular leukocytes that are characterized by pale - staining ,  lobate nucleus and cytoplasm and contain dark - staining granules of varying size and are stained by basic dyes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the granulated cells found in most tissues and which contain large amounts of histamine and heparin in granules .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the immature erythrocytes containing a basophilic cytoplasmic network .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the organ of balance composed of three long bony tubes of the labyrinth .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of any of the cells found in the blood .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the subset of t lymphocytes that carry the cd4 marker ,  recognize intravesicular peptides bound to mhc class - ii molecules ,  and turn on antibody production .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the type of t - helper cell whose cytokine production favors cellular immune responses and delayed type hypersensitivity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the type of t - helper cell whose cytokine production promotes defense against extracellular parasites and humoral immune responses typical of allergy .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the set of t lymphocytes that are able to respond immediately upon contact with cells bearing the appropriate peptide:mhc complex for the cell .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell capable of killing target cells in an antigen specific manner .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a terminally differentiated ,  post - mitotic ,  short - lived cell of the b cell lineage devoted to producing large amounts of immunoglobulin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a distinctly differentiated long - lived b cell that is readily activated upon re - encounter of its antigenic determinant ;  memory b cells differentiate from antigen - activated b cells which have been selected for expression of higher affinity immunoglobulin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of leukocytes that have abundant granules in the cytoplasm ,  including basophils ,  neutrophils ,  and eosinophils .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in any of the white blood cells  ( basophils ,  eosinophils ,  neutrophils ,  lymphocytes ,  dendritic cells ,  macrophages ,  mast cells ,  or monocytes )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the granular leukocytes having a two - lobed nucleus and cytoplasm containing coarse ,  round granules that are uniform in size and stainable by eosin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in lymphocytes that are responsible for cell - mediated immunity and immune system regulation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which relatively unspecialized cells acquire the specialized features of leukocytes with a single non - segmented nucleus in the mature form .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the large mononuclear phagocytes which differentiate from monocytes ,  are typically resident in a particular tissue ,  and are capable of phagocytosing a variety of extracellular particulate material ,  including immune complexes ,  microorganisms ,  and dead cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the fetal and adult cells in the blood that carry oxygen ,  red blood cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the organs associated with the body's defense against foreign organisms or substances and aberrant native cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the large mononuclear phagocytes which differentiate from monocytes ,  are typically resident in a particular tissue ,  and capable of phagocytosing a variety of extracellular particulate material ,  including immune complexes ,  microorganisms ,  and dead cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of b lymphocytes to process and / or present antigen .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of macrophage phagocytic cells to process and present antigen to t lymphocytes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of dendritic cells to process and present antigen to t lymphocytes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of phagocytic cells of the epidermis to display antigen for recognition by t lymphocytes .
the proportion or number of lymphocytes of b lineage with the phenotype cd19 - positive and capable of b cell - mediated immunity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in lymphocytes of b lineage with the phenotype cd19 - positive and capable of b cell - mediated immunity .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of members of a diverse group of plasma proteins ,  made up of polypeptide chains ,  that function as a primary mechanism for protection against disease .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in leukocytes that have abundant granules in the cytoplasm ,  including basophils ,  neutrophils ,  and eosinophils .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte that in its mature form has a nucleus with three to five lobes connected by slender threads of chromatin ,  and cytoplasm containing fine inconspicuous granules and stainable by neutral dyes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the granular leukocytes that are characterized by pale - staining ,  lobate nucleus and cytoplasm and contain dark - staining granules of varying size and are stained by basic dyes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte with a nucleus that usually has two lobes connected by one or more slender threads of chromatin ,  and cytoplasm containing coarse ,  round granules that are uniform in size and which can be stained by the dye eosin ;  involved in clearance of parasitic infections and in allergic reactions .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of neutrophils  ( granular leukocytes that have a three -  to five - lobed nucleus and cytoplasm that contains inconspicuous granules stainable by neutral dyes )  to internalize particulate matter .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes involved in the cascade of proteins that act together to attack extracellular pathogens .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the plasma protein cascade triggered by direct contact with pathogen surfaces .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the plasma protein cascade triggered by antigen:antibody complexes .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of the series of proteins found in the blood shortly after infection ,  which participate in the early phases of host defense against infection .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of this plasma protein that normally circulates in increased amounts during inflammation or after tissue damage .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of an acute - phase reaction protein that is a precursor to amyloid a protein ;  it is present in very high levels during acute inflammatory episodes ,  and is present in low concentrations in normal sera ,  but is found at higher concentrations in sera of older persons and in patients with amyloidosis .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of immunoglobulin present on the surface of b lymphocytes that acts as an antigen receptor .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of immunoglobulin that attaches to mast cells in the respiratory and intestinal tracts and plays a major role in allergic reactions .
the degree of function or response of this biochemical messenger and regulator ,  found in the cns ,  gastrointestinal tract ,  and produced by platelets ;  it normally mediates neurotransmission ,  gastrointestinal motility ,  hemostasis ,  and cardiovascular integrity .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of any of the long bones of the digits .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the fingers or toes ,  or their corresponding parts in other vertebrates .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the sequential process by which the multiple coagulation factors of the blood interact ,  ultimately resulting in the formation of an insoluble fibrin clot ;  it may be divided into three stages: stage 1 ,  the formation of intrinsic and extrinsic prothrombin converting principle ;  stage 2 ,  the formation of thrombin ;  stage 3 ,  the formation of stable fibrin polymers .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the behavior of animals towards other individuals of the same species .
any measurable or observable behavioral characteristic related to activities used to persuade or induce an individual to mate and activities involved in the physical act of mating .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to a behavioral reaction to an addictive substance .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to actions or reactions in tests for emotional - related behaviors .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the hard outer coating of the exposed portion of the tooth .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the lens fibers which result from elongation and differentiation of epithelial cells throughout life ;  they are arranged around a core of primary lens fibers .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the portion of the small intestine that extends from the jejunum to the colon .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the systematic arrangement of the membranes involved with the embryo's protection and nutrition .
the proportion or number of the immature or mature form of a granular leukocyte with a nucleus that usually has two lobes connected by one or more slender threads of chromatin ,  and cytoplasm containing coarse ,  round granules that are uniform in size and which can be stained by the dye eosin .
the proportion or number of granular leukocytes that are characterized by pale - staining ,  lobate nucleus and cytoplasm ,  contain dark - staining granules of varying size ,  and are stained by basic dyes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cells involved in adaptive immune reactions of the body ,  including b cells ,  t cells and natural killer cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the large ,  phagocytic mononuclear leukocytes produced in the vertebrate bone marrow and released into the blood .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the sensory epithelial cells of the cochlea ;  these cells are in synaptic contact with the auditory nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the sensory epithelium of the maculae and cristae of the membranous labyrinth of the internal ear ;  afferent and efferent nerve fibers of the vestibular nerve end synaptically on them ;  from the apical end of each cell a bundle of stereocilia and a kinocilium extend into the statoconial membrane of the maculae and the cupula of the cristae .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the cells in the left lower chamber of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the electrical potential difference between the endolymphatic and perilymphatic compartments of the cochlea .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the elongated structure connected to the posterior surface of the testes that transports ,  stores ,  and matures spermatozoa between testes and vas deferens .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which inhibitory neural pathways filter multiple stimuli and allow attention to be focused on one stimulus ;  usually measured by pre - pulse inhibition  ( ppi )  .
the timing of the opening of the genital canal in a female .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the hollow muscular organ where the embryo / fetus develops .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical form or contours of the cells in the blood that carry oxygen ,  red blood cells .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of triacylglycerols  ( glycerol esterified at each of its three hydroxyl groups by a fatty acid )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the body to take in these most abundant steroids in animal tissues ,  and precursors to steroid hormones and bile salts ;  also components of plasma membranes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the separation of the hard outer coating of the exposed portion of the tooth from the underlying hard tissue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the systematic arrangement of the structural units of tooth enamel .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the epithelial cells of the inner layer of the enamel organ of the developing tooth during their formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the nerve which originates in the lumbar and sacral spinal cord and supplies motor and sensory innervation to the lower extremity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cellular membrane that lines the brain ventricles and the central canal of the spinal cord .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cells of the epidermis that produce keratin in the process of differentiating into the dead and fully keratinized cells of the stratum corneum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the cells of the epidermis that produce keratin in the process of differentiating into the dead and fully keratinized cells of the stratum corneum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which the liver regenerates healthy tissue following tissue loss .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the head of the epididymis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the body of the epididymis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the tail of the epididymis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the cavity in the blastula of the developing embryo .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the pituitary hormone that stimulates the secretion of adrenal cortical steroids and induces growth of the adrenal cortex .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this alkaline metallic element ,  the most abundant intracellular ion .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the external sac of skin that encloses the testes .
the proportion or number of spermatozoa .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the mobility of the spermatozoa .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the yellow endocrine body formed in the ovary after follicle rupture .
the proportion or number of yellow endocrine bodies formed in the ovary after follicle rupture .
obsolete .the proportion or number of fluid - filled ,  oocyte - containing ovarian structures at their last stage of growth  ( characterized by the formation of a cavity  [ antrum ]  filled with follicular fluid )  .
the age at which an organism develops the ability to produce viable offspring .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which the spermatogonial stem cells undergo expansion by cell division .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the most posterior teeth located on either side of the jaw ,  and characterized by a large crown and broad chewing surface .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the organ that secretes pancreatic juice into the duodenum and secretes glucagon and insulin into the bloodstream .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of physiologically active substances from the pancreas .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a polypeptide hormone secreted by the pancreas that increases the blood glucose level by stimulating the liver to change stored glycogen to glucose ;  opposes the action of insulin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the organ of vision .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the fibrous ,  outer envelope of the eyeball ,  covering it entirely excepting the segment covered anteriorly by the cornea .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the transparent ,  semigelatinous substance that fills the cavity behind the crystalline lens of the eye and in front of the retina .
the degree of transparency of the gel filling the inner portion of the eyeball between the lens and retina .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the loops of henle ,  proximal and distal convoluted tubules ,  and collecting ducts in the kidney .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the loops of henle ,  proximal and distal convoluted tubules ,  and collecting ducts in the kidney .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of one or both of the paired organs responsible for urine excretion and regulation of ion concentrations .
the amount of matter in one or both of the paired organs responsible for urine excretion and regulation of ion concentrations .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to break down glycogen ;  or rate of glycogen breakdown .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the modified sebaceous glands of the corona and neck of the glans penis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the sebaceous glands of the corona and neck of the glans penis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the cells of the blastocyst of placental mammals that develop into the body of the embryo and some extraembryonic tissues .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the organs associated with the body's defense against foreign organisms or substances and aberrant native cells .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the degree of function or response of circulating immune proteins .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the blood vessels that carry blood towards the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the blood vessels that return oxygenated blood from the lungs to the left atrium of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the tubular ducts of the inner ear .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the portion of the large intestine between the cecum and the rectum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to sense pain elicited by thermal stimulation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to sense pain elicited by mechanical stimulation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to sense pain elicited by chemical stimulation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the olfactory bulb during its formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the forebrain region that coordinates neuronal signaling involved in the perception of smell ;  it receives input from the sensory neurons and outputs to the olfactory cortex .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the lymph nodes beneath the mandible that receive vessels from the face and tongue and drain into the superior deep cervical nodes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the valves that gate the flow of blood from the ventricles into the aorta and pulmonary trunk .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the neuronal regulatory system for the viscera ,  the smooth muscles of the body and exocrine glands .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the part of the peripheral nervous system that is responsible for conveying voluntary motor and external sensory information ,  including all nerves controlling the skeletal muscular system and external sensory receptors .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the left lower chamber of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the right lower chamber of the heart .
the proportion or number of projection neurons in the pyramidal cell layer of the cerebral cortex .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the appendage at the caudal end of the vertebral column .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the bony segments of the tail ;  in tailless vertebrates ,  these vertebrae may be united to form the coccyx .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the axons of neuronal cells in the dentate gyrus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the secretory duct of the testicle that carries spermatozoa ,  running from the epididymis ,  of which it is the continuation ,  to the prostatic urethra ,  where it terminates to form the ejaculatory duct .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of lh ,  the hormone that regulates steroid production by the interstitial cells of the testis and the ovary .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of physiologically active substances from any of the organized aggregations of cells that function as secretory or excretory organs and are associated with reproduction .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of physiologically active substances from the male reproductive glands where sperm production occurs .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of physiologically active substances from the female reproductive gland containing the germ cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cells of the seminiferous tubules that create the blood - testes barrier and enable spermatogenesis .
the proportion or number of the testosterone - secreting cells in the interstitial area ,  between the seminiferous tubules ,  in the testis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the testosterone - secreting cells in the interstitial area ,  between the seminiferous tubules ,  in the testis .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the hormone that ,  in females ,  stimulates the graafian follicles of the ovary and assists in follicular maturation and the secretion of estradiol ;  in the male it stimulates the epithelium of the seminiferous tubules and is partly responsible for spermatogenesis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the blood vessels supplying the retina .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the membranous protective covering of the body to provide a protective barrier ,  to prevent water loss ,  moderate water integration and prevent foreign substances and bacteria from entering the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the cylindrical tissue of the vertebral canal that extends from the medulla oblongata to the conus medullaris .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which calcium salts are deposited into the dental enamel ,  dentin and cementum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the hard portion of the tooth surrounding the pulp ,  covered by enamel on the crown and cementum on the root .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the central hollow space of a tooth .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the anterior and inner portion of the maxilla .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the bones forming the bony wall of the chest .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the formation of the membrane that forms the fetal portion of the placenta in most mammals ;  derived from the fusion of the chorion and the allantois .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the axial fibrocellular cord in embryos around which develops the vertebral primordia .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a tuft of glomerular capillaries and the glomerular capsule  ( bowman's capsule )  that encloses it .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the expanded beginning of a nephron that encloses the glomerulus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the complex of modified smooth muscle cells consisting of juxtaglomerular cells ,  extraglomerular mesangium lacis cells ,  the macula densa of the distal convoluted tubule ,  and granular epithelial peripolar cells ;  these cells are found in the walls of afferent and efferent glomerular arterioles .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the fibrous joints between the bones of the head .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the outermost extraembryonic membrane .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the elongated cells of the crystalline lens of the eye .
the amount of matter in the main trunk of the systemic arteries .
the volume of or amount contained in the main trunk of the systemic arteries .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the filtration of water out of the plasma through glomerular capillary walls into the bowman's capsule .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this salt or ester of sulfuric acid .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the group of nerve cell bodies that conveys auditory sensation from the organ of corti to the hindbrain and resides on the cochlear part of the vestibulocochlear nerve  ( eighth cranial nerve )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the group of neurons associated with the vestibular part of the eighth cranial nerve that are involved in equilibration .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the posterior segment of the long bony tube of the labyrinth that is involved in the sense of balance .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the primordial region of the embryo that arises to form the tail of the adult .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the posterior concave interior of the eye ,  consisting of the retina ,  the choroid ,  the posterior segment of the sclera ,  the optic disk ,  and blood vessels .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of antibodies to insulin .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the urine of this simple protein .
any measurable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the endocrine gland located in the front and to the sides of the upper part of the trachea and which secretes thyroid hormone and calcitonin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the fibers that arise from the cells within the cerebral cortex layer v ,  pass through the medullary pyramid ,  and descend into the gray matter of the spinal cord .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the functional cells of the nervous system that receive ,  conduct ,  and transmit impulses .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the transient structures of the embryo that develop into regions of the head and neck in higher vertebrates ;  in fish and amphibians ,  they support the gills .
the measured amplitude or duration of response to stimulation of ampa receptors .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the measured amplitude or duration of response to stimulation of glutamanergic receptors .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the measured amplitude or duration of response to stimulation of nmda receptors .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the urine of organic acids containing a ketone group and a carboxylic acid group .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the crystalline particles composed of calcium carbonate and a protein which adhere to the gelatinous membrane of the maculae of the utricle and saccule  ( otolithic membrane )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the gelatinous membrane which is supported by the stereocilia of the hair cells of the maculae of the saccule and utriculus of the inner ear ;  adhering to its surface are numerous calciferous crystalline particles called otoliths  ( statoconia )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which minerals  ( inorganic elements or compounds that have importance in body functions )  are introduced into osseous tissue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the duration of activity  ( physical or mental )  an individual can endure .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the urine of this salt or ester of phosphoric acid .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this regulator of calcium and phosphorus concentration .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process of labor and delivery in female animals .
any measurable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the endocrine glands positioned in relation to the superior end of each kidney .
the size or duration of currents detected in postsynaptic cells when an excitatory impulse arrives at the synapse causing depolarization .
the membrane potential detected in postsynaptic cells when an inhibitory impulse arrives at the synapse causing hyperpolarization .
the potential detected in postsynaptic cells when an excitatory impulse arrives at the synapse causing depolarization .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the communication from a neuron to a target across a synapse in the peripheral nervous system .
the degree of function or response of peripheral synapses to stimulation ;  these amplitudes are larger than central synapse potentials .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the duration of the reduction of effectiveness of synaptic connections between neurons and target after repetitive stimulation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the response of central synapses when activated twice in rapid succession .
the size or duration of potentials that persist after tetanic stimulation of central synapses .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process of generating connections between an axon and effector tissue or neuron .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the channels that secrete bile from the liver to the gall bladder and intestines .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the channels that secrete bile from the liver to the gall bladder and intestines during their formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the articulation point of two or more rigid skeletal components  ( bones ,  cartilage ,  or parts of a single bone )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to blood flow to the synovial joint .
the size or duration of currents detected in postsynaptic cells when an inhibitory impulse arrives at the synapse causing hyperpolarization .
the time required for an axon to extend from a neuron cell body and find the target .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the developmental patterning of neurons .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the transient and migratory group of cells that emerge from the dorsal region of the neural tube and disperse to many peripheral locations ,  ultimately differentiating to form various tissues of the adult .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the directed and orderly movement from point to point of the transient and migratory group of cells that emerge from the dorsal region of the neural tube and migrate to many peripheral locations ,  ultimately differentiating to form various tissues of the adult .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the signaling mechanisms that allow precise navigation and connections of axonal growth cones to effector tissues .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the connective tissue consisting of fat - storing cells and arranged in lobular groups or along minor blood vessels .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the thermogenic form of adipose tissue that is composed of brown adipocytes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the nonstriated ,  involuntary muscle tissue of the structures that convey blood throughout the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the directed and orderly movement of a germ cell ,  a cell specialized to produce haploid gametes ,  from point to point .
the proportion or number of cells in the innermost nuclear layer of the retina ,  which projects axons through the optic nerve to the brain .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the urine of this bivalent element .
the total proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of substances dissolved in urine ,  total solute amount .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the tube that conducts the urine from the renal pelvis to the bladder .
any measurable characteristic related to the function of or processes in any of the small ,  sacculated organs found within the dermis that normally secrete sebum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of lipids onto the hair and skin from the sebaceous glands .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the two folded ,  sac shaped glands that are diverticula of the ductus deferens .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process of the turnover of bone matrix that involves a balance of resorption and formation by osteoclasts and osteoblasts ,  respectively .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the flattened band of efferent fibers arising from the subiculum and medial border of the hippocampus ,  which then thickens to form the fornix and fibers of the hippocampal commissure .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the compact ,  white ,  heavily myelinated fiber bundle arising from the ammon horn of the hippocampus in each cerebral hemisphere and projecting to the hypothalamus and the mammillary body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of any of the non - antibody proteins made by inflammatory leukocytes and some non - leukocytic cells that affect the behavior of other cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the time required for the eye to recover its sensitivity in the dark following exposure to bright lights .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the inner portion of the kidney consisting of the renal pyramids .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of inorganic salts that contain the  - hco3 radical ,  which are an important factor in regulating the ph of the blood .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of chlorine salts .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of the buffer systems of the blood in combination with the respiratory and renal systems that control the relative acidity or alkalinity of the blood ,  as measured by the concentration of the hydrogen ion .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the extracellular supportive tissue closely adjacent to the basal surface of the epithelium of muscle cells ,  fat cells and schwann cells ,  which is comprised of type iv collagen ,  laminin ,  and sulfated proteoglycans and other components .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the bony segments of the vertebral column located anterior to the lumbar vertebrae and posterior to the cervical vertebrae ;  they articulate with the ribs .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical form or contours of the appendage at the caudal end of the vertebral column .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cartilaginous center of ossification on the long bones permitting growth of the bone in both directions during development .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the u - shaped bone lying between the mandible and the larynx that supports the tongue muscles .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the visceral layer of the pericardium that surrounds and attaches to all the surfaces of the heart .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of copper present in liver tissue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the upper ,  superior segment of the long bony tube of the labyrinth that is involved in the sense of balance .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the bones of the lower / hindlimbs that articulate proximally with the tarsus and distally with the phalanges .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the bones of the forelimbs that articulate proximally with the carpal bones and distally with the phalanges .
the proportion or number of bones of the forelimbs that articulate proximally with the carpal bones and distally with the phalanges .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the superficial flat broad muscle of the calf that is responsible for plantar flexion of the foot .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the two - headed large muscle of the posterior portion of the lower hindlimb ,  the most superficial of the calf muscles .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the muscle of the shin that is responsible for dorsiflexion and inversion of the foot .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the skeletal muscle fibers ,  the large multinucleated cells that make up the striated muscles connected at either or both extremities with the bony framework of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the transient cup - like structure of the epiblast that consists of a single layer of embryonic cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of a relatively mild stimulus to suppress the response to a strong ,  startle - eliciting stimulus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the directed and orderly movement from point to point of cells that will develop into muscle cells .
the distance between the surfaces of the lamellated connective tissue layer of the cornea .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the anterior segment of the lamellated connective tissue layer of the cornea .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the posterior segment of the lamellated connective tissue layer of the cornea .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the lamellated connective tissue layer of the cornea during its formation or differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the transmission of light through the cornea .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the connection of the retina from the underlying inner wall of the eye .
the distance between the surfaces of the fibrous ,  outer envelope of the eyeball .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the bones surrounding the brain and bones of the lower face and jaws .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the upper chamber ( s )  of the heart that receive blood from the vasculature and send blood into a ventricle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity of an organism to change ,  adjust ,  or alter its actions or reactions as a result of exposure to a new stimulus or situation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the part of the malleus that contacts the upper part of the tympanic membrane where the tympanic cavity makes a deep pocket  ( epitympanic pocket )  surrounding this cartilaginous nodule .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the two small ,  paired endocrine glands ,  usually found embedded in the connective tissue capsule on the posterior surface of the thyroid gland ;  they secrete parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  that regulates calcium and phosphorus metabolism .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the deposition or aggregation of coloring matter in either of the two small ,  paired endocrine glands ,  usually found embedded in the connective tissue capsule on the posterior surface of the thyroid gland ;  they secrete parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  that regulates calcium and phosphorus metabolism .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the system responsible for the exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide with the environment during its formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to separation of the trachea and esophagus during development .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the repeated division of the trachea and bronchi during development of the lung .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the system that converts ingested food to nutrients and energy .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cartilaginous structures that support the tube descending from the larynx and branching into the right and left main bronchi .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the separation of the single opening of the digestive ,  urinary ,  and reproductive tracts  ( cloaca )  into multiple isolated openings during development .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the external genitalia of the female .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the small ,  erectile body located at the anterior end of the vulva .
the proportion or number of cells in the b lymphocyte lineage that undergo d - j rearrangement of the immunoglobulin heavy chain .
the proportion or number of the cells in the b lymphocyte lineage that undergo v - dj rearrangement of the immunoglobulin heavy chain .
the proportion or number of the immature erythrocytes containing a basophilic cytoplasmic network .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the upper chamber ( s )  of the heart that receive blood from the vasculature and send blood into a ventricle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the crystalline calciferous particles adhering to the otolithic membrane .
the proportion or number of the crystalline calciferous particles adhering to the otolithic membrane .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the connection of the otolithic  ( otoconial )  membrane to the underlying neuroepithelium .
the proportion or number of turns in the spiral - shaped bony canal in the inner ear containing the hair cells that transduce sound .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the overlaying membrane of cochlear duct ,  an extracellular matrix of the inner ear that contacts the stereocilia bundles of specialized sensory hair cells ;  sound induces movement of these hair cells relative to the tectorial membrane ,  deflects the stereocilia ,  and leads to fluctuations in hair cell membrane potential ,  transducing sound into electrical signals .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the connection of the overlaying membrane of the cochlear duct to the cochlear epithelium or spiral limbus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the triangular ,  fluid - filled space normally found between the inner and outer rows of supporting pillar cells in the organ of corti .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the musculomembranous fold that partly separates the mouth and pharynx ,  located behind the hard palate .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the directed and orderly movement of white blood cells from point to point .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the nonstriated ,  involuntary muscle tissue lining the portion of the alimentary canal between the pharynx and stomach .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the part of the digestive canal through which food passes from the pharynx to the stomach during its formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the lateral long bony tube of the labyrinth that is involved in the sense of balance .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the posterior segment of the long bony tube of the labyrinth that is involved in the sense of balance .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the upper ,  superior segment of the long bony tube of the labyrinth that is involved in the sense of balance .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the division of the spiral canal of the cochlea lying on the basal side of the spiral lamina .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the division of the spiral canal of the cochlea lying on the apical side of the spiral lamina and vestibular membrane .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the division of the spiral canal of the cochlea that contains the organ of corti  ( the neuroepithelial receptor organ for hearing )  .
the proportion or number of the disc - like fragments of megakaryocytes that are found in the blood and function in clotting .
the two - dimensional extent of the semi - permeable membrane that encloses the cytoplasm of a pulmonary endothelial cell .
the degree of function or response of the exopeptidase that catalyses the conversion of angiotensin i to angiotensin ii ,  a potent vasoconstrictor ,  and is also involved in the inactivation of bradykinin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which neurons undergo programmed cell death .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the segments of the developing neural tube .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a slender connective tissue fiber in pulmonary tissue characterized by great elasticity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the slender connective tissue fiber in cardiac tissue characterized by great elasticity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the slender connective tissue fiber in tissue of the main trunk of the systemic arteries which is characterized by great elasticity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the cavity at the caudal end of the embryonic cardiac tube in which the veins from the intra -  and extraembryonic circulatory arcs unite ;  in the adult this becomes the portion of the right atrium known as the sinus of the vena cava .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the vessels of the highly vascular layer surrounding the yolk of an embryo ;  it contributes to hematopoietic circulation in mammals .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the vessels of the organ of metabolic interchange between fetus and mother .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the anterior primitive cerebral vesicle ;  this is the most rostral of three primary vesicles of the embryonic neural tube .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of either of the broad curved wing - like expanses on each side of the sphenoid bone in adults ;  may exist independently in the young .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the elastic ,  clear ,  membrane - like structure ,  that is the outermost layer of the transparent structure of the eye responsible for focusing light rays .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the one or more of the layers of epithelial cells in the transparent structure of the eye responsible for focusing light rays .
the proportion or number of neurons in the deep lying structure of the cerebrum involved with memory storage and spatial navigation .
the proportion or number of neurons in the cerebral cortex region of the brain .
the proportion or number of neurons in the group of nuclei associated with the ability to carry out willed movements ,  including the caudate ,  putamen ,  nucleus accumbens ,  globus pallidus ,  substantia nigra ,  and subthalamic nucleus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the neurons that utilize dopamine as a neurotransmitter .
the proportion or number of neurons that utilize dopamine as a neurotransmitter .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the neurons that utilize gamma - aminobutyric acid as a neurotransmitter .
the proportion or number of neurons that utilize gamma - aminobutyric acid as a neurotransmitter .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the neurons that utilize glutamate as a neurotransmitter .
the proportion or number of neurons that utilize glutamate as a neurotransmitter .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of organic ,  monobasic acids derived from hydrocarbons in the contractile tissue that effects movement ;  they are saturated and unsaturated .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the channels that secrete bile from the liver to the gall bladder and intestines .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the bile ducts .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the margins that enclose the abdominal cavity ;  the major part is muscular but also includes skin ,  subcutaneous fat ,  fascia and the parietal peritoneum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the first division of the small intestine that extends from the pyloris to the junction with the jejunum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the location or arrangement of the alimentary tract organs in relation to each other or to the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the location or arrangement of the large intestinal tract in relation to other organs or to the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the intestinal movement characterized by waves of alternate circular contraction and relaxation of the muscular walls of the bowel that move bowel contents forward .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the epithelial cell layer containing the sensory hair cells and their associated sensory nerve terminals .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the conic central core of spongy bone about which the spiral canal turns .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the central conical bony pillar of the cochlea .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the urine of the organic compounds ,  which ,  when polymerized ,  form proteins .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the area between the genital organs and the anus that lies beneath the pelvic diaphragm .
the arterial blood pressure in the hepatic portal system .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the tube connecting the tympanic cavity and the nasopharynx that allows equalization of pressure between the tympanic cavity and the environment .
the proportion or number of the cells of the pancreas that secrete insulin .
the proportion or number of the elongated ,  curved bones forming the bony wall of the chest .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the two muscles that make up the upper and fore part of the chest that adduct and rotate the forelimb and lift the ribs .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this enzyme which is secreted by the kidney ;  it cleaves a bond in angiotensionogen to generate angiotensin i .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of hormones in the blood that are synthesized and secreted by the thyroid .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the transformation of the mature ovarian follicle and its theca interna into a corpus luteum after ovulation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a granulosa cell ,  a supporting cell for the developing female gamete in the ovary of mammals .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the muscles derived from the lateral myotome and lateral portion of the dermomyotome ;  these include the thoracic intercostal and abdominal muscles ,  limb muscles and superficial back muscles ,  as well as the diaphragm and the tip of the tongue .
the proportion or number of cells in any of the muscles derived from the lateral myotome and lateral portion of the dermomyotome ;  these include the thoracic intercostal and abdominal muscles ,  limb muscles and superficial back muscles ,  as well as the diaphragm and the tip of the tongue .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the peptide hormones that stimulate gonadal functions such as gametogenesis and sex steroid hormone production in the ovary and the testis .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the corticosteroids regulating carbohydrate metabolism and exhibiting anti - inflammatory activity .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of any substance that causes development of the female reproductive organs and secondary sexual characteristics .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of corticosteroids that influence water and electrolyte metabolism and balance .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the start of menstrual cycles .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the fibrous tissue in the vitreous body of the eye .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the formation of glucose from non - carbohydrates ,  such as proteins or fat .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the anterior portion of a human body or the lower surface of an animal body comprised of ectoderm and mesoderm layers that encloses the body cavity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the external portion of an animal body comprised of ectoderm and mesoderm layers that encloses the body cavity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the development of primarily large ,  nucleated erythroblasts as well as some megakaryocytes and primitive macrophages occurring in blood islands in the yolk sac ,  generally occurs from e7 - e11 in the mouse and through 10 weeks in humans .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of one or more of the striated muscles connected at either or both extremities with the bony framework of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the skeletal muscle fibers ,  the large multinucleated cells that make up the striated muscles connected at either or both extremities with the bony framework of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the primordial region of the embryo that arises to form the tail of the adult .
the amount of matter in the bile - secreting exocrine gland ,  which is important for detoxification ;  for fat ,  carbohydrate ,  and protein metabolism ;  and for glycogen storage .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical form or contours of disc - like fragments of megakaryocytes that are found in the blood and function in clotting .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of central nervous system tissue to regenerate following injury or disease .
the distance between the surfaces of the layer of the epiphyseal plate where no cell division occurs and chondrocytes begin to terminally differentiate .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the currents that follow an action potential and influence firing frequency and neuronal integration .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the start of bone formation in bones that form from cartilage .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the start of bone formation in bones that form without a cartilaginous intermediate ,  including the cranium and clavicle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the endocrine gland located in the front and to the sides of the upper part of the trachea and which secretes thyroid hormone and calcitonin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which relatively unspecialized cells acquire the specialized features of neurons .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the hollow outgrowth from the lateral aspects of the embryonic forebrain from which the retina and optic nerve develop .
any measurable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the paired endocrine gland that normally produces parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  that regulates calcium and phosphorus metabolism .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a small epithelioid structure consisting of a small cluster of chemoreceptive and supporting cells located near the bifurcation of the common carotid artery that serves as a chemoreceptive organ that senses the ph ,  carbon dioxide ,  and oxygen concentrations in the blood and plays a crucial role in their homeostatic control .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma this trihydroxy alcohol ,  the backbone of lipids ,  which is important for gluconeogenesis during starvation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the reabsorption of endogenous signaling molecules released into a synaptic cleft ;  neurotransmitters are released from presynaptic neurons and travel across the synaptic cleft to either excite or inhibit the target cell .
the proportion or number of cells in one or both of the paired organs responsible for urine excretion and regulation of ion concentrations .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the unicellular mucin - secreting glands of the intestine .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the organ that secretes pancreatic juice into the duodenum and secretes glucagon and insulin into the bloodstream .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of either of the largest of the major salivary glands situated below and in front of each ear and opening into the parotid duct .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the appendage at the caudal end of the vertebral column .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of acetoacetate ,  3 - hydroxybutyrate and acetone ;  produced by fatty acid and carbohydrate metabolism and seen in conditions such as starvation and diabetes mellitus .
any measurable characteristic related to the response from a specific stimulus obtained upon extra -  or intracellular recordings from single cells .
the point at which a stimulus first elicits a recordable response recorded in a single cell .
the degree of de -  or hyperpolarization or number of action potentials in response to a specific stimulus recorded in a single cell .
any measurable characteristic related to the electrophysiological recording of the activity of several cells .
the point at which a stimulus first elicits a recordable response recorded in several cells or a tissue slice .
the degree of de -  or hyperpolarization or number of action potentials in response to a specific stimulus recorded in several cells or a tissue slice .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity to change ,  adjust ,  or alter the electrophysiological recordings from the elongated processes of neurons over time or as a result of internal or external influences .
the point at which a stimulus first elicits a recordable response recorded in a single or several nerve fiber ( s )  .
the degree of de -  or hyperpolarization or number of action potentials in response to a specific stimulus recorded in a single or several nerve fiber ( s )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity to change ,  adjust ,  or alter the electrophysiological recordings from ion channels over time or as a result of internal or external influences .
the point at which a stimulus first elicits a recordable response recorded from ion channels .
the degree of de -  or hyperpolarization or number of action potentials in response to a specific stimulus recorded from ion channels .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to coordinated movements executed with a purpose that can be improved by learning and / or experience .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to movements that occur independent of planning  ( e .g .
the proportion or number of cells in the endocrine gland located in the front and to the sides of the upper part of the trachea and which secretes thyroid hormone and calcitonin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to thyroid function in oxidation and organification of iodide .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of growth hormone .
any measurable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the female reproductive gland containing the germ cells .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this potent androgenic metabolite of testosterone .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the folds of skin which form the inner lips  ( labia minora )  and outer lips  ( labia majora )  on both sides of the vaginal opening .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the folds of skin which form the inner lips  ( labia minora )  and outer lips  ( labia majora )  on both sides of the vaginal opening .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of grooves or furrows in the folds of skin between the labia on both sides of the vaginal opening .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the folds of skin which form the outer lips  ( labia majora )  on both sides of the vaginal opening .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the folds of skin which form the outer lips  ( labia majora )  on both sides of the vaginal opening .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical form or contours of the folds of skin which form the outer lips  ( labia majora )  on both sides of the vaginal opening .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the folds of skin which form the inner lips  ( labia minora )  on both sides of the vaginal opening .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the folds of skin which form the inner lips  ( labia minora )  on both sides of the vaginal opening .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical form or contours of the folds of skin which form the inner lips  ( labia minora )  on both sides of the vaginal opening .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the external genitalia of the female .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the small ,  erectile body located at the anterior end of the vulva .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the female reproductive canal located between the uterus and the vulva during its formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation or differentiation of the thin membrane which may partially occlude the opening of the vagina ;  often absent in normal females .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the loose fold of skin that covers the penis .
any measurable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the insulin - producing cells of the islets of langerhans in the pancreas .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the glucagon - producing cells of the islets of langerhans in the pancreas .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of this hormone secreted by beta cells of the pancreas ,  which promotes glucose utilization ,  protein synthesis ,  and the formation and storage of neutral lipids .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of this hormone secreted by the alpha cells of the islets of langerhans ;  it normally plays a role in regulation of blood glucose concentration ,  ketone metabolism ,  and other biochemical and physiological processes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the opening or lumen of the uterus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the hollow muscular organ where the embryo / fetus develops .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the tube through which the ova pass from the ovary to the uterus  ( mammals )  or to the outside  ( fish ,  birds )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the tube through which the ova pass from the ovary to the uterus  ( mammals )  or to the outside  ( fish ,  birds )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the female reproductive gland containing the germ cells during its formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the tube that conducts the urine from the renal pelvis to the bladder .
the distance from side to side of the tube that conducts the urine from the renal pelvis to the bladder .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the tube that conducts the urine from the renal pelvis to the urinary bladder .
the distance from side to side of the canal that leads from the bladder and discharges urine externally .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the canal that leads from the bladder and discharges urine externally .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the organ of copulation and urination in the male .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the filtering unit of the kidney that includes the renal corpuscle ,  proximal and distal convoluted tubules ,  loop of henle ,  and the collecting tubule .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the gland surrounding the beginning of the urethra in males that secretes part of the seminal fluid .
the proportion or number of cells in the external sac of skin that encloses the testes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the inner portion of the kidney during its formation and differentiation .
the proportion or number of cells in the inflatable musculomembranous bag for holding urine .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the cervical opening .
the visually perceived hue of the fluid and dissolved substances excreted by the kidneys .
the amount of urine excreted .
the proportion or number of cells in the inner portion of the kidney consisting of the renal pyramids .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the transient adhesive interactions between leukocytes and endothelial cells lining blood vessels mediated primarily by selectins and which are typically the first step in cellular extravasation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which leukocytes adhere to the luminal aspects of high endothelial venules prior to transmigration out of the vessel .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the epithelial lining in organs of the urinary tract .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the components of the system responsible for receiving and processing information about an organism's environment and controlling behavior .
any measurable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the components of the system responsible for receiving and processing information about an organism's environment and controlling behavior .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the non - neuronal cells of the nervous system that form the myelin insulation of nervous pathways ,  guide neuronal migration during development ,  and exchange metabolites with neurons .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the communication from a neuron to a target across a synapse .
the proportion or number of the group of nerve cell bodies that convey auditory sensation from the organ of corti to the hindbrain and reside on the cochlear part of the vestibulocochlear nerve  ( eighth cranial nerve )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of either or both of the spongy organs of respiration contained within the pleural cavity of the thorax .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process of muscle exhaustion following contraction .
the proportion or number of the neuroglia of the central nervous system that form the insulating myelin sheath of axons .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the supporting cells of the developing central nervous system that guide neuronal migration during development and exchange metabolites with developing and migrating neurons ;  these cells differentiate into astrocytes and some neuronal types in the adult .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical form or contours of the paired organs responsible for urine excretion and regulation of ion concentrations .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of an axon to extend from a neuron cell body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the membranous protective covering of the body to recover size and shape after deformation in any way .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the cells in the blood that carry oxygen ,  red blood cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the dense cluster of neurons within the dorsorostral pons ;  it is the major location of neurons that release norepinephrine throughout the brain ,  and is responsible for physiological responses to stress and panic .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the germinal layer of the epiphyseal plate where cells are actively dividing as well as producing extracellular matrix .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity of an organism to change ,  adjust ,  or alter its actions or reactions as a result of a detectable change or difference in temperature .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the change undergone by spermatozoa in the female genital tract that enables them to penetrate and fertilize an egg .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the fibrous connective tissue that surrounds the root of a tooth ,  separating it from and attaching it to the alveolar bone ;  normally extends from the base of the gingival mucosa to the fundus of the bony socket ,  and its main function is to hold the tooth in its socket .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the expanded beginning of a nephron that encloses the glomerulus .
the distance from the upper eyelid to the lower eyelid .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the tube that conducts the urine from the renal pelvis to the bladder .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the passage in the lower abdominal wall through which the spermatic cord in the male or the round ligament in the female ,  nerves and vessels pass from the pelvic cavity to the scrotum or labia majora ,  respectively .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the soft tissue at the base of the outer ear ;  consists of fat and fibrous tissue not reinforced by the auricular cartilage .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the soft tissue at the base of the outer ear ;  consists of fat and fibrous tissue not reinforced by the auricular cartilage .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the capsule - shaped structure in the ventral medulla located just lateral and dorsal to the medullary pyramids ;  neurons in the inferior olivary nucleus are the source of climbing fiber input to the cerebellar cortex and have been implicated in various functions ,  such as learning and timing of movements .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the parasympathetic ganglia of the cardiac plexus between the arch of the aorta and the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the muscles of the organ of vision .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of any of the unstriated ,  involuntary muscles within the eyeball .
any measurable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the non - neuronal cells of the nervous system ,  which are interposed between neurons and the blood vessels supplying the nervous system .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the small ,  migratory ,  phagocytic ,  interstitial cells derived from myeloid progenitor cells and found in the parenchyma of the central nervous system ;  microglia are scavengers ,  engulfing dead cells and other debris ,  and in alzheimer's disease ,  microglia are found associated with dying nerve cells and amyloid plaques .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the mammalian embryo to break out of the zona pellucida ,  the thick ,  solid ,  transparent outer membrane that surrounds the developing ovum and embryo prior to implantation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the thick solid transparent outer membrane that surrounds the developing ovum and embryo prior to implantation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the functions of or processes in the male organs associated with producing offspring .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the female organs associated with producing offspring .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to crossovers between sister chromatids during meiosis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the group of neuron cell bodies associated with the eighth cranial nerve during embryogenesis ;  splits in later development to form the cochlear and vestibular ganglia .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation or differentiation of the tubular invaginations of the epidermis from which the hair shaft develops .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the irregular layer of adipose and connective tissue ,  stroma ,  or membrane immediately deep to the skin and superficial to the deep fascia ;  usually consists primarily of either just loose connective tissue ,  or a fatty layer that may also include a muscle layer ,  and / or a fibrous layer ;  may also occur as a membranous layer only ,  being nearly devoid of fat .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the orientation of the outer ears in relation to the anterior - posterior body axis ,  does not refer to the point of emergence on the head . \ nconsider: vt:0010274
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the invagination and fusion of the neuroepithelial layer in early development .
the proportion or number of tubes that conduct the urine from the renal pelvis to the bladder .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the elongated bones of the extremities ,  consisting of a tubular shaft  ( diaphysis )  and two extremities  ( epiphyses )  .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of antibodies to self - antigens .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of any of the layers that make up the thin layer of neural tissue lining the back of the eyeball which contains visual receptors .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the layer of light - sensitive receptors in the eye .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the photoreceptor layer which contains stacks of membranous discs that are rich in the visual pigment rhodopsin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the photoreceptor layer which contains the machinery of the cell  ( mitochondria ,  golgi ,  endoplasmic reticulum ,  etc )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the retinal layer that contains the nuclei and cell bodies of rods and cones .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the retinal layer that is the site of synapses between the rods and cones  ( axons )  and the horizontal and bipolar cells  ( dendrites )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the retinal layer which contains the cell bodies of bipolar ,  horizontal ,  and amacrine cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the retinal cell layer where bipolar and amacrine cell axons synapse with ganglion cell dendrites .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the nonvascular ,  resilient ,  flexible connective tissue of the external portion of the organ of hearing .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of any of the small bones of the middle ear .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the region of the body that includes the front part of the head from the chin to the top of the forehead ,  where the mouth ,  eyes ,  nose ,  and other features are located .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the oral cavities of the face .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the mucus - secreting tissue that lines the oral cavity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical form or contours of the oral cavity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the roof of the mouth in vertebrates formed anteriorly by a bony projection of the upper jaw  ( hard palate )  and posteriorly by the fold of connective tissue  ( soft palate )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the anterior part of the palate that is supported by and includes the palatal extensions of the maxillary and palatine bones .
the distance from side to side of the roof of the oral cavity .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the roof of the oral cavity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the organs associated with the body's defense against foreign organisms or substances and aberrant native cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the primary lymphoid organ that is required for maturation of t cells .
the average distance of the deepest point in the midline of the palate relative to the midline point on the anterior crest of the alveolar gum pad ridge .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the fleshy margins of the mouth .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical form or contours of the fleshy margins of the mouth .
the distance from side to side of the line between the lip and the facial skin around the mouth .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the smaller ,  largely mucus - secreting ,  exocrine glands of the oral cavity ,  consisting of the labial ,  buccal ,  molar ,  lingual ,  and palatine glands .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the three largest glands of the oral cavity that secrete most of the saliva ,  including the parotid ,  submandibular ,  and sublingual glands .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of either of the large major salivary glands situated beneath the mandible .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the start of the induction and / or formation of any of the paired ,  metamerically arranged cell masses formed in the embryonic paraxial mesoderm .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the composite material or the layered arrangement of bony tissue ,  common to multiple bones of the skeleton . \ nconsider: vt:0010003
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the superficial thin layer of compact bone . \ nreplace with vt:0003797 .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the outer layers of solid ,  hard bone that cover spongy bone ;  consist of parallel osteons containing mineral deposits and interstitial lamellae .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the deposition or aggregation of coloring matter in the sebaceous gland located behind the eyeball in some species that excretes fluid that facilitates movement of the nictitating membrane .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the directed and orderly movement of macrophages from point to point .
the proportion or number of fingers or toes ,  or their corresponding parts in other vertebrates .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleotide ,  a nucleoside that is esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the glycose moiety ;  may be mono -  ,  di -  or triphosphate ;  this definition includes cyclic nucleotides  ( nucleoside cyclic phosphates )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the free portion of the hair ,  consisting of the cuticle ,  cortex ,  and the medulla .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the outermost layer of the hair shaft .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the principal structural component of the hair shaft .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the central axis of the hair shaft .
the proportion or number of fine ,  keratinized filamentous growths arising from the epidermis of mammals .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the compound gland suspended from the base of the hypothalamus ,  which secretes somatotropins ,  prolactin ,  tsh  ( thyroid - stimulating hormone )  ,  gonadotropins ,  and adrenal corticotropin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the pouch of ectoderm that grows out from the upper surface of the embryonic stomodeum and gives rise to the anterior and intermediate lobes of the pituitary gland .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the muscles of the organ of vision during their formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the supporting cells that form the inner and outer walls of the tunnel in the organ of corti .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the transient embryonic tubes that empty into the cloaca and in the female develop into the oviducts ,  uterus ,  and vagina .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the transient embryonic tubes that empty into the cloaca and differentiate into the vas deferens in the male in higher vertebrates .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the male reproductive glands where sperm production occurs .
the proportion or number of unfused ,  spindle - shaped cells in skeletal muscle that play a role in muscle repair and regeneration .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cells responsible for epinephrine and norepinephrine secretion .
any measurable characteristic related to the controlled release of milk from the mammary gland .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the articulation between the parietal bones and the frontal bone .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the articulation between the parietal bones and the occipital bone .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the articulation of the frontal bone from the sagittal suture to the root of the nose .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the articulation between the parietal bones .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the articulation of the squamous portion of the temporal bones with the parietal bones .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement of the area where the lens epithelium pushes into the lens proper and forms new lens fibers .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process of producing activated thymocytes from naive thymocytes .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of moisture in the membranous protective covering of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the proximal element of the developing forelimb that will give rise to the humerus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the distal elements of the developing forelimb that will give rise to the radius and ulna .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the proximal element of the developing hindlimb that will give rise to the femur .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the distal elements of the developing hindlimb that will give rise to the tibia and fibula .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the sebaceous gland located behind the eyeball in the orbit that secretes lipids ,  porphyrins ,  and indoles such as melatonin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the components of the system responsible for receiving and processing information about an organism's environment and controlling behavior .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the part of the brainstem developing from the middle of the three primary cerebral vesicles of the embryo .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the insulating envelope that surrounds nerve fibers or axons .
any measurable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the largest part of the brain ,  derived from the telencephalon ,  which is composed of right and left hemispheres ,  each of which contains an outer cerebral cortex and a subcortical basal ganglia ;  cerebral functions include sensorimotor ,  emotional ,  and intellectual activities .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the neurons that secrete serotonin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of and processes in the organ of hearing and equilibrium .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the sensory epithelial cells of the inner ear .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the functions of or processes in the neural networks that produce rhythmic patterned output without sensory input and underlie rhythmic motor patterns .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the filtering unit of the kidney that includes the renal corpuscle ,  proximal and distal convoluted tubules ,  loop of henle ,  and the collecting tubule .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the sac - like structure of the digestive canal between the esophagus and the small intestine .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the elongation of the long  ( rostral - caudal )  axis of the body once patterning has been established .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the tissue that gives rise to the ectoderm ,  endoderm and mesoderm of the embryo proper .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which liver cells undergo programmed cell death .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the connection between the embryo proper and extraembryonic tissues .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of any of the branched tubular glands in the mucosa of the fundus and body of the stomach that contain parietal cells that secrete hydrochloric acid and zymogenic cells that produce pepsin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which liver cells undergo expansion by cell division .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement ,  distribution or supply of nerve fibers that connect to the purkinje cells . \ nconsider: vt:0010151 ,  vt:0010154
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of elastin in the aorta .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the right lower chamber of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the left lower chamber of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the hard portion of the tooth surrounding the pulp ,  including the dentin ,  enamel and the cementum on the root .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the upper part of the molar ,  which is normally covered with enamel .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the bonelike rigid connective tissue covering the root of a tooth .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the organ that secretes pancreatic juice into the duodenum and secretes glucagon and insulin into the bloodstream .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the region of the body that includes the front part of the head from the chin to the top of the forehead ,  where the mouth ,  eyes ,  nose ,  and other features are and the part of the skull enclosing the brain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the organs involved in the production of offspring .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the organ of hearing ,  responsible for maintaining equilibrium as well as sensing sound ,  during its formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the mesoderm that is derived from the somite and is fated to become the skeletal musculature .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the lateral portion of the embryonic somite that is fated to become the dermis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation or differentiation of the membranous protective covering of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the organs involved in the production or excretion of urine .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the liver ,  gall bladder ,  or bile ducts during their formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in any of the white blood cells that include b cells ,  t cells ,  and nk cells .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the body of these most abundant steroids in animal tissues ,  and precursors to steroid hormones and bile salts ;  also components of plasma membranes .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of fat - soluble substances  ( molecules composed of carbon and hydrogen and are characteristically insoluble in water )  .
any measurable characteristic related to the state of equilibrium in the body with respect to this metallic element that normally occurs in a number of proteins including amine oxidases and chaperone proteins .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in a body tissue or fluid of this metallic element that has formula cu ,  and normally occurs as a cofactor for a number of proteins including amine oxidases and chaperone proteins .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the extraembryonic basement membrane in rodents that forms on the inner surface of the trophectoderm and is secreted by the distal endoderm ;  required for the maternofetal exchange of nutrients and is important for the post - gastrulation development .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the sac - like structure emanating from the caudal - most branchial pouch of the embryo ;  develops into the lateral portion of the thyroid that produces calcitonin in higher vertebrates .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the thin serous membrane ,  primarily composed of endothelial tissue ,  that lines the interior of the heart .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of carnitine ,  a quaternary ammonium amino acid derivative involved in transport of fatty acids across the mitochondrial membrane .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the increase in size or mass during the embryonic period  ( sensu mus: up to e14 ,  or the completion of organogenesis )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the cochlear ganglion or of the sensory neuron cell bodies that convey auditory sensation from the organ of corti to the hindbrain and reside on the cochlear part of the vestibulocochlear nerve  ( eighth cranial nerve )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the vestibular ganglion or of the sensory neuron cell bodies associated with the eighth cranial nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the discrete functional unit of the somatosensory cortex that processes tactile information derived from the vibrissae .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the anterior bundle of nerves emerging from the spinal cord to join with the posterior / dorsal nerve bundle at each spinal cord segment to form one of the 31 paired peripheral nerves .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the posterior bundle of nerves emerging from the spinal cord to join with the anterior / ventral nerve bundle at each spinal cord segment to form one of the 31 paired peripheral nerves .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the portion of the small intestine that extends from the duodenum to the ileum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the unstriated ,  involuntary muscle tissue of the intestines to shorten or to develop increased tension .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the unstriated ,  involuntary muscle tissue of the portion of the small intestine that extends from the duodenum to the ileum to shorten or to develop increased tension .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the blood vessels of either or both of the spongy organs of respiration contained within the pleural cavity of the thorax .
the measured amplitude ,  current density ,  or duration of response to stimulation of gaba receptors .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of the liquid that envelops the fetus inside the amniotic sac .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the rhodopsin - containing photoreceptor cells of the retina .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the cells in the outer layer of the retina that are stimulated by wavelengths of light of different colors ;  essential for color discrimination .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the indentation dividing the two ventricles ,  comprised of the sulcus interventricularis anterior and the sulcus interventricularis posterior .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the small mucin - producing salivary glands in the floor of the mouth beneath the tongue ,  anterior to the submandibular gland .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of the buffer systems of the body in combination with the respiratory and renal systems that control the relative acidity or alkalinity of the body ,  as measured by the concentration of hydrogen ion .
any measurable characteristic related to the content or the appearance of milk .
the degree of function or response of the nerve projecting to the kidney from the division of the nervous system that mediates the body's response to stress .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the mesenchymal cells that give rise to the corneal endothelium ,  corneal stroma ,  sclera ,  iris stroma ,  ciliary muscle ,  ciliary stroma ,  and trabecular meshwork of the eye .
the volume of or amount contained in the right upper chamber of the heart .
the volume of or amount contained in the left upper chamber of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the regional thickening of cells at the rostral tip of the vertebrate primitive streak through which gastrulating cells migrate anteriorally to form tissues in the future head and neck ;  this region organizes the formation of the three embryonic layers and establishes the longitudinal axis and the polarity of the embryo .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the supporting bundles of muscular fibers lining the walls of the ventricles of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the sensory organs in muscle that are involved in the stretch reflex .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the progenitors of cells that sheath the axons of the peripheral nervous system .
the proportion or number of the progenitors of cells that sheath the axons of the peripheral nervous system .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the conversion of the primary  ( honeycomb - like )  vascular plexus of the yolk sac into a mature vascular network .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a large cluster of dopaminergic nerve cells ,  consisting of the caudate nucleus and the putamen ,  that controls movement ,  balance ,  and walking .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of one or both c - shaped structures containing input neurons involved with control of voluntary movement in the brain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the lens - shaped basal ganglion involved with control of voluntary movement in the brain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the group of neurons located at the head of the caudate nucleus and anterior to the putamen ;  these neurons normally are involved in sensations of pleasure and reactions to addictive substances .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of one of the basal ganglia involved with control of voluntary movement in the brain ;  consists of an external and an internal segment .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the group of nuclei that makes up the small eminence on the dorsomedial surface of the thalamus ,  just in front of the dorsal commissure on the lateral edge of the habenular trigone .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cells comprising the contractile tissue that effects movement of an organ or part of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the endoplasmic reticulum of skeletal or cardiac muscle ,  i .e . ,  the complex of vesicles ,  tubules ,  and cisternae that form a continuous structure around striated myofibrils ,  with a repetition of structure within each sarcomere .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the segment of a myofibril between two z lines ,  comprised of multi - protein complexes consisting of three different filament systems ;  these systems work together to contract and relax muscle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cross - striation bisecting the i band of striated muscle myofibrils and serving as the anchoring point of actin filaments at either end of the sarcomere .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement of the cross - striation bisecting the i band of striated muscle myofibrils and serving as the anchoring point of actin filaments at either end of the sarcomere .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the fine line in the center of the a band of the sarcomere of striated muscle myofibrils .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the short hairs fringing the edge of the eyelid .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation of the midbrain - hindbrain domain ,  comprised of the mesencephalic vesicle and the first rhombencephalic vesicle at early somitogenesis stages during its formation and differentiation ;  this area is an organizing center at the boundary patterns the midbrain and hindbrain primordia of the neural plate .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the thin mantle of gray matter that covers the surface of each cerebral hemisphere ,  including the six layers of nerve cells and the nerve pathways that connect them ;  together ,  these regions are responsible for the processes of conscious thought ,  perception ,  emotion and memory as well as advanced motor function .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the small neurons of the granule cell layer that send parallel fibers to the upper molecular layer ,  where they synapse with purkinje cell dendrites .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the intertwined cluster of nerve fibers surrounded by glia where mossy fibers from the pontine nuclei in the white matter synapse with granule cell axons ,  golgi cell axons and unipolar brush interneuron axons .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of neurons that exclusively interact with other neurons in the spinal cord .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the neurons that exclusively interact with other neurons in the brain ;  this includes most brain neuronal cell types .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the regions of the caudate nucleus and the putamen that lie dorsal to the anterior commissure .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the regions of the nucleus accumbens and some nuclei of the olfactory tubercle that lie ventral to the anterior commissure .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical form or contours of the organ of vision .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the largest lymph vessel in the body ,  beginning at the cisterna chyli at about the level of the second lumbar vertebra .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the esophageal movement characterized by waves of alternate circular contraction and relaxation of the muscular walls that move the esophagus contents forward .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the cells of the seminiferous tubules that create the blood - testes barrier and enable spermatogenesis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of any of the arteries that branch from the aorta to supply blood to the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the portion of the descending aorta proceeding from the arch of the aorta and extending to the diaphragm .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the small nodular mass of specialized muscle fibers located in the interatrial septum near the opening of the coronary sinus ;  this node gives rise to the electrical connection between the atria and ventricles and responds to the sinoatrial node .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the small mass of modified cardiac muscle fibers located at the junction of the superior vena cava and the right atrium that is the source of contraction impulses for the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the specialized cardiac muscle fibers that originate in the atrioventricular node and extend into the ventricle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the sensory nerve endings in the wall of the atria of the heart ,  vena cava ,  aortic arch and carotid sinus that are sensitive to changes in blood pressure .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the plasma membrane of a muscle fiber that is capable of conducting electrical impulses .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the impulse - conducting system composed of modified cardiac muscle and having the power of spontaneous rhythmicity and conduction more highly developed than the rest of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the cardiac muscle fibers composing the terminal portion of the heart conduction system located in the ventricle .
the distance between the surfaces of the irregular layer of adipose and connective tissue ,  stroma ,  or membrane immediately deep to the skin and superficial to the deep fascia .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the cells in the body that store fats .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of contractile cells that effect movement of an organ or part of the body to take in the monosaccharide that is the end product of carbohydrate digestion .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the earliest cilia of the embryo ,  found on the cells of the embryonic node .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the part of the body between the head and the abdomen or any of its component parts .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation during early embryogenesis of the milk - secreting gland in female mammals .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the muscular portion of the mobile mass of muscular tissue and surrounding epithelial tissue occupying the cavity of the mouth and forming part of the floor .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the mucus secreting epithelial cells that line the luminal surface of the stomach ,  gastric pits and gastric glands .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the mucin - producing epithelial cells present in the neck of the gastric glands .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the gastric acid producing epithelial cells that are distributed throughout the length of the gastric gland .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the pepsinogen producing epithelial cells that are clustered at the base of the gastric gland .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the hormone -  or neurotransmitter - secreting epithelial cells present throughout the epithelium of the digestive tract .
the resting tautness or laxity of a muscle ,  normally somewhere in the middle of the range between total contraction and total relaxation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the degree of function or response of the musculature as it relates to electrical phenomena .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in a body tissue or fluid of porphyrins or protoporphyrins .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this metallic element that normally occurs in the heme of hemoglobin ,  myoglobin ,  transferrin ,  ferritin ,  and iron - containing porphyrins ;  it is an essential component of enzymes such as catalase ,  peroxidase ,  and various cytochromes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which the cells of the loops of henle ,  proximal and distal convoluted tubules ,  and collecting ducts in the kidney undergo programmed cell death .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the protrusion at the posterior end of the hypothalamus that contains hypothalamic nuclei .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the anterior part of the pituitary that secretes a variety of hormones ;  its function is regulated by the hypothalamus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the posterior part of the pituitary gland that secretes hormones involved in blood pressure regulation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the group of neurons that serve as the primary processor of visual information received from the retina via the optic tract and send processed information to the visual cortex of the occipital lobe .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of a collection of structures in the brain involved in emotion ,  motivation ,  and emotional aspects of memory ;  these structures act together to control the endocrine system and the autonomic nervous system .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the ridge in the cerebral cortex located dorsal to the corpus callosum that controls autonomic functions regulating heart rate and blood pressure as well as cognitive and attentional processing .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the ridge in the cerebral cortex that contains the olfactory cortex and that plays a role in the formation of topographical memory .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the horseshoe - shaped gyrus of the cerebral cortex that consists of the cingulate gyrus and the parahippocampal gyrus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the region of the cerebral cortex covering the basal surface of the frontal lobes ;  this region normally controls emotion and decision making .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of roof region of the telencephalon during its formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the base region of the telencephalon during its formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cartilaginous and gelatinous structures found between the bodies of adjacent vertebrae .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the location or arrangement of vertebra within the spinal column and the resulting rectilinear direction or curvature produced .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process in which mature spermatozoa are released from supporting sertoli cells into spermiduct or vas deferens .
any measurable characteristic related to the functions of or processes in the part of the autonomic nervous system that innervates smooth muscle ,  cardiac muscle and glands and mediates the body's response to stressful situations .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the functions of or processes in the sensory nerve endings found in the wall of the atria of the heart ,  vena cava ,  aortic arch and carotid sinus that are sensitive to changes in blood pressure .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of fat - storing cells to take in the monosaccharide that is the end product of carbohydrate digestion ;  d - glucose serves as a primary energy source for living organisms .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the small ,  elevated area in the lateral wall of the inferior recess of the fourth ventricle ,  involved in the control of cardiorespiratory physiology .
the time of completion of axial rotation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the projecting ridge of bone that holds the tooth sockets .
the direction of axial rotation of the embryo when viewed towards the caudal pole during the late primitive streak / early somite stage  ( mus e8 .5 - e9 .5 )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the conical mass of tissue ,  containing part of the secreting and collecting tubules ,  whose base faces the renal cortex .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the apex of the renal pyramid that projects into a calyx .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the flattened ,  funnel - shaped expansion of the ureter that is formed by convergence of the major calices .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the branches of the renal pelvis that surround each renal papilla and collect urine .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the increase in size or mass during the fetal period  ( sensu mus: from e14 through birth )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the sharp ,  ventrally concave bend in the developing midbrain of the embryo .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the smallest and innermost of the three auditory ossicles .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation or differentiation of the portion of the embryonic somite that remains after migration of the sclerotomic tissue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to perceive a particular flavor or suggestion of something sweet by the chemoreceptors of the gustatory system .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to perceive a particular flavor or suggestion of something bitter by the chemoreceptors of the gustatory system .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to perceive a particular flavor or suggestion of something sour by the chemoreceptors of the gustatory system .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to perceive a particular flavor or suggestion of something salty by the chemoreceptors of the gustatory system .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to perceive a particular flavor or suggestion of something umami  ( savory )  by the chemoreceptors of the gustatory system .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the main or mid section  ( shaft )  of a long bone .
any measurable characteristic related to the ability of peripheral nervous system tissue to regenerate following injury or disease .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  or pattern of any of the acute angles occurring between the iris and the cornea at the periphery of the anterior chamber of the eye .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the pore - like structure surrounding the entire circumference of the anterior chamber through which aqueous humor circulates .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the vascular structure encircling the anterior chamber of the eye ,  through which the aqueous humor is returned to the blood circulation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the processes in the development of primarily large ,  nucleated erythroblasts occurring in blood islands in the yolk sac ,  generally occurs from e7 - e11 in the mouse and through 10 weeks in humans .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the embryonic blood cells that carry oxygen .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the muscles responsible for the movement of the jaws during mastication ,  including the masseter ,  temporalis ,  and medial and lateral pterygoid muscles .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the masticatory muscle of the posterior cheek with origin from the inferior border and medial surface of the zygomatic arch ,  with insertion into the lateral surface of the ramus of the mandible ,  with nerve supply from the masseteric nerve ,  and whose action closes the jaw during chewing .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the masticatory muscle of the posterior cheek with origin from the inferior border and medial surface of the zygomatic arch ,  with insertion into the lateral surface of the ramus of the mandible ,  with nerve supply from the masseteric nerve ,  and whose action closes the jaw during chewing .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the muscles descending from the sphenoid bone to the lower jaw including the internal ,  or medial ,  pterygoid muscle and external ,  or lateral ,  pterygoid muscle ;  action of the former is closing the jaws and that of the latter is opening the jaws ,  protruding the mandible ,  and moving the mandible from side to side .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of either or both of the muscles descending from the sphenoid bone to the lower jaw including the internal ,  or medial ,  pterygoid muscle and external ,  or lateral ,  pterygoid muscle ;  action of the former is closing the jaws and that of the latter is opening the jaws ,  protruding the mandible ,  and moving the mandible from side to side .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the superior - most masticatory muscle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the superior - most masticatory muscle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of phagocytic dendritic cells that are morphologically similar to plasma cells ,  but do not express b lineage markers ,  and produce large amounts of alpha / beta interferons  ( ifn -  /  )  in response to viral and bacterial stimuli ;  plasmacytoid dendritic cells are found in the thymic medulla and lymph node t cell areas and are responsible for immune tolerance .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of a motor neuron to form new neuritic processes  ( sprouts )  that emerge from the nodes of ranvier or terminal arborizations in response to nerve injury  ( such as denervation )  ,  application of nerve toxin ,  or muscle inactivity  ( usually due to disease )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the natural or accidental termination of a pregnancy at a stage where the embryo or the fetus is incapable of surviving independently of the mother .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the penniform muscle of the lateral front part of the leg responsible for extension of the toes and dorsiflexion of the ankle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the muscles derived from the region of the myotome closest to the neural tube ;  includes the intrinsic back muscles .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the elevation found on the inner surface of the ampullae of each semicircular duct ;  filaments of the vestibular nerve pass through the crista to reach hair cells on its surface ;  the hair cells are capped by the cupula ,  a gelatinous protein - polysaccharide mass .
the orientation of bending during the process by which the embryonic heart tube bends to transform from a straight tube into the final folded configuration of the adult heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the middle layer of the placenta between the outermost giant cells and the innermost labyrinth layer ;  it has a structural role and also produces several layer - specific secreted factors .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the maternal uterine - derived portion of the placenta .
the amount of matter in the organ of metabolic interchange between fetus and mother .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the organ of metabolic interchange between fetus and mother .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the epithelial cells that line the neural tube and develop into the neurons and glia of the nervous system and into the neural crest cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of an organism to exert force on physical objects or of the body to support its load .
any measurable characteristic related to the position of the limbs ,  the projecting ,  paired ,  jointed appendages of the body used for locomotion or grasping ,  relative to the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the membranes involved with embryonic protection and nutrition .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the conveyance of metabolic products and nutrients across the placenta .
the visually perceived hue of the organ of metabolic interchange between fetus and mother ,  partly of embryonic origin and partly of maternal origin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the paired bands of optic nerve fibers running from the optic chiasma to the lateral geniculate body and midbrain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the narrow ,  proximal portion of the optic vesicle which connects the embryonic eye and forebrain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the double walled structure formed by expansion and invagination of the distal end of the optic vesicle that develops into the pigmented and sensory layers of the retina ;  the mouth of the optic cup eventually forms the pupil of the eye .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the pedal or prehensile extremity of vertebrates .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the extracellular supportive tissue adjacent to the basal surface of the epithelia ,  including the epithelium of muscle cells ,  fat cells and schwann cells ;  it is comprised of type iv collagen ,  laminin ,  and sulfated proteoglycans and other components and consists of two layers ,  the basal lamina and the lamina reticularis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the sheet of extracellular matrix characteristically situated under epithelial cells ,  around muscles ,  nerves ,  capillaries ,  and fat cells ,  and situated between these elements and the underlying or surrounding connective tissue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the transient proliferative population of neurons that expands exponentially during late prenatal development ;  it is a continuous germinal zone distinct from the ventricular zone that surrounds the brain ventricles .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the mitotically active layer of cells surrounding the brain ventricles in the adult that consists of migrating neuroblasts ,  astrocytes and transitory amplifying progenitor cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a distinct elevation of a transient proliferating cell mass of the fetal subventricular zone ;  this mass contributes most of its cells to the neocortex ;  however ,  hippocampal neurons ,  thalamus ,  septum and olfactory bulb neurons are also partly derived from the mge .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a distinct elevation of a transient proliferating cell mass of the fetal subventricular zone ;  this mass contributes most of its cells to the striatum ;  however ,  neocortex ,  thalamus ,  septum and olfactory bulb neurons are also partly derived from the lge .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the caudally located ,  distinct elevation of a transient proliferating cell mass of the fetal subventricular zone ,  located adjacent to the lateral ventricle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the group of motor neurons in the floor of the midbrain that gives rise to motor fibers of the oculomotor nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the group of motor neurons throughout most of the length of the medulla oblongata that give rise to the motor fibers of the hypoglossal nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the transparent homogeneous acellular layer found between the substantia propria and the endothelial layer of the cornea ,  considered to be a highly developed basement membrane .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the canal beginning at the opening of the internal acoustic meatus in the posterior cranial fossa ,  passing laterally through the petrous portion of the temporal bone to end at the fundus ,  where a thin plate of bone separates it from the vestibule ;  it gives passage to the facial and vestibulocochlear nerves together with the labyrinthine artery and veins .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the border of the spiral lamina ,  i .e . ,  the thickened periosteum covering the upper plate of the bony spiral lamina of the cochlea .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the thickened periosteal lining of the bony cochlea that forms the outer wall of the cochlear duct to which the basal lamina attaches .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the series of cavities  ( cochlea ,  vestibule ,  and semicircular canals )  contained within the otic capsule of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ;  the bony labyrinth is filled with perilymph ,  in which the delicate ,  endolymph - filled membranous labyrinth is suspended .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the flat portion of the stapes that fits in the oval window .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in sound conduction through the middle - ear apparatus ,  e .g . ,  velocity transfer responses at the umbo or incus level during sound stimulation of the tympanic membrane .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of any of the four types of fibrocytes  ( types i ,  ii  ,  iii and iv )  that constitute the spiral ligament .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the type i spiral ligament fibrocytes which occupy the region beneath the stria vascularis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the type ii spiral ligament fibrocytes found in the suprastrial zone and the central area of the spiral ligament beneath the spiral prominence .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the type iii spiral ligament fibrocytes which form a cell layer attached to the otic capsule .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the type iv spiral ligament fibrocytes found in the triangular space inferior to the basilar crest .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the sensory neurons of the dorsal root ganglia that sense body position and send information to the spinal cord about how much the muscle is stretched .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the highly differentiated epithelial cells with distinctive morphological features surrounding the hair cells in the organ of corti ;  inner hair cells  ( ihcs )  are normally surrounded by  ( inner and outer )  phalangeal cells while ohcs are in contact with deiters and pillar cells ;  hensen cells are positioned further laterally in the organ of corti .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the supporting cells of the spiral organ which are attached to the basement membrane and receive the hair cells between their free extremities .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the supporting cells that form the lateral border of the organ of corti ,  immediately to the outer side of deiters' cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the winding tube of the bony labyrinth that makes two and a half turns about the modiolus of the cochlea ;  it is divided incompletely into two compartments by a winding shelf of bone ,  the bony spiral lamina .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the winding tube of the bony labyrinth that makes two and a half turns about the modiolus of the cochlea .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the membrane extending from the bony spiral membrane to the basilar crest of the cochlea ;  it forms the greater part of the floor of the cochlear duct separating the latter from the scala tympani ,  and it supports the organ of corti .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the paired epithelial sacs formed from the otic placode that give rise to the structures of the inner ear .
the proportion or number of the cells in the paired epithelial sacs formed from the otic placode that give rise to the structures of the inner ear .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the group of neuron cell bodies associated with the eighth cranial nerve during embryogenesis ;  splits in later development to form the cochlear and vestibular ganglia .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to physical magnitude of the smaller of the two sacs in the vestibule .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical form or contours of the long ,  flat bone of the chest .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the long ,  flat bone of the chest .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the segments of the primordial sternum of the embryo ;  these segments fuse to form the body of the adult vertebrate sternum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the long ,  flat bone of the chest .
the proportion or numbers of the cells in the sensory epithelium of the maculae and cristae of the membranous labyrinth of the internal ear .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the oval neuroepithelial sensory receptor in the anterior wall of the saccule ;  hair cells of the neuroepithelium support the statoconial membrane and have terminal arborizations of vestibular nerve fibers around their bodies .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure or pattern of the neuroepithelial sensory receptor in the inferolateral wall of the utricle ;  hair cells of the neuroepithelium support the statoconial membrane and have terminal arborizations of vestibular nerve fibers around their bodies ;  normally sensitive to linear acceleration in the longitudinal axis of the body and to gravitational influences .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the larger of the two sacs in the vestibule .
the proportion or number of cells in one or both of the doubly curved long bones that form part of the shoulder girdle and articulate with the sternum and the scapula .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of one or both of the doubly curved long bones that form part of the shoulder girdle and articulate with the sternum and the scapula .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of either or both of the large ,  flat bones of the shoulder girdle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of either or both of the large ,  flat bones of the shoulder girdle .
the proportion or number of bone cells in either or both of the large ,  flat bones of the shoulder girdle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the lateral extension of the spine of the scapula which projects as a broad flattened process and articulates with the clavicle ,  and forms the point of the shoulder .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the triangular ridge on the dorsal aspect of the scapula ,  which separates the supra -  from the infraspinatous fossa and where the trapezius and deltoid muscles are attached .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the long bone of the thigh .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the bone of the forelimb that articulates with the scapula above and the radius and ulna below .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the rough elevation at the middle of the lateral side of the shaft of the humerus to which the deltoid muscle attaches .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the bone situated on the lateral side of the ulna in the forelimb .
the proportion or number of cells in the bone situated on the lateral side of the ulna in the forelimb .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the medial and larger of the two bones of the lower leg ,  which articulates with the femur ,  fibula ,  and talus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the degree or shape of the bend in the medial and larger of the two bones of the lower leg ,  which articulates with the femur ,  fibula ,  and talus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the degree or shape of the bend in the medial and larger of the two bones of the forearm or lower forelimb ;  fused with the radius in some species .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the stratified ,  secretory epithelium which lines the upper part of the cochlear spiral ligament and maintains k +  homeostasis in the endolymph .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  or pattern of the polarized cells which are juxtaposed to fibrocytes in the underlying spiral ligament .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the polarized columnar cells of epithelial origin which cover the lateral surface of the cochlear duct ,  secrete k +  and form a continuous sheet in contact with the endolymph ;  marginal cells form extensive interdigitations with the basal and intermediate cells in the normal adult stria .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  or pattern of the melanocytes known to migrate from the neural crest during ontogeny to become located between the epithelial marginal cell layer and the mesodermal basal cell layer within the intrastrial space ;  the predominant cellular component of the electrogenic machinery that generates an endocochlear potential  ( 80 - 100 mv )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the blood vessels supplying the stria vascularis in the cochlea of the inner ear .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the medial and larger of the two bones of the forearm or lower forelimb ;  fused with the radius in some species .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the degree or shape of the bend in the long bone of the thigh .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the degree or shape of the bend in the lateral and smaller bone of the lower / hind limb .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the degree or shape of the bend in the bone of the forelimb that articulates with the scapula above and the radius and ulna below .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the degree or shape of the bend in the bone situated on the lateral side of the ulna in the forelimb .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the horseshoe - shaped thickening of the endoderm at the cranial  ( rostral )  end of the primitive streak formed by the involution of spemann's organizer cells which ,  together with the notochord ,  induces the formation of the neural plate from the overlying ectodermal cells and contributes mesodermal type cells to the surrounding tissue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the smallest bronchioles ,  which connect the terminal bronchioles to alveolar ducts and have alveoli rising from their walls .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the branch point connecting the respiratory bronchioles to the alveolar ducts .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the tubes of the respiratory system that allow passage of air from the trachea to the alveoli of the lungs .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the subset of t lymphocytes that express the cd8 marker on the cell surface .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the sensory cells of the organ of corti which are in synaptic contact with sensory as well as efferent fibers of the auditory nerve ;  there is a single row of flask - shaped inner hair cells tightly surrounded by supporting interphalangeal cells ;  the apical end of each cell is anchored to the cuticular plate and about 100 stereocilia arranged in a more or less linear  ( or shallow )  u - shaped pattern extend from the cell's surface through the cuticular plate into the endolymphic space inferior to the tectorial membrane .
the proportion or number of the flask - shaped inner hair sensory cells of the organ of corti which are in synaptic contact with sensory as well as efferent fibers of the auditory nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the sensory cells of the organ of corti which are in synaptic contact with sensory as well as efferent fibers of the auditory nerve ;  there are three rows of columnar outer hair cells largely surrounded by cortilymph and supporting phalangeal cells ;  the apical end of each cell is anchored to the cuticular plate and about 100 stereocilia arranged in a v - shaped pattern extend from the cell's surface through the cuticular plate into the tectorial membrane .
the proportion or number of the columnar outer hair sensory cells of the organ of corti .
the proportion or number of the sensory epithelial cells of the cochlea ,  which are normally in synaptic contact with the auditory nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the specialized sensory hair cells of the ampullary crest of the ampulla of each semicircular duct .
any measurable characteristic related to the bioelectric potentials produced by the hair cells of the organ of corti in response to sound ;  cochlear microphonics faithfully represent the frequency and intensity of the acoustic stimulation .
the combined potentials resulting from activation of the auditory division of the eighth cranial nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the thin ,  scale - like part of the temporal bone forming part of the lateral wall of the cranial vault .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the utricle and saccule of the inner ear which possess otoliths and respond to linear acceleration and deceleration ,  including gravity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the portion of the membranous labyrinth concerned with the sense of hearing  ( vs . the vestibular labyrinth ,  which is concerned with the sense of equilibration )  and innervated by the cochlear nerve ;  it is located within the cochlea of the bony labyrinth ,  and consists of the cochlear duct ,  which contains the spiral organ .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the portion of the membranous labyrinth concerned with the sense of equilibration  ( vs . the cochlear labyrinth ,  which is concerned with the sense of hearing )  and innervated by the vestibular nerve ;  it is located within the semicircular canals and vestibule of the bony labyrinth ,  and consists of the utricle ,  saccule ,  and the semicircular ,  utriculosaccular ,  and endolymphatic ducts .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the flask - shaped sensory cells of the maculae and cristae of the vestibular labyrinth of the inner ear ,  which are normally enclosed in calyx endings of afferent neurons ;  afferent and efferent nerve fibers of the vestibular nerve synapse with them ;  from the apical end of each cell a bundle of stereocilia and a kinocilium extend into the otolithic membrane of the maculae or the cupula of the cristae .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the cylindrical sensory cells of the maculae and cristae of the vestibular labyrinth of the inner ear which are normally contacted by bouton endings of afferent and efferent neurons ;  afferent and efferent nerve fibers of the vestibular nerve synapse with them ;  from the apical end of each cell a bundle of stereocilia and a kinocilium extend into the otolithic membrane of the maculae or the cupula of the cristae .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the columnar cells located on the floor of the ductus cochlearis external to the spiral organ .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the conversion of mechanical energy into electric ( al )  energy by sensory cells ,  such as auditory and vestibular hair cells ,  required for auditory sensation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the cochlear hair cells ,  i .e . ,  the sensory cells in the spiral organ which are in synaptic contact with sensory as well as efferent fibers of the cochlear  ( auditory )  nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the cochlear ihcs which constitute the true sensory cell type sending impulses via the cochlear  ( auditory )  nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the cochlear ohcs which are known to enhance the performance of the cochlea ,  both qualitatively  ( increased selectivity )  and quantitatively  ( increased sensitivity )  ;  in addition to the mechanoelectric transduction required for auditory sensation ,  ohcs also perform electromechanical transduction ,  whereby transmembrane voltage drives rapid changes in the length and stiffness of ohcs at audio frequencies in vitro  ( electromotility )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the motility of the cochlear ohcs in response to electrical stimulation ;  normally ,  the motile response  ( i .e .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the sensory epithelium of the maculae and cristae in the membranous labyrinth of the inner ear .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the anterior part of the body of the sphenoid bone in front of the basisphenoid ;  it is usually a separate bone in the young or fetus ,  but becomes a part of the sphenoid in the adult .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the process projecting downward from either side of the sphenoid bone ,  in vertebrates divided into two plates ,  an inner and an outer  ( sometimes called the lateral and medial )  ;  the posterior nares pass through the space ,  called the pterygoid fossa ,  between the processes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the bone region which corresponds to the inner plate of the pterygoid process of the mammalian skull .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the bone that is situated in the orbit on either side of the presphenoid ;  it generally forms a part of the sphenoid in the adult ,  and may be independent in the young .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the cochlear outer hair cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the bony arch in vertebrates that extends along the side or front of the skull beneath the eye socket and is formed by the temporal process of the zygomatic bone and the zygomatic process of the temporal bone .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the oval opening on the medial wall of the tympanic cavity leading into the vestibule ,  close to the foot of the stapes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the opening on the medial wall of the middle ear leading into the cochlea ,  closed in life by the secondary tympanic membrane ;  serves to regulate fluid pressure in the inner ear .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the conjunctival layer of epithelial cells covering inner surface of the eyelid and the front of the eyeball except over the cornea .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the long ,  spindle - shaped cells arranged in parallel rows ,  oriented with their vertical axis perpendicular to the luminal surface of the spiral limbus ;  they secrete k +  into the endolymph and secrete the tectoral membrane .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the location or arrangement of outer hair cell  ( ohc )  stereociliary bundles in relation to the hair cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the location or arrangement of inner hair cell  ( ihc )  stereociliary bundles in relation to the hair cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the spiral - shaped bony canal in the inner ear containing the hair cells that transduce sound .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of antibodies that recognize double stranded dna .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of antibodies that recognize single stranded dna .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of antibodies to nuclear antigens .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of antibodies to histones .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of antibodies to erythrocyte antigen .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the rearrangement of the heavy chain genes of differentiating b cells such that the initially encoded heavy chain igm molecule is altered to one encoding igg ,  iga or ige ;  normally ,  this allows the body to produce antibodies with different effector functions .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of antibodies that recognize chromatin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process through which t cells that express t cell receptors that are restricted by self mhc protein complexes and tolerant to self antigens are selected for further maturation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process of elimination of immature t cells which react strongly with self - antigens .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process of sparing immature t cells which react with self - mhc protein complexes with low affinity levels from apoptotic death .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of lymphocytes of b lineage with the phenotype cd19 - positive and capable of b cell - mediated immunity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the subset of b cells found predominantly in the peritoneum ,  pleural cavities ,  and spleen ,  which are enriched for self - reactivity ;  b - 1 b cells are thought to be the primary source of natural igm immunoglobulin ,  that is ,  igm produced in large quantities without prior antigenic stimulation and generally reactive against various microorganisms ,  as well as the source of t - independent iga immunoglobulin in the mucosal areas .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the specialized subpopulation of t cells that act to suppress activation of the immune system and thus maintain immune system homeostasis and prevent pathological self - reactivity ;  these may include t cells that express the cd8 transmembrane glycoprotein  ( cd8 - positive t cells )  ,  those that express cd4 and cd25  ( cd4 - positive ,  cd25 - positive regulatory t cells or tregs )  and other t cell types that have suppressor function .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process dependent upon b cell antigen receptor signaling in response to self or foreign antigen through which b cells are selected for survival .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to any process by which b cells are selected to survive based on signaling through the b cell antigen receptor .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process through which b cells which react strongly with self - antigens are eliminated ,  usually through anergy or deletion .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the specialized subpopulation of t cells that act to suppress activation of the immune system and thus maintain immune system homeostasis and prevent pathological self - reactivity ;  these may include t cells that express the cd8 transmembrane glycoprotein  ( cd8 - positive t cells )  ,  those that express cd4 and cd25  ( cd4 - positive ,  cd25 - positive regulatory t cells or tregs )  and other t cell types that have suppressor function .
the amount of matter in the organ that functions to filter blood and to store red corpuscles and platelets .
the amount of matter in the primary lymphoid organ that is required for maturation of t cells .
the proportion or number of the specialized subpopulation of t cells that act to suppress activation of the immune system and thus maintain immune system homeostasis and prevent pathological self - reactivity .
the proportion or number of the subset of b cells found predominantly in the peritoneum ,  pleural cavities ,  and spleen ,  which are enriched for self - reactivity ;  b - 1 b cells are thought to be the primary source of natural igm immunoglobulin ,  that is ,  igm produced in large quantities without prior antigenic stimulation and generally reactive against various microorganisms ,  as well as the source of t - independent iga immunoglobulin in the mucosal areas .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process of removal by apoptosis of immature b lymphocytes that interact with self antigens during maturation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process that directly activates any of the steps required for tolerance ,  a physiologic state in which the immune system does not react destructively against the components of an organism that harbors it or against antigens that are introduced to it .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process of removal of immature lymphocytes that interact with self antigens during maturation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process of removal of immature t lymphocytes that interact with self antigens during maturation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process of establishing a state of functional inactivation of self - reactive lymphocytes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the response to autologous  ( self )  antigens .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in this bone - forming cell ,  which normally forms an osseous matrix in which it becomes enclosed as an osteocyte .
the amount of matter in the minerals  ( inorganic elements or compounds that have importance in body functions )  in osseous tissue forming a part of the skeleton .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of this bone - forming cell ,  which normally forms an osseous matrix in which it becomes enclosed as an osteocyte .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the regulatory subset of t lymphocytes that are involved in mhc class i restricted interactions .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of cells in the b lymphocyte lineage that undergo d - j rearrangement of the immunoglobulin heavy chain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cells in the b lymphocyte lineage that undergo v - dj rearrangement of the immunoglobulin heavy chain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cells of the b lymphocyte lineage that have undergone vdj rearrangement of the heavy chain and v - j rearrangement of the light chain ;  these cells express igm on the cell surface but have not yet been selected for self - reactivity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the outermost layer of cells in the blastodermic vesicle ,  which will develop into the trophoblast layer and then contact the endometrium and take part in establishing the mammalian embryo's means of nutrition .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the innermost layer of the extraembryonic membranes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the mesectodermal cell layer arising from the trophectoderm that erodes the uterine mucosa and contributes to the formation of the placenta .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the thickened trophoblast of the blastocyst in rodents that becomes the fetal portion of the placenta .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cells covering the blastocyst that erode the uterine mucosa and contribute to the formation of the placenta .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the lower opening of the digestive tract .
the two - dimensional extent of the outer part of a thymus lobule that surrounds the medulla and is composed of closely packed lymphocytes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the immature or mature form of a granular leukocyte with a nucleus that usually has two lobes connected by one or more slender threads of chromatin ,  and cytoplasm containing coarse ,  round granules that are uniform in size and which can be stained by the dye eosin ;  involved in clearance of parasitic infections and in allergic reactions .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte that in its mature form has a nucleus with three to five lobes connected by slender threads of chromatin ,  and cytoplasm containing fine inconspicuous granules and stainable by neutral dyes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of non - t ,  non - b lymphocytes ,  having a granular morphology and which are important in innate immunity to viruses and other intracellular pathogens ;  in addition ,  these cells can kill certain tumor cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in non - t ,  non - b lymphocytes ,  having a granular morphology and which are important in innate immunity to viruses and other intracellular pathogens ;  in addition ,  these cells can kill certain tumor cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of natural killer cells to induce pathological breakdown of target cells by the destruction of their outer membrane .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the directed and orderly movement of cells with abundant granules in the cytoplasm ,  including neutrophils ,  eosinophils ,  or basophils ,  from point to point .
the degree of function or response of neutrophils ,  eosinophils ,  or basophils in the killing of bacteria .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the subset of cd8 - positive t lymphocytes capable of directly killing appropriately targeted cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of cytotoxic t cells to induce pathological breakdown of target cells by the destruction of their outer membrane .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the inner layer of the dermis ,  consisting chiefly of dense fibrous tissue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the clear ,  translucent layer of the epidermis in the deepest level of the stratum corneum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the gall bladder or its ducts .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the organ which serves as a storage reservoir for bile .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the organ that stores and concentrates bile .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of the bitter ,  alkaline ,  brownish - yellow or greenish - yellow fluid that is secreted by the liver ,  stored in the gallbladder ,  and discharged into the duodenum and aids in the emulsification ,  digestion ,  and absorption of fats .
the proportion or numbers of the subset of t cells found in the thymus that express neither cd4 nor cd8 .
the proportion or number of the subset of t cells found in the thymus that express both cd4 and cd8 .
the proportion or number of nucleated red blood cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the thin ,  highly vascularized membrane covering most of the posterior of the eye between the retina and the sclera .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the thickened portion of the vascular tunic ,  which lies between the choroid and the iris .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the deposition or aggregation of coloring matter in the thin ,  highly vascularized membrane covering most of the posterior of the eye between the retina and the sclera .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the deposition or aggregation of coloring matter in the adjustable membrane ,  composed of the stroma and pigmented epithelium ,  located just in front of the crystalline lens within the eye .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the bones of the lower / hind limb between the tibia and fibula and the metatarsus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the small bones of the middle ear .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the middle of the three auditory ossicles .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the smallest and innermost of the three auditory ossicles .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the medial and larger of the two bones of the forearm or lower forelimb ;  fused with the radius in some species .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the tarsal bone that articulates with the tibia and fibula .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the tarsal bone that articulates with the tibia and fibula .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the ventral gray column of the spinal cord .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportion or number of cells in the ventral gray column of the spinal cord .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of any of the hormones secreted by the pituitary .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the hormone that stimulates the growth and function of the thyroid gland .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the hormone that promotes body growth ,  fat mobilization ,  and inhibition of glucose utilization .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the hormone that stimulates milk secretion .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the lipoprotein:cholesterol complex that normally transports triglycerides from the intestine and liver to muscle and adipose tissue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the genitoinguinal ligaments that ,  in the male ,  connect the fetal testis to the developing scrotum ,  and ,  in the female ,  connect the ovaries to the uterus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which the b cell population undergoes expansion by cell division .
the proportion or number of cells in the female reproductive gland containing the germ cells .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of macromolecules consisting of long chains of amino acids in peptide linkage in the urine .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process of nuclear division that results in ova with one half the normal chromosome number of the original cell .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process of nuclear division that results in sperm with one half the normal chromosome number of the original cell .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a potent androgen that promotes development of male secondary sex characteristics and the development of spermatozoa and may regulate sexual desire and help maintain bone and muscle health in both males and females .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this most potent estrogen .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this anti - estrogenic steroid .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the organ of copulation and urination in the male .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the space between the genitals and the anus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the parts of the eye that lie in front of ,  or ventral to ,  the lens  ( inclusive )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the front ,  or ventral ,  portion of the vascular ,  pigmentary ,  or middle coat of the eye ,  including the ciliary body and the iris .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of any of the parts of the eye that lie in back of ,  or dorsal to ,  the lens  ( but not inclusive )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the rear ,  or dorsal ,  portion of the vascular ,  pigmentary ,  or middle coat of the eye ,  includes the choroid .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the pigmented vascular coat of the eyeball ,  consisting of the iris ,  ciliary body ,  and choroid .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the structures associated with drainage of the aqueous humor from the eye ,  these include the trabecular meshwork ,  schlemm's canal ,  the uveoscleral network ,  and the aqueous veins .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the epithelial layer of the retina composed of cells containing pigment granules .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the pore - like structure surrounding the entire circumference of the anterior chamber through which aqueous humor circulates .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the vascular structure encircling the anterior chamber of the eye ,  through which the aqueous humor is returned to the blood circulation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the space in the eye ,  filled with aqueous humor ,  and bounded anteriorly by the cornea and a small portion of the sclera and posteriorly by a small portion of the ciliary body ,  the iris ,  and part of the crystalline lens .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the clear ,  watery fluid that fills the anterior and posterior chambers of the eye .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the vessel that receives aqueous humor from the sinus venosus sclerae  ( canal of schlemm )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the lamellated connective tissue of the iris .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the surface epithelium of the stomach ,  which is made up of several different cell types .
the distance between the surfaces of the epithelial layer of the stomach .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the cellular masses consisting of several to several hundred cells in the interstitial tissue of the pancreas ;  they are composed of five different cell types that make up the endocrine portion of the pancreas .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the cells of the pancreas that secrete glucagon .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the cells of the pancreas that secrete insulin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the cells found in the pancreas and gastrointestinal tract that secrete somatostatin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the acinar gland portion of the pancreas that secretes digestive enzymes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the establishment ,  maintenance ,  and elaboration of a pattern along the axis that runs from the head to the tail of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of any of the paired ,  metamerically arranged cell masses formed in the embryonic paraxial mesoderm .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the somites along the axis that runs from the rostral to the caudal region of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the somites along the axis that runs from the left to the right side of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the bony segments of the spinal column during their formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the posterior projection from the body of a vertebra that encloses the vertebral foramen .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the main portion of the vertebra anterior to the vertebral canal ,  and distinct from the vertebral arch ,  during its formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the joining of the main portion of the vertebra anterior to the vertebral canal and the posterior element of a developing vertebra ,  which will become the vertebral arch and the posterolateral portion of the vertebral body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the cartilaginous and gelatinous structures found between the bodies of adjacent vertebrae .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the lymph nodes located along the brachial vein that receive drainage from most of the free upper limb and send efferent vessels to the central axillary lymph nodes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the lymph nodes located in the mesentery ,  of which there are 3 classes: ileocolic ,  juxtaintestinal mesenteric ,  and central superior group .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the composite substructure of the telencephalon that is identified with olfaction ;  in humans this includes the olfactory tract ,  the anterior olfactory nucleus ,  the olfactory tubercle ,  the medial olfactory stria ,  the lateral olfactory stria ,  parts of the amygdala and the prepyriform area .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the first cranial nerve ,  which conveys the sense of smell .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the nerve - like ,  white band composed primarily of nerve fibers originating from the mitral cells and tufted cells of the olfactory bulb ,  but also containing the scattered cells of the anterior olfactory nucleus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the transparent ,  nearly structureless inner layer of the choroid in contact with the pigmented layer of the retina .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of one of the three types of interneurons found in the inner nuclear layer of the mature retina ;  they integrate ,  modulate ,  and interpose a temporal domain in the visual message presented to the retinal ganglion cells ,  with which they synapse in the inner plexiform layer .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the innermost nuclear layer of the retina ,  which projects axons through the optic nerve to the brain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the bony cavity that contains the eyeball or of any of the parts of the bones which form the cavity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of any of the striated muscles that move the eye and include: superior rectus ,  inferior rectus ,  medial rectus ,  lateral rectus ,  superior oblique ,  inferior oblique ,  retractor bulbi ,  levator palpebrae superioris .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the gland located behind the eyeball in some species that excretes fluid that facilitates movement of the nictitating membrane .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of either of two irregularly shaped bones that form the back of the hard palate and help to form the nasal cavity and the floor of the orbits .
the proportion or number of cells of the seminiferous tubules that create the blood - testes barrier and enable spermatogenesis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of sebaceous glands embedded in the tarsal plate of each eyelid .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the organ of vision and its supporting structures .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the alignment of the visual axes of the eyes .
the amount of force per unit area exerted by the intraocular fluid within the eye .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of nitrogen ,  in the form of urea ,  in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma ;  commonly used to measure renal function .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the piriform cortex ,  part of the olfactory tract ,  which receives its major afferents from the olfactory bulb ,  and is primarily responsible for the identification of odors .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the bone at the lower ,  posterior part of the skull .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the quadrilateral bone that forms the prominence of the cheek ,  the lateral wall and margin of the orbit ,  and the anterior two thirds of the zygomatic arch .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the irregularly thin plate that forms part of the medial wall of the orbit behind the frontal process of the maxilla .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the large ,  irregular bone located at the base and side of the skull ;  consists of three parts which are distinct at birth: squamous ,  tympanic ,  and petrous .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the bones that form the floor of the cranial cavity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the part of the skull that comprises the facial bones .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the membranous protective covering of the body to withstand applied tension without tearing .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the midbrain ,  pons ,  or medulla .
any measurable characteristic related to the state of equilibrium in the body of these most abundant steroids in animal tissues ,  and precursors to steroid hormones and bile salts ;  also components of plasma membranes .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of organic ,  monobasic acids derived from hydrocarbons present in fat - storing cells / tissue ;  they are saturated and unsaturated .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of organic ,  monobasic acids derived from hydrocarbons present in fat - storing cells / tissue ;  the carbon chain has one or more double or triple carbon - carbon bonds .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of organic ,  monobasic acids derived from hydrocarbons present in fat - storing cells / tissue ;  the carbon chain contains only single carbon - carbon bonds .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the lower chamber ( s )  of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the bone of the forelimb that articulates with the scapula above and the radius and ulna below .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of one or both of the doubly curved long bones that form part of the shoulder girdle and articulate with the sternum and the scapula .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the ring - like space ,  filled with aqueous humor ,  between the iris / pupil anteriorly and the lens and ciliary body posteriorly .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the lamellated connective tissue of the cornea .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the single layer of large flattened cells that cover the surface of the cornea .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the distensible musculomembranous bag for holding urine .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the anterior lobe of the prostate .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the long bones of the digits .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this colorless alkaline gas ,  formed in the body during organic decomposition .
any measurable characteristic related to the function of or processes in any of the glands in the mouth that secrete saliva .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the organic compounds ,  which ,  when polymerized ,  form proteins .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the series of events required for an organism to receive a touch stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the capillary loops at the beginning of each nephric tubule in the kidney .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the epithelial cells of the glomerulus ,  attached to the outer surface of the glomerular capillary basement membrane by cytoplasmic foot processes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the phagocytic cells in the capillary tuft of the renal glomerulus ,  interposed between endothelial cells and the basement membrane in the central or stalk region of the tuft .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this product of creatine catabolism .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the striated ,  involuntary muscle comprising the myocardium .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the encapsulated adipose tissue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the ovaries or testes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the encapsulated adipose tissue found in the groin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the encapsulated adipose tissue found on the dorsal / posterior side of the serous membrane lining the abdominal cavity and covering most of the viscera .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the body to take in fat - soluble substances  ( molecules composed of carbon and hydrogen and characteristically insoluble in water )  .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this adrenocortical steroid ;  induces glycogen deposition and regulates sodium conservation and potassium secretion .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this hormone ,  secreted by the adrenal cortex ;  regulates sodium conservation and potassium secretion in the distal renal tubule .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the large sesamoid bone that articulates with the femur and ,  in some species ,  covers the anterior surface of the knee .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the broad ,  flaring portion of the hip bone ,  which fuses with the ischium and the pubis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the endocrine gland located in the front and to the sides of the upper part of the trachea ,  and which secretes thyroid hormone and calcitonin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the teeth that are most anterior and prominent in the jaw .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the increase in size of the long pointed teeth ,  most anterior and prominent in the jaw .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the pituitary gland ,  the compound gland suspended from the base of the hypothalamus ,  which secretes somatotropins ,  prolactin ,  tsh  ( thyroid - stimulating hormone )  ,  gonadotropins ,  adrenal corticotropin ,  and other related peptides .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the stellate dendritic cell of myeloid origin ,  that appears clear on light microscopy and has a dark - staining ,  indented nucleus and characteristic inclusions  ( birbeck granules )  in the cytoplasm ;  langerhans cells are found principally in the stratum spinosum of the epidermis ,  but they also occur in other stratified epithelia and have been identified in the lung ,  lymph nodes ,  spleen ,  and thymus .
any measurable or observable characteristic of the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement of an organ or part of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic pertaining to the period of time an organism survives or is expected to survive or maintains or is expected to maintain a specific function .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of an embryo during the progression from its formation until the end of its embryonic life stage .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the portion of the body containing the brain and organs of sight ,  hearing ,  taste ,  and smell .
any measurable or observable characteristic of the system responsible for the exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide with the environment .
any measurable or observable characteristic of the organs associated with producing offspring .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to see .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the series of events required for an organism to sense pain ,  or to the morphology of the structures involved in any of these events .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the series of events required for an organism to receive an olfactory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal ,  or to the morphology of the structures involved in any of these events .
any measurable characteristic related to the change in electrical potential of a neuron or muscle fiber when stimulated above its threshold potential .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the act of transmitting electricity along a single nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the single process of a nerve cell that normally conducts impulses away from the cell body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the organ that pumps blood through the body or any of its component structures .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process beginning with penetration of the secondary oocyte by the sperm and completed by fusion of the male and female pronuclei .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of any of the macromolecules consisting of long chains of amino acids in peptide linkage .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of any of the chemical substances that have specific regulatory effects on the activity of a certain organ or organs ;  originally applied to substances secreted by various endocrine glands and transported in the bloodstream to the target organs ,  it is sometimes extended to include substances that are not produced by the endocrine glands but that have similar effects .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the part of the peripheral nervous system that is responsible for conveying voluntary motor and external sensory information ,  including all nerves controlling the skeletal muscular system and external sensory receptors .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to skillful and effective interaction of motions of the whole body or a portion of the body .
the proportion or numbers of the large mononuclear phagocytes which differentiate from monocytes ,  are typically resident in a particular tissue ,  and are capable of phagocytosing a variety of extracellular particulate material ,  including immune complexes ,  microorganisms ,  and dead cells .
the proportion or number of germ cells in the female .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the progenitor cells of the b cell lineage ,  with some lineage specific activity such as early stages of recombination of b cell receptor genes ,  but are not yet fully committed to the b cell lineage until the expression of pax5 occurs .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the polysaccharide which is the storage form for glucose in the liver and muscles ;  readily converted to glucose when blood glucose level decreases .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the projection neurons in the pyramidal cell layer of the cerebral cortex .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to metabolize the clear ,  colorless liquid that is the primary ingredient in alcoholic beverages .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the chemical reactions and pathways involving retinol ,  one of the three compounds that makes up vitamin a ;  retinol plays an essential role in metabolic functioning of the retina ,  the growth of and differentiation of epithelial tissue ,  the growth of bone ,  reproduction ,  and the immune response .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the secretion of endogenous signaling molecules into a synaptic cleft ;  neurotransmitters are released from presynaptic neurons and travel across the synaptic cleft to either excite or inhibit the target cell .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the secretion across synapses of the active sympathomimetic hormone that stimulates both the alpha -  and beta -  adrenergic systems ,  causes systemic vasoconstriction and gastrointestinal relaxation ,  stimulates the heart ,  and dilates bronchi and cerebral vessels .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the secretion across synapses of this widespread central and autonomic neurotransmitter ,  the principal transmitter of most postganglionic sympathetic fibers and of the diffuse projection system in the brain arising from the locus ceruleus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the equilibrium between intake and expenditure of calories .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the utilization of calories .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of fat - storing cells / tissue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process of generating white blood cells  ( leukocytes )  from the pluripotent hematopoietic stem cells of the bone marrow ;  two significant pathways generate various types of leukocytes: myelopoiesis ,  in which leukocytes in the blood are derived from myeloid stem cells ,  and lymphopoiesis ,  in which leukocytes of the lymphatic system  ( lymphocytes )  are generated from lymphoid stem cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a cell of hematopoietic origin ,  typically resident in particular tissues ,  specialized in the uptake ,  processing ,  and transport of antigens to lymph nodes for the purpose of stimulating an immune response via t cell activation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of a cell that is found in almost all tissues ,  containing numerous basophilic granules and capable of releasing large amounts of histamine and heparin upon activation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the subset of t lymphocytes that carry the cd4 marker ,  recognize intravesicular peptides bound to mhc class - ii molecules ,  and turn on antibody production .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the disc - like fragments of megakaryocytes that are found in the blood and function in clotting .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the type of t - helper cell whose cytokine production favors cellular immune responses and delayed type hypersensitivity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the type of t - helper cell whose cytokine production promotes defense against extracellular parasites and humoral immune responses typical of allergy .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the major hormone derived from the thyroid gland ;  it normally affects cellular metabolism .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this hormone synthesized and secreted by the thyroid ;  normally ,  this is the main thyroid hormone used by the tissues .
the proportion or number of cells lining the inner surfaces of the bronchi .
the proportion or number of the rounded ,  club - shaped ,  nonciliated cells found between ciliated cells in bronchiolar epithelium .
the proportion or number of cells in the epithelial layer of the stomach .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the accumulation of macrophages in a specific location in response to a wide variety of substances released at the sites of inflammatory reactions .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the organs involved in smell .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the components of the organs involved in taste .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the membranous protective covering of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in any of the organs involved in the production or excretion of urine .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the fibrous bands or cords of connective tissue at the ends of muscle fibers that attach muscles to bones and other structures .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the flexible bands or sheets of fibrous tissue that connect bones ,  cartilages ,  or other structures .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of this peptide hormone in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma ;  it regulates the water - electrolyte balance and acts as a vasodilator .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to plasma passing through the kidney .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the level of heat maintained by a living being .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the channel in the mesencephalon that connects the third and fourth ventricles .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the deposition or aggregation of coloring matter in the lamellated connective tissue of the iris .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the distance between the surfaces of the cornea ,  the transparent anterior portion of the fibrous coat of the eye that serves as the chief refractory structure .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the transparent structure of the eye responsible for focusing light rays .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the elongated neuroglial cells that traverse all the layers of the retina and that act as supporting elements .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the eye as determined through electrophysiological recordings from single cells or summary recordings from multiple cells  ( e .g .
the total proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of these macromolecules .
the degree of function or response of this enzyme ,  which cleaves angiotensinogen and creates angiotensin i .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the degree of function or response of any of these proteins ,  or their cofactors ,  which act as catalysts to induce chemical changes in other substances .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the cartilage bar in the mandibular arch that forms a temporary supporting structure in the embryonic mandible ;  gives rise to middle ear bones and sphenomandibular and anterior malleolar ligaments .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the nonstriated ,  involuntary muscle tissue of the structures that convey blood throughout the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the nonstriated ,  involuntary muscle tissue of the structures that convey blood throughout the body to shorten or develop increased tension .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the widening of the nonstriated ,  involuntary muscle tissue of the structures that convey blood throughout the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the nonstriated ,  involuntary muscle tissue of the structures that convey blood throughout the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of any of the structural and functional units of the nervous system ,  which consist of the nerve cell body ,  the dendrites ,  and the axon .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of this peptide hormone in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma ;  it is normally released by the neurohypophysis to control water metabolism and balance by regulating water loss ;  it also contracts smooth muscle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the membranes covering the spinal cord and brain ,  including the dura mater  ( external )  ,  arachnoid  ( middle )  ,  and pia mater  ( internal )  .
the amount of matter in either or both of the spongy organs of respiration contained within the pleural cavity of the thorax .
any measurable characteristic related to the state of equilibrium in the body with respect to any of the inorganic elements or compounds that have importance in body functions .
any measurable characteristic related to the state of equilibrium in the body with respect to this metallic element that normally occurs in the heme of hemoglobin ,  myoglobin ,  transferrin ,  ferritin ,  and iron - containing porphyrins ;  it is an essential component of enzymes such as catalase ,  peroxidase ,  and various cytochromes .
any measurable characteristic related to the functions of or processes in the ventral and medial region of the diencephalon forming the walls of the ventral half of the third ventricle ,  which is normally involved in the functions of the autonomic  ( visceral motor )  nervous system and ,  through its vascular link with the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland ,  in endocrine mechanisms .
any measurable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the unpaired compound gland suspended from the base of the hypothalamus by a short extension of the infundibulum ,  the infundibular or pituitary stalk .
any measurable characteristic related to the function of or processes in any of the organized aggregations of cells that function as secretory or excretory organs and are associated with reproduction .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the swellings on the trunk of the embryo that become limbs ,  the projecting ,  paired ,  jointed appendages of the body used for locomotion or grasping .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the undifferentiated mesoderm that gives rise to the gonads .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a distinct elevation of a transient proliferating cell mass of the fetal subventricular zone ;  this mass contributes most of its cells to the neocortex ;  however ,  hippocampal neurons ,  thalamus ,  septum and olfactory bulb neurons are also partly derived from the mge flat ,  thickened layer of ectodermal cells in the neuroectodermal area of the embryo's dorsal surface that develops into the neural tube and neural crest .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this catecholamine hormone that stimulates the adrenergic receptors and that causes systemic vasoconstriction and gastrointestinal relaxation ,  stimulates the heart ,  and dilates bronchi and cerebral vessels .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this catecholamine hormone secreted by the adrenal medulla which also acts as a neurotransmitter in the central and sympathetic nervous systems ;  precursor of epinephrine .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the fat - storing cells / tissue .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the peptide hormone secreted by white adipocytes and believed to regulate food intake and energy balance .
the degree to which the septation of the path through which blood exits the heart has reached its end point .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the gall bladder ,  the organ that serves as a storage reservoir for bile .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the layers of epithelial cells covering the front of the cornea .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the neurons that exclusively interact with other neurons .
the proportion or number of neurons that interact only with other neurons .
the proportion or number of cells that innervate an effector  ( muscle or glandular )  tissue and are responsible for transmission of sensory impulses .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of a group of nuclei associated with the ability to carry out willed movements ,  including the caudate ,  putamen ,  nucleus accumbens ,  globus pallidus ,  substantia nigra ,  and subthalamic nucleus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of neurons during their formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the directed and orderly movement of immature neurons from germinal zones to specific positions where they will reside as they mature .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the small membranous canal ,  connecting with both saccule and utricle of the membranous labyrinth ,  passing through the aqueduct of vestibule ,  and terminating in the endolymphatic sac .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the dilated blind extremity of the endolymphatic duct .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the thin ,  tense membrane forming the greater part of the lateral wall of the tympanic cavity and separating it from the external acoustic meatus ;  the tympanic membrane constitutes the boundary between the external and middle ear .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the drum membrane that forms the greater part of the lateral wall of the tympanic cavity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the bony ring at the ear canal to which the tympanic membrane is attached .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the reissner's membrane which separates the cochlear duct from the vestibular canal ,  i .e . ,  the endolymph of the scala media from the perilymph of the scala vestibuli ;  the reissner membrane consists of squamous epithelial cells with microvilli toward the ductus ,  a basement membrane ,  and a thin layer of connective tissue toward the scala .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the reissner's membrane which separates the cochlear duct from the vestibular canal ,  i .e .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the luminal space of the terminal lung buds .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the sacs for holding air in the lungs which are formed by the terminal dilation of air passageways .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphogenesis of the bronchioles .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of one or more of the masses of mesodermal tissue that is derived from the somites and is adjacent to the notochord that give rise to the ribs and vertebrae .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the paired epithelial sacs formed from the otic placode that give rise to the structures of the inner ear .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the series of projections that form between the branchial arches .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the ureteric bud that with the metanephric mesenchyme gives rise to the kidneys .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the canal that connects the outer and middle ear .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the urine of the oxygen - carrying protein of muscle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the cells that line the blood vessels .
the proportion or number of cells that line blood vessels .
correspondence in size ,  shape ,  and relative position of the upper chambers of the heart on opposite sides of a dividing line or plane or about a center or axis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of either of the two largest veins in the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the principal vein draining blood from the lower portion of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the principal vein draining blood from the upper portion of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the location or arrangement within the chest cavity of the organ that pumps blood through the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the laterally interconnecting neurons in the outer plexiform layer that connect rods of one part of the retina with cones in another part of the retina .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of any of the neuronal layers that make up the retina ,  including the ganglion cell ,  inner plexiform ,  inner nuclear ,  outer plexiform ,  outer nuclear layers ,  the inner and outer segments .
the proportion or number of rods and / or cones .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the cells that give rise to the various cells of the retina .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the cells that transmit signals from the photoreceptors to retinal amacrine and ganglion cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the bipolar cells that function in low light and transmit signals only through amacrine cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the retinal bipolar cells that connect to both ganglion and amacrine cells .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this cysteine homologue produced by the demethylation of methionine ,  an intermediate in the biosynthesis of l - cysteine from l - methionine via l - cystathionine .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the erectile protuberance at the tip of the mammary gland in which the mammary ducts terminate and from which milk can be secreted .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the tissue that is found in the tunica media of the vessels wall and allows vessels to stretch .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the fat derivatives in which one fatty acid has been replaced by a phosphate group .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the smaller of the two sacs in the vestibule .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the larger of the two sacs in the vestibule .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the epithelial cells that line the interior of the nose .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the neurons in the olfactory epithelium that are activated by specific odorants .
the proportion or numbers of the cells that transmit signals from the photoreceptors to retinal amacrine and ganglion cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the lobes of the cerebellum during their formation and differentiation .
the distance between the surfaces of the innermost cortical layer of the cerebellum that contains granule cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the floor of the midbrain which extends from the substantia nigra to the level of the cerebral aqueduct .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the floor of the midbrain which extends from the substantia nigra to the level of the cerebral aqueduct .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the mesencephalic roof plate ,  including the caudal and rostral part of the midbrain roof .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the rostral part of the midbrain roof .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the rostral part of the midbrain roof .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the common canal connecting the primordial atrium and ventricle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the caudal region of the brain during its formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the wall between the atria or ventricles of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the path through which blood exits the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the location or arrangement of the pulmonary vessels and aorta in relation to the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the degree or shape of the bend in the transparent anterior portion of the fibrous coat of the eye that serves as the chief refractory structure .
the distance between the external and internal surfaces of the skin folds covering the front of the eyeball .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of fold of skin of the upper eyelid that partially covers the inner corner of the eye .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of phagocytic cells of the myeloid lineage that capture antigens in the periphery and then migrate to the lymphoid organs and secrete cytokines to initiate immune responses .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the organizing signaling center that forms at the boundary between the midbrain and hindbrain and plays an essential role in development of the midbrain and anterior hindbrain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the choroid .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the blood vessel network of the conjunctiva .
the location or arrangement of the eye proper in relation to the eye socket .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the vertical alignment between the eyes . \ nconsider: vt:0001299
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the bony cavity that contains the eyeball or of any of the parts of the bones which form the cavity .
the distance from side to side of the bony cavity that contains the eyeball .
the distance from exterior to interior of the bony cavity that contains the eyeball or of any of the parts of the bones which form the cavity .
correspondence in size ,  shape ,  and relative position of the bony cavities that contain the eyeball ,  or of any of the parts of the bones which form the cavity ,  on opposite sides of a dividing line or plane or about a center or axis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the area in the retina where all of the axons of the ganglion cells exit the retina to form the optic nerve .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the area in the retina where all of the axons of the ganglion cells exit the retina to form the optic nerve .
the proportion or number of fibers in the optic nerve .
the proportion or number of cells in the adjustable membrane ,  composed of the stroma and pigmented epithelium ,  located just in front of the crystalline lens within the eye .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the iris  ( the adjustable membrane ,  composed of the stroma and pigmented epithelium ,  located just in front of the crystalline lens within the eye )  during its formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the adjustable membrane ,  composed of the stroma and pigmented epithelium ,  located just in front of the crystalline lens within the eye .
the proportion or number of cells in the lamellated connective tissue of the iris .
the proportion or number of pupils in one iris ,  each with sphincter muscle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the blood vessels of the choroid .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the location or arrangement of the pupil within the eye .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the location or arrangement of the transparent structure of the eye responsible for focusing light rays .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the thickened peripheral margin of the vitreous membrane of the cornea .
the ability to open the eyelids .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the papillae that contain taste buds ,  including the fungiform ,  foliate ,  and circumvallate papillae .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the mushroom - shaped papillae ,  which have a single taste bud at the tip ,  located mostly on the dorsal anterior portion of the tongue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the large papillae ,  which have multiple taste buds in the trough surrounding the papillae ,  located near the base and on the dorsal side of the tongue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the papillae located on the sides of the tongue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the taste buds located on the gustatory papillae ,  which includes the fungiform ,  foliate ,  and circumvallate papillae .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the urine of the monovalent cation of this alkali metal element ,  the most plentiful extracellular ion in the body .
any measurable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the sensory and motor neurons that run between the central nervous system  ( especially the hypothalamus and medulla oblongata )  and various internal organs  ( heart ,  lungs ,  endocrine and exocrine glands )  ,  responsible for controlling involuntary bodily functions .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the craniosacral portion of the autonomic nervous system .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the limbs ,  the projecting ,  paired ,  jointed appendages of the body used for locomotion or grasping .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the digits during their formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the appendage at the caudal end of the vertebral column in some vertebrates including remnant structures in species that normally lack a tail .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the dorsal gray matter of the spinal cord .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the set of distinctly differentiated long - lived t cells that have the phenotype cd45ro - positive and cd127 - positive .
the proportion or number of lymphocytes that are responsible for cell - mediated immunity and immune system regulation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which t cells undergo programmed cell death .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the location or arrangement of the top of the heart in relation to the rostral - caudal axis of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the mounds of embryonic connective tissue that bulge into the embryonic atrioventricular canal ;  these mounds eventually fuse to form the valves between the right and left atrioventricular orifices .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical dimensions magnitude of the mounds of embryonic connective tissue that bulge into the embryonic atrioventricular canal ;  these mounds fuse to form the valves between the right and left atrioventricular orifices .
the distance between the two surfaces of the mounds of embryonic connective tissue that bulge into the embryonic atrioventricular canal ;  these mounds fuse to form the valves between the right and left atrioventricular orifices .
the degree to which the development of the common canal connecting the primordial atrium and ventricle has reached its end point .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement of the common canal connecting the primordial atrium and ventricle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement of the wall separating the upper chambers of the heart .
the proportion or number of striated muscle cells in the heart as a whole or in any substructure of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement of the valve between the left atrium and the left ventricle of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement of the valve between the right atrium and the right ventricle of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement of the valve between the left ventricle and the ascending aorta .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement of the valve between the right ventricle and the pulmonary trunk .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement of the left upper chamber of the heart .
the amount of matter in the left upper chamber of the heart .
the amount of matter in the right upper chamber of the heart .
the amount of matter in the cardiac muscle that maintains the circulation of the blood .
the volume of or amount contained in the left lower chamber of the heart .
the amount of matter in the left lower chamber of the heart .
the volume of or amount contained in the right lower chamber of the heart .
the amount of matter in the right lower chamber of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the location or arrangement in relation to the heart and / or great vessels of the  fibroserous membrane covering the heart and beginning of the great vessels .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the location or arrangement in relation to each other and the developing heart of the mounds of embryonic connective tissue that bulge into the embryonic atrioventricular canal ;  these mounds eventually fuse to form the valves between the right and left atrioventricular orifices .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the location or arrangement of the early embryonic heart in relation to itself and the surrounding tissue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement of the main trunk of the systemic arteries .
any measurable or observable characteristic pertaining to the proportions of molecules  ( proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances )  within the slender connective tissue fiber in tissue of the main trunk of the systemic arteries which is characterized by great elasticity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement of the portion of the descending aorta proceeding from the arch of the aorta and extending to the diaphragm .
the distance between the surfaces of the wall of the left lower chamber of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the wall between the upper chambers of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the wall between the lower chambers of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement of the wall separating the lower chambers of the heart .
the distance between the surfaces of the wall between the two lower chambers of the heart .
the distance between the surfaces of the wall closest to the back of the left lower chamber of the heart .
the distance between the surfaces of the wall of the right lower chamber of the heart .
the distance between the surfaces of the wall closest to the back of the right lower chamber of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the main trunk of the systemic arteries .
the distance from side to side of the portion of the aorta attached to the atrioventricular fibrous rings and myocardium .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of cells in the dermis  ( the layer of the skin deep to the epidermis ,  consisting of a dense bed of vascular ,  connective tissue )  containing numerous basophilic granules and capable of releasing large amounts of histamine and heparin upon activation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the distinct lineage of t cells expressing natural killer cell markers and having t cell receptors characterized by the usage of a restricted repertoire of variable region gene segments .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of lymphocytes that are responsible for cell - mediated immunity and immune system regulation .
the proportion or number of the distinct lineage of t cells expressing natural killer cell markers and having t cell receptors characterized by the usage of a restricted repertoire of variable region gene segments .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the distinct lineage of t cells expressing natural killer cell markers and having t cell receptors characterized by the usage of a restricted repertoire of variable region gene segments .
the proportion or number of non - t ,  non - b lymphocytes ,  having a granular morphology and which are important in innate immunity to viruses and other intracellular pathogens ;  in addition ,  these cells can kill certain tumor cells .
the proportion or number of distinctly differentiated long - lived t cells that have the phenotype cd45ro - positive and cd127 - positive .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the set of distinctly differentiated long - lived t cells that have the phenotype cd45ro - positive and cd127 - positive .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation or differentiation of the non - t ,  non - b lymphocytes ,  having a granular morphology and which are important in innate immunity to viruses and other intracellular pathogens ;  in addition ,  these cells can kill certain tumor cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the uterine subset of the non - t ,  non - b lymphocytes ,  having a granular morphology and which are important in innate immunity to viruses and other intracellular pathogens ;  unk cells contribute to uterine decidualization and are recruited to implantation sites .
the proportion or number of the subset of t lymphocytes that carry the cd4 marker ,  recognize intravesicular peptides bound to mhc class - ii molecules ,  and turn on antibody production .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the subset of t lymphocytes that carry the cd4 marker ,  recognize intravesicular peptides bound to mhc class - ii molecules ,  and turn on antibody production .
the proportion or number of the regulatory subset of t lymphocytes that are involved in mhc class i restricted interactions .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation or differentiation of the regulatory subset of t lymphocytes that are involved in mhc class i restricted interactions .
the proportion or number of t cells bearing either cd4 - positive or cd8 - positive markers on their surface .
the proportion or number of the type of t - helper cell whose cytokine production favors cellular immune responses and delayed type hypersensitivity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which relatively unspecialized cells acquire the specialized features of the subset of the type of t - helper cell whose cytokine production favors cellular immune responses and delayed type hypersensitivity .
the proportion or number of the type of t - helper cell whose cytokine production promotes defense against extracellular parasites and humoral immune responses typical of allergy .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which relatively unspecialized cells acquire the specialized features of the type of t - helper cell whose cytokine production promotes defense against extracellular parasites and humoral immune responses typical of allergy .
the proportion or number of distinctly differentiated long - lived b cells that are readily activated upon re - encounter of an antigenic determinant ;  memory b cells differentiate from antigen - activated b cells which have been selected for expression of higher affinity immunoglobulin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation or differentiation of distinctly differentiated long - lived b cells that are readily activated upon reencounter of an antigenic determinant ;  memory b cells differentiate from antigen - activated b cells which have been selected for expression of higher affinity immunoglobulin .
the proportion or number of terminally differentiated ,  post - mitotic ,  short - lived cells of the b cell lineage devoted to producing large amounts of immunoglobulin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation or differentiation of terminally differentiated ,  post - mitotic ,  short - lived cells of the b cell lineage devoted to producing large amounts of immunoglobulin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of leukocytes that have abundant granules in the cytoplasm ,  including basophils ,  neutrophils ,  and eosinophils .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the large ,  phagocytic mononuclear leukocytes produced in the vertebrate bone marrow and released into the blood .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the large mononuclear phagocytes which differentiate from monocytes ,  are typically resident in a particular tissue ,  and are capable of phagocytosing a variety of extracellular particulate material ,  including immune complexes ,  microorganisms ,  and dead cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the phagocytic macrophages residing on the luminal surface of the hepatic sinusoids .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of a cell of hematopoietic origin ,  typically resident in particular tissues ,  specialized in the uptake ,  processing ,  and transport of antigens to lymph nodes for the purpose of stimulating an immune response via t cell activation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a stellate dendritic cell of myeloid origin ,  that appears clear on light microscopy and has a dark - staining ,  indented nucleus and characteristic inclusions  ( birbeck granules )  in the cytoplasm ;  langerhans cells are found principally in the stratum spinosum of the epidermis ,  but they also occur in other stratified epithelia and have been identified in the lung ,  lymph nodes ,  spleen ,  and thymus .
the proportion or number of stellate dendritic cells of myeloid origin ,  that appear clear on light microscopy and have a dark - staining ,  indented nucleus and characteristic inclusions  ( birbeck granules )  in the cytoplasm ;  langerhans cells are found principally in the stratum spinosum of the epidermis ,  but they also occur in other stratified epithelia and have been identified in the lung ,  lymph nodes ,  spleen ,  and thymus .
the proportion or number of phagocytic cells of the myeloid lineage that capture antigens in the periphery and then migrate to the lymphoid organs and secrete cytokines to initiate immune responses .
the proportion or number of phagocytic dendritic cells that are morphologically similar to plasma cells ,  but do not express b lineage markers ,  and produce large amounts of alpha / beta interferons  ( ifn -  /  )  in response to viral and bacterial stimuli .
the proportion or number of cells of hematopoietic origin ,  typically resident in particular tissues ,  specialized in the uptake ,  processing ,  and transport of antigens to lymph nodes for the purpose of stimulating an immune response via t cell activation .
the proportion or number of the protruding lymphoid tissue located on the mucosa of the small intestine that is composed of densely packed b cell follicles .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the protruding lymphoid tissue located on the mucosa of the small intestine that is composed of densely packed b cell follicles .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the b - 1 b cell subset bearing the cd5 surface marker .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the b - 1 b cell subset not bearing the cd5 surface marker ,  but having other phenotypic attributes of a b - 1 b cell .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a conventional b cell subject to antigenic stimulation and dependent on t cell help and with a distinct surface marker expression pattern from b - 1 b cells .
the proportion or number of the b - 1 b cell subset bearing the cd5 surface marker .
the proportion or number of the b - 1 b cell subset not bearing the cd5 surface marker ,  but having other phenotypic attributes of a b - 1 b cell .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the mature form of a b cell ,  a type of lymphocyte whose defining characteristic is the expression of an immunoglobulin complex .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a resting mature b cell with distinct phenotypic characteristics  ( cd23 - positive ,  cd21 - positive )  found typically in the b cell follicle region of the spleen and lymph nodes .
the proportion or number of resting mature b cells with distinct phenotypic characteristics  ( cd23 - positive ,  cd21 - positive )  found typically in the b cell follicle region of the spleen and lymph nodes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of rapidly cycling ,  mature b cells which have downregulated igd expression and exhibit high levels of binding by peanut agglutinin  ( pna )  ,  and are involved in t - dependent immune responses ;  germinal center b cells are found typically in the germinal centers of lymph nodes and spleen .
the proportion or number of rapidly cycling mature b cells which have downregulated igd expression and exhibit high levels of binding by peanut agglutinin  ( pna )  ,  and are involved in t - dependent immune responses ;  germinal center b cells are found typically in the germinal centers of lymph nodes and spleen .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cd23 - negative ,  cd21 - positive b cells of the marginal zone of the spleen expressing a b cell receptor usually reactive to bacterial cell wall components or senescent self components such as oxidized - ldl .
the proportion or number of cd23 - negative ,  cd21 - positive b cells of the marginal zone of the spleen expressing a b cell receptor usually reactive to bacterial cell wall components or senescent self components such as oxidized - ldl .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a mature b cell which has not yet been activated by antigen .
the proportion or number of mature b cells which have not yet been activated by antigen .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of an immature b cell of an intermediate stage between the pre - b cell stage and the mature naive stage ;  transitional b cells express surface immunoglobulin ,  and are subject to the process of b cell selection .
the proportion or number of immature b cells of an intermediate stage between the pre - b cell stage and the mature naive stage ;  transitional b cells express surface immunoglobulin ,  and are subject to the process of b cell selection .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in resting mature b cells with distinct phenotypic characteristics  ( cd23 - positive ,  cd21 - positive )  found typically in the b cell follicle region of the spleen .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in rapidly cycling mature b cells which have downregulated igd expression and exhibit high levels of binding by peanut agglutinin  ( pna )  ,  and are involved in t - dependent immune responses ;  germinal center b cells are found typically in the germinal centers of lymph nodes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in a cd23 - negative ,  cd21 - positive b cell of the marginal zone of the spleen expressing a b cell receptor usually reactive to bacterial cell wall components or senescent self components such as oxidized - ldl .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in a distinctly differentiated long - lived b cell that is readily activated upon re - encounter of its antigenic determinant ;  memory b cells differentiate from antigen - activated b cells which have been selected for expression of higher affinity immunoglobulin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a cell capable of processing and presenting lipid and protein antigens to t cells in order to initiate an immune response .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a cell with extensive dendritic processes found in the b cell areas  ( primary follicles and germinal centers )  of lymphoid tissue ;  follicular dendritic cells have fc receptors and c3b receptors ,  and hold antigen in the form of immune complexes on their surfaces for long periods and can present antigen to b cells during an immune response .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in a cell with extensive dendritic processes found in the b cell areas  ( primary follicles and germinal centers )  of lymphoid tissue ;  follicular dendritic cells have fc receptors and c3b receptors ,  and hold antigen in the form of immune complexes on their surfaces for long periods and can present antigen to b cells during an immune response .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of follicular dendritic cells to process and present antigen to b lymphocytes .
the proportion or number of cells with extensive dendritic processes found in the b cell areas  ( primary follicles and germinal centers )  of lymphoid tissue ;  follicular dendritic cells have fc receptors and c3b receptors ,  and hold antigen in the form of immune complexes on their surfaces for long periods and can present antigen to b cells during an immune response .
the proportion or number of conventional b cells subject to antigenic stimulation and dependent on t cell help and with a distinct surface marker expression pattern from b - 1 b cells .
the proportion or number of the progenitor cells of the b cell lineage ,  with some lineage specific activity such as early stages of recombination of b cell receptor genes ,  but are not yet fully committed to the b cell lineage until the expression of pax5 occurs .
the proportion or number of cells in the b lymphocyte lineage that have undergone vdj rearrangement of the immunoglobulin heavy chain and are in the process of v - j rearrangement of the light chain: these cells express mu heavy chain on the cell surface .
the proportion or number of the mature form of b cells ,  a type of lymphocyte whose defining characteristic is the expression of an immunoglobulin complex .
the proportion or number of the cells of the b lymphocyte lineage that have undergone vdj rearrangement of the heavy chain and v - j rearrangement of the light chain ;  these cells express igm on the cell surface but have not yet been selected for self - reactivity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature b cell during an immune response ,  resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation or differentiation of the progenitor cells of the b cell lineage ,  with some lineage specific activity such as early stages of recombination of b cell receptor genes ,  but are not yet fully committed to the b cell lineage until the expression of pax5 occurs .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cells present in the splenic marginal zone that are involved in the recognition and clearance of material ,  such as pathogen - derived material ,  from the splenic circulation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the macrophage cells that surround the white pulp of the spleen ,  adjacent to the marginal sinus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of macrophages that line the small blood vessels .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a mononuclear phagocyte that develops from bone marrow precursors but is resident in the peritoneum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the round ,  granular ,  mononuclear phagocytes found in the alveoli of the lungs which ingest small inhaled particles resulting in degradation and presentation of the antigen to immunocompetent cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of nucleated cells of the myeloid or lymphoid lineages ,  found in blood or other tissue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a vertebrate phagocyte with a single nucleus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a progenitor cell committed to the lymphoid lineage .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of cells capable of ingesting particulate matter via phagocytosis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a phagocyte formed by the fusion of mononuclear phagocytes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of an immature or mature t cell expressing a gamma - delta t cell receptor complex .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a mature t cell expressing a gamma - delta t cell receptor complex .
the proportion or number of immature or mature t cells expressing a gamma - delta t cell receptor complex .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a gamma - delta t cell present in columnar epithelia such as in the gastrointestinal tract ;  intraepithelial t cells often have distinct developmental pathways and activation requirements .
the proportion or number of gamma - delta t cells present in columnar epithelia such as in the gastrointestinal tract ;  intraepithelial t cells often have distinct developmental pathways and activation requirements .
the proportion or number of mature t cells expressing a gamma - delta t cell receptor complex .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation or differentiation of t cells expressing a gamma - delta t cell receptor complex ,  and / or accumulation of gamma - delta t cell precursors .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a cd4 - positive ,  gamma - delta t cell of the columnar epithelia such as in the gastrointestinal tract ;  intraepithelial t cells often have distinct developmental pathways and activation requirements .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a cd8 - positive ,  gamma - delta t cell of the columnar epithelia such as in the gastrointestinal tract ;  intraepithelial t cells often have distinct developmental pathways and activation requirements .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a cd4 - positive ,  cd25 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell which regulates overall immune responses as well as the responses of other t cell subsets through direct cell - cell contact and cytokine release .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell which regulates overall immune responses as well as the responses of other t cell subsets through direct cell - cell contact and cytokine release .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of an alpha - beta t cell present in columnar epithelia such as in the gastrointestinal tract ;  intraepithelial t cells often have distinct developmental pathways and activation requirements .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell of the columnar epithelia such as in the gastrointestinal tract ;  intraepithelial t cells often have distinct developmental pathways and activation requirements .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell of the columnar epithelia such as in the gastrointestinal tract ;  intraepithelial t cells often have distinct developmental pathways and activation requirements .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of any of the lymph nodes located outside the thoracic and abdominal cavities ,  such as the submandibular ,  prescapular ,  axillary ,  inguinal and popliteal lymph nodes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the lymph nodes located in the mesentary ,  of which there are 3 classes: ileocolic ,  juxtaintestinal mesenteric ,  and central superior group .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the area of the white pulp where the affinity maturation of b cells and the generation of memory b cells and plasma cells occur .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the nodules of small undifferentiated b lymphocytes and follicular dendritic cells located in the spleen white pulp .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the nodules of antigen - activated ,  differentiating b cells ,  follicular dendritic cells ,  antigen - presenting t cells and macrophages in the spleen white pulp .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the enmeshed group of antigen presenting cells with extensive dendritic processes in the spleen b cell follicle that present antigen to b cells during an immune response .
the proportion or number of spleen secondary b follicles where rapid b - cell proliferation ,  somatic hypermutation ,  and selection for antigen binding occur .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the spleen secondary b follicles where rapid b - cell proliferation ,  somatic hypermutation ,  and selection for antigen binding occur .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of immunoglobulin class g1 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of immunoglobulin class g2a .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of immunoglobulin class g2b .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of immunoglobulin class g3 .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the area of the lymph node secondary follicle where b cells are stimulated by antigens and helper t cells are stimulated to generate memory cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the lymph nodes found near the neck and shoulders .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of proteins secreted by vertebrate cells in response to a wide variety of inducers ;  they confer resistance against many different viruses ,  inhibit proliferation of normal and malignant cells ,  impede multiplication of intracellular parasites ,  enhance macrophage and granulocyte phagocytosis ,  augment natural killer cell activity ,  and show several other immunomodulatory functions .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of one of the type i interferons produced by peripheral blood leukocytes or lymphoblastoid cells that has antiviral activity and activates natural killer cells and b cells .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of one of the type i interferons produced by fibroblasts in response to stimulation by live or inactivated virus or by double - stranded rna with antiviral ,  antiproliferative ,  and immunomodulating activity .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the major interferon produced by mitogenically or antigenically stimulated lymphocytes that is involved in immunoregulation .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a serum glycoprotein produced by activated macrophages and nk cells and involved in initiating local inflammatory responses ,  particularly by its action on the endothelium of local blood vessels ;  its actions result in increased vascular permeability and induction of expression of adhesion molecules on the endothelium .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of proteins secreted by vertebrate cells in response to a wide variety of inducers ;  they confer resistance against many different viruses ,  inhibit proliferation of normal and malignant cells ,  impede multiplication of intracellular parasites ,  enhance macrophage and granulocyte phagocytosis ,  augment natural killer cell activity ,  and show several other immunomodulatory functions .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of a serum glycoprotein produced by activated macrophages and nk cells and involved in initiating local inflammatory responses ,  particularly by its action on the endothelium of local blood vessels ;  its actions result in increased vascular permeability and induction of expression of adhesion molecules on the endothelium .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of one of the type i interferons produced by peripheral blood leukocytes or lymphoblastoid cells that has antiviral activity and activates natural killer cells and b cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of one of the type i interferons produced by fibroblasts in response to stimulation by live or inactivated virus or by double - stranded rna with antiviral ,  antiproliferative ,  and immunomodulating activity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of the major interferon produced by mitogenically or antigenically stimulated lymphocytes that is involved in immunoregulation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of soluble factors which stimulate growth - related activities of leukocytes and other cell types ,  that can act to enhance cell proliferation and differentiation ,  dna synthesis ,  secretion of other biologically active molecules and responses to immune and inflammatory stimuli .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of soluble factors which stimulate growth - related activities of leukocytes as well as other cell types ;  they enhance cell proliferation and differentiation ,  dna synthesis ,  secretion of other biologically active molecules and responses to immune and inflammatory stimuli .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a soluble factor produced by monocytes ,  macrophages and other cells ,  which activates t - lymphocytes and potentiates their response to mitogens or antigens .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a cytokine produced by a variety of cell types ,  including t - cells ,  monocytes ,  dendritic cells and epithelial cells that exerts a variety of effects on immunoregulation and inflammation .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a cytokine that stimulates the growth and differentiation of b - cells and is also a growth factor for hybridomas and plasmacytomas ,  and is produced by many different cells including t - cells ,  monocytes and fibroblasts .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a soluble substance elaborated by antigen -  or mitogen - stimulated t - cells which induces dna synthesis in naive lymphocytes .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a soluble factor produced by activated t - cells that induces the expression of mhc class ii genes and fc receptors on b - cells and causes their proliferation and differentiation ;  it also acts on t - cells ,  mast cells and several other hematopoietic lineage cells .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a cytokine produced by bone marrow stromal cells that promotes the growth of b - cell precursors and is co - mitogenic with interleukin - 2 for mature t - cell activation .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a cytokine synthesized by t - cells that produces proliferation ,  immunoglobulin isotype switching ,  and immunoglobulin production by immature b - cells ,  and appears to play a role in regulating inflammatory and immune responses .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a cytokine that stimulates the proliferation of t - cells and can induce proliferation and differentiation of b - cells ;  interleukin - 15 shares biological activities with interleukin - 2 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a proinflammatory cytokine produced primarily by t - cells or their precursors .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a heterodimeric cytokine that plays a role in innate and adaptive immune responses ;  it is produced by dendritic cells ,  macrophages and a variety of other immune cells and plays a role in the stimulation of interferon - gamma production by t - cells and natural killer cells .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a heterodimeric cytokine that plays a role in innate and adaptive immune responses ;  it is produced by dendritic cells ,  macrophages and a variety of other immune cells .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a multi - lineage cell growth factor secreted by lymphocytes ,  epithelial cells and astrocytes which stimulates clonal proliferation and differentiation of various types of blood and tissue cells .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a cytokine that promotes differentiation and activation of eosinophils ;  it also triggers activated b - cells to differentiate into immunoglobulin - secreting cells .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a multifunctional cytokine secreted by primarily by activated th2 cells that may play a role as a regulator of allergic inflammation ,  and has been shown to enhance the growth and differentiation of mast cells ,  and can act on a variety of other immune cells .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a cytokine produced by activated t - cells that stimulates the migration of cd4 - positive lymphocytes and monocytes .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a cytokine which enhances the cytotoxic activity of nk cells and cytotoxic t - cells and appears to play a role both as neuroimmunomodulator and in the induction of mucosal immunity .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of an interleukin - 1 subtype that occurs as a membrane - bound pro - protein form that is cleaved by proteases to form a secreted mature form ;  both membrane - bound and secreted forms of interleukin - 1alpha are biologically active .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of an interleukin - 1 subtype that is synthesized as an inactive membrane - bound pro - protein on monocytes ,  macrophages and other cells ;  proteolytic processing of the precursor form by caspase 1 results in release of the active form of interleukin - 1beta from the membrane .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the p35 subunit of interleukin - 12 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the p40 cytokine subunit that is a component of both interleukin - 12 and interleukin - 23 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the p19 subunit of interleukin - 23 .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of a soluble factor produced by monocytes ,  macrophages and other cells ,  which activates t - lymphocytes and potentiates their response to mitogens or antigens .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of an interleukin - 1 subtype that occurs as a membrane - bound pro - protein form that is cleaved by proteases to form a secreted mature form ;  both membrane - bound and secreted forms of interleukin - 1alpha are biologically active .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of an interleukin - 1 subtype that is synthesized as an inactive membrane - bound pro - protein on monocytes ,  macrophages and other cells ;  proteolytic processing of the precursor form by caspase 1 results in release of the active form of interleukin - 1beta from the membrane .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of a cytokine produced by a variety of cell types ,  including t - cells ,  monocytes ,  dendritic cells and epithelial cells that exerts a variety of effects on immunoregulation and inflammation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of a heterodimeric cytokine that plays a role in innate and adaptive immune responses ;  it is produced by dendritic cells ,  macrophages and a variety of other immune cells and plays a role in the stimulation of interferon - gamma production by t - cells and natural killer cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of the p35 subunit of interleukin - 12 .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of the p40 cytokine subunit that is a component of both interleukin - 12 and interleukin - 23 .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of a cytokine synthesized by t - cells that produces proliferation ,  immunoglobulin isotype switching ,  and immunoglobulin production by immature b - cells ,  and appears to play a role in regulating inflammatory and immune responses .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of a cytokine that stimulates the proliferation of t - cells and can induce proliferation and differentiation of b - cells ;  interleukin - 15 shares biological activities with interleukin - 2 .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of a cytokine produced by activated t - cells that stimulates the migration of cd4 - positive lymphocytes and monocytes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of a proinflammatory cytokine produced primarily by t - cells or their precursors .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of a cytokine which enhances the cytotoxic activity of nk cells and cytotoxic t - cells and appears to play a role both as neuroimmunomodulator and in the induction of mucosal immunity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of a soluble substance elaborated by antigen -  or mitogen - stimulated t - cells which induces dna synthesis in naive lymphocytes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of a heterodimeric cytokine that plays a role in innate and adaptive immune responses ;  it is produced by dendritic cells ,  macrophages and a variety of other immune cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of the p19 subunit of interleukin - 23 .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of a multilineage cell growth factor secreted by lymphocytes ,  epithelial cells and astrocytes which stimulates clonal proliferation and differentiation of various types of blood and tissue cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of a soluble factor produced by activated t - cells that induces the expression of mhc class ii genes and fc receptors on b - cells and causes their proliferation and differentiation ;  it also acts on t - cells ,  mast cells and several other hematopoietic lineage cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of a cytokine that promotes differentiation and activation of eosinophils ;  it also triggers activated b - cells to differentiate into immunoglobulin - secreting cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of a cytokine that stimulates the growth and differentiation of b - cells and is also a growth factor for hybridomas and plasmacytomas ,  and is produced by many different cells including t - cells ,  monocytes and fibroblasts .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of a cytokine produced by bone marrow stromal cells that promotes the growth of b - cell precursors and is co - mitogenic with interleukin - 2 for mature t - cell activation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of a multifunctional cytokine secreted primarily by activated th2 cells that may play a role as a regulator of allergic inflammation ,  and has been shown to enhance the growth and differentiation of mast cells ,  and can act on a variety of other immune cells .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of any of the non - antibody proteins made by inflammatory leukocytes and some non - leukocytic cells that affect the behavior of other cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the diffusion or accumulation of neutrophils  ( granular leukocytes that have a three -  to five - lobed nucleus and cytoplasm that contains inconspicuous granules stainable by neutral dyes )  in tissues or cells in response to a wide variety of substances released at the sites of inflammatory reactions .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the directed and orderly movement of neutrophils  ( granular leukocytes that have a three -  to five - lobed nucleus and cytoplasm that contains inconspicuous granules stainable by neutral dyes )  from point to point .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of any of the class of pro - inflammatory cytokines that attract and activate leukocytes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the diffusion or accumulation of eosinophils  ( granular leukocytes having a two - lobed nucleus and cytoplasm containing coarse ,  round granules that are uniform in size and stainable by eosin )  in tissues or cells in response to a wide variety of substances released at the sites of inflammatory reactions .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the directed and orderly movement of eosinophils  ( granular leukocytes having a two - lobed nucleus and cytoplasm containing coarse ,  round granules that are uniform in size and stainable by eosin )  from point to point .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the organ that filters blood and stores red corpuscles and platelets .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of iron present in the spleen tissue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process contributing to anergy in b cells ,  a state of functional inactivation which is part of b cell tolerance induction .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the processes of b cell anergy ,  a state of functional inactivation that occurs as part of tolerance induction ,  in b cells in the bone marrow .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the processes of b cell anergy ,  a state of functional inactivation that occurs as part of tolerance induction ,  in b cells outside the bone marrow .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process contributing to anergy in t cells ,  a state of functional inactivation which is part of t cell tolerance induction .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the processes of t cell anergy ,  a state of functional inactivation which is part of tolerance induction ,  that occur in the thymus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the processes of t cell anergy ,  a state of functional inactivation which is part of tolerance induction ,  that occur outside the thymus .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of proteins secreted by vertebrate cells in response to a wide variety of inducers ;  they confer resistance against many different viruses ,  inhibit proliferation of normal and malignant cells ,  impede multiplication of intracellular parasites ,  enhance macrophage and granulocyte phagocytosis ,  augment natural killer cell activity ,  and show several other immunomodulatory functions .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of soluble factors which stimulate growth - related activities of leukocytes as well as other cell types ;  they enhance cell proliferation and differentiation ,  dna synthesis ,  secretion of other biologically active molecules and responses to immune and inflammatory stimuli .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of a serum glycoprotein produced by activated macrophages and nk cells and involved in initiating local inflammatory responses ,  particularly by its action on the endothelium of local blood vessels ;  its actions result in increased vascular permeability and induction of expression of adhesion molecules on the endothelium .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which t cell receptor v ,  d ,  and j ,  or v and j gene segments ,  depending on the specific locus ,  are recombined within a single locus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which immunoglobulin v ,  d ,  and j or v and j gene segments ,  depending on the specific locus ,  are recombined within a single locus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which v and j gene segments of the t cell receptor alpha chain are recombined .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which v and j gene segments of the t cell receptor gamma chain are recombined .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which v ,  d ,  and j segments of the t cell receptor beta chain are recombined .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which v ,  d ,  and j segments of the t cell receptor delta chain are recombined .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which v ,  d ,  and j gene segments of the immunoglobulin heavy chain are recombined .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which v and j gene segments of the immunoglobulin light chain are recombined .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process of replacing receptors on b cells ,  in which rag gene expression allows continued light - chain gene rearrangement and expression of a new light chain which combines with the previous heavy chain to form a new receptor .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the phagocytic dendritic cells that are morphologically similar to plasma cells ,  but do not express b lineage markers ,  and produce large amounts of alpha / beta interferons  ( ifn -  /  )  in response to viral and bacterial stimuli ;  plasmacytoid dendritic cells are found in the thymic medulla and lymph node t cell areas and are responsible for immune tolerance .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the formation of lymphatic vessels ,  tubular vessels involved in the transport of lymph and lymphocytes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which b cells undergo programmed cell death .
the proportion or number of the uterine subset of the non - t ,  non - b lymphocytes ,  having a granular morphology and which are important in innate immunity to viruses and other intracellular pathogens ;  unk cells contribute to uterine decidualization and are recruited to implantation sites .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a t cell present in columnar epithelia such as in the gastrointestinal tract ;  intraepithelial t cells often have distinct developmental pathways and activation requirements .
the proportion or number of t cells present in columnar epithelia such as in the gastrointestinal tract ;  intraepithelial t cells often have distinct developmental pathways and activation requirements .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of immunoglobulin class g2c .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of a pleiotropic cytokine that regulates immunoglobulin production ,  plasma cell and th17 t cell differentiation ,  cd8 +  t cell expansion ,  and inhibits antigen presentation by dendritic cells .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a pleiotropic cytokine that regulates immunoglobulin production ,  plasma cell and th17 t cell differentiation ,  cd8 +  t cell expansion ,  and inhibits antigen presentation by dendritic cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which immature t cells located in the thymus undergo programmed cell death .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the organ that filters blood and stores red corpuscles and platelets .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cells of the spleen .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in any of the cells of the spleen .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which the splenocyte cell population undergoes expansion by cell division .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which spleen cells undergo programmed cell death .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the small spherical bodies of epithelial cells found in the medulla of the thymus ,  that are arranged in a concentric pattern around clusters of degenerating lymphocytes ,  eosinophils and macrophages .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the dense region demarcating the thymus medulla from the surrounding cortex that is characterized by numerous blood vessels  ( predominantly arterioles )  with some perivascular connective tissue ,  mature and immature t lymphocytes ,  dendritic cells ,  variable numbers of perivascular b - lymphocytes and plasma cells ;  site of entry of bone marrow stem cells and exit of mature ,  functional t cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the supporting framework of the thymus ,  the primary lymphoid organ that is required for maturation of t cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the lymph nodes located in the groin area .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the parietal or visceral lymph nodes of the abdomen .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern any of the visceral lymph nodes located along the celiac trunk ,  which drain lymph from the stomach ,  duodenum ,  pancreas ,  spleen ,  and biliary tract .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the lymph nodes beneath the mandible that receive vessels from the face and tongue and drain into the superior deep cervical nodes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the lymph nodes located along the brachial vein that receive drainage from most of the free upper limb and send efferent vessels to the central axillary lymph nodes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the lymph nodes located around the axillary vein that receive lymphatic drainage from the upper or forelimb ,  scapular region and pectoral region .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the lymph nodes which drain the legs .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the migration of leukocytes from the blood vessels into the surrounding tissue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a type of transitional stage b cell that migrates from the bone marrow into the peripheral circulation ,  and finally to the spleen ;  this cell type has the phenotype surface igm - positive ,  surface igd - negative ,  cd21 - negative ,  cd23 - negative ,  and cd62l - negative .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a type of transitional stage b cell that has the phenotype surface igm - positive ,  surface igd - positive ,  cd21 - positive ,  cd23 - positive ,  cd62l - negative ,  and is located in the splenic b follicles .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a type of a transitional stage b cell that expresses surface igm and igd ,  and cd62l ;  this cell type appears to be an anergic b cell that does not proliferate upon bcr signaling ,  is found in the spleen and lymph nodes ,  and has the phenotype surface igm - positive ,  surface igd - positive ,  cd21 - positive ,  cd23 - positive ,  and cd62l - positive .
the proportion or number of a type of transitional stage b cell that migrates from the bone marrow into the peripheral circulation ,  and finally to the spleen ;  this cell type has the phenotype surface igm - positive ,  surface igd - negative ,  cd21 - negative ,  cd23 - negative ,  and cd62l - negative .
the proportion or number of a type of transitional stage b cell that has the phenotype surface igm - positive ,  surface igd - positive ,  cd21 - positive ,  cd23 - positive ,  cd62l - negative ,  and is located in the splenic b follicles .
the proportion or number of precursor cells from which the mammary cell lineage arises ,  capable of proliferation but unable to self - renew like stem cells ,  and thus proliferate indefinitely .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the milk - producing glands in female mammals ,  consisting of lobes containing clusters of alveoli with a system of ducts to convey the milk to an external nipple or teat .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of osseous tissue forming a part of the skeleton ;  consists of a dense outer layer surrounded by the periosteum ,  and an inner spongy substance .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the rate of milk flow from the mammary gland .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of a portion of osseous tissue forming a part of the skeleton ;  consists of a dense outer layer surrounded by the periosteum ,  and an inner spongy substance .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportions of proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances in fat - storing cells / tissue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the tissues or structures associated with or embedded in the skin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation or differentiation of any of the tissues or structures associated with or embedded in the skin .
the amount of matter in the long bone of the thigh .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the long bone of the thigh to withstand the application of force without yielding or breaking .
the amount of matter in the minerals  ( inorganic elements or compounds that have importance in body functions )  in the long bone of the thigh .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the bone of the forelimb that articulates with the scapula above and the radius and ulna below to withstand the application of force without yielding or breaking .
the amount of matter in the bone of the forelimb that articulates with the scapula above and the radius and ulna below .
the distance around the long bone of the thigh .
the amount of matter in the medial and larger of the two bones of the lower leg ,  which articulates with the femur ,  fibula ,  and talus .
the proportion or number of fat - storing cells .
the amount of matter in the connective tissue consisting of fat - storing cells and arranged in lobular groups or along minor blood vessels .
correspondence in size ,  shape ,  and relative position of milk - producing glands in female mammals on opposite sides of a dividing line or plane or about a center or axis .
the amount of matter in the elongated structure connected to the posterior surface of the testes that transports ,  stores ,  and matures spermatozoa between testes and vas deferens .
the distance across the tubules in the testes where spermatogenesis occurs .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportions of proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement of an organ or part of the body .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the bones of the forelimbs that articulate proximally with the carpal bones and distally with the phalanges .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the anterior / superior jointed appendages used for locomotion or grasping .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the posterior / inferior jointed appendages used for locomotion or grasping .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an omega - 3 ,  unsaturated fatty acid with a twelve - carbon backbone .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with a fifteen - carbon backbone .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with a twenty - four - carbon backbone .
the total proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of protein in milk .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of alpha - lactalbumin ,  an enzyme that catalyzes lactose synthesis in mammary epithelial cells .
the vertical dimension of the organ in certain species containing two or more mammary glands ,  each with its own nipple .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of circulating proteins involved in the body's defense against foreign organisms or substances and aberrant native cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of any of the class of pro - inflammatory cytokines that attract and activate leukocytes .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume of any of the cascade of proteins that act together to attack extracellular pathogens .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of circulating proteins involved in the body's defense against foreign organisms or substances and aberrant native cells .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of the series of proteins found in the blood shortly after infection ,  which participate in the early phases of host defense against infection .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of this plasma protein that normally circulates in increased amounts during inflammation or after tissue damage .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of an acute - phase reaction protein that is a precursor to amyloid a protein ;  it is present in very high levels during acute inflammatory episodes ,  and is present in low concentrations in normal sera ,  but is found at higher concentrations in sera of older persons and in patients with amyloidosis .
the proportion or number of nerve fibers of the autonomic nervous system that use norepinephrine as their neurotransmitter .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the systematic arrangement of nerve fibers of the autonomic nervous system that use norepinephrine as their neurotransmitter .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the system of lymphoid channels and tissues that drains extracellular fluid from the periphery via the thoracic duct to the blood .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the systematic arrangement of nerve fibers that utilize acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the male gamete .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the ovarian follicle .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of fat - storing cells / tissue present within skeletal muscle .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of fat - storing tissue located directly beneath the skin .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in a body fluid or tissue of organic ,  monobasic acids derived from hydrocarbons ;  they are saturated and unsaturated .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the fibrous bands or cords of connective tissue at the ends of muscle fibers that attach muscles to bones and other structures .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of organic ,  monobasic acids derived from hydrocarbons present in the contractile tissue that effects movement ;  the carbon chain contains only single carbon - carbon bonds .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of organic ,  monobasic acids derived from hydrocarbons present in the contractile tissue that effects movement ;  the carbon chain has one or more double or triple carbon - carbon bonds .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of a saturated fatty acid  ( c17h34o2 )  present in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of a saturated fatty acid  ( c14h28o2 )  present in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of a saturated fatty acid  ( c16h32o2 )  present in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of a saturated fatty acid  ( c18h36o2 )  present in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of a monounsaturated fatty acid  ( c18h34o2 )  ,  with a carbon - carbon double bond at c - 11 position ,  present in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of an unsaturated fatty acid  ( c20h36o2 )  ,  with two carbon - carbon double bonds ,  present in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of a monounsaturated fatty acid  ( c20h38o2 )  ,  with a carbon - carbon double bond at c - 11 ,  present in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of an omega - 6 unsaturated fatty acid  ( c18h32o2 )  ,  with two carbon - carbon double bonds ,  present in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of an omega - 3 ,  polyunsaturated fatty acid  ( c18h30o2 )  ,  with three carbon - carbon double bonds ,  present in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of a monounsaturated ,  omega - 9 fatty acid  ( c18h34o2 )  ,  present in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of an omega - 7 ,  monounsaturated fatty acid  ( c16h30o2 )  present in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cells of the thermogenic form of adipose capable of rapid liberation of energy ;  contain multiple small droplets of triglycerides and a high number of mitochondria .
the proportion or number of nerve fibers that utilize acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter .
the amount of matter in the fat - storing tissue surrounding the internal organs .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the physical or functional supporting tissue of the body ,  a major constituent of which is an extracellular matrix of ground substance ,  protein fibers ,  and structural glycoproteins .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the physical or functional supporting tissue of the body ,  a major constituent of which is an extracellular matrix of ground substance ,  protein fibers ,  and structural glycoproteins .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the u - shaped portion of the renal tubule ,  consisting of descending and ascending limbs ;  situated between the proximal and distal convoluted tubules .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the convoluted segments of nephron made up of the proximal tubule ,  leading from the glomerular capsule to the descending limb of henle's loop ,  and the distal tubule ,  leading from the ascending limb of henle's loop to a collecting tubule .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the small ducts that receive urine from several renal tubules ,  which converge to join larger collecting tubules  ( papillary ducts of bellini )  that open into the renal pelvis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the portion of the renal tubule that extends from the glomerular capsule to the descending limb of henle's loop .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the portion of the renal tubule that extends from the ascending limb of henle's loop to a collecting tubule .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the system of lymphoid channels and tissues that drains extracellular fluid from the periphery via the thoracic duct to the blood .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the system of lymphoid channels and tissues that drains extracellular fluid from the periphery via the thoracic duct to the blood .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the part of the digestive canal through which food passes from the pharynx to the stomach .
the proportion or number of nerve fibers that utilize acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter and transmit impulses to the alimentary tube .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the cranial suture that lies between the occipital bone and the mastoid portion of the temporal bones ;  continuous with the lambdoid suture .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the suture that unites the mastoid process of the temporal bone with the region of the mastoid angle of the parietal bone ;  continuous with the squamosal suture .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the union between the orbital plate of the frontal bone and the lesser wings of the sphenoid on either side .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the union between the lower border of the parietal bone with the upper edge of the greater wing of the sphenoid .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the junction between the zygomatic bone and greater wing of the sphenoid .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in any of the striated muscles connected at either or both extremities with the bony framework of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the large pyramidal cavity within the body of the maxilla ;  its apex is formed by the zygomatic process and its base by the lateral wall of the nose .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the rough projection of the upper bony framework of the mouth ,  which articulates with the zygomatic bone .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the upward extension from the body of the upper bony framework of the mouth ,  which articulates with the frontal bone .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a fully differentiated plasma cell that lives for years ,  as opposed to months ,  secretes immunoglobulin ,  and has the phenotype weakly cd19 - positive ,  cd20 - negative ,  cd38 - negative ,  strongly cd138 - positive ,  mhc class ii - negative ,  surface immunoglobulin - negative ,  igd - negative ,  and strongly cxcr4 - positive ;  the majority of these cells of this type reside in the bone marrow .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a fully differentiated plasma cell that lives for months ,  not years .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the supporting ,  flexible bony structure that encases the spinal cord .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the lower ,  posterior part of the hip bone ,  which fuses with the ilium and pubis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the anteroinferior portion of the hip bone ,  which fuses with the ilium and ischium .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the incomplete bony ring by which the upper / fore limbs are attached to the axial skeleton .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the bony structure by which the lower or hind limbs are attached to the axial skeleton .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the bones of the limbs and the shoulder and pelvic girdles .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the bony and cartilaginous structure enclosing the thoracic cavity ,  consisting of the thoracic vertebrae ,  ribs ,  costal cartilages ,  and sternum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the nonvascular ,  flexible hyaline connective tissue that forms the anterior continuation of a rib ,  the means by which it articulates with the sternum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the bone - forming cell that is derived from mesenchymal osteoprogenitor cells and forms an osseous matrix in which it becomes enclosed as an osteocyte .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a large ,  multinucleated cell that functions in the absorption and removal of osseous tissue .
the proportion or number of bone - forming cells that are derived from mesenchymal osteoprogenitor cells and form an osseous matrix in which they become enclosed as osteocytes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a mature osteoblast that has become embedded in the bone matrix in small cavities called lacunae and has cytoplasmic processes that extend into canaliculi and make contact with the processes of other osteocytes .
the proportion or number of large ,  multinucleated cells that function in the absorption and removal of osseous tissue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the systematic arrangement of nerve fibers that utilize acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter and transmit impulses to the alimentary tube .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the systematic arrangement of nerve fibers that utilize acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter and transmit impulses to the gland that secretes tears .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the marrow cavity in the shaft of a long bone during its formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the supporting ,  flexible bony structure that encases the spinal cord .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the systematic arrangement of nerve fibers that utilize acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter and transmit impulses to the exocrine gland lateral to the jaw that secretes saliva .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the elongated bones of the anterior / superior extremities ,  consisting of a tubular shaft  ( diaphysis )  and two extremities  ( epiphyses )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the elongated bones of the posterior / inferior extremities ,  consisting of a tubular shaft  ( diaphysis )  and two extremities  ( epiphyses )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the muscles of the anterior or posterior extremities .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the muscles of the posterior extremities .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the projection neurons in the pyramidal layer of the hippocampus .
the proportion or number of projection neurons in the pyramidal layer of the hippocampus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the striated ,  involuntary muscle comprising the myocardium .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in any of the unstriated ,  involuntary muscle tissue of the internal organs ,  blood vessels ,  and other body structures not under willful control .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the electron - dense junctional complex ,  at the end - to - end contacts of cardiac muscle cells ,  that contains three types of membrane junctions  ( fascia adherens ,  gap junctions and occasionally desmosomes )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of any of the muscles responsible for the movement of the jaws during mastication ,  including the masseter ,  temporalis ,  and medial and lateral pterygoid muscles .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the respiratory muscles that arise from the lower border of one rib and insert into the upper border of the adjoining rib .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the thin musculomebranous barrier that separates the abdominal and thoracic cavities ;  often used for breathing control .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of either or both of the two muscles that make up the upper and fore part of the chest that adduct and rotate the forelimb and lift the ribs .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the muscle of the back which is the intermediate and largest of the continuations of the sacrospinalis .
any measurable or observable characteristic pertaining to the proportions of cells within the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement of an organ or part of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportions of cells in any of the striated muscles connected at either or both extremities with the bony framework of the body .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in a body tissue or fluid of macromolecules consisting of long sequences of amino acids in peptide linkage .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the systematic arrangement of nerve fibers that utilitze acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter and transmit impulses to the exocrine gland on the floor of the mouth that secretes saliva .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the paired ,  metamerically arranged cell masses formed in the embryonic paraxial mesoderm .
the proportion or number of nerve fibers that utilize acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter and transmit impulses to the gland that secretes tears .
the proportion or number of nerve fibers that utilize acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter and transmit impulses to the exocrine gland lateral to the jaw that secretes saliva .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the visceral lymph nodes located along the celiac trunk ,  which drain lymph from the stomach ,  duodenum ,  pancreas ,  spleen ,  and biliary tract .
the proportion or number of nerve fibers that utilitze acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter and transmit impulses to the exocrine gland on the floor of the mouth that secretes saliva .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of an epithelial outgrowth of the cloaca in birds ;  prior to involution ,  it is where b - lymphocyte maturation occurs .
the proportion or number of fibers of afferent nerves conveying impulses processed by the central nervous system .
the amount of matter in the part of the digestive canal through which food passes from the pharynx to the stomach .
the proportion or number of pro - t cells that have the cell surface marker phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  cd44 - positive ,  and cd25 - negative .
the amount of matter in the large sac at the ileum and large intestine junction .
the proportion or number of thymocytes that have the cell surface marker phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  cd44 - positive ,  and cd25 - positive .
the volume of or amount contained in the secondary ,  muscular stomach in some vertebrates used for grinding up food .
the proportion or number of thymocytes that have the cell surface marker phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  cd44 - negative ,  and cd25 - positive and expressing the t cell receptor beta - chain in complex with the pre - t cell receptor alpha chain .
the distance between the surfaces of the layer of muscular tissue surrounding the secondary ,  muscular stomach in some vertebrates used for grinding up food .
the proportion or number of thymocytes that have the cell surface marker phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  cd44 - negative ,  cd25 - negative ,  and pre - tcr - positive .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the systematic arrangement of the fibers of afferent nerves conveying impulses processed by the central nervous system .
the proportion or number of cells in the network of vessels which carries lymph around the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity to change ,  adjust ,  or alter any immune system process or function as a result of a potential internal or invasive threat .
the amount of matter in the upper portion of the digestive tract ,  between the stomach and the large intestine .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to systematic arrangement of the fibers of the second cranial nerve which is responsible for conveying visual information from the retina to the brain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the systematic arrangement of the elongated processes of neurons .
the proportion or number of elongated processes of neurons .
the amount of matter in the organ that secretes pancreatic juice into the duodenum and secretes glucagon and insulin into the bloodstream .
the amount of matter in the terminal portion of the intestinal tube adjacent to the anus .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of a protein involved in innate immunity ,  which can bind mannosylated microorganisms and activate the complement pathway .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of any of the endogenous compounds that mediate the local accumulation of fluid ,  plasma proteins ,  and leukocytes at the site of injury ,  insult ,  or infection .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the systematic arrangement of nerve fibers to the modified epidermal cells located in the stratum basale and found mostly in areas where sensory perception is acute .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of any of the class of pro - inflammatory cytokines that attract and activate leukocytes .
the proportion or number of nerve fibers to the modified epidermal cells located in the stratum basale and found mostly in areas where sensory perception is acute .
the proportion or number of nerve fibers that connect to the neurons located at the interface of the molecular and internal granule layers of the cerebellar cortex .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of any of a subset of interleukins that are involved in attracting leukocytes to a site of tissue injury .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of this protein secreted by macrophages which is chemotactic for neutrophils and t cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the systematic arrangement of nerve fibers that connect to the neurons located at the interface of the molecular and internal granule layers of the cerebellar cortex .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the systematic arrangement of afferent terminals and / or their synapses in the cochlear ihc region .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of any of the non - antibody proteins made by inflammatory leukocytes and some non - leukocytic cells that affect the behavior of other cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the systematic arrangement of nerve fibers to the normally dense plexus of efferent terminals that contact radial fibers of the spiral ganglion below cochlear ihcs or of the sparser plexus of terminals positioned around ihc somata ;  normally ,  lateral olivocochlear neurons ,  which are found in and / or around the lateral superior olive ,  project mainly to the ipsilateral cochlea and terminate mostly on dendritic fibers below ihcs .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of any of the cytokines produced by t cells ,  fibroblasts and other cells in response to a challenge by a foreign agents such as viruses ,  bacteria ,  parasites and tumor cells .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of any of the cytokines produced by leukocytes .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of a a serum glycoprotein produced by activated macrophages and nk cells and involved in initiating local inflammatory responses ,  particularly by its action on the endothelium of local blood vessels ;  its actions result in increased vascular permeability and induction of expression of adhesion molecules on the endothelium .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of this soluble factor produced by macrophages / monocytes that activates vascular endothelium and lymphocytes .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of this factor that is a co - regulator of mast cell growth and produced by t and b cells .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of this cytokine released by helper t cells that stimulates proliferation of t lymphocytes and activated b lymphocytes .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of this soluble factor produced by b -  and t - cells ,  with effects on t -  and b - cell growth and differentiation ,  and in acute phase reactions .
obsolete .the degree of function or response of this cytokine released by helper t cells that stimulates proliferation of t lymphocytes and activated b lymphocytes .
obsolete .the degree of function or response to an external intervention of the cytokine released by helper t cells that stimulates proliferation of t lymphocytes and activated b lymphocytes .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of any of the complement proteins .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of the complement protein ,  c1 .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of the complement protein ,  c2 .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of the complement protein ,  c3 .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of the complement protein ,  c4 .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of the complement protein ,  c5 .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of the complement protein ,  c6 .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of the complement protein ,  c7 .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of the complement protein ,  c8 .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of the complement protein ,  c9 .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of the complement protein ,  factor b .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of the complement protein ,  factor d .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation or differentiation of the organs or cells associated with the body's defense against foreign organisms or substances and aberrant native cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the cells found in the bone marrow during their formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of cells found in the bone marrow ,  which eventually give rise to the granulocyte line of blood cells ,  during their formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of any of the cells found in the blood during their formation or differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of disc - like fragments of megakaryocytes that are found in the blood and function in clotting .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which lymphocyte populations  ( any of the white blood cells that include b cells ,  t cells ,  and nk cells )  undergo expansion by cell division .
the proportion or number of afferent terminals and / or their synapses in the cochlear ihc region .
the proportion or number of nerve fibers to the normally dense plexus of efferent terminals that contact radial fibers of the spiral ganglion below cochlear ihcs or of the sparser plexus of terminals positioned around ihc somata ;  normally ,  lateral olivocochlear neurons ,  which are found in and / or around the lateral superior olive ,  project mainly to the ipsilateral cochlea and terminate mostly on dendritic fibers below ihcs .
the proportion or number of nerve fibers to any part of the numerous oval bodies found in the dermal papillae of thick skin and which are believed to be mechanoreceptors for tactile sensation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the systematic arrangement of nerve fibers to any part of the numerous oval bodies found in the dermal papillae of thick skin and which are believed to be mechanoreceptors for tactile sensation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the systematic arrangement of sensory or motor nerve fibers to targets in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement of an organ or part of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of granular leukocytes that are characterized by pale - staining ,  lobate nucleus and cytoplasm and contain dark - staining granules of varying size and stainable by basic dyes .
the proportion or number of cells associated with the body's defense against foreign organisms or substances and aberrant native cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  alpha - beta t cell present in columnar epithelia such as in the gastrointestinal tract ;  intraepithelial t cells often have distinct developmental pathways and activation requirements .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the portion of the large intestine between the cecum and the rectum .
the amount of matter in the portion of the large intestine between the cecum and the rectum .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the digestive tube passing from the stomach to the anus .
the amount of matter in the digestive tube passing from the stomach to the anus .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the first division of the small intestine that extends from the pyloris to the junction with the jejunum .
the amount of matter in the first division of the small intestine that extends from the pyloris to the junction with the jejunum .
the volume of or amount contained in the sac - like structure of the digestive canal between the esophagus and the small intestine .
the amount of matter in the sac - like structure of the digestive canal between the esophagus and the small intestine .
the distance between the surfaces of the layer of smooth excitable and contractile fibers of the sac - like structure of the digestive canal between the esophagus and the small intestine .
the distance between the surfaces of the layer of epithelial cells of the sac - like structure of the digestive canal between the esophagus and the small intestine .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the first muscular and glandular part of the stomach of birds where digestive enzymes are secreted and mixed with food .
the volume of or amount contained in the first muscular and glandular part of the stomach of birds where digestive enzymes are secreted and mixed with food .
the amount of matter in the first muscular and glandular part of the stomach of birds where digestive enzymes are secreted and mixed with food .
the distance between the surfaces of the mucosal layer lining the first muscular and glandular part of the stomach of birds where digestive enzymes are secreted and mixed with food .
the distance between the surfaces of the muscle layer of the first division of the small intestine that extends from the pyloris to the junction with the jejunum .
the distance from between the surfaces of the mucosal layer lining the first division of the small intestine that extends from the pyloris to the junction with the jejunum .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the finger - like projections of the mucosal layer of the duodenum .
the distance between the inferior and superior edges of any of the straight tubular glands located in the epithelial layer of the intestine between the bases of the villi of the duodenum .
the distance from side to side of the straight tubular glands located in the epithelial layer of the intestine between the bases of the villi of the duodenum .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the portion of the small intestine that extends from the duodenum to the ileum .
the amount of matter in the portion of the small intestine that extends from the duodenum to the ileum .
the distance between the surfaces of the muscle layer of the portion of the small intestine that extends from the duodenum to the ileum .
the distance between the surfaces of the mucosal layer lining the portion of the small intestine that extends from the duodenum to the ileum .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the finger - like projections of the mucosal cell layer of the jejunum .
the distance between the inferior and superior edges of the straight tubular glands located in the epithelial layer of the intestine between the bases of the villi of the jejunum .
the distance from side to side of the straight tubular glands located in the epithelial layer of the intestine between the bases of the villi of the jejunum .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the distal portion of the digestive tube that extends from the ileocecal valve to the anus .
the amount of matter in the distal portion of the digestive tube that extends from the ileocecal valve to the anus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the mucous lining of the first division of the small intestine that extends from the pyloris to the junction with the jejunum ;  this consists of epithelium ,  lamina propria ,  and a layer of smooth muscle cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the mucous lining of the portion of the small intestine that extends from the duodenum to the ileum ;  this consists of epithelium ,  lamina propria ,  and a layer of smooth muscle cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the mucous lining of the portion of the small intestine that extends from the jejunum to the colon ;  this consists of epithelium ,  lamina propria ,  and a layer of smooth muscle cells .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the portion of the small intestine that extends from the jejunum to the colon .
the amount of matter in the portion of the small intestine that extends from the jejunum to the colon .
the distance between the surfaces of the muscle layer of the portion of the small intestine that extends from the jejunum to the colon .
the distance between the surfaces of the portion of the small intestine that extends from the jejunum to the colon .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the finger - like projections of the mucosal cell layer of the ileum .
the distance between the inferior and superior edges of the straight tubular glands located in the epithelial layer of the intestine between the bases of the villi of the ileum .
the distance from side to side of the straight tubular glands located in the epithelial layer of the intestine between the bases of the villi of the ileum .
the distance between the surfaces of the muscle surrounding the portion of the large intestine between the cecum and the rectum .
the distance between the surfaces of the mucosal layer lining the portion of the large intestine between the cecum and the rectum .
the distance between the surfaces of the muscle surrounding the large sac at the ileum and large intestine junction .
the distance between the surfaces of the mucosal layer lining the large sac at the ileum and large intestine junction .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the large fermentation chamber situated anteriorly to the stomach in some species .
the volume of or amount contained in the large fermentation chamber situated anteriorly to the stomach in some species .
the amount of matter in the large fermentation chamber situated anteriorly to the stomach in some species .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the esophageal anatomical diverticulum in some species .
the amount of matter in the esophageal anatomical diverticulum in some species .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the first two compartments of the forestomach of ruminants ,  composed of the reticulum and the rumen which communicates anteriorly with the oesophagus and posteriorly with the omasum .
the volume of or amount contained in the forestomach of ruminants ,  composed of the reticulum and the rumen which communicates anteriorly with the esophagus and posteriorly with the omasum .
the amount of matter in the forestomach of ruminants ,  composed of the reticulum and the rumen which communicates anteriorly with the oesophagus and posteriorly with the omasum .
the distance between the surfaces of the layer of membranous tissue that lines the internal surface of the reticulo - rumen .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the small ,  finger - like projections of the surface epithelial layer in the rumen .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the third forestomach of ruminants which connects the reticulum to the abomasum .
the volume of or amount contained in the third forestomach of ruminants which connects the reticulum to the abomasum .
the amount of matter in the third forestomach in ruminants which connects the reticulum to the abomasum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the blood forming organs and tissues and the system of lymphoid channels and tissues that drains extracellular fluid from the periphery via the thoracic duct to the blood .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in any of the cells found in the blood .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of cells found in the blood and / or the blood - forming organs and tissues .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the blood forming organs and tissues and the system of lymphoid channels and tissues that drains extracellular fluid from the periphery via the thoracic duct to the blood .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the blood forming organs and tissues and the system of lymphoid channels and tissues that drains extracellular fluid from the periphery via the thoracic duct to the blood .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the blood forming organs and tissues and the system of lymphoid channels and tissues that drains extracellular fluid from the periphery via the thoracic duct to the blood .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the cells found in the blood and / or the blood - forming organs and tissues .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the cells found in the blood and / or the blood - forming organs and tissues .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the first secretion of the mammary gland before milk production ;  provides energy and passive immunity to newborn offspring .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of proteins that function as a primary mechanism for protection against disease present in the first secretion of the mammary gland before milk production .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in colostrum of the principal immunoglobulin in exocrine secretions .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in colostrum of the major antibody for antitoxins ,  viruses ,  and bacteria ;  also activates complement .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in colostrum of an immunoglobulin formed during the early period of an immune response ;  also stimulates complement activity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of butterfat present in milk .
the proportion or number of sensory or motor nerve fibers to targets in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement of an organ or part of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the immature erythrocyte precursors .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of the thin ,  yellow ,  milky fluid secreted by the mammary gland ,  before or after parturition ,  preceding the production of milk .
the proportion or number of somatic cells  ( leukocytes and epithelial cells )  present in colostrum .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of beta - lactoglobulin ,  which may bind retinol ;  this milk constituent is allergenic .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of whey acidic protein  ( wap )  ,  a major protein of whey in rodents and rabbits  ( as well as marsupials )  ,  which belongs to the four disulfide core family .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of lactoferrin ,  a globular multifunctional protein with antimicrobial activity ;  part of innate defense .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in colostrum of chemical substances produced by an organ ,  cells of an organ ,  or scattered cells ,  having a specific regulatory effect on the activity of an organ or organs .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in colostrum of members of the hormone family that includes estrogens ,  progesterone ,  glucocorticoids ,  and androgens .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in colostrum of the peptide hormone secreted by white adipocytes and believed to regulate food intake and energy balance .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in colostrum of the hormone that stimulates milk secretion .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in colostrum of any factors which promote cell proliferation .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of any substance ,  usually a peptide or steroid ,  that has a specific metabolic regulatory effect on the activity or behavior of cells expressing a receptor for the hormone .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of members of the hormone family that includes estrogens ,  progesterone ,  glucocorticoids ,  and androgens .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of the peptide hormone secreted by white adipocytes and believed to regulate food intake and energy balance .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of the hormone that stimulates milk secretion .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of any factors which promote cell proliferation .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of casein ,  the predominant phosphoprotein in milk .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of the most abundant casein in the milk of ruminants and rabbits .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of alpa - s2 - casein ,  a minor form of casein .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of kappa - casein ,  a casein which plays a crucial role in micellar structure ;  its concentration determines micellar size .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of beta - casein in milk .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of this element in milk .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the systematic arrangement of the nerve fibers that convey impulses from the central nervous system to stimulate muscle contraction or glandular secretion .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of lactose ,  the major sugar found in colostrum and milk ;  it is composed of one molecule of glucose and one molecule of galactose .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of any inorganic element or compound that has importance in body functions .
the proportion or number of nerve fibers that convey impulses from the central nervous system to stimulate muscle contraction or glandular secretion .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of calcium ,  a metallic element .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of potassium ,  a metallic element .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of sodium ,  a metallic element .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of this nonmetallic element which occurs naturally in phosphates .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of any binary compound of chlorine .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of magnesium ,  a metallic element .
the proportion or number of nerve fibers to sympathetic termini .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the systematic organization of nerve fibers to sympathetic termini .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the lower chamber ( s )  of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process of blood vessel formation and remodeling ,  following initial formation of the vascular network .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the initial establishment of the vascular network .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the hollow ,  muscular organ that pumps blood through the body .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a crystalline acid occurring as an end product of purine metabolism .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of straight chain monocarboxylic acids naturally occurring in fats found in milk fat ;  they are saturated and unsaturated .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of straight chain monocarboxylic acids without double bonds in their chains found in milk fat .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of straight chain monocarboxylic acids with one or more double or triple carbon - carbon bonds found in milk fat .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with a four - carbon backbone .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with a five - carbon backbone .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with a six - carbon backbone .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with a seven - carbon backbone .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with an eight - carbon backbone .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with a nine - carbon backbone .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with a ten - carbon backbone .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with an eleven - carbon backbone .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with a twelve - carbon backbone .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with a fourteen - carbon backbone .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with a sixteen - carbon backbone .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with a seventeen - carbon backbone .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with a twenty - carbon backbone .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with a twenty - two - carbon backbone .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of unsaturated fatty acids containing at least one double bond in the trans configuration .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of unsaturated fatty acids in which the first unsaturated bond is in the third position from the omega carbon  ( c18:3 ,  n - 3 ;  c20:5 ,  n - 3 ;  c22:6 ,  n - 3 )  .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of unsaturated fatty acids in which the first unsaturated bond is in the sixth position from the omega carbon  ( c18:2 ,  n - 6 ;  c18:3 ,  n - 6 ;  c20:2 ,  n - 6 ;  c20:3 ,  n - 6 ;  c20:4 ,  n - 6 ;  c22:2 ,  n - 6 ;  c22:4 ,  n - 6 ;  c22:5 ,  n - 6 )  .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of any / all isomers of linoleic acid in which the double bonds are conjugated  ( double bonds alternate with single bonds )  ;  found especially in meat and dairy products derived from ruminants .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated ,  omega - 6 fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with a fourteen - carbon backbone and a cis double bond at c - 9 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with a sixteen - carbon backbone and a cis double bond at c - 11 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with a seventeen - carbon backbone and a cis double bond at c - 9 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and a trans double bond at c - 11 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and a trans double bond at c - 4 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and a trans double bond at c - 5 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and a trans double bond at either c - 6 or c - 8 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and a trans double bond at c - 9 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and a trans double bond at c - 10 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and a trans double bond at either c - 13 or c - 14 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and either a cis double bond at c - 14 or a trans double bond at c - 16 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and a cis double bond at c - 11 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and a cis double bond at c - 12 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and a cis double bond at c - 13 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and a cis double bond at c - 15 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone ,  a cis double bond at c - 9 ,  and a trans double bond at c - 13 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone ,  a cis double bond at c - 9 ,  and a trans double bond at c - 12 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone ,  a cis double bond at c - 12 ,  and a trans double bond at c - 9 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and trans double bonds at c - 9 and c - 12 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and trans double bonds at c - 9 and c - 14 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone ,  a trans double bond at c - 11 ,  and a cis double bond at c - 15 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and trans double bonds at c - 11 and c - 15 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and cis double bonds at c - 9 and c - 11 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone ,  a cis double bond at c - 9 ,  and a trans double bond at c - 11 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone ,  a cis double bond at c - 12 ,  and a trans double bond at c - 14 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone ,  a trans double bond at c - 7 ,  and a cis double bond at c - 9 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone ,  a trans double bond at c - 8 ,  and a cis double bond at c - 10 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone ,  a trans double bond at c - 9 ,  and a cis double bond at c - 11 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone ,  a trans double bond at c - 10 ,  and a cis double bond at c - 12 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone ,  a trans double bond at c - 11 ,  and a cis double bond at c - 13 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone ,  a trans double bond at c - 12 ,  and a cis double bond at c - 14 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and trans double bonds at c - 7 and c - 9 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and trans double bonds at c - 8 and c - 10 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and trans double bonds at c - 9 and c - 11 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and trans double bonds at c - 10 and c - 12 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and trans double bonds at c - 11 and c - 13 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and trans double bonds at c - 12 and c - 14 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with a twenty - carbon backbone and cis double bond at c - 8 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with a twenty - carbon backbone and cis double bond at c - 11 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated ,  omega - 6 fatty acid with a twenty - carbon backbone and four double bonds .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated ,  omega - 3 fatty acid with a twenty - carbon backbone and five double bonds .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated ,  omega - 3 fatty acid with a twenty - two - carbon backbone and five double bonds .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated ,  omega - 3 fatty acid with a twenty - two - carbon backbone and six double bonds .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated ,  omega - 3 fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and three double bonds .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with a twenty - carbon backbone and two double bonds .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and a cis double bond at c - 9 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with a sixteen - carbon backbone and a cis double bond at c - 9 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of organic ,  monobasic acids derived from hydrocarbons present in milk fat ;  the carbon chain has only one double or triple carbon - carbon bond .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of organic ,  monobasic acids derived from hydrocarbons present in milk fat ;  the carbon chain has two or more double or triple carbon - carbon bonds .
the distance across the female reproductive gland containing the germ cells .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of calcium not linked to casein micelles ;  may be in an associated form  ( with citrate ,  inorganic phosphate ,  or chloride )  or a free / ionic form .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of unlinked / unassociated calcium in ionic form .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of the calcium linked to casein micelles .
the proportion or number of cells originating from the mammary epithelium present in milk .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of a carotenoid that is the most common precursor to vitamin a .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of one of the active forms of vitamin a .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of this molecule ,  glycerol esterified at each of its three hydroxyl groups by a fatty acid .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of these precursors to steroid hormones and bile salts ;  also components of plasma membranes .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the tube through which the ova pass from the ovary to the uterus  ( mammals )  or to the outside  ( fish ,  birds )  .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of glycerol with two esterified acyl moieties .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of glycerol with an acyl moiety esterified to position 1 or 2 ;  an intermediate in the degradation and synthesis of lipids .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of the fat derivatives in which one fatty acid has been replaced by a phosphate group .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of compounds containing more than one phenol group .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of butyrophilin ,  one of the three predominant proteins in the milk fat globule membrane .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of xanthine oxidoreductase ,  one of the three predominant proteins in the milk fat globule membrane .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of adipophilin ,  one of the three predominant proteins in the milk fat globule membrane .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of a cell - surface associated mucin protein .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of cd36 ,  an integral membrane protein .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the upper right or left portion of the uterus to which the uterine tube is connected .
the distance between the surfaces of the glandular epithelium of the uterus .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of stomatin ,  an integral membrane protein .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of this integrin - binding protein found in milk fat globules .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of a fibrinolytic enzyme derived from the precursor plasminogen .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of the chief end product of nitrogen metabolism in mammals .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of an alkaline gas formed by decomposition of nitrogen - containing substances such as proteins and amino acids .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the ovarian structure containing an oocyte .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the yellow endocrine body formed in the ovary after follicle rupture .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical form or contours of the external os cervix .
the proportion or number of ridges in the lining of the cervical canal .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the male gamete .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the whiplike locomotory organelle of the spermatozoa .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitde of the portion of the spermatozoa containing the nucleus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the gland in males that lies along the prostate gland and secretes a fluid component of the seminal fluid into the urethra .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the organ of metabolic interchange between fetus and mother ,  partly of embryonic origin and partly of maternal origin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of the peptide hormone secreted by the hypothalamus that stimulates release of follicle - stimulating hormone and leuteinizing hormone from the anterior pituitary .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of physiologically active substances from the organ of metabolic interchange between the fetus and mother .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of this glycoprotein produced by trophoblastic cells originating from the placenta .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of a glycoprotein that ,  in females ,  stimulates the graafian follicles of the ovary and assists in follicular maturation and the secretion of estradiol ;  in males ,  it stimulates the epithelium of the seminiferous tubules and is partly responsible for spermatogenesis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of a glycoprotein that stimulates the graafian follicles of the ovary and assists in follicular maturation and the secretion of estradiol ;  in the male ,  it stimulates the epithelium of the seminiferous tubules and is partially responsible for inducing spermatogenesis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of the peptide hormone which normally stimulates milk production by the mammary gland .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the glandular structure that is a diverticulum of the ductus deferens ;  its secretion is one of the components of semen .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which any of the white blood cells  ( basophils ,  eosinophils ,  neutrophils ,  lymphocytes ,  dendritic cells ,  macrophages ,  mast cells ,  or monocytes )  undergo expansion by cell division .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta - positive ,  foxp3 - positive t cell with suppressor function .
the proportion or number of the subset of cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta - positive ,  foxp3 - positive t cells with suppressor function .
the amount of matter in the endocrine gland ( s )  located above the kidney responsible for hormone and epinephrine secretion .
the amount of matter in the encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the elongated structure connected to the posterior surface of the testes that transports ,  stores ,  and matures spermatozoa between testes and vas deferens .
the amount of matter in the encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the long bone of the thigh .
the amount of matter in the encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the ovaries or testes .
the amount of matter in the encapsulated adipose tissue found in the groin .
the amount of matter in the encapsulated adipose tissue located between the large ,  flat bones of the shoulder girdle .
the amount of matter in the encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the milk - secreting gland that lies within the breast .
the amount of matter in the encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the peritoneal fold that encloses the small intestine and connects it to the abdominal wall .
the amount of matter in the encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the extension of the subserous coat of the uterus laterally between the layers of the broad ligament .
the amount of matter in the encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the kidney .
the amount of matter in the encapsulated adipose tissue found on the dorsal / posterior side of the serous membrane lining the abdominal cavity and covering most of the viscera .
the amount of matter in the encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the hollow muscular organ where the embryo / fetus develops .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and a cis double bond at c - 14 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and a trans double bond at c - 16 .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity to change ,  adjust ,  or alter immune processes or function as a result of invasion and multiplication of microorganisms in its tissues ,  or of exposure to components of or toxins produced by pathogenic microorganisms .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity to change ,  adjust ,  or alter immune processes or function as a result of invasion and multiplication of bacteria  ( unicellular ,  prokaryotic organisms characterized by peptidoglycan cell walls )  in its tissues ,  or of exposure to components of or toxins produced by bacteria .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity to change ,  adjust ,  or alter immune processes or function as a result of invasion and multiplication of yeast or mold in its tissues ,  or of exposure to components of or toxins produced by these organisms .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity to change ,  adjust ,  or alter immune processes or function as a result of invasion and multiplication of parasites  ( organisms that live in or on another and draw their nourishment therefrom )  in its tissues ,  or of exposure to components of or toxins produced by parasites .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity to change ,  adjust ,  or alter immune processes or function as a result of invasion of its tissues by small ,  infectious proteinaceous particles of non - nucleic acid composition .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity to change ,  adjust ,  or alter immune processes or function as a result of invasion and multiplication of a virus  ( pathogen consisting of nucleic acid inside a protein shell ,  which can grow / reproduce only after infecting a host cell )  in its tissues ,  or of exposure to components of or toxins produced by a virus .
the proportion or number of unicellular ,  prokaryotic organisms characterized by peptidoglycan cell walls .
the proportion or number of organisms that live on or in another and draw their nourishment therefrom .
any measurable or observable characteristic of the actions or reactions of organisms .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the internal equilibrium in the fluid largely secreted by the choroid plexuses of the ventricles of the brain ,  filling the ventricles and the subarachnoid cavities of the brain and spinal cord .
any measurable or observable characteristic of behavior related to the actions or reactions of an organism with regard to the movement of the body's muscles ,  tendons ,  and joints .
any measurable or observable characteristic of actions or reactions that typically occur in organisms that are part of a group .
any measurable or observable characteristic of actions or reactions related to the construction ,  maintenance and use of a bed or receptacle prepared by an organism for shelter .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the actions or reactions by which an organism produces or releases matter or energy .
the amount of matter in the muscle tissue of the anterior / superior jointed appendages used for locomotion or grasping .
the amount of matter in the muscle tissue of the posterior / inferior jointed appendages used for locomotion or grasping .
any measurable or observable characteristic of actions or reactions of an organism that occur as the result of cognition ;  where cognition is defined as the operation of the mind by which an organism becomes aware of objects of thought or perception .
any measurable or observable characteristic of actions or reactions related to how the body reacts to a stressor  ( a stimulus that causes stress )  ,  real or imagined .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the behavior of animals towards a member of another species .
the amount of matter in the margins that enclose the abdominal cavity ;  the major part is muscular but also includes skin ,  subcutaneous fat ,  fascia and the parietal peritoneum .
any measurable or observable characteristic of an action or reaction of an organism that recurs with measured regularity .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in cerebrospinal fluid  ( largely secreted by the choroid plexuses of the ventricles of the brain ,  filling the ventricles and the subarachnoid cavities of the brain and spinal cord )  of any inorganic element or compound that has importance in body functions .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of disc - like fragments of megakaryocytes that are found in the blood and function in clotting .
the two - dimensional extent of any of the components of the auricles or external acoustic meatus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity of an organism to change ,  adjust ,  or alter its actions or reactions as a result of exposure to new surroundings .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity of an organism to change ,  adjust ,  or alter its actions or reactions as a result of exposure to new food .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to actions or reactions of an organism with regard to the elimination of waste products that arise as a result of metabolic activity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to actions or reactions of an organism with regard to the expulsion of feces from the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the deposition or aggregation of coloring matter in the fine ,  keratinized filamentous growths arising from the epidermis of mammals .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to produce live offspring .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the controlled release of free fatty acids  ( those not bound to other molecules or moieties )  secreted from a fat cell .
the amount of matter in the gland surrounding the beginning of the urethra in males that secretes part of the seminal fluid .
the amount of matter in the lateral lobe of the prostate .
the amount of matter in the ventral lobe of the prostate .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportions of proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances in the organ that secretes pancreatic juice into the duodenum and secretes glucagon and insulin into the bloodstream .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the pancreas of the polypeptide hormone ,  secreted by beta cells ,  that promotes glucose utilization ,  protein synthesis ,  and the formation and storage of neutral lipids .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to actions or reactions in tests for exploratory related behaviors .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to actions or reactions in tests for compulsive behaviors .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to actions or reactions with regard to the ability of an individual to exert restraint over behavior .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the lipoprotein:cholesterol complex that is not in the high density lipoprotein fraction ;  includes low density lipoproteins  ( ldl )  ,  very low density lipoproteins  ( vldl )  ,  and intermediate density lipoproteins  ( idl )  .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a group of amylolytic enzymes that cleave starch ,  glycogen ,  and related alpha - 1 , 4 - glucans .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this enzyme ,  which converts glutamate to alpha - ketoglutarate ,  and vice versa .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this enzyme ,  which catalyzes interconversion of pyruvate and lactate with concomitant interconversion of nadh and nad +  .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this enzyme ,  which catalyzes the formation or hydrolysis of lipids .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this protein hormone ,  which is similar in molecular structure to insulin and plays a role in childhood growth and anabolic effects in adults .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this protein found in bone and dentin ,  which is secreted by osteoblasts .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this immunoglobulin formed during the early part of the immune response that is the most efficient antibody in stimulating complement activity .
the amount of matter in the body of an organism that is fat or adipose tissue .
the amount of matter in the body of an organism that is not fat .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of this monoamine neurotransmitter derived primarily from tryptophan ;  found primarily in the cns ,  gastrointestinal tract ,  and platelets .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the return of blood to the heart through the great veins and coronary sinus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ejection of blood from the heart into the aorta .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity of an organism to change ,  adjust ,  or alter its morphology ,  physiology ,  or behavior as a result of exposure to a foreign compound .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity of an organism to change ,  adjust ,  or alter its morphology ,  physiology ,  or behavior as a result of exposure to a substance with the potential for addiction .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity of an organism to change ,  adjust ,  or alter its morphology ,  physiology ,  or behavior as a result of alcohol exposure .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the movement of blood within the main trunk of the systemic arteries .
the distance between the surfaces of the wall closest to the front of the left lower chamber of the heart .
the distance across the left lower chamber of the heart .
the distance across the left upper chamber of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the bony segments of the spinal column located anterior / superior to the sacral vertebrae and posterior / inferior to the thoracic vertebrae .
the amount of matter in the lymph nodes located in the groin area .
the amount of matter in the compound gland suspended from the base of the hypothalamus ,  which secretes somatotropins ,  prolactin ,  tsh  ( thyroid - stimulating hormone )  ,  gonadotropins ,  adrenal corticotropin ,  and other related peptides .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportions of proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances in the bile - secreting exocrine gland ,  which is important for detoxification ;  for fat ,  carbohydrate ,  and protein metabolism ;  and for glycogen storage .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the bile - secreting exocrine gland of the most abundant steroid in animal tissues ,  precursor to steroid hormones and bile salts ;  also component of plasma membranes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportion ,  quantity or volume of this metallic bivalent element .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume of this metallic bivalent element in the disc - like fragments of megakaryocytes that are found in the blood and function in clotting .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the cellular masses in the interstitial tissue of the pancreas that form the endocrine portion of the gland .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the urine of biologically active amines derived from tyrosine ,  including metanephrine ,  dopamine ,  epinephrine ,  and norepinephrine .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the lipoprotein:cholesterol complex in which the lipoproteins are formed in degradation of very low density lipoproteins .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of phospholipid found in the high density lipoprotein fraction of whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of phospholipid found in the low density lipoprotein fraction of whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of phospholipid found in the intermediate density lipoprotein fraction of whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of phospholipid found in the very low density lipoprotein fraction of whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma .
the amount of matter in the bones of the skull enclosing the brain .
the amount of matter in the minerals  ( inorganic elements or compounds that have importance in body functions )  in the bones of the skull enclosing the brain .
the amount of matter in the bony segments of the spinal column located anterior / superior to the sacral vertebrae and posterior / inferior to the thoracic vertebrae .
the amount of matter in the minerals  ( inorganic elements or compounds that have importance in body functions )  in the bony segments of the spinal column located anterior / superior to the sacral vertebrae and posterior / inferior to the thoracic vertebrae .
the major histocompatibility complex  ( mhc )  molecules expressed by an organism ;  these cell surface molecules distinguish self from nonself and mediate interactions of immune cells through antigen processing and presentation .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this ubiquitous intracellular protein that stores iron and releases it in a controlled fashion .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this iron - binding glycoprotein .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole ,  blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this glycoprotein that binds to integrins .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this tripeptide antioxidant .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the bones of the skull enclosing the brain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the bony segments of the spinal column located anterior / superior to the sacral vertebrae and posterior / inferior to the thoracic vertebrae .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the bile - secreting exocrine gland of this molecule ,  glycerol esterified at each of its three hydroxyl groups by a fatty acid ;  triglyceride is an important molecule for storage of fatty acids in adipose tissue .
the proportion or number of cells in the area of the spleen within the marginal sinus ,  in which t cells surround the central arteriole .
the proportion or number of cells in the area of the white pulp where the affinity maturation of b cells and the generation of memory b cells and plasma cells occur .
the proportion or number of cells in the lymph nodes located around the axillary vein that receive lymphatic drainage from the upper or forelimb ,  scapular region and pectoral region .
the proportion or number of cells in the lymph nodes found near the neck and shoulders .
the amount of matter in the two folded ,  sac shaped glands that are diverticula of the ductus deferens .
the proportion or number of cells in the nonstriated ,  involuntary muscle tissue of the structures that convey blood throughout the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the main trunk of the systemic arteries .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of an organism to change the frequency or form of its actions or reactions as a result of the influence of the environment .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the actions or reactions of an organism pertaining to the ability to associate a previously neutral stimulus with an unpleasant or punishing stimulus so that the animal learns to avoid the previously neutral stimulus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the actions or reactions of an organism pertaining to the ability to learn and remember an association between an aversive experience  ( the unconditioned stimulus  ( us )  ,  usually a shock )  and the neutral ,  unchanging environment  ( the conditioned stimulus  ( cs )  ,  or the environmental context in this case )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to actions or reactions of an organism pertaining to the ability to learn and remember an association between an aversive experience  ( the unconditioned stimulus  ( us )  ,  usually a shock )  and a neutral stimulus  ( the conditioned stimulus  ( cs )  ,  usually an auditory cue or light flash )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to actions or reactions of an organism pertaining to the ability of a behavior's antecedent and / or its consequence to influence the occurrence and form of behavior .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to actions or reactions of an organism pertaining to the ability to escape a hostile environment to actively avoid the unpleasant or punishing stimulus  ( e .g . ,  shock )  previously encountered in this environment .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to actions or reactions of an organism pertaining to the ability to enter a hostile environment where it receives an unpleasant or punishing stimulus applied previously with prolonged latency .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the movement in red blood cells of atoms carrying an electric charge .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in red blood cells of atoms carrying an electric charge .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the transient structure formed by neurons migrating from the subventricular zone into the olfactory bulbs .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of this portion of the septum which has strong projections to hypothalamic and midbrain regions and receives projections from the hippocampus and amygdala .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of this portion of the septum which has strong projections to hypothalamic and midbrain regions and receives projections from the hippocampus and amygdala .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the urine of the monovalent cation of this alkali metal element .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in urine of this product of creatine catabolism .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of this subgroup of the alpha - 1 - globulin fraction of blood .
the distance between the surfaces of the hard outer coating of the exposed portion of the tooth .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of organic compounds that act as hormones or neurotransmitters and are derived from the amino acid tyrosine .
the proportion or number of the capillary loops at the beginning of each nephric tubule in the kidney ( s )  .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this protein hormone secreted by adipose tissue and the placenta ;  involved in glucose regulation and fatty acid oxidation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the capillary loops at the beginning of each nephric tubule in the kidney .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the bile - secreting exocrine gland ,  which is important for detoxification ;  for fat ,  carbohydrate ,  and protein metabolism ;  and for glycogen storage .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the articulation point of two or more rigid skeletal components  ( bones ,  cartilage ,  or parts of a single bone )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the largest part of the brain ,  derived from the telencephalon ,  and is composed of a right and a left hemisphere each which contains an outer cerebral cortex and a subcortical basal ganglia ;  cerebral functions include sensorimotor ,  emotional ,  and intellectual activities .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the irregular layer of adipose and connective tissue ,  stroma ,  or membrane immediately deep to the skin and superficial to the deep fascia ;  usually consists primarily of either just loose connective tissue ,  or a fatty layer that may also include a muscle layer ,  and / or a fibrous layer ;  may also occur as a membranous layer only ,  being nearly devoid of fat .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the pigmented vascular coat of the eyeball ,  consisting of the iris ,  ciliary body ,  and choroid .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the milk - producing glands in female mammals ,  consisting of lobes containing clusters of alveoli with a system of ducts to convey the milk to an external nipple or teat .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the mobile mass of muscular tissue and surrounding epithelial tissue occupying the cavity of the mouth and forming part of the floor .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the digestive tube passing from the stomach to the anus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the primary lymphoid organ that is required for maturation of t cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the slender connective tissue fiber in tissue of the main trunk of the systemic arteries which is characterized by great elasticity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the functions of or processes in the brain  ( the center of thought and emotion ;  controls coordination ,  bodily activities ,  and the interpretation of information from the senses )  as they relate to electrical phenomena .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportions of proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances in the paired organs responsible for urine excretion and regulation of ion concentrations .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the kidney of this enzyme which cleaves a bond in angiotensionogen to generate angiotensin i .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the organ that secretes pancreatic juice into the duodenum and secretes glucagon and insulin into the bloodstream .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportions of proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances in the left lower chamber of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the anterior / superior jointed appendages used for locomotion or grasping .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the posterior / inferior jointed appendages used for locomotion or grasping .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of deoxyribonucleic acid in the right lower chamber of the heart .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of deoxyribonucleic acid in the left lower chamber of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the components of the system responsible for receiving and processing information about an organism's environment and controlling behavior .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the part of the descending aorta superior to the aortic hiatus of the diaphragm .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportions of proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances in the part of the descending aorta superior to the aortic hiatus of the diaphragm .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the group of four muscles  ( rectus femoris ,  vastus intermedius ,  vastus lteralis ,  and vastus medialis )  which extend down the front of the thigh and are the major extensors of the knee joint .
the two - dimensional extent  ( surface or cross - section )  of the bony segments of the spinal column located anterior / superior to the sacral vertebrae and posterior / inferior to the thoracic vertebrae .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the gland surrounding the beginning of the urethra in males that secretes part of the seminal fluid .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the male reproductive gland ( s )  where sperm production occurs .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the bony segments of the spinal column to withstand the application of force without yielding or breaking .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the bony segments of the spinal column located anterior / superior to the sacral vertebrae and posterior / inferior to the thoracic vertebrae to withstand the application of force without yielding or breaking .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the hollow muscular organ where the embryo / fetus develops .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the urine of this catecholamine hormone that stimulates the adrenergic receptors and that causes systemic vasoconstriction and gastrointestinal relaxation ,  stimulates the heart ,  and dilates bronchi and cerebral vessels .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportions of proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances in the cylindrical tissue of the vertebral canal that extends from the medulla oblongata to the conus medullaris .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the compound gland suspended from the base of the hypothalamus ,  which secretes somatotropins ,  prolactin ,  tsh  ( thyroid - stimulating hormone )  ,  gonadotropins ,  adrenal corticotropin ,  and other related peptides .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the brain ,  one of the two components of the central nervous system and the center of thought and emotion ;  controls coordination ,  bodily activities and the interpretation of information from the senses  ( sight ,  hearing ,  smell ,  etc .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the paired organs responsible for urine excretion and regulation of ion concentrations .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of a steroid with one oh group .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a steroid with one oh group .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of a steroid with one oh group in the brain ,  one of the two components of the central nervous system and the center of thought and emotion ;  controls coordination ,  bodily activities and the interpretation of information from the senses .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the bile - secreting exocrine gland of a steroid with one oh group .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportions of proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances in the brain ,  one of the two components of the central nervous system and the center of thought and emotion ;  controls coordination ,  bodily activities and the interpretation of information from the senses .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the brain  ( one of the two components of the central nervous system and the center of thought and emotion )  of these most abundant steroids in animal tissues .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a plant - derived steroid with one oh group .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a phytosterol with the formula c28h48o .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a plant - derived sterol similar to cholesterol .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the brain  ( one of the two components of the central nervous system and the center of thought and emotion )  of a plant - derived steroid with one oh group .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the brain  ( one of the two components of the central nervous system and the center of thought and emotion )  of a phytosterol with the formula c28h48o .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the brain  ( one of the two components of the central nervous system and the center of thought and emotion )  of a plant - derived sterol similar to cholesterol .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the bile - secreting exocrine gland of a plant - derived steroid with one oh group .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the bile - secreting exocrine gland of a phytosterol with the formula c28h48o .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the bile - secreting exocrine gland of a plant - derived sterol similar to cholesterol .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the left lower chamber of the heart of the peptide hormone nppa ,  which is involved in the control of extracellular fluid volume and electrolyte homeostasis .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of mug1 ,  a serine - type endopeptidase inhibitor .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of intracellular proteins in the part of the descending aorta superior to the aortic hiatus of the diaphragm .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the cavities of the brain filled with cerebrospinal fluid .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the main trunk of the systemic arteries .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the sac - like structure of the digestive canal between the esophagus and the small intestine .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the urine of the monovalent anion of chlorine .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the urine of this catecholamine hormone secreted by the adrenal medulla which also acts as a neurotransmitter in the central and sympathetic nervous systems ;  precursor of epinephrine .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the  urine of the major urinary metabolite of adrenal and sympathetic catecholamines such as epinephrine and norepinephrine .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this enzyme ,  which catalyzes the transfer of the gamma - glutamyl moiety of glutathione to an acceptor such as amino acid ,  peptide ,  or water .
the amount of matter in the endocrine gland located in the front and to the sides of the upper part of the trachea ,  and which secretes thyroid hormone and calcitonin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the circular ,  pigmented area of the skin surrounding the mammalian nipple .
the proportion or number of the circular ,  pigmented areas of the skin surrounding the mammalian nipple .
the amount of matter in the hollow muscular organ where the embryo / fetus develops .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the upper portion of the skull that excludes the mandible .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the upper portion of the skull that excludes the mandible .
the amount of matter in the minerals  ( inorganic elements or compounds that have importance in body functions )  in the upper portion of the skull that excludes the mandible .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in blood of the compound produced from pyruvate by lactate dehydrogenase .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume  in  blood of  pyruvate  ( the carboxylate anion of pyruvic acid )  ,  which is the  end product of glycolysis .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in urine of creatine ,  a naturally occurring amino acid in vertebrates that helps to supply energy to all cells in the body .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the liver of this tripeptide antioxidant .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the liver of the dialdehyde of malonic acid .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the urine of an aminosulfonic acid synthesized from l - cysteine .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the blood of any pharmacologically ,  endocrinologically ,  or toxicologically active substance not endogenously produced and therefore foreign to an organism .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the blood of this antipyretic and analgesic .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in blood of the oxidoreductase that catalyzes the reaction between superoxide anions and hydrogen to yield molecular oxygen and hydrogen peroxide .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the blood of the dialdehyde of malonic acid .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of any of the organic substances found in food that are necessary in trace amounts for normal metabolic function .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of any of the vitamin a compounds ,  retinol ,  retinal  ( retinaldehyde )  ,  and retinoic acid ,  all of which are derivatives of beta - carotene .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the globular proteins that have higher molecular weights and water solubility than the albumins .
the amount of matter in the gland in males that lies along the prostate gland and secretes a fluid component of the seminal fluid into the urethra .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this enzyme ,  which catalyzes the reaction of two glutathiones with h2o2 ,  forming glutathione disulfide and two water molecules ,  and is a crucial enzyme in hydrogen peroxide detoxification .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the chemical reactions and pathways involving the organic compounds ,  which ,  when polymerized ,  form proteins .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates  ( substances composed of carbon ,  hydrogen ,  and oxygen according to the general formula cn ( h2o ) n )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the chemical reactions and pathways involving molecules composed of carbon and hydrogen that are characteristically insoluble in water .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the chemical reactions and pathways involving peptides  ( compounds of two or more amino acids in which a carboxyl group of one is united with an amino group of another .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination of a foreign compound .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the chemical reactions and pathways involving a vitamin  ( organic substance found in food that is necessary in trace amounts for normal metabolic function )  or cofactor  ( atom or molecule essential for the action of the vitamin )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the chemical reactions and pathways involved in the production and utilization of various forms of energy .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the chemical reactions and pathways involving a foreign compound .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the blood vessels that carry blood away from the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the part of the descending aorta superior to the aortic hiatus of the diaphragm .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of either or both of the laterally paired arteries that supply the kidneys .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of either or both of the laterally paired arteries that supply the kidneys .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the arteries that arise from a bifurcation of the aorta supplying the pelvis or abdomen .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of any of the arteries that arise from a bifurcation of the aorta supplying the pelvis or abdomen .
the amount of matter in the muscle in the forelimb stylopod which in humans has several functions ,  the most important being to rotate the forearm and to flex the elbow .
the amount of matter in a muscle of the posterior thigh .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the muscle tissue of the anterior / superior jointed appendages used for locomotion or grasping .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in muscle of the polysaccharide which is the storage form for glucose in the liver and muscles ;  readily converted to glucose when blood glucose level decreases .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in fat - storing cells / tissue of a carotenoid that is the most common precursor to vitamin a .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of any alpha2 globulin that can combine with free oxyhemoglobin to form a stable complex .
the degree of function or response of tyrosinase ,  the enzyme that acts on tyrosine to produce melanin .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of any inorganic element or compound that has importance in body functions in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in muscle of this metallic element that normally occurs in the heme of hemoglobin ,  myoglobin ,  transferrin ,  ferritin ,  and iron - containing porphyrins ;  it is an essential component of enzymes such as catalase ,  peroxidase ,  and various cytochromes .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in muscle of this essential metallic element that is involved in most metabolic pathways .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the surface covering of birds ,  made of keratin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the vascular ,  red cutaneous structure attached in a sagittal plane to the dorsum of the skull of domestic fowl .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the vascular ,  red cutaneous structure attached in a sagittal plane to the dorsum of the skull of domestic fowl .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical form or contours of the vascular ,  red cutaneous structure attached in a sagittal plane to the dorsum of the skull of domestic fowl .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the areas of the skin of a bird in which feathers grow ;  they are well defined and separated by unfeathered areas called apteria .
the distance from side to side of the area ( s )  of the skin of a bird in which feathers grow ;  they are well defined and separated by unfeathered areas called apteria .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the deposition or aggregation of coloring matter in the tip of a toe of an ungulate mammal ,  strengthened by a thick horny  ( keratin )  covering .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in serum of this membrane protein which is expressed on the surface of certain cells and plays a role in immune response .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in serum of this membrane protein which is expressed on the surface of certain cells and plays a role in immune response .
the amount of matter in the muscle of the thigh that is the most medial of the three hamstring muscles .
the amount of matter in one of the three gluteal muscles ,  situated on the outer surface of the pelvis .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of the alpha fraction of the casein phosphoprotein .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the endocytosis process that results in the engulfment of external particulate material by phagocytes .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of solids  ( all constituents excluding water )  in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement .
the distance from side to side of the muscle of the back which is the intermediate and largest of the continuations of the sacrospinalis .
the degree of function or response of the enzyme that catalyzes the dehydrogenation of malate to oxaloacetate .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the long bone in the lower leg of birds ,  formed by fusion of tarsal and metatarsal structures .
the amount of matter in the long bone in the lower leg of birds ,  formed by fusion of tarsal and metatarsal structures .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the long bone in the lower leg of birds ,  formed by fusion of tarsal and metatarsal structures .
the distance around the long bone in the lower leg of birds ,  formed by fusion of tarsal and metatarsal structures .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the muscle of the thigh that is the most medial of the three hamstring muscles .
the distance from side to side of the muscle of the thigh that is the most medial of the three hamstring muscles .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of serum proteins which have undergone glycation  ( nonenzymic covalent bonding with a sugar molecule )  .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in fat - storing cells / tissue of any of the macromolecules consisting of long chains of amino acids in peptide linkage .
the distance across the long bone in the lower leg of birds ,  formed by fusion of tarsal and metatarsal structures .
the degree of function or response of the enzyme that hydrolyzes glucose - 6 - phosphate to orthophosphate and glucose .
the degree of function or response of the enzyme that catalyzes the oxidation of lactate to pyruvate .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of  the passage in the lower abdominal wall through which the spermatic cord in the male or the round ligament in the female ,  nerves and vessels pass from the pelvic cavity to the scrotum or labia majora ,  respectively .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the margins that enclose the abdominal cavity ;  the major part is muscular but also includes skin ,  subcutaneous fat ,  fascia and the parietal peritoneum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the serous membrane that lines the peritoneal cavity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the deposition or aggregation of coloring matter in the serous membrane that lines the peritoneal cavity .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the product of the first step in the biologic conversion of vitamin d3 to the more active form ,  calcitriol .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism as a result of a heat stimulus ,  a temperature stimulus above the optimal temperature for that organism .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of a secreted phosphoprotein ,  produced by many epithelial cell types ,  which is highly negatively charged and frequently associated with mineralization processes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the encapsulated adipose tissue found around the heart .
the amount of matter in the encapsulated adipose tissue found around the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the encapsulated adipose tissue located beneath the large ,  flat bones of the shoulder girdle .
the amount of matter in the encapsulated adipose tissue located beneath the large ,  flat bones of the shoulder girdle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the longest subdivision of the sacrospinalis that extends forward into the transverse processes of the posterior cervical vertebrae .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the blood of fructosamine ,  the compound that results from glycation reactions between a sugar and a primary amine ,  followed by isomerization via the amadori rearrangement .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of the peptide hormone produced mainly by p / d1 cells lining the fundus of the stomach and epsilon cells of the pancreas that stimulates hunger and serves as a potent stimulator of growth hormone from the anterior pituitary gland ;  in addition to stimulating appetite and growth ,  ghrelin also plays various roles in energy homeostasis ,  neuropathy ,  and in the cardiovascular and immune systems .
the proportion or number of ovarian structures containing an oocyte at the last stage of growth ,  characterized in mammals by the formation of a cavity  ( antrum )  filled with follicular fluid and in birds by the accumulation of vitellus .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the cholesterol associated with lipoprotein complexes that transport exogenous triglycerides and cholesterol from the intestines to other tissues .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the triglyceride in small lipoproteins that transport triglycerides and cholesterol .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the triglyceride in the lipoprotein complex that transports triglyceride and cholesterol out of the arteries and around the body ,  for use by various tissues in normal bodily functions .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the triglyceride in lipoprotein complexes formed to transport endogenously derived triglycerides to extra - hepatic tissues .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the cholesterol associated with lipoprotein complexes that transport exogenous triglycerides and cholesterol from the intestines to other tissues .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the lipid - protein complexes involved in the transportation and metabolism of lipids .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the high density lipoprotein particles found in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the low density lipoprotein particles found in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the very low density lipoprotein particles found in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in kidney of this tripeptide antioxidant .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in kidney of the dialdehyde of malonic acid .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to actions or reactions of an organism with regard to visiting a shelter or nest used for resting / sleeping .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity of an organism to change ,  adjust ,  or alter its actions or reactions as a result of exposure to an unfamiliar object .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of this metallic bioelement found in a number of proteins .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of this metallic element that is an essential constituent of hemoglobins ,  cytochromes ,  and iron - binding proteins .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of this metallic element that resembles iron .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of this metallic element chemically similar to sulfur .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of this metallic element that is a cofactor in many proteins .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to actions or reactions in tests for fear - related behaviors  ( emotional response related to anticipation of specific pain or danger )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to actions or reactions in tests for anxiety - related behaviors  ( emotional response related to anticipation of non - specific threat )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity of an organism to change ,  adjust ,  or alter its morphology ,  physiology ,  or behavior as a result of amphetamine exposure .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity of an organism to change ,  adjust ,  or alter its morphology ,  physiology ,  or behavior as a result of cocaine exposure .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity of an organism to change ,  adjust ,  or alter its morphology ,  physiology ,  or behavior as a result of methamphetamine exposure .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity of an organism to change ,  adjust ,  or alter its morphology ,  physiology ,  or behavior as a result of morphine exposure .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity of an organism to change ,  adjust ,  or alter its morphology ,  physiology ,  or behavior as a result of nicotine exposure .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the intensity ,  duration ,  or type of morphological ,  physiological ,  or behavioral response displayed after discontinuation of an addictive substance .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the actions or reactions of an organism pertaining to the ability to learn and remember an association between a putative rewarding internal state produced by a xenobiotic or drug with a neutral ,  unchanging environment .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the urine of ketone bodies  ( acetoacetate ,  3 - hydroxybutyrate and / or acetone )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the threshold or reflex response to variable stimuli ,  often auditory ;  usually measured by amplitude of whole body flinch .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to actions or reactions in tests to determine the ease with which an animal can be captured and / or handled .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to recall spatial location information from previous encounters or training sessions in order to navigate or perform other behavior using such location cues .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to exhibit a differential response to different stimuli that is achieved by the reinforcement of the desired response for each particular stimulus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to exhibit a differential response to olfactory stimuli that is achieved by the reinforcement of the desired response for each particular olfactory stimulus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of an animal to maintain skillful and effective interaction of movements while engaging in behavioral locomotor activity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the pattern of movement of the limbs ,  characterized by elements of progression ,  stability ,  speed and length over the ground .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the motion of the portion of the body containing the brain and organs of sight ,  hearing ,  taste ,  and smell .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the chief sensory nerve of the face and motor nerve of the muscles of mastication .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the rectum and anus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to actions or reactions of an organism with regard to the process in which parasympathetic nerves stimulate the bladder wall muscle to contract and expel urine from the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process of repair of trauma to any tissues of the body ,  especially that caused by physical means .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportions of proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances in the membranous protective covering of the body .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the skin of any inorganic element or compound that has importance in body functions .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the skin of the monovalent anion of chlorine .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the skin of the monovalent cation of this alkali metal element .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the skin of the monovalent cation of this alkali metal element ,  the most plentiful extracellular ion in the body .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of an inhibitor of cysteine proteases .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of cystatin c .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the urine of this sialoglycoprotein .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the left lower chamber of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of any of the arteries that branch from the aorta to supply blood to the heart .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of collagen types i and iii in the left lower chamber of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic of behavior related to repetitive ,  invariant ,  perseverative motor patterns that do not appear to be purposeful .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to blood pressure in the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to blood pressure in the lower left chamber of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the capacity of an organism to change ,  adjust ,  or alter its morphology ,  physiology ,  or behavior as a result of methylenedioxymethamphetamine exposure  ( also known as mdma or ecstasy )  .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of this hormone ,  a vasoconstrictor formed by the action of angiotensin - converting enzyme on angiotensin i .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in urine of this product of protein catabolism .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of adrenomedullin in the kidney .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportions of proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances in the heart .
the degree of function or response in the heart of the enzyme that catalyzes the oxidation of lactate to pyruvate .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the heart .
the distance across the left lower chamber of the heart ,  immediately after mitral valve closure .
the distance across the left lower chamber of the heart ,  immediately before mitral valve opening .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in a body tissue or fluid of nitric oxide ,  the free radical oxide of nitrogen which functions in various physiological capacities .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in kidney of the lipid peroxidation end products produced by the oxidative degradation of lipids .
the degree of function or response of this enzyme that converts the reactive oxygen species hydrogen peroxide to water and oxygen .
the degree of function or response of this family of enzymes that convert naturally - occurring but harmful superoxide radicals to molecular oxygen and hydrogen peroxide .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in liver tissue of fat - soluble substances  ( molecules composed of carbon and hydrogen and are characteristically insoluble in water )  .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the head and / or neck .
the degree of function or response of the enzyme that catalyzes the following reaction: 2 glutathione  +  hydrogen peroxide = oxidized glutathione  +  2 h2o .
the degree of function or response in the kidney of the enzyme that catalyzes the following reaction: 2 glutathione  +  hydrogen peroxide = oxidized glutathione  +  2 h2o .
the degree of function or response in the kidney of this family of enzymes that convert naturally - occurring but harmful superoxide radicals to molecular oxygen and hydrogen peroxide .
the degree of function or response of the arylesterase that hydrolyzes paroxon ,  an organophosphorus anticholinesterase compound ,  to produce p - nitrophenol .
the degree of function or response in the kidney of the arylesterase that hydrolyzes paroxon ,  an organophosphorus anticholinesterase compound ,  to produce p - nitrophenol .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the thin layer of neural tissue lining the back of the eyeball which contains visual receptors .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the core nervous system that serves an integrating and coordinating function .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the major division of the nervous system that contains nerves which connect the central nervous system  ( cns )  with sensory organs ,  other organs ,  muscles ,  blood vessels and glands .
the degree of function or response of the enzyme that catalyzes the decarboxylation of ornithine  ( a product of the urea cycle )  to form putrescine ,  the rate - limiting and first committed step in polyamine synthesis .
the degree of function or response in the liver of the enzyme that catalyzes the decarboxylation of ornithine  ( a product of the urea cycle )  to form putrescine ,  the rate - limiting and first committed step in polyamine synthesis .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the highly abundant plasma protein produced by the yolk sac ,  liver ,  and gastrointestinal tract during fetal life and by certain neoplasms in the adult .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in serum of the highly abundant plasma protein produced by the yolk sac ,  liver and gastrointestinal tract during fetal life and by certain neoplasms in the adult .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in plasma of the highly abundant plasma protein produced by the yolk sac ,  liver and gastrointestinal tract during fetal life and by certain neoplasms in the adult .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the biochemical soundness of the internal equilibrium in the cell containing fluid that circulates through the body ,  carrying nourishment ,  electrolytes ,  hormones ,  vitamins ,  antibodies ,  heat ,  and oxygen to the tissues and taking away waste matter and carbon dioxide .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the network of vessels that convey blood in the brain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the network of vessels that convey blood in the brain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to blood pressure in the pulmonary artery .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of any of the organs involved in the production or excretion of urine .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of oxygen in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of carbon dioxide in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of any of the arteries which arise from the abdominal aorta and distribute to most of the intestines .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in a body tissue or fluid of eicosanoids ,  signaling molecules derived from c20 fatty acids .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of alpha - n - acetylgalactosaminidase ,   a  lysosomal enzyme involved in the degradation of blood type a epitope .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportions of proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances in the endocrine glands located above the kidney responsible for hormone and epinephrine secretion .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of ribonucleic acid in the adrenal glands .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of ribonucleic acid in the brain .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of ribonucleic acid in the heart .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of ribonucleic acid in the kidney .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of ribonucleic acid in the liver .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportions of proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances in the spongy organs of respiration contained within the pleural cavity of the thorax .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of ribonucleic acid in the lung .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of ribonucleic acid in muscle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportions of proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances in the organ that functions to filter blood and to store red corpuscles and platelets .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of ribonucleic acid in the spleen .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportions of proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances in the  male reproductive gland ( s )  where sperm production occurs .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of ribonucleic acid in the testis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportions of proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances in the primary lymphoid organ that is required for maturation of t cells .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of ribonucleic acid in the thymus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportions of proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances in the hollow muscular organ where the embryo / fetus develops .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of ribonucleic acid in the uterus .
the amount of matter in the group of four muscles  ( rectus femoris ,  vastus intermedius ,  vastus lteralis ,  and vastus medialis )  which extend down the front of the thigh and are the major extensors of the knee joint .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the deposition or aggregation of coloring matter in the surface covering of birds ,  made of keratin .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of this nonmetallic element .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the urine of the enzyme sorbital dehydrogenase ,  an enzyme that converts sorbitol ,  the sugar alcohol form of glucose ,  into fructose .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the blood of pyrophosphate ,  a phosphorus oxyanion containing two phosphorus atoms in a p - o - p linkage .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of interstitial epinephrine in the left lower chamber of the heart .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of interstitial norepinephrine in the left lower chamber of the heart .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of interstitial bradykinin ,  a linear nonapeptide messenger belonging to the kinin group of proteins ,  in the left lower chamber of the heart .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of interstitial angiotensin ii in the left lower chamber of the heart .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the urine of any of the chemical substances that have specific regulatory effects on the activity of a certain organ or organs ;  originally applied to substances secreted by various endocrine glands and transported in the bloodstream to the target organs ,  it is sometimes extended to include substances that are not produced by the endocrine glands but that have similar effects .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the urine of aldosterone ,  a steroid hormone produced by the adrenal cortex that regulates reabsorption of water and ions in the kidney .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the vascular ,  red cutaneous structure attached in a sagittal plane to the dorsum of the skull of domestic fowl .
the vertical dimension of the vascular ,  red cutaneous structure attached in a sagittal plane to the dorsum of the skull of domestic fowl .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the deposition or aggregation of coloring matter in the vascular ,  red cutaneous structure attached in a sagittal plane to the dorsum of the skull of domestic fowl .
the amount of matter in the vascular ,  red cutaneous structure attached in a sagittal plane to the dorsum of the skull of domestic fowl .
the amount of matter in the tube through which the ova pass from the ovary to the uterus  ( mammals )  or to the outside  ( fish ,  birds )  .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of either of two glycoproteins  ( designated a and b )  ,  secreted by the gonads ,  that inhibit pituitary production of follicle - stimulating hormone .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of an enzyme that catalyzes the radioiodination of tyrosine and its derivatives and of peptides containing tyrosine .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of this nonmetallic element of the halogen group ,  which is especially important in thyroid hormone synthesis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the mobile mass of muscular tissue and surrounding epithelial tissue occupying the cavity of the mouth and forming part of the floor .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the mobile mass of muscular tissue and surrounding epithelial tissue occupying the cavity of the mouth and forming part of the floor .
the amount of matter in the mobile mass of muscular tissue and surrounding epithelial tissue occupying the cavity of the mouth and forming part of the floor .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in a tissue of a catecholamine secreted by the adrenal gland upon stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in a spinal cord segment adjacent to a cervical region of a catecholamine secreted by the adrenal gland upon stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the medulla oblongata  ( the region of the brainstem that lies directly above the spinal cord and controls vital autonomic functions )  of a catecholamine secreted by the adrenal gland upon stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the midbrain  ( the middle of the three cerebral vesicles of the embryo or the corresponding part of the adult brain )  and neighboring pons  ( between the medulla oblongata and the midbrain )  of a catecholamine secreted by the adrenal gland upon stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the hypothalamus  ( the ventral part of the diencephalon ,  which forms the floor and lateral wall of the third ventricle )  of a catecholamine secreted by the adrenal gland upon stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the forebrain  ( part of the brain developed from the most rostral of the three primary vesicles of the embryonic neural tube from which the diencephalon and telencephalon are derived )  of a catecholamine secreted by the adrenal gland upon stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in a tissue of the 3 - o - methyl ether of  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl ) acetic acid ,  a catecholamine metabolite .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in a tissue of hva ,  a catecholamine metabolite .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in a tissue of indole - 3 - acetic acid substituted by a hydroxy group at c - 5 .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in a tissue of a catecholamine hormone that functions as a neurotransmitter and is the precursor to epinephrine .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in a tissue of this monoamine neurotransmitter derived primarily from tryptophan .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in a tissue of this catecholamine neurotransmitter ,  derived from tyrosine and the precursor to norepinephrine and epinephrine .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in a spinal cord segment adjacent to a cervical region of the 3 - o - methyl ether of  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl ) acetic acid ,  a catecholamine metabolite .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the medulla oblongata  ( the region of the brainstem that lies directly above the spinal cord and controls vital autonomic functions )  of the 3 - o - methyl ether of  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl ) acetic acid ,  a catecholamine metabolite .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the midbrain  ( the middle of the three cerebral vesicles of the embryo or the corresponding part of the adult brain )  and neighboring pons  ( between the medulla oblongata and the midbrain )  of the 3 - o - methyl ether of  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl ) acetic acid ,  a catecholamine metabolite .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the hypothalamus  ( the ventral part of the diencephalon ,  which forms the floor and lateral wall of the third ventricle )  of the 3 - o - methyl ether of  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl ) acetic acid ,  a catecholamine metabolite .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the forebrain  ( part of the brain developed from the most rostral of the three primary vesicles of the embryonic neural tube from which the diencephalon and telencephalon are derived )  of the 3 - o - methyl ether of  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl ) acetic acid ,  a catecholamine metabolite .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in a spinal cord segment adjacent to a cervical region of hva ,  a catecholamine metabolite .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the medulla oblongata  ( the region of the brainstem that lies directly above the spinal cord and controls vital autonomic functions )  of hva ,  a catecholamine metabolite .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the midbrain  ( the middle of the three cerebral vesicles of the embryo or the corresponding part of the adult brain )  and neighboring pons  ( between the medulla oblongata and the midbrain )  of hva ,  a catecholamine metabolite .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the hypothalamus  ( the ventral part of the diencephalon ,  which forms the floor and lateral wall of the third ventricle )  of hva ,  a catecholamine metabolite .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the forebrain  ( part of the brain developed from the most rostral of the three primary vesicles of the embryonic neural tube from which the diencephalon and telencephalon are derived )  of hva ,  a catecholamine metabolite .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in a spinal cord segment adjacent to a cervical region of indole - 3 - acetic acid substituted by a hydroxy group at c - 5 .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the medulla oblongata  ( the region of the brainstem that lies directly above the spinal cord and controls vital autonomic functions )  of indole - 3 - acetic acid substituted by a hydroxy group at c - 5 .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the midbrain  ( the middle of the three cerebral vesicles of the embryo or the corresponding part of the adult brain )  and neighboring pons  ( between the medulla oblongata and the midbrain )  of indole - 3 - acetic acid substituted by a hydroxy group at c - 5 .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the hypothalamus  ( the ventral part of the diencephalon ,  which forms the floor and lateral wall of the third ventricle )  of indole - 3 - acetic acid substituted by a hydroxy group at c - 5 .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the forebrain  ( part of the brain developed from the most rostral of the three primary vesicles of the embryonic neural tube from which the diencephalon and telencephalon are derived )  of indole - 3 - acetic acid substituted by a hydroxy group at c - 5 .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in a spinal cord segment adjacent to a cervical region of a catecholamine hormone that functions as a neurotransmitter and is the precursor to epinephrine .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the medulla oblongata  ( the region of the brainstem that lies directly above the spinal cord and controls vital autonomic functions )  of a catecholamine hormone that functions as a neurotransmitter and is the precursor to epinephrine .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the midbrain  ( the middle of the three cerebral vesicles of the embryo or the corresponding part of the adult brain )  and neighboring pons  ( between the medulla oblongata and the midbrain )  of a catecholamine hormone that functions as a neurotransmitter and is the precursor to epinephrine .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the hypothalamus  ( the ventral part of the diencephalon ,  which forms the floor and lateral wall of the third ventricle )  of a catecholamine hormone that functions as a neurotransmitter and is the precursor to epinephrine .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the forebrain  ( part of the brain developed from the most rostral of the three primary vesicles of the embryonic neural tube from which the diencephalon and telencephalon are derived )  of a catecholamine hormone that functions as a neurotransmitter and is the precursor to epinephrine .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in a spinal cord segment adjacent to a cervical region of a monoamine neurotransmitter derived primarily from tryptophan .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the medulla oblongata  ( the region of the brainstem that lies directly above the spinal cord and controls vital autonomic functions )  of  a monoamine neurotransmitter derived primarily from tryptophan .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the midbrain  ( the middle of the three cerebral vesicles of the embryo or the corresponding part of the adult brain )  and neighboring pons  ( between the medulla oblongata and the midbrain )  of a monoamine neurotransmitter derived primarily from tryptophan .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the hypothalamus  ( the ventral part of the diencephalon ,  which forms the floor and lateral wall of the third ventricle )  of a monoamine neurotransmitter derived primarily from tryptophan .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the forebrain  ( part of the brain developed from the most rostral of the three primary vesicles of the embryonic neural tube from which the diencephalon and telencephalon are derived )  of a monoamine neurotransmitter derived primarily from tryptophan .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in a spinal cord segment adjacent to a cervical region of this catecholamine neurotransmitter ,  derived from tyrosine and the precursor to norepinephrine and epinephrine .
of this catecholamine neurotransmitter ,  derived from tyrosine and the precursor to norepinephrine and epinephrine .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the midbrain  ( the middle of the three cerebral vesicles of the embryo or the corresponding part of the adult brain )  and neighboring pons  ( between the medulla oblongata and the midbrain )  of this catecholamine neurotransmitter ,  derived from tyrosine and the precursor to norepinephrine and epinephrine .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the hypothalamus  ( the ventral part of the diencephalon ,  which forms the floor and lateral wall of the third ventricle )  of this catecholamine neurotransmitter ,  derived from tyrosine and the precursor to norepinephrine and epinephrine .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the forebrain  ( part of the brain developed from the most rostral of the three primary vesicles of the embryonic neural tube from which the diencephalon and telencephalon are derived )  of this catecholamine neurotransmitter ,  derived from tyrosine and the precursor to norepinephrine and epinephrine .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the blood of any pharmacologically ,  endocrinologically ,  or toxicologically active substance which decreases or interferes with the activity of an enzyme .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the brain of a catecholamine secreted by the adrenal gland upon stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the brain of the 3 - o - methyl ether of  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl ) acetic acid ,  a catecholamine metabolite .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the brain of hva ,  a catecholamine metabolite .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the brain of indole - 3 - acetic acid substituted by a hydroxy group at c - 5 .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the brain of a catecholamine hormone that functions as a neurotransmitter and is the precursor to epinephrine .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the brain of a monoamine neurotransmitter derived primarily from tryptophan .
the proportion ,  quantity or volume in the brain of this catecholamine neurotransmitter ,  derived from tyrosine and the precursor to norepinephrine and epinephrine .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of any member of a group of hydroxy - 5beta - cholanic acids occurring in bile ,  where they are present as the sodium salts of their amides with glycine or taurine .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of hydroperoxides measured in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma as derivatives in a drom spectrophotometric test .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of hydroperoxides measured in serum as derivatives in a drom spectrophotometric test .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of oxidized ldl in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of oxidized ldl in serum .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in muscle of this molecule ,  glycerol esterified at each of its three hydroxyl groups by a fatty acid .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a flavan bearing an oxo substituent at position 4 .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of urotensin ii in a specified volume of urine .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of urotensin ii .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of bradykinin ,  a linear nonapeptide messenger belonging to the kinin group of proteins .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in a body tissue of macromolecules consisting of long sequences of amino acids in peptide linkage .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in a body tissue of any of the proteins that act as catalysts for biological reactions .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in an intestinal tissue of the digestive enzyme trypsin .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of sorbital dehydrogenase ,  an enzyme that converts sorbitol ,  the sugar alcohol form of glucose ,  into fructose .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to blood pressure in the lower right chamber of the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportions of proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances in the female reproductive gland containing the germ cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportions of proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances in the portion of the large intestine between the cecum and the rectum .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportions of proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances in the two - headed large muscle of the posterior portion of the lower hindlimb ,  the most superficial of the calf muscles .
the two - dimensional extent of the long bone of the thigh .
the amount of matter in the fat - storing tissue lining the cavity bounded by the abdominal walls ,  the diaphragm ,  and the pelvis ,  and surrounding the internal organs .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural or biochemical soundness of the nucleated cells of the myeloid or lymphoid lineages ,  found in blood or other tissue .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural or biochemical soundness of the cells found in the bone marrow .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural or biochemical soundness of the testosterone - secreting cells in the interstitial area ,  between the seminiferous tubules ,  in the testis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the portion of the large intestine between the cecum and the anus .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of eicosanoids ,  signaling molecules derived from c20 fatty acids .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of any organooxygen compound that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone ,  or a compound derived from one .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of oxygen in some tissue .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of oxygen in the brain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of either or both of the spongy organs of respiration contained within the pleural cavity of the thorax .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in blood of this metallic element that has formula cu ,  and normally occurs as a cofactor for a number of proteins including amine oxidases and chaperone proteins .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in urine of this metallic element that has formula cu ,  and normally occurs as a cofactor for a number of proteins including amine oxidases and chaperone proteins .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of ceruloplasmin ,  a metalloprotein that binds most of the copper in plasma and is involved in the peroxidation of fe ( ii ) transferrin to fe ( iii )  transferrin .
the proportion or number in skeletal muscle of the small branching blood vessels that connect arterioles and venules .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the small branching blood vessels in the kidney glomerulus that receive blood from the kidney afferent arterioles .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the elongated structure connected to the posterior surface of the testes that transports ,  stores ,  and matures spermatozoa between testes and vas deferens .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the long bone of the thigh .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the encapsulated adipose tissue located between the large ,  flat bones of the shoulder girdle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the milk - secreting gland that lies within the breast .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the peritoneal fold that encloses the small intestine and connects it to the abdominal wall .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the extension of the subserous coat of the uterus laterally between the layers of the broad ligament .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the kidney .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the hollow muscular organ where the embryo / fetus develops .
the total amount of matter in all of the encapsulated adipose tissue in the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the fat cells with light coloration and few mitochondria ;  these contain a scant ring of cytoplasm surrounding a single large lipid droplet or vacuole .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the single large lipid droplet or vacuole of the fat cells with light coloration and few mitochondria .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of fat cells with light coloration and few mitochondria .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to domineering ,  assaultive or forceful physical action .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to responses to a stressful or pleasurable situation or stimulus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the cleaning ,  parasite removal ,  surface covering adjustment ,  addition of conditioners to body surface ,  or other hygienic activities by one animal on another of the same species .
the proportion or number of the functional cells of the nervous system that receive ,  conduct ,  and transmit impulses .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the region of the body that includes the front part of the head from the chin to the top of the forehead ,  where the mouth ,  eyes ,  nose ,  and other features are and the part of the skull enclosing the brain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process whereby relatively unspecialized cells acquire the specialized structural and / or functional features characteristic of the highly differentiated epithelial cells with distinctive morphological features that surround the hair cells in the organ of corti .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of any of the components of the auricles or external acoustic meatus during their formation and differentiation .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to behavior or change in behavior in response to exposure to a foreign compound .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to a change in behavior elicited by alcohol consumption .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the region of the cerebral cortex that receives the auditory radiation from the medial geniculate body ,  a thalamic cell group receiving auditory input from the cochlear nuclei in the rhombencephalon and is responsible for processing of auditory  ( sound )  information .
the period of time in which an organism can produce offspring .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of an organized aggregation of cells functioning as a secretory or excretory organ .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation or differentiation of the fine ,  keratinized filamentous growths arising from the epidermis of mammals .
the distance from side to side of the body of an organism ,  perpendicular to the axis along which height is measured .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the generation of eggs by an organism ;  after development of the ovum is complete .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of milk produced by the mammary gland .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the horny projection of the face containing the jaws ,  mouth and nares and lacking teeth .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the cavity in the vertebrate body enclosed by the ribcage between the diaphragm and the neck ,  and contains the lungs ,  heart ,  thoracic aorta ,  pulmonary artery and its branches ,  thymus gland ,  and the respiratory airway .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the neurons located in the hippocampus ,  the deep - lying structure of the cerebrum involved with memory storage and spatial navigation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the portion of the body containing the brain and organs of sight ,  hearing ,  taste ,  and smell during its formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which a limb or portion of a limb is regrown after damage or amputation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which the tail or portion of the tail is regrown after damage or amputation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the groups of postsynaptic neurons located at intervals along the sympatheic trunk ,  including the superior cervical ,  middle cervical and stellate  ( cervicothoracic )  ganglia as well as the thoracic ,  lumbar and sacral ganglia .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the sympathetic ganglia located in front of the vertebral column and associated with the major branches of the abdominal aorta ;  these include the celiac ,  aorticorenal ,  superior and inferior mesenteric ganglia .
any measurable or observable characteristic of the organism subdivision which is the collection of anatomical structures on the body surface .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the structure that covers the gills .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the group of nerve cell bodies located on the dorsal spinal roots within the vertebral column at the level of the lumbar vertebrae .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the posterior opening that serves as the only such opening for the intestinal ,  reproductive and urinary tracts .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the movement of gases into and out of the posterior opening that serves as the only such opening for the intestinal ,  reproductive and urinary tracts .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the portion of the body containing the brain and organs of sight ,  hearing ,  taste ,  and smell .
any measurable characteristic related to the functions of or processes in the brain ,  one of the two components of the central nervous system and the center of thought and emotion ;  controls coordination ,  bodily activities and the interpretation of information from the senses  ( sight ,  hearing ,  smell ,  etc .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the portion of the body between the head and the abdomen ;  in mammals this region is formed by the sternum ,  thoracic vertebrae and ribs and does not include the upper limbs .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the hindquarters .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the portion of the body between the head and the abdomen during its formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any or all of the cholinergic axonal fibers projecting from a parasympathetic ganglion to an effector organ .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any or all of the cholinergic axonal fibers projecting from the cns to a parasympathetic ganglion .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the series of events required for an organism to receive a gustatory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal ,  or the morphology of the structures involved in any of these events .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the organism subdivision which is the collection of anatomical structures on the body surface .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation or differentiation of the organism subdivision which is the collection of anatomical structures on the body surface .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the organism subdivision which is the collection of anatomical structures on the body surface .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation or differentiation of an external body part that projects from the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in an external body part that projects from the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of an external body part that projects from the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the appendages primarily used to maintain position ,  move ,  steer or stop in a liquid medium .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which a fin or portion of a fin is regrown after damage or amputation .
any measurable or observable characteristic of an anatomical group that has as its parts distinct anatomical structures interconnected by anatomical structures at a lower level of granularity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the slender needle - like pointed projection that runs downward and slightly forward from the base of the inferior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone where it joins the tympanic portion ;  it gives attachment to the styloglossus ,  stylohyoid ,  and stylopharyngeus muscles and the stylohyoid and stylomandibular ligaments .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the irregular depression found on the posterior inner surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone just below its crest and above and lateral to the internal acoustic meatus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the an internal equilibrium of proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the internal equilibrium in the cell containing fluid that circulates through the body ,  carrying nourishment ,  electrolytes ,  hormones ,  vitamins ,  antibodies ,  heat ,  and oxygen to the tissues and taking away waste matter and carbon dioxide .
any measurable characteristic related to any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of sterol  ( a steroid with one oh group )  within an organism or cell .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the region of a cerebellar lobule that resides in the central section of the cerebellum between the two hemispheres ;  in humans ,  vermis lobule regions may be nearly continuous with the cerebellar hemisphere lobules dorsally but are separated by deeper longitudinal fissures in the ventral regions ;  in mammals ,  the vermis portion of the cerebellum has a foliation pattern along the ap axis that is distinct from the lateral cerebellar hemispheres .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the urine of any inorganic element or compound that has importance in body functions .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to any process that causes a chemical change in any of the organic substances found in food that are necessary in trace amounts for normal metabolic function .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucose ,  the aldohexose gluco - hexose .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the chemical reactions and pathways involving alcohols ,  any of a class of compounds containing one or more hydroxyl groups attached to a saturated carbon atom .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the proportions of molecules  ( proteins ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances )  within the blood vessels that carry blood away from the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the series of events required for an organism to receive an auditory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal ,  or to the morphology of the structures involved in any of these events .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the series of events required for an organism to receive an orientational stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal ,  or the morphology of the structures involved in any of these events .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal ,  or the morphology of the structures involved in any of these events .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the structures involved in the processes by which an organism can perceive its orientation with respect to gravity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the structures involved in the combination of processes by which an organism can perceive its orientation with respect to gravity as well as the overall process by which an organism can perceive its orientation with respect to gravity .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the structures involved in the series of events required for an organism to sense pain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the structures required for an organism to sense pain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the series of events by which an organism senses the position ,  location ,  orientation ,  and movement of the body and its parts ,  or to the morphology of the structures involved in any of these events .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the neurons that utilize acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter ,  innervate smooth muscle ,  cardiac muscle and glands and regulate homeostasis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the neurons that utilize acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter ,  innervate smooth muscle ,  cardiac muscle and glands and mediate the body's response to stressful situations .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the hippocampal layer containing neurons with pyramidal shaped cell bodies .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the largest part of the brain ,  derived from the telencephalon ,  and is composed of a right and a left hemisphere each which contains an outer cerebral cortex and a subcortical basal ganglia ;  cerebral functions include sensorimotor ,  emotional ,  and intellectual activities .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the larger part of the mammalian cerebral cortex ,  distinguished from the allocortex by being composed of a larger number of nerve cells arranged in six layers .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement ,  distribution or supply of nerve fibers to sympathetic termini . \ nconsider: vt:0010296 ,  vt:0010297
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the neuronal process ,  either a dendrite or an axon in vivo ,  or a filamentous projection from a neuron such as is seen in tissue culture .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the highly branched tree - like process of a neuron that serves as a receptive field and conducts impulses toward the cell body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the membrane junction site of a nerve cell to a target cell ,  such as another nerve cell ,  an effector cell ,  or a sensory receptor cell ;  transmission of nerve impulses may be mediated by chemical or by electrical means .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of any of the components the labyrinth ,  including the semicircular canals ,  vestibule ,  and cochlea .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the bone of the forelimb that articulates with the scapula above and the radius and ulna below .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the medial and larger of the two bones of the lower leg ,  which articulates with the femur ,  fibula ,  and talus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical or functional supporting tissue of the body ,  a major constituent of which is an extracellular matrix of ground substance ,  protein fibers ,  and structural glycoproteins .
any measurable or observable characteristic of an anatomical structure which is a subpart of the whole organism ;  the mereological sum of these is the whole organism .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the overall physical magnitude of an organism .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the location of a part of the body in relation to the body as a whole or to other parts .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the increase in size of an organism .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the urine of proteins that act as catalysts for biological reactions .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the network of vessels that convey blood in the paired organs responsible for urine excretion and regulation of ion concentrations .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology of the system that moves extracellular fluids to and from tissues during its formation and differentiation .
any measurable or observable characteristic pertaining to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the system that moves extracellular fluids to and from tissues .
any measurable or observable characteristic pertaining to the function of or processes in the system that moves extracellular fluids to and from tissues .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation or differentiation of the system consisting of the skin and its derivatives .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the system consisting of the skin and its derivatives .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the system consisting of the skin and its derivatives .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the sac - like structure of the mammary gland that synthesizes and secretes milk after pregnancy .
the distance across the sac - like structure of the mammary gland that synthesizes and secretes milk after pregnancy .
the proportion or number of epithelial cells surrounding the mammary alveoli .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation during the fetal period of the milk - secreting gland in female mammals .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the largest area for milk accumulation in the ductal system of the mammary gland in some species .
the volume of or amount contained in the largest area for milk accumulation in the ductal system of the mammary gland in some species .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical form or contours of the projection near the center of the mammary gland ,  on the surface of which the lactiferous ducts open .
the distance across the erectile protuberance at the tip of the mammary gland in which the mammary ducts terminate and from which milk can be secreted .
the angle between the vertical and the teat axis .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the volume of blood that flows through the vascular system of the mammary gland .
the distance around the milk - producing glands in female mammals ,  consisting of lobes containing clusters of alveoli with a system of ducts to convey the milk to an external nipple or teat .
the amount of matter in the milk - producing glands in female mammals ,  consisting of lobes containing clusters of alveoli with a system of ducts to convey the milk to an external nipple or teat .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the organ in certain species containing two or more mammary glands ,  each with its own nipple .
the volume of or amount contained in the sac - like structure of the mammary gland that synthesizes and secretes milk after pregnancy .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the symmetry ,  size and shape of the various body regions relative to each other or general appearance of an organism .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the organism's ability to convert food into body mass .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of the enzyme creatine kinase ,  which uses atp to convert creatine to phosphocreatine and adp ;  elevated levels are indicative of muscle damage .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of both of the lower chambers of the heart .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in a body tissue or fluid of one of a complex of three regulatory proteins required for skeletal and cardiac muscle contraction ;  used as an indicator for myocardial damage .
the distance around an organism's thorax measured just posterior to the forelimbs .
the distance from side to side between the points of both hips .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the organ in certain species containing two or more mammary glands ,  each with its own nipple .
the proportion or number of somatic cells  ( leukocytes and epithelial cells )  in milk ;  a high number is an indicator of mastitis .
the amount of matter in osseous tissue forming a part of the skeleton ;  consists of a dense outer layer surrounded by the periosteum ,  and an inner spongy substance .
the distance between the surfaces of the respiratory muscles that arise from the lower border of one rib and insert into the upper border of the adjoining rib .
the proportion or number of bony segments of the spinal column located anterior / superior to the sacral vertebrae and posterior / inferior to the thoracic vertebrae .
the proportion or number of bony segments of the vertebral column located anterior to the lumbar vertebrae and posterior to the cervical vertebrae ,  which articulate with the ribs .
the distance between the surfaces of a layer of fat - storing tissue .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of fat - storing tissue in the body cavity ,  specifically in the areas of the kidneys ,  pelvis ,  and heart .
the distance between the surfaces of the fat - storing layer directly beneath the skin .
the amount of matter in the muscle of the back which is the intermediate and largest of the continuations of the sacrospinalis .
the amount of matter in the respiratory muscles that arise from the lower border of one rib and insert into the upper border of the adjoining rib .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the healthfulness of an organism .
the total proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of fat in milk .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in milk of macromolecules consisting of long sequences of amino acids in peptide linkage .
the proportion or number of offspring born alive .
the proportion or number of offspring born in single or multiple births .
the degree to which the female displays the state of sexual excitement during which she is most receptive to mating .
the proportion or number of offspring that have died before birth process is completed .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the nipple .
the proportion or number of mammary gland projections containing the outlets of the milk ducts through which milk is excreted .
the distance around the external sac of skin that encloses the testes .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of the fat - storing tissue lining the cavity bounded by the abdominal walls ,  the diaphragm ,  and the pelvis ,  and surrounding the internal organs .
the amount of matter in either or both of the muscles that make up the upper and fore part of the chest that adduct and rotate the arm and lift the ribs .
the amount of matter in the secondary ,  muscular stomach in some vertebrates used for grinding up food .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the morphology or physiology during formation and differentiation of the surface covering of birds ,  made of keratin .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to actions or reactions in tests for fear or anxiety related behaviors .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the pecking of the other birds .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the receipt of pecking by the other birds .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the tendency to choose between freely available food or food in combination with social stimuli in a maze test with several options . \ nconsider: vt:0010455
the two - dimensional extent of the bone of the forelimb that articulates with the scapula above and the radius and ulna below .
the amount of matter in the minerals  ( inorganic elements or compounds that have importance in body functions )  in the bone of the forelimb that articulates with the scapula above and the radius and ulna below .
the distance from side to side of the bone of the forelimb that articulates with the scapula above and the radius and ulna below .
the two - dimensional extent of the medial and larger of the two bones of the lower leg ,  which articulates with the femur ,  fibula ,  and talus .
the amount of matter in the minerals  ( inorganic elements or compounds that have importance in body functions )  in the medial and larger of the two bones of the lower leg ,  which articulates with the femur ,  fibula ,  and talus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the medial and larger of the two bones of the lower leg to withstand the application of force without yielding or breaking .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the medial and larger of the two bones of the lower leg to recover size and shape after deformation in any way .
the distance from side to side of the medial and larger of the two bones of the lower leg ,  which articulates with the femur ,  fibula ,  and talus .
the proportion or number of eggs produced .
the distance around the metacarpal or metatarsal bone ( s )  in some hoofed mammals ,  extending between the knee or hock and the fetlock .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the long bone of the thigh .
the total number of bony segments constituting the vertebral column .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of the testicular steroid androstenone detected in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement .
the amount of matter in the thin musculomebranous barrier that separates the abdominal and thoracic cavities .
obsolete .the measure of the available glycogen stores in a body tissue or fluid ;  available glycogen is dependent on glycogen ,  glucose ,  glucose - 6 - phosphate ,  and lactate levels .
the total amount of matter in all of the pedal extremities of an organism .
the amount of matter in the portion of the body containing the brain and organs of sight ,  hearing ,  taste ,  and smell .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the upper portion of the digestive tract ,  between the stomach and the large intestine .
the amount of matter in the membranous protective covering of the body .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of the compound produced from pyruvate by lactate dehydrogenase in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of the most abundant steroid in animal tissues present in the total lipid extracted from the contractile tissue that effects movement .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of indole ,  a tryptophan degradation product ,  detected in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of this clear ,  odorless ,  tasteless liquid in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of macromolecules consisting of long chains of amino acids in peptide linkage in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of skatole ,  a tryptophan degradation product ,  detected in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the contractile tissue that effects movement of an organ or part of the body to conduct electrical current .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the striated muscles connected at either or both extremities with the bony framework of the body to conduct electrical current .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of the testicular steroid androstenone present in fat tissue .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of fat - storing tissue present between the muscles .
the amount of matter in the fat - storing tissue associated with the digestive tube passing from the stomach to the anus .
the amount of matter in the fat - storing layer directly beneath the skin .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of fat - soluble substances  ( molecules composed of carbon and hydrogen and are characteristically insoluble in water )  in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement .
the amount of matter in the fat - storing cells / tissue present within skeletal muscle .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of a monounsaturated fatty acid  ( c18h34o2 )  ,  with a carbon - carbon double bond at c - 11 ,  present in a sample of fat .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of an unsaturated fatty acid  ( c20h36o2 )  ,  with two carbon - carbon double bonds ,  present in a sample of fat .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of a monounsaturated fatty acid  ( c20h38o2 )  ,  with a carbon - carbon double bond at c - 11 ,  present in a sample of fat .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of a saturated fatty acid  ( c17h34o2 )  present in a sample of fat .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of an omega - 6 unsaturated fatty acid  ( c18h32o2 )  ,  with two carbon - carbon double bonds ,  present in a sample of fat .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of an omega - 3 ,  polyunsaturated fatty acid  ( c18h30o2 )  ,  with three carbon - carbon double bonds ,  present in a sample of fat .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of a saturated fatty acid  ( c14h28o2 )  present in a sample of fat .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of a monounsaturated ,  omega - 9 fatty acid  ( c18h34o2 )  ,  present in a sample of fat .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of a saturated fatty acid  ( c16h32o2 )  present in a sample of fat .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of an omega - 7 ,  monounsaturated fatty acid  ( c16h30o2 )  present in a sample of fat .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of a saturated fatty acid  ( c18h36o2 )  present in a sample of fat .
the two - dimensional extent of the muscle of the back which is the intermediate and largest of the continuations of the sacrospinalis .
the distance between the surfaces of the muscle of the back which is the intermediate and largest of the continuations of the sacrospinalis .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the muscle of the back which is the intermediate and largest of the continuations of the sacrospinalis .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of the type i isoform ,  predominant in slow - twitch fibers ,  of the most abundant protein in skeletal muscle .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of the type iia isoform ,  found in greater amounts in fast fibers ,  of the most abundant protein in skeletal muscle .
the proportion or number of type iib ,  fast glycolytic fibers in skeletal muscle ;  these white fibers are greater in diameter than red fibers ,  have less myoglobin ,  sarcoplasm ,  and mitochondria ,  and contract more quickly .
the proportion or number of nipples capable of secreting milk .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the upper right or left portion of the uterus to which the uterine tube is connected .
the matter of the upper right or left portion of the hollow muscular organ where the embryo / fetus develops to which the uterine tube is connected .
the amount of matter in the female reproductive gland containing the germ cells .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the hollow muscular organ where the embryo / fetus develops .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the production of mature male germ cells .
the amount of matter in the male reproductive gland ( s )  where sperm production occurs .
the period of time over which milk is produced from the mammary gland .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the surface covering of birds ,  made of keratin .
the distance from side to side of the long bone of the thigh .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the secondary ,  muscular stomach in some vertebrates used for grinding up food .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a steroid hormone secreted by the adrenal cortex which acts as an anti - inflammatory agent .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of both of the lower chambers of the heart .
the total amount of matter in both of the lower chambers of the heart .
the relative acidity or alkalinity in the muscle ,  as measured by the concentration of hydrogen ion .
the amount of matter in the pedal or prehensile extremity of vertebrates .
the amount of matter in the anterior / superior jointed appendages used for locomotion or grasping .
the amount of matter in any of the bones of the lower / hindlimbs that articulate proximally with the tarsus and distally with the phalanges .
the amount of matter in the posterior / inferior jointed appendages used for locomotion or grasping .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the state of equilibrium in muscle with respect to this readily converted carbohydrate reserve ,  found in most tissues ,  especially liver and muscle .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the upward extension of the suspensory ligament separating the two halves of the udder .
the vertical dimension between the udder floor and tarsal joint  ( point of the hock )  ,  viewed from the side .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the milk - producing glands in female mammals ,  consisting of lobes containing clusters of alveoli with a system of ducts to convey the milk to an external nipple or teat .
the distance from side to side of the milk - producing glands in female mammals ,  consisting of lobes containing clusters of alveoli with a system of ducts to convey the milk to an external nipple or teat .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the muscle of the back which is the intermediate and largest of the continuations of the sacrospinalis .
the amount of matter in the encapsulated adipose tissue in the cavity bounded by the abdominal walls ,  the diaphragm ,  and the pelvis .
the amount of matter in one or more of the striated muscles connected at either or both extremities with the bony framework of the body .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of the type iib isoform ,  found in the fastest fibers ,  of the most abundant protein in skeletal muscle .
the proportion or number of nipples incapable of secreting milk .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the arrangement of an organism's back ,  neck ,  and area between the shoulder blades ,  known as the withers in some animals .
the distance from side to side of the chest ,  viewed from the front ;  typically measured at the widest point above the forelimbs .
the dorsal - ventral dimension of the chest ,  measured directly behind the forelimbs .
the vertical distance from the ground to the hairline at the back of the hoof .
the distance from the tip of the hoof to the hairline at the back of the hoof .
the angle at which the hoof wall meets the ground .
obsolete .any measurable or observable characteristic related to the general attitude or characteristic reactions of an organism exhibited toward another organism . \ nconsider: vt:0010452
the squareness of the hind legs in relation to the body ;  may be assessed from the side or from behind .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the assessment of the overall structure and proportions of the jointed appendages of an animal ,  used for locomotion or grasping .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the hindquarters .
the distance from side to side between the caudal protrusions of the pelvis ,  viewed from behind .
the slope of the topline of the rump ,  between the cranial and caudal protrusions of the pelvic bone ,  viewed from the side .
the distance from point to point along the longest axis of the segment of a myofibril between two z lines .
the proportion or number of skeletal muscle fibers ,  the large multinucleated cells that make up the striated muscles connected at either or both extremities with the bony framework of the body .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of any of several forms of the thick filament protein in any of the striated muscles connected at either or both extremities with the bony framework of the body .
the proportion or number of type i ,  slow oxidative fibers in skeletal muscle ;  these red fibers are rich in sarcoplasm ,  myoglobin ,  and mitochondria and contract more slowly than white fibers .
the proportion or number of type iia ,  fast oxidative fibers in skeletal muscle ;  have an admixture of glycolytic and oxidative enzymes and an intermediate twitch time .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of this element present in the tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers that effects movement .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of the heme - containing ,  oxygen - carrying and storage protein in the contractile tissue that effects movement .
any measurable or observable characteristic of the system consisting of the skin and its derivatives .
any measurable or observable characteristic of the system dedicated to the mechanical ,  chemical ,  and enzymatic processing of food .
any measurable or observable characteristic of the organs involved in the production or excretion of urine or the urine produced .
any measurable or observable characteristic of the system responsible for receiving and processing information about an organism's environment and controlling behavior .
any measurable or observable characteristic of the system of glands that secrete hormones and other substances .
any measurable or observable characteristic of the organs or cells associated with the body's defense against foreign organisms or substances and aberrant native cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic of the system that moves extracellular fluids to and from tissues .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to blood pressure in the arteries .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to blood pressure in the capillaries .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the blood pressure in the veins .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the blood pressure in a specific region of the body ,  tissue ,  or organ .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to blood flow in the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to blood flow in the brain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to blood flow in the kidneys .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the movement of lymph through the lymph vessels .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of the heart to pump blood through its various chambers and out into the circulatory system .
obsolete .the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of blood that enters the right heart from the vena cava .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the conduction of an electrical impulse through the heart .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of cardiac muscle fibers to shorten .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability of striated ,  involuntary muscle comprising the myocardium to lengthen following contraction .
the force generated by contraction of the striated ,  involuntary muscle comprising the myocardium .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process of platelets sticking to exposed extracellular matrix proteins .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process of stimulating platelets to release substances that promote platelet adhesion and blood clotting .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process of platelets sticking to each other .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process whereby prothrombin is activated to thrombin which acts to convert fibrinogen to fibrin ,  allowing for formation of a fibrin clot .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the resistance of two layers of blood to sliding against each other .
any measurable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the fine ,  keratinized filamentous growths arising from the epidermis of mammals .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the individual layers of the membranous protective covering of the body .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the islets of langerhans of the pancreas which secrete insulin and glucagon into the bloodstream .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of any of the glands that secret mucous .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the function of or processes in the organized aggregations of cells that release hormones in response to neural stimuli .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the internal equilibrium in the fluid and dissolved substances excreted by the kidneys .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the process by which the cells of the loops of henle ,  proximal and distal convoluted tubules ,  and collecting ducts in the kidney reabsorb water ,  electrolytes ,  or other molecules ,  thereby removing them from the newly produced urine .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of a peptide hormone derived from proglucagon and mainly produced by intestinal l cells .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the serous membrane that lines the peritoneal cavity .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of gastric inhibitory polypeptide ,  a 42 - amino - acid hormone that is produced by enteroendocrine k - cells and released into the circulation in response to nutrient stimulation .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of any member of a group of hydroxy - 5beta - cholanic acids occurring in bile ,  where they are present as the sodium salts of their amides with glycine or taurine .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the liver of any member of a group of hydroxy - 5beta - cholanic acids occurring in bile ,  where they are present as the sodium salts of their amides with glycine or taurine .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in feces of any member of a group of hydroxy - 5beta - cholanic acids occurring in bile ,  where they are present as the sodium salts of their amides with glycine or taurine .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of any of the arteries which irrigate the cerebrum of the brain .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of any of the arteries which irrigate the cerebrum of the brain .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in liver tissue of this metallic element that normally occurs in the heme of hemoglobin ,  myoglobin ,  transferrin ,  ferritin ,  and iron - containing porphyrins ;  it is an essential component of enzymes such as catalase ,  peroxidase ,  and various cytochromes .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the structural soundness of the grey matter on the surface of the cerebral hemisphere that develops from the telencephalon and folds into gyri ;  it is responsible for intellectual faculties and higher mental functions .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in the cardiovascular system of the cell - containing fluid that circulates through the body ,  carrying nourishment ,  electrolytes ,  hormones ,  vitamins ,  antibodies ,  heat ,  and oxygen to the tissues and taking away waste matter and carbon dioxide .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the capillary loops at the beginning of each nephric tubule in the kidney .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 ,   the principal inhibitor of tissue plasminogen activator  ( tpa )  and urokinase  ( upa )  ,  and hence an inhibitor of fibrinolysis .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume in whole blood ,  serum ,  or plasma of complement ,   the thermolabile group of proteins in normal blood serum and plasma that in combination with antibodies causes the destruction especially of particulate antigens  ( such as bacteria and foreign blood corpuscles )  .
