a process that is the means during which the pathogen is transmitted directly or indirectly from its natural reservoir ,  a susceptible host or source to a new host .
direct transmission is a transmission process that is the means during which the pathogen is transmitted immediately from a reservoir ,  source or host to another host .
indirect transmission is a transmission process during which the pathogen is indirectly transferred from a reservoir ,  source or host to another host by intermediary vehicles ,  vectors or as airborne dust particles .
mechanical transmission is an indirect vector - borne transmission process during which the pathogen is indirectly transferred from a reservoir ,  source or host to another host by being transported on the external surface of the vector .
vector - borne transmission is an indirect transmission process during which the pathogen is indirectly transferred from a reservoir ,  source or host via an animate intermediary vector to another host .
congenital transmission is a direct transmission process during which the pathogen is transmitted directly from mother to child at or around the time of birth .
contact transmission is a direct transmission process during which the pathogen is transmitted   from a reservoir ,  source or host to another host by kissing ,  skin - to - skin contact ,  sexual intercourse ,  or by contact with soil or vegetation containing the pathogen .
droplet spread transmission is a direct transmission process during which the pathogen is transmitted from a reservoir ,  source or host to another host by spray of aerosols over a short distance ,  spray from sneezing ,  coughing or talking .
airborne transmission is an indirect transmission process during which the pathogen is indirectly transferred from a reservoir ,  source or host to another host while suspended in the air as dust .
vehicle - borne transmission is an indirect transmission process during which the pathogen is indirectly transferred from a reservoir ,  source or host to another host by inanimate intermediary vehicle objects .
vehicle - borne fomite transmission is an indirect vehicle - borne transmission process during which the pathogen is indirectly transferred from a reservoir ,  source or host to another host by inanimate objects including: medical instruments ,  cloth ,  fur ,  metal or plastic utensils .
vehicle - borne ingestion transmission is an indirect vehicle - borne transmission process during which the pathogen is indirectly transferred from a reservoir ,  source or host to another host by ingestion of fluids or foods or food products including: food ,  water ,  milk ,  or meat products .
vehicle - borne medical transmission is an indirect vehicle - borne transmission process during which the pathogen is indirectly transferred from a reservoir ,  source or host to another host by biological products including: blood ,  serum ,  plasma ,  tissue ,  or organs .
vector - borne bite transmission is an indirect vector - borne transmission during which the pathogen is indirectly transferred by insect bites from a reservoir ,  source or host via a vector to another host .
vector - borne gastro - intestinal transmission is an indirect vector - borne transmission process during which the pathogen is transported ,  from a reservoir ,  source or host to another host ,  within the vector and undergoes part of it's lifecycle in the intermediate host .
placental transmission is a congenital transmission process during which the pathogen is transmitted directly from mother to child across the placental barrier .
arthropod borne transmission is a vector - borne transmission process during which the pathogen is indirectly transferred from a reservoir ,  source or host via an animate intermediary arthropod vector to another host .
insect borne transmission is an arthropod vector - borne transmission process during which the pathogen is indirectly transferred from a reservoir ,  source or host via an intermediary insect vector such as a flea or mosquito to another host .
mosquito borne transmission is an insect borne transmission process during which the pathogen is indirectly transferred from a reservoir ,  source or host via an intermediary mosquito vector to another host .
anopheles gambiae borne transmission is a mosquito borne transmission process during which the pathogen is indirectly transferred from a reservoir ,  source or host via an intermediary mosquito vector of the species anopheles gambiae to another host .
flea borne transmission is an insect borne transmission process during which the pathogen is indirectly transferred from a reservoir ,  source or host via an intermediary flea vector to another host .
tick borne transmission is an arachnid borne transmission process during which the pathogen is indirectly transferred from a reservoir ,  source or host via an intermediary tick vector to another host .
copepod borne transmission is a vector - borne transmission process during which the pathogen is indirectly transferred from a reservoir ,  source or host via an animate intermediary copepod vector to another host .
dracunculus medinensis borne transmission is a copepod borne transmission process during which the pathogen is indirectly transferred from a reservoir ,  source or host via an animate intermediary copepod vector of the species dracunculus medinensis to another host .
arachnid borne transmission is an arthropod vector - borne transmission process during which the pathogen is indirectly transferred from a reservoir ,  source or host via an intermediary arthropod vector such as a tick to another host .
