a material entity that is ingested and contributes to survival ,  growth and development
material which remains after the removal of water from plant matter .
carbohydrates that are absorbed in the small intestine and provide carbohydrate for metabolism in monogastric animals .
available carbohydrate in monosaccharide and disaccharide form
a carbohydrate that resists enzymatic digestion in the digestive systems of humans and other monogastric species .
dietary fibre which dissolves in water and is primarily fermented in the colon of monogastric animals by gut bacteria
a portion of starch that cannot be digested by amylases in the small intestine
dietary fibre which does not dissolve in water and is inert to digestive enzymes in the upper gastrointestinal tract of monogastric animals .
a protein that accumulates in developing seeds or grains .
a mineral nutrient that represents a major proportion of the minerals required in the diet
a mineral nutrient that is present in a very low concentration within the diet
a plant metabolite that is not essential for growth or division of plant cells .
amylopectin which is derived from starch .
amylose which is derived from starch .
galacturonan which is derived from pectin .
rhamnogalacturonan which is derived from pectin .
mannan which is derived from hemicellulose .
xylan which is derived from hemicellulose .
xyloglucan which is derived from hemicellulose .
glucomannan which is derived from hemicellulose .
arabinoxylan which is derived from hemicellulose .
fructan which is derived from hemicellulose .
arabinan which is derived from hemicellulose .
galactomannan which is derived from hemicellulose .
galactan which is derived from hemicellulose .
glucose which is derived from amylopectin derived from starch .
glucose which is derived from amylose derived from starch .
glucose which is derived from sucrose .
fructose which is derived from sucrose .
glucose which is derived from maltose .
galacturonic acid which is derived from galacturonan derived from pectin .
rhamnose which is derived from rhamnogalacturonan derived from pectin .
apiose which is derived from rhamnogalacturonan derived from pectin .
galacturonic acid which is derived from rhamnogalacturonan derived from pectin .
fucose which is derived from rhamnogalacturonan derived from pectin .
xylose which is derived from rhamnogalacturonan derived from pectin .
arabinose which is derived from rhamnogalacturonan derived from pectin .
galactose which is derived from rhamnogalacturonan derived from pectin .
raffinose which is derived from raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  .
galactose which is derived from raffinose derived from raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  .
glucose which is derived from raffinose derived from raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  .
fructose which is derived from raffinose derived from raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  .
stachyose which is derived from raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  .
galactose which is derived from stachyose derived from raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  .
glucose which is derived from stachyose derived from raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  .
fructose which is derived from stachyose derived from raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  .
verbascose which is derived from raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  .
galactose which is derived from verbascose derived from raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  .
glucose which is derived from verbascose derived from raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  .
fructose which is derived from verbascose derived from raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  .
glucose which is derived from cellulose .
mannose which is derived from mannan derived from hemicellulose .
glucose which is derived from xylan derived from hemicellulose .
xylose which is derived from xylan derived from hemicellulose .
glucose which is derived from xyloglucan derived from hemicellulose .
xylose which is derived from xyloglucan derived from hemicellulose .
glucose which is derived from glucomannan derived from hemicellulose .
mannose which is derived from glucomannan derived from hemicellulose .
arabinose which is derived from arabinoxylan derived from hemicellulose .
xylose which is derived from arabinoxylan derived from hemicellulose .
inulin which is derived from fructan .
fructose which is derived from inulin derived from fructan .
amino acid which is derived from protein .
the concentration of dietary nutritional component when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of water when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of dry plant matter when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of ash when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of carbohydrate when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of polysaccharide when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of starch when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of pectin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of cellulose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of hemicellulose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of inulin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of monosaccharide when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glucose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of fructose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of rhamnose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of apiose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of galacturonic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of fucose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of xylose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of arabinose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of galactose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of mannose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of ribose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of disaccharide when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of sucrose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of trehalose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of maltose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of oligosaccharide when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of raffinose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of stachyose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of verbascose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of available carbohydrate when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of free sugar when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of dietary fibre when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of soluble dietary fibre when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of resistant starch when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of insoluble dietary fibre when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of fructan when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of protein when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of seed storage protein when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of albumin type when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of globulin type when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of prolamin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of cruciferin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glutenin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of alanine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of arginine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of asparagine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of aspartic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of cysteine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glutamic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glutamine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glycine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of histidine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of hydroxyproline when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of isoleucine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of leucine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of lysine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of methionine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of phenylalanine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of proline when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of serine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of threonine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of tryptophan when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of tyrosine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of valine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of lipid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of diglyceride when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of cis - fatty acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of octanoic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of pentadecanoic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of tetracosanoic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of lauric acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of myristic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of palmitic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of heptadecanoic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of stearic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of arachidic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of behenic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of lignoceric acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of propionic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of myristoleic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of palmitoleic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of oleic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of palmitelaidic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of elaidic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of vaccenic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of gondoic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of erucic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of nervonic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of omega - 3 - fatty acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of stearidonic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of eicosatrienoic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of eicosatetraenoic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of 6z , 9z , 12z , 15z , 18z , 21z - tetracosahexaenoic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of alpha - linolenic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of icosapentaenoic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of docosapentaenoic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of docosahexaenoic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of linolenic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of omega - 6 fatty acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of linoleic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of homo - gamma - linolenic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of gamma - linolenic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of eicosadienoic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of arachidonic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of docosadienoic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of docosatetraenoic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of trans - fatty acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of capsaicin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of phospholipid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of phosphatidylcholine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of phosphatidylethanolamine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of phosphatidyl - l - serine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of phosphatidylinositol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of lysophosphatidylcholine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glycolipid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glycoglycerolipid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of sterol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of campestanol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of cholesterol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of lupeol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of phytosterol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of avenasterol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of delta5 - avenasterol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of delta7 - avenasterol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of brassicasterol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of campesterol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of ergosterol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of sitosterol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of stigmastanol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of stigmasterol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of delta7 - stigmasterol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of mineral nutrient when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of macro element when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of calcium when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of chloride when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of magnesium when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of nitrogen when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of phosphorus when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of potassium when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of sodium when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of sulfur when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of trace element when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of aluminium when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of antimony when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of arsenic when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of boron when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of cadmium when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of chromium when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of cobalt when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of copper when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of fluoride when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of iodine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of iron when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of lead when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of lithium when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of manganese when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of mercury when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of molybdenum when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of nickel when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of rubidium when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of selenium when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of strontium when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of tin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of titanum when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of vanadium when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of zinc when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of barium when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of caesium atom when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of bismuth when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of lanthanum when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of salt when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of sodium chloride when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of inorganic nitrate salt when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of bromide when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of vitamin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of water soluble vitamin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of vitamin b when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of 5 - formyltetrahydrofolic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of  ( 6r )  - 5 , 10 - methenyltetrahydrofolate when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of thiamine  ( b1 )  when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of riboflavin  ( b2 )  when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of niacin  ( b3 )  when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of pantothenic acid  ( b5 )  when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of pyridoxine  ( b6 )  when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of biotin  ( b7 )  when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of b9 folate when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of cyanocobalamin  ( b12 )  when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of vitamin c when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of l - ascorbic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of fat soluble vitamin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of vitamin a when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of carotenoid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of alpha - carotene when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of beta - carotene when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of trans - beta - carotene when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of beta - carotene - cis when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of vitamin d when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of calcidiol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of vitamin e when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of tocopherol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of alpha - tocopherol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of beta - tocopherol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of gamma - tocopherol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of delta - tocopherol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of tocotrienol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of alpha - tocotrienol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of beta - tocotrienol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of gamma - tocotrienol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of delta - tocotrienol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of vitamin k when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of plant secondary metabolite when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of alkaloid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of caffeine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of mescaline when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of theobromine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of phenols when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of polyphenol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of tannin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of chlorogenic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of condensed tannin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of hydrolysable tannin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of ellagitannin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of gallotannin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of phlorotannin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of catechol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of phloroglucinol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of  (  -  )  - epigallocatechin 3 - gallate when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of phenolic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of gallic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of hydroxybenzoic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of salicylic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of arbutin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of vanillic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of syringic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of phenolic ketone when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of acetophenone when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of phenylacetic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of hydroxycinnamates when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of caffeic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of sinapic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of chromones when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of chicoric acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of coumaric acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of p - coumaric acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of o - coumaric acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of m - coumaric when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of ferulic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of scopoletin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of phenylpropane when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of napthoquinone when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of 1 , 2 - napthoquinone when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of 1 , 4 - napthoquinone when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of juglone when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of stilbenoid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of stilbene when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of anthraquinone when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of aglycone when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of emodin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of xanthones when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of simple oxygenated xanthones when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of xanthone glycoside when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of prenylated and related xanthones when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of xanthonolignoid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of flavonoids when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of flavonoid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of malvidin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of kaempferol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of flavan when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of flavanone when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of 6 - prenylnaringenin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of sophoraflavanone b when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of eriocitrin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of eriodictyol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of hesperetin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of hesperidin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of homoeriodictyol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of isosakuranetin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of naringenin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of naringin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of narirutin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of neoeriocitrin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of neohesperidin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of pinocembrin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of poncirin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of sakuranetin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of flavone when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of 6 - hydroxyluteolin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of 6 - hydroxyluteolin 7 - o - rhamnoside when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of 4' , 7 - dihydroxyflavone when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of apigenin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of baicalein when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of chrysin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of cirsilineol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of cirsimaritin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of diosmin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of dihydromyricetin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of eupatorin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of gardenin b when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of geraldone when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of hispidulin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of isovitexin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of jaceosidin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of luteolin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of luteolin 7 - o - beta - glucoside when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of myricitrin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of nobiletin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of quercetin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of rhoifolin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of scutellarein when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of sinensetin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of tangeretin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of vitexin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of dihydroflavanol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of flavanols when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of catechin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of  (  +  )  - catechin 3 - o - gallate when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of  (  +  )  - gallocatechin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of  (  -  )  - epicatechin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of  (  +  )  - epicatechin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of  (  -  )  - gallocatechin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of  (  -  )  - epicatechin - 3 - o - gallate when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of  (  -  )  - epigallocatechin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of 3' - o - methylepicatechin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of 4' - o - methylepigallocatechin - 3 - o - gallate when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of 4' - o - methylepigallocatechin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of proanthocyanidin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of cinnamtannin a2 when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of procyanidins when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of procyanidin dimer b1 when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of procyanidin dimer b2 when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of procyanidin dimer b3 when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of procyanidin dimer b4 when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of procyanidin dimer b5 when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of procyanidin dimer b6 when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of procyanidin trimer c1 when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of procyanidin trimer c2 when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of theaflavin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of peltogynoid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of dihydrochalcone when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of 3 - hydroxyphloretin - 2' - o - xylosyl - glucoside when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of phloretin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of phlorizin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of chalcone when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of butein when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of xanthohumol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of aurone when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of anthocyanidin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of cyanidin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of cyanidin 3 - o - galactoside when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of cyanidin 3 - o - rutinoside when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of cyanidin 3 - o - sambubioside when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of cyanidin 3 - o - sophoroside when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of isopeonidin 3 - rutinoside when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of pelargonidin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of pelargonidin 3 - o - rutinoside when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of anthocyanin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of anthocyanin chlorides when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of cyanidin 3 - o - beta - d - galactoside chloride when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of cyanidin 3 - o - rutinoside chloride when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of cyanin chloride when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of pelargonidin 3 - o - beta - d - glucoside chloride when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of beta - d - glucoside when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of delphinidin 3 - o - beta - d - glucoside when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of petunidin 3 - o - beta - glucoside when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of malvidin 3 - o - beta - d - glucoside when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of isoflavonoid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of isoflavan when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of isoflavanone when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of isoflavone when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of hydroxyisoflavone when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of daidzein when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of genistein when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glycitein when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glucoside when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of daidzin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of genistin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glycitin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glycosyloxyisoflavone when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of malonyl daidzin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of malonyl genistin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of malonyl glycitin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of acetyl glycitin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of rotenoid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of coumestans when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of coumestan when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of coumestrol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of 3 - arylcoumarin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of pterocarpans when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of pterocarpan when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of  (  -  )  - phaseolin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of  (  +  )  - pisatin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of neoflavonoid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of biflavonoid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of phenylpropanoid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of lignan when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of silymarin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of neolignan when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of lignin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of melanin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of catechol melanin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of allomelanin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of terpenoid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of monoterpenoid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of sesquiterpoid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of diterpenoid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of xanthophyll when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of zeaxanthin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of alpha - cryptoxanthin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of beta - cryptoxanthin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of lutein when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of phytoene when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of neoxanthin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of violaxanthin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of lycopene when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of cis - lycopene when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of retinol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of triterpenoid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of organic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of acetic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of citric acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of lactic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of d - lactic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of l - lactic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of malic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of malonic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of ascorbic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of l - dehydroascorbic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of oxalic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of phytic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of quinic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of pyruvic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of shikimic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of succinic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of tartaric acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of isocitric acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of oxaloacetic acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of inositol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of taurine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glycine betaine when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of polyol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of mannitol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of xylitol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glucitol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of choline when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of polyunsaturated fatty acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glucomannan when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glycerol when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of triglyceride when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of xyloglucan when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of arabinan when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of galacturonan when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of monounsaturated fatty acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of rhamnogalacturonan when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of saturated fatty acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of galactomannan when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of amylopectin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of amylose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of arabinoxylan when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of mannan when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of amino acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of fatty acid when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of galactan when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of xylan when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glucan when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of amylopectin derived from starch when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of amylose derived from starch when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of galacturonan derived from pectin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of rhamnogalacturonan derived from pectin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of mannan derived from hemicellulose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of xylan derived from hemicellulose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of xyloglucan derived from hemicellulose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glucomannan derived from hemicellulose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of arabinoxylan derived from hemicellulose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of fructan derived from hemicellulose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of arabinan derived from hemicellulose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of galactomannan derived from hemicellulose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of galactan derived from hemicellulose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glucose derived from amylopectin derived from starch when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glucose derived from amylose derived from starch when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glucose derived from sucrose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of fructose derived from sucrose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glucose derived from maltose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of galacturonic acid derived from galacturonan derived from pectin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of rhamnose derived from rhamnogalacturonan derived from pectin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of apiose derived from rhamnogalacturonan derived from pectin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of galacturonic acid derived from rhamnogalacturonan derived from pectin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of fucose derived from rhamnogalacturonan derived from pectin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of xylose derived from rhamnogalacturonan derived from pectin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of arabinose derived from rhamnogalacturonan derived from pectin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of galactose derived from rhamnogalacturonan derived from pectin when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of raffinose derived from raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of galactose derived from raffinose derived from raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glucose derived from raffinose derived from raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of fructose derived from raffinose derived from raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of stachyose derived from raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of galactose derived from stachyose derived from raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glucose derived from stachyose derived from raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of fructose derived from stachyose derived from raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of verbascose derived from raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of galactose derived from verbascose derived from raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glucose derived from verbascose derived from raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of fructose derived from verbascose derived from raffinose family of oligosaccharide  ( rfo )  when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glucose derived from cellulose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of mannose derived from mannan derived from hemicellulose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glucose derived from xylan derived from hemicellulose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of xylose derived from xylan derived from hemicellulose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glucose derived from xyloglucan derived from hemicellulose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of xylose derived from xyloglucan derived from hemicellulose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of glucose derived from glucomannan derived from hemicellulose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of mannose derived from glucomannan derived from hemicellulose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of arabinose derived from arabinoxylan derived from hemicellulose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of xylose derived from arabinoxylan derived from hemicellulose when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of inulin derived from fructan when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of fructose derived from inulin derived from fructan when measured in some plant structure .
the concentration of amino acid derived from protein when measured in some plant structure .
a carotenol ,  the structure of which is  ( 6'r )  - beta , epsilon - carotene hydroxy - substituted at c - 3' with r - stereochemistry .
a carotenol that exhibits antioxidant activity .
a prenylated member of the class of  pterocarpans and an organic heteropentacyclic compound that is 2 , 3 , 6b , 12b - tetrahydro - 1h , 7h - chromeno [ 6' , 5':4 , 5 ] furo [ 3 , 2 - c ] chromen - 10 - ol in which both of the hydrogens at position 3 have been replaced by methyl groups  ( the r , r stereoisomer )  .
a group of fat - soluble retinoids produced via metabolism of provitamin a carotenoids .
a docosatetraenoic acid in which the four double bonds are located at positions 7 ,  10 ,  13 and 16  ( geometry unspecified )  .
any napthoquinone in which the oxo groups of the quinone moiety are at the 1 and 2 positions of the naphthalene ring .
a naphthoquinone in which the oxo groups of the quinone moiety are at positions 1 and 4 of the parent naphthalene ring .
a glycosyloxyisoflavone that is glycitin carrying an acetyl substituent at position 6 on the glucose moiety .
a biflavonoid that is 3 , 4 , 5 - trihydroxybenzocyclohepten - 6 - one which is substituted at positions 1 and 8 by  ( 2r , 3r )  - 3 , 5 , 7 - trihydroxy - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2h - chromen - 2 - yl groups .
a trimethoxyflavone that is 6 - hydroxyluteolin in which the phenolic hydogens at positions 4' ,  6 and 7 have been replaced by methyl groups .
a beta - carotene carrying one additional hydroxy substituent at position 4 .
a choline that is the parent compound of the cholines class ,  consisting of ethanolamine having three methyl substituents attached to the amino function .
a sulfur - containing amino acid that is propanoic acid with an amino group at position 2 and a sulfanyl group at position 3 .
a simple monocarboxylic acid containing two carbons .
an oxygen hydride consisting of an oxygen atom that is covalently bonded to two hydrogen atoms .
the simplest  ( and the only achiral )  proteinogenic amino acid ,  with a hydrogen atom as its side chain .
a formyltetrahydrofolic acid in which the formyl group is located at position 5 .
an alpha , omega - dicarboxylic acid resulting from the formal oxidation of each of the terminal methyl groups of butane to the corresponding carboxy group .
a straight - chain ,  sixteen - carbon ,  saturated long - chain fatty acid .
a hydroxy - 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone that is 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone in which the hydrogen at position 5 has been replaced by a hydroxy group .
a long - chain fatty acid that is a c20 ,  polyunsaturated fatty acid having four  ( z )  - double bonds at positions 5 ,  8 ,  11 and 14 .
a tetrahydroxyflavone in which the four hydroxy groups are located at positions 3' ,  4' 5 and 7 .
any 3 - hydroxy steroid whose skeleton is closely related to cholestan - 3 - ol  ( additional carbon atoms may be present in the side chain )  .
an amino sulfonic acid that is the 2 - amino derivative of ethanesulfonic acid .
a pyridinemonocarboxylic acid that is pyridine in which the hydrogen at position 3 is replaced by a carboxy group .
an acyclic carotene commonly obtained from tomatoes and other red fruits .
an organic heterobicyclic compound that consists of 2 - oxohexahydro - 1h - thieno [ 3 , 4 - d ] imidazole having a valeric acid substituent attached to the tetrahydrothiophene ring .
a class of glycerophospholipids in which a phosphatidyl group is esterified to the hydroxy group of ethanolamine .
a cinnamate ester obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of trans - caffeic acid with the 3 - hydroxy group of quinic acid .
a cholestanoid consisting of cholestane having a double bond at the 5 , 6 - position as well as a 3beta - hydroxy group .
a cyclohexenecarboxylic acid that is cyclohex - 1 - ene - 1 - carboxylic acid substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 3 ,  4 and 5  ( the 3r , 4s , 5r stereoisomer )  .
an octadec - 9 - enoic acid in which the double bond at c - 9 has z  ( cis )  stereochemistry .
a benzenetriol with hydroxy groups at position 1 ,  3 and 5 .
a pentahydroxyflavone having the five hydroxy groups placed at the 3 -  ,  3' -  ,  4' -  ,  5 -  and 7 - positions .
a lipid containing phosphoric acid as a mono -  or di - ester .
an alpha - amino acid that consists of propionic acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 .
a trisaccharide composed of alpha - d - galactopyranose ,  alpha - d - glucopyranose and beta - d - fructofuranose joined in sequence by 1 -  > 6 and 1 <  -  > 2 glycosidic linkages ,  respectively .
any member of the class of organooxygen compounds that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone or a lactol resulting from their intramolecular condensation  ( monosaccharides )  ;  substances derived from these by reduction of the carbonyl group  ( alditols )  ,  by oxidation of one or more hydroxy groups to afford the corresponding aldehydes ,  ketones ,  or carboxylic acids ,  or by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by a hydrogen atom ;  and polymeric products arising by intermolecular acetal formation between two or more such molecules  ( disaccharides ,  polysaccharides and oligosaccharides )  .
a hydroxymethylpyridine with hydroxymethyl groups at positions 4 and 5 ,  a hydroxy group at position 3 and a methyl group at position 2 .
a mineral that is an inorganic nutrient which must be ingested and absorbed in adequate amounts to satisfy a wide range of essential metabolic and / or structural functions in the human body
a member of the class of anthocyanin chlorides that has cyanidin 3 - o - rutinoside as the cationic counterpart .
a sulfur - containing amino acid that is butyric acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 and a methylthio substituent at position 4 .
a monohydroxybenzoic acid that is benzoic acid with a hydroxy group at the ortho position .
a phytosterol consisting of ergostane having double bonds at the 5 , 6 -  ,  7 , 8 -  and 22 , 23 - positions as well as a 3beta - hydroxy group .
an apigenin flavone glycoside ,  which is found in the passion flower ,  bamboo leaves and pearl millet
an alpha , omega - dicarboxylic acid that is ethane substituted by carboxyl groups at positions 1 and 2 .
d - ribitol in which the hydroxy group at position 5 is substituted by a 7 , 8 - dimethyl - 2 , 4 - dioxo - 3 , 4 - dihydrobenzo [ g ] pteridin - 10 ( 2h )  - yl moiety .
a heteroglycan consisting of beta -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - linked d - glucose  ( g )  and d - mannose  ( m )  in a proportion of 5:8 .
a pentitol  ( five - carbon sugar alcohol )  having meso - configuration ,  being derived from xylose by reduction of the carbonyl group .
a tetrasaccharide consisting of sucrose having an alpha - d - galactosyl -  ( 1 -  > 6 )  - alpha - d - galactosyl moiety attached at the 6 - position of the glucose .
an aldohexose used as a source of energy and metabolic intermediate .
a member of the class of dihydrochalcones that is dihydrochalcone substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 4 ,  2' ,  4' and 6' .
a glycosylglucose consisting of two d - glucopyranose units connected by an alpha -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - linkage .
any mixture of complex ,  colloidal ,  macromolecular plant galacturonans containing a large proportion of d - galactopyranosyluronic acid residues in alpha -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  linkage ,  the carboxy groups of which may be esterified to varying degrees by methyl groups or be partially or completely converted into salts .
an octadecadienoic acid in which the two double bonds are at positions 9 and 12 and have z  ( cis )  stereochemistry .
a myo - inositol hexakisphosphate in which each hydroxy group of myo - inositol is monophosphorylated .
a complex cob ( iii ) alamin in which cobalt is positioned in the centre of a planar corrin tetrapyrrole ring and bound axially to a 5 , 6 - dimethylbenzimidazole moiety and a cyano group .
a hydroxycoumarin that is umbelliferone bearing a methoxy substituent at position 6 .
a cyclic carotene obtained by dimerisation of all - trans - retinol .
a ferulic acid consisting of trans - cinnamic acid bearing methoxy and hydroxy substituents at positions 3 and 4 respectively on the phenyl ring .
the amino acid betaine derived from glycine .
a triol with a structure of propane substituted at positions 1 ,  2 and 3 by hydroxy groups .
an alpha - amino acid that is alanine substituted at position 3 by a hydroxy group .
any glyceride resulting from the condensation of all three hydroxy groups of glycerol  ( propane - 1 , 2 , 3 - triol )  with fatty acids .
a hydroxycalciol that is calciol in which the hydrogen at position 25 has been replaced by a hydroxy group .
a glycosyl glycoside formed by glucose and fructose units joined by an acetal oxygen bridge from hemiacetal of glucose to the hemiketal of the fructose .
a halide anion formed when chlorine picks up an electron to form an an anion .
a glyceride that is glycerol in which any two of the hydroxy groups have been acylated .
'lipids' is a loosely defined term for substances of biological origin that are soluble in nonpolar solvents .
a  benzenediol comprising of a benzene core carrying two hydroxy substituents ortho to each other .
a biomacromolecule consisting of large numbers of monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically .
a monohydroxycinnamic acid in which the hydroxy substituent is located at c - 2 of the phenyl ring .
a tocopherol in which the chroman - 6 - ol core is substituted by methyl groups at positions 7 and 8 .
an alpha - amino acid that is phenylalanine bearing a hydroxy substituent at position 4 on the phenyl ring .
an aldopentose ,  found in the embryos of most edible plants and used in medicine to test for malabsorption by administration in water to the patient .
a glucan that consists of a backbone of alpha -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - linked glucose residues ,  most of which are substituted with  ( 1 -  > 6 )  - linked xylose side - chains .
an alpha - amino acid that is glutaric acid bearing a single amino substituent at position 2 .
an iron group element atom that has atomic number 26 .
a class of aminophospholipids in which a phosphatidyl group is esterified to the hydroxy group of serine .
a monosaccharide derivative that is  hydroquinone attached to a beta - d - glucopyranosyl residue at position 4 via a glycosidic linkage .
a c - glycosyl compound that consists of apigenin substituted by a 1 , 5 - anhydro - d - glucitol moiety at position 6 .
a trihydroxyflavone that is flavone substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 4' ,  5 and 7 .
a pentahydroxyflavone that is luteolin with an additional hydroxy group at position 6 .
any of the naturally occurring ,  basic nitrogen compounds  ( mostly heterocyclic )  occurring mostly in the plant kingdom ,  but also found in bacteria ,  fungi ,  and animals .
a tocopherol that is chroman - 6 - ol substituted by methyl groups at positions 2 ,  5 ,  7 and 8 and a 4 , 8 , 12 - trimethyltridecyl group at position 2 .
a polysaccharide composed of arabinose residues .
an alpha - amino acid in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon of glycine is substituted by a 2 - amino - 2 - oxoethyl group .
an alpha - amino acid that consists of succinic acid bearing a single alpha - amino substituent
any d - glucoside in which the anomeric centre has beta - configuration .
one of a class of tetraterpenoids  ( c40 )  ,  formally derived from the acyclic parent ,  psi , psi - carotene by hydrogenation ,  dehydrogenation ,  cyclization ,  oxidation ,  or combination of these processes .
members of the class of hydroxyflavan that have a flavan - 3 - ol skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a ketone that is 1 , 3 - diphenylpropenone  ( benzylideneacetophenone )  ,  arch=ch ( =o ) ar ,  and its derivatives formed by substitution .
a chromenone that consists of a 1 , 4 - benzopyrone skeleton and its substituted derivatives thereof .
a monohydroxycinnamic acid that is prop - 2 - enoic acid substituted by a hydroxyphenyl group at position 3 .
any terpenoid derived from a diterpene .
a form of hydrolysable tannin produced from ellagic acid .
vitamins like a ,  d ,  e and k that dissolve in fats and are stored in body tissues .
a class of hydrolysable tannins obtained by condensation of the carboxy group of gallic acid  ( and its polymeric derivatives )  with the hydroxy groups of a monosaccharide  ( most commonly glucose )  .
any benzoic acid carrying one or more phenolic hydroxy groups on the benzene ring .
any member of the class of  cinnamic acids carrying one or more hydroxy substituents .
a proline derivative that is proline substituted by at least one hydroxy group .
any cyclohexane - 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 - hexol .
chemical element with atomic number 53 .
a salt is an assembly of cations and anions .
a 2 - amino - 3 - methylpentanoic acid having either  ( 2r , 3r )  -  or  ( 2s , 3s )  - configuration .
a branched - chain amino acid that consists of glycine in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon is substituted by an isobutyl group .
any phenylpropanoid  derived from phenylalanine via dimerization of substituted cinnamic alcohols ,  known as monolignols ,  to a dibenzylbutane skeleton .
a two - membered subclass of octadecatrienoic acid comprising the  ( 9z , 12z , 15z )  -  and  ( 6z , 9z , 12z )  - isomers .
a diamino acid that is caproic  ( hexanoic )  acid bearing two amino substituents at positions 2 and 6 .
any terpenoid derived from a monoterpene .
any fatty acid with one double or triple bond in the fatty acid chain and singly bonded carbon atoms in the rest of the chain .
a polycyclic aromatic ketone metabolite of naphthalene .
a phenylpropanoid that includes plant products formed primarily from oxidative coupling of two para - propylphenol moities .
an epoxycarotenoid that is 6 , 7 - didehydro - 5 , 5' , 6 , 6' - tetrahydro - 5' , 6' - epoxy - beta , beta - carotene which is substituted by hydroxy groups at the 3 ,  3' ,  and 5 positions .
a family of polyunsaturated fatty acids that have in common a final carbon - carbon double bond in the omega - 3 position ,  i .e . ,  the third bond from the methyl end of the fatty acid .
an anthocyanidin cation that is flavylium substituted by a hydroxy groups at positions 3 ,  5 ,  7 and 4' .
any organic aromatic compound with a structure based on a phenylpropane skeleton .
sterols similar to cholesterol which occur in plants and vary only in carbon side chains and / or presence or absence of a double bond .
a compound that contains two or more hydroxy groups .
members of the class of phenols that contain 2 or more benzene rings each of which is substituted by at least one hydroxy group .
any fatty acid containing more than one double bond .
a flavonoid oligomer obtained by the the condensation of two or more units of hydroxyflavans .
an alpha - amino acid that is pyrrolidine bearing a carboxy substituent at position 2 .
members of the class of benzofurochromene with a 6a , 11a - dihydro - 6h -  [ 1 ] benzofuro [ 3 , 2 - c ] chromene skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a cyclitol carboxylic acid .
a deoxymannose sugar that is the 6 - deoxy derivative of hexose .
any fatty acid containing no carbon to carbon multiple bonds .
any terpenoid derived from a sesquiterpene .
an inorganic chloride salt having sodium ( 1 +  )  as the counterion .
any olefinic compound characterised by a 1 , 2 - diphenylethylene backbone .
any of a group of astringent polyphenolic vegetable principles or compounds ,  chiefly complex glucosides of catechol and pyrogallol .
any isoprenoid that is a natural product or related compound formally derived from isoprene units .
an alpha - amino acid in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon of glycine is substituted by a 1 - hydroxyethyl group .
a collective name for a group of closely related lipids that contain a chroman - 6 - ol nucleus substituted at position 2 by a methyl group and by a saturated hydrocarbon chain consisting of three isoprenoid units .
a disaccharide formed by a  ( 1 <  -  > 1 )  - glycosidic bond between two units of d - glucose .
a branched - chain amino acid that consists of glycine in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon is substituted by an isopropyl group .
an epoxycarotenol that is 5 , 5' , 6 , 6' - tetrahydro - 5 , 6:5' , 6' - diepoxy - beta , beta - carotene substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 3 and 3' .
vitamin d is a group of fat - soluble prohormones ,  which can be obtained from sun exposure ,  food and supplements .
a subclass of carotenoids consisting of the oxygenated carotenes .
a linolenic acid with cis - double bonds at positions 9 ,  12 and 15 .
an n - acyl - amino acid that is a form of the water - soluble vitamin b9 .
an anthocyanin cation that is cyanidin ( 1 +  )  carrying a single beta - d - galactosyl substituent at position 3 .
a dihydroxyflavanone that is flavanone substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 5 and 7 and a methoxy group at position 4'  ( the 2s stereoisomer )  .
a trihydroxyflavanone having a structure of naringenin prenylated at c - 6 .
an alpha - amino acid that is propanoic acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 and a 1h - imidazol - 4 - yl group at position 3 .
a proanthocyanidin obtained by the condensation of  (  -  )  - epicatechin and  (  +  )  - catechin units .
a methyl ketone that is acetone in which one of the methyl groups has been replaced by a phenyl group .
a cobalt group element atom that has atomic number 27 .
a heteroglycan consisting of a mannan backbone with galactose side groups .
a member of the class of phytosterols that is stigmast - 5 - ene substituted by a beta - hydroxy group at position 3 .
a trimethylxanthine in which the three methyl groups are located at positions 1 ,  3 ,  and 7 .
a tetradecenoic acid in which the double bond is at the 9 - 10 position and has z configuration .
an anthocyanidin cation that is flavylium substituted at positions 3 ,  3' ,  4' ,  5 and 7 by hydroxy groups .
an alpha - amino acid that is alanine bearing an indol - 3 - yl substituent at position 3 .
isoflavone in which the double bond between positions 2 and 3 has been reduced to a single bond .
dehydroascorbic acid having the l - configuration .
a 9 - octadecenoic acid and the trans - isomer of oleic acid .
the most important reserve polysaccharide found in plants .
an aromatic amino acid that is alanine in which one of the methyl hydrogens is substituted by a phenyl group .
a polydisperse highly branched polysaccharide derivative composed of chains of d - glucopyranose residues in alpha ( 1 -  > 4 )  glycosidic linkage .
a rutinoside consisting of cyanidin having the rutinosyl group at the 3 - position .
a chromium group element atom that has atomic number 24 .
7 - hydroxyisoflavone with additional hydroxy groups at positions 5 and 4' .
a glucan composed of unbranched chains of d - glucopyranose residues in alpha ( 1 -  > 4 )  glycosidic linkage .
chemical element  ( nickel group element atom )  with atomic number 28 .
a dihydroxyflavanone in which the two hydroxy groups are located at positions 5 and 7 .
a member of the class of 7 - hydroxyisoflavones that is 7 - hydroxyisoflavone substituted by an additional hydroxy group at position 4' .
a trihydroxyflavanone having the three hydroxy gropus located at the 3' -  ,  5 -  and 7 - positions and an additional methoxy substituent at the 4' - position .
an aldohexose that is the c - 4 epimer of glucose .
an alpha - amino acid that consists of butyric acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 and a carbamoyl substituent at position 4 .
a phenethylamine alkaloid that is phenethylamine substituted at positions 3 ,  4 and 5 by methoxy groups .
a fat - soluble vitamin required for the synthesis of prothrombin and certain other blood coagulation factors .
a tetrahydroxyflavanone that is flavanone substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 5 ,  7 ,  3' and 4' respectively .
a cyclic carotene with a beta -  and an epsilon - ring at opposite ends respectively .
a member of the class of arabinoxylans that consists of a polymer chain of beta -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - linked d - xylopyranose units ,  many of which are 2 -  or 3 - substituted ,  or 2 , 3 - disubstituted by alpha - l - arabinofuranosyl residues .
a tetrahydroxyflavone in which the four hydroxy groups are located at positions 3 ,  5 ,  7 and 4' .
a pentasaccharide that is stachiose which has an additional unit of alpha - d - galactopyranose attached by a 1 -  > 6 glycosidic linkage to the terminal galactosyl residue .
a c18 ,  omega - 6 acid fatty acid comprising a linolenic acid having cis -  double bonds at positions 6 ,  9 and 12 .
a disaccharide derivative that is  ( s )  - naringenin substituted by a 6 - o -  ( 6 - deoxy - alpha - l - mannopyranosyl )  - beta - d - glucopyranosyl moiety at position 7 via a glycosidic linkage .
a disaccharide derivative that consists of eriodictyol substituted by a 6 - o -  ( alpha - l - rhamnopyranosyl )  - beta - d - glucopyranosyl moiety at position 7 via a glycosidic linkage .
a hexadec - 9 - enoic acid in which the double bond at position c - 9 has cis configuration .
a ketohexose that is an isomer of glucose .
a disaccharide derivative that consists of hesperetin substituted by a 6 - o -  ( alpha - l - rhamnopyranosyl )  - beta - d - glucopyranosyl moiety at position 7 via a glycosidic linkage .
a docosenoic acid having a cis -  double bond at c - 13 .
polysaccharides composed of fructose residues .
a disaccharide derivative that is  ( s )  - naringenin substituted by a 2 - o -  ( alpha - l - rhamnopyranosyl )  - beta - d - glucopyranosyl moiety at position 7 via a glycosidic linkage .
a c20 striaght - chain saturated fatty acid which forms a minor constituent of peanut  ( l . arachis )  and corn oils .
a 3beta - sterol that consists of 3beta - hydroxystigmastane having double bonds at the 5 , 6 -  and 22 , 23 - positions .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid that is heptane in which one of the hydrogens of a terminal methyl group has been replaced by a carboxy group .
a c18 straight - chain saturated fatty acid component of many animal and vegetable lipids .
a c24 straight - chain saturated fatty acid .
any glycerophosphoinositol having one phosphatidyl group esterified to one of the hydroxy groups of inositol .
a straight - chain ,  fourteen - carbon ,  long - chain saturated fatty acid mostly found in milk fat .
a hexahydroxyflavanone that is the 2 , 3 - dihydro derivative of myricetin .
a flavonoid phytoalexin that is  ( s )  - naringenin in which the hydroxy group at position 7 is replaced by a methoxy group .
a straight - chain ,  c22 ,  long - chain saturated fatty acid .
a dimethylxanthine having the two methyl groups located at positions 3 and 7 .
an alpha - amino acid that is glycine in which the alpha - is substituted by a 3 - guanidinopropyl group .
the l - enantiomer of ascorbic acid and conjugate acid of l - ascorbate .
a dihydroxyflavone in which the two hydroxy substituents are located at positions 4' and 7 .
a trihydroxyflavone with the hydroxy groups at positions c - 5 ,   - 6 and  - 7 .
a hexitol produced by a variety of organisms including bacteria ,  fungi ,  lichens and plants .
an oxodicarboxylic acid that is succinic acid bearing a single oxo group .
a monocarboxylic acid that is toluene in which one of the hydrogens of the methyl group has been replaced by a carboxy group .
a short - chain saturated fatty acid comprising ethane attached to the carbon of a carboxy group .
a tricarboxylic acid that is propane - 1 , 2 , 3 - tricarboxylic acid bearing a hydroxy substituent at position 2 .
a trihydroxybenzoic acid in which the hydroxy groups are at positions 3 ,  4 ,  and 5 .
an alpha , omega - dicarboxylic acid in which the two carboxy groups are separated by a single methylene group .
a straight - chain ,  twelve - carbon medium - chain saturated fatty acid with strong bactericidal properties ;  the main fatty acid in coconut oil and palm kernel oil .
a monohydroxybenzoic acid that is 4 - hydroxybenzoic acid substituted by a methoxy group at position 3 .
a tricarboxylic acid that is propan - 1 - ol with a hydrogen at each of the 3 carbon positions replaced by a carboxy group .
a gallocatechin  that has  ( 2r , 3s )  - configuration .
an apigenin derivative having an alpha -  ( 1 -  > 2 )  - l - rhamnopyranosyl )  - beta - d - glucopyranosyl moiety attached to the 7 - hydroxy group .
an anthocyanin cation consisting of delphinidin having a beta - d - glucosyl residue attached at the 3 - hydroxy position .
an 3beta - sterol that is  ( 22e )  - ergosta - 5 , 22 - diene substituted by a hydroxy group at position 3beta .
an anthocyanin cation consisting of malvidin having a beta - d - glucosyl residue attached at the 3 - hydroxy position .
an anthocyanin cation consisting of pelargonidin having a rutinosyl  [ 6 - deoxy - alpha - l - mannosyl -  ( 1 -  > 6 )  - beta - d - glucosyl ]  residue attached at the 3 - hydroxy position .
an anthocyanin cation that is petunidin substituted at position 3 by a beta - d - glucosyl residue
a c17 saturated fatty acid and trace component of fats in ruminants .
a chalcone that is  ( e )  - chalcone bearing four additional hydroxy substituents at positions 2' ,  3 ,  4 and 4' .
an octadecatetraenoic acid having four double bonds located at positions 6 ,  9 ,  12 and 15  ( the all - cis - isomer )  .
an icosenoic acid having a cis -  double bond at position 11 .
a 2 - oxo monocarboxylic acid that is the 2 - keto derivative of propionic acid .
a biochemical role played by any micronutrient that is an organic compound .
a chromanol that is chroman - 6 - ol which is substituted at position 2 by a methyl group and  ( also at position 2 )  either a saturated or a triply - unsaturated hydrocarbon chain consisting of three isoprenoid units .
a tocol in which the hydrocarbon chain at position 2 contains three double bonds .
a tocotrienol that is chroman - 6 - ol substituted by methyl groups at positions 2 ,  5 ,  7 and 8 and a farnesyl chain at position 2 .
a tocotrienol that is chroman - 6 - ol substituted by methyl groups at positions 2 ,  5 and 8 and a farnesyl chain at position 2 .
a tocotrienol that is chroman - 6 - ol substituted by methyl groups at positions 2 and 8 and a farnesyl chain at position 2 .
a tocotrienol that is chroman - 6 - ol substituted by methyl groups at positions 2 ,  7 and 8 and a farnesyl chain at position 2 .
any member of class of 1 , 2 - di - o - acylglycerols joined at oxygen 3 by a glycosidic linkage to a carbohydrate part  ( usually a mono -  ,  di -  or tri - saccharide )  .
a carboxylic acid containing one or more amino groups .
organic aromatic compounds having one or more hydroxy groups attached to a benzene or other arene ring .
any aldopentose where the open - chain form has all the hydroxy groups on the same side in the fischer projection .
any deoxygalactose that is deoxygenated at the 6 - position .
a  methoxyisoflavone that is isoflavone substituted by a methoxy group at position 6 and hydroxy groups at positions 7 and 4' .
any aliphatic monocarboxylic acid derived from or contained in esterified form in an animal or vegetable fat ,  oil or wax .
parent monosaccharides are polyhydroxy aldehydes h [ ch ( oh )  ] nc ( =o ) h or polyhydroxy ketones h -  [ choh ] n - c ( =o )  [ choh ] m - h with three or more carbon atoms .
any c22 polyunsaturated fatty acid containing six double bonds .
any straight - chain ,  c20 polyunsaturated fatty acid having five c=c double bonds .
a family of polyunsaturated fatty acids that have in common a final carbon - carbon double bond in the n - 6 position ,  i .e . ,  the sixth bond from the methyl end of the fatty acid .
an octadecenoic acid having a double bond at position 11 ;  and which can occur in cis -  or trans -  configurations .
a biological macromolecule minimally consisting of one polypeptide chain synthesized at the ribosome .
a coumaric acid in which the hydroxy substituent is located at c - 4 of the phenyl ring .
a member of the class of anthocyanin chlorides that has pelargonidin 3 - o - beta - d - glucoside as the cationic counterpart .
a compound in which two monosaccharides are joined by a glycosidic bond .
a hydroxycinnamic acid that is cinnamic acid in which the phenyl ring is substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 3 and 4 .
any terpenoid derived from a triterpene .
a polysaccharide composed of glucose residues .
polysaccharides composed of galactose residues .
polysaccharides composed of xylose residues .
a trimethoxyflavone that is flavone substituted by methoxy groups at positions 6 ,  7 and 3' and hydroxy groups at positions 5 and 4' respectively .
a memeber of the class of anthocyanin chlorides that has cyanidin 3 - o - beta - d - galactoside  as the cationic counterpart .
an aldohexose that is the c - 2 epimer of glucose .
a member of the class of anthocyanin chlorides that has cyanin cation as the cationic counterpart .
the simplest member of the class of flavans that is chromane substituted by a phenyl group at position 2 .
any  flavonoid that is a salt containing flavylium ion or 2 - phenylchromenylium skeleton and its substituted derivatives together with an appropriate counterion .
any flavonoid that is a glycoside derivative of anthocyanidin .
an organic chloride salt of any anthocyanin .
member of the class of isoflavones bearing at least one hydroxy group .
any isoflavonoid with a 3 - aryl - 1 - benzopyran - 4 - one  ( 3 - aryl - 4h - chromen - 4 - one )  skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a member of the class of coumestans that is coumestan with hydroxy substituents at positions 3 and 9 .
an optically active form of lactic acid having  ( r )  - configuration .
an optically active form of lactic acid having  ( s )  - configuration .
a glycosyloxyisoflavone that is  daidzein attached to a beta - d - glucopyranosyl residue at position 7 via a glycosidic linkage .
a trihydroxyanthraquinone that is 9 , 10 - anthraquinone which is substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 1 ,  3 ,  and 8 and by a methyl group at position 6 .
a flavan - 3 , 3' , 4' , 5 , 5' , 7 - hexol having  ( 2r , 3r )  - configuration .
the simplest member of the class of flavones that consists of 4h - chromen - 4 - one bearing a phenyl substituent at position 2 .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid containing fifteen - carbon atoms .
a tetracosenoic acid having a cis - double bond at position 15 .
a disaccharide derivative that consists of  diosmetin substituted by a 6 - o -  ( alpha - l - rhamnopyranosyl )  - beta - d - glucopyranosyl moiety at position 7 via a glycosidic linkage .
a pantothenic acid having r - configuration .
a tocopherol in which the chroman - 6 - ol core is substituted by methyl groups at positions 5 and 8 .
a tocopherol in which the chroman - 6 - ol core is substituted by a methyl group at position 8 .
any member of the 'superclass' flavonoids whose skeleton is based on 1 - benzopyran with an aryl substituent at position 2 .
a monohydroxycinnamic acid in which the hydroxy substituent is located at c - 3 of the phenyl ring .
a simplest memebr of the class of aurones that is 1 - benzofuran - 3 ( 2h )  - one in which both hydrogens at position 2 are substituted by a benzylidene group  ( the z - isomer )  .
any hydroxyflavanone in which a hydroxy group is present at position 3 of the heterocyclic ring .
a gallate ester obtained by the formal condensation of gallic acid with the  ( 3r )  - hydroxy group of  (  -  )  - epigallocatechin .
a flavonoid oligomer that is obtained by the oxidative coupling of at least two units of aryl - substituted benzopyran rings or its substituted derivatives ,  resulting in the two ring systems being joined together by a single atom or bond .
a trihydroxyflavanone that is flavanone substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 5 ,  6 and 4' .
a trihydroxyflavanone that is  ( s )  - naringenin having a prenyl group at position 8 .
a retinoid consisting of 3 , 7 - dimethylnona - 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 - tetraen - 1 - ol substituted at position 9 by a 2 , 6 , 6 - trimethylcyclohex - 1 - en - 1 - yl group  ( geometry of the four exocyclic double bonds is not specified )  .
a compound in which monosaccharide units are joined by glycosidic linkages .
the simplest member of the class of  flavanones  that consists of flavan bearing an oxo substituent at position 4 .
any 1 - benzopyran with an aryl substituent at position 3 .
any member of the class of  xanthenes based on a xanthone skeleton .
a ketone of formula rc ( =o ) ch3  ( r = / = h )  .
a dihydroxyflavone that is the 5 - deoxy - derivative of 4' , 5 , 7 - trihydroxy - 3' - methoxyflavone  ( chrysoeriol )  .
an icosatrienoic acid having three cis -  double bonds at positions 11 ,  14 and 17 .
an icosatrienoic acid having three cis double bonds at positions 8 ,  11 and 14 .
a dicarboxylic acid anion arising from deprotonation of both carboxylic acid functions of  ( 6r )  - 5 , 10 - methenyltetrahydrofolic acid .
a flavanone glycoside that is hesperitin  having an 2 - o -  ( alpha - l - rhamnopyranosyl )  - beta - d - glucopyranosyl moiety attached to the 7 - hydroxy group .
a straight - chain ,  monounsaturated ,  16 - carbon fatty acid with a trans - double bond at position c - 9 ;  the trans - isomer of palmitoleic acid and predominant trans - 16:1 isomer in cheeses from goat and ewe milk .
an acylglycerophosphocholine resulting from partial hydrolysis of a phosphatidylcholine ,  which removes one of the fatty acyl groups .
any straight - chain ,  c22 fatty acid having five c=c double bonds .
hemicelluloses are polysaccharides in plant cell walls that have beta -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - linked backbones with an equatorial configuration .
an acyclic psi , psi - carotene having cis double bonds at c - 7 ,   - 7' ,   - 9 and  - 9' .
a  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - beta - d - glucan  ( cellulose )  in amorphous form with a structure consisting of several hundred to over ten thousand d - glucose residues joined by beta ( 1 -  > 4 )  glycosidic linkages .
a glycerophosphocholine that is glycero - 3 - phosphocholine bearing two acyl substituents at positions 1 and 2 .
a polyphenylpropanoid derived from three monolignol monomers: trans - p - coumaryl alcohol ,  coniferol and trans - sinapyl alcohol .
any organic molecular entity that is acidic and contains carbon in covalent linkage .
a pentacyclic triterpenoid that is lupane in which the hydrogen at the 3beta position is substituted by a hydroxy group .
a glycosyloxyflavone that is 6 - hydroxyluteolin attached to a beta - d - glucopyranosyl -  ( 1 -  > 3 )  - beta - d - glucopyranosyl moiety at position 7 via a glycosidic linkage .
a trihydroxyflavone that is flavone with hydroxy groups at positions 5 ,  7 and 4' and methoxy groups at positions 3' and 6 .
a member of the class of chalcones that is trans - chalcone substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 4 ,  2' and 4' ,  a methoxy group at position 6' and a prenyl group at position 3' .
a 2 - hydroxydicarboxylic acid that is succinic acid in which one of the hydrogens attached to a carbon is replaced by a hydroxy group .
an anthocyanidin cation that is delphinidin carrying methyl substituents at positions 3' and 5' .
a  flavanone glycoside that is  4' - methoxy - 5 , 7 - dihydroxyflavanone attached to a neohesperidose  ( alpha - l - rhamnopyranosyl -  ( 1 -  > 2 )  - beta - d - glucopyranose )  residue via a glycosidic linkage .
a carotenoid having the structure of beta - carotene but with a cis double bond at the 9 , 10 - position .
a member of the class of pterocarpans that is the 3 - o - methyl ether of  (  +  )  - 6a - hydroxymaackiain  ( the 6ar , 12ar stereoisomer )  .
a dimethoxybenzene that is 3 , 5 - dimethyl ether derivative of gallic acid .
a glycosyloxyflavone that consists of myricetin attached to a alpha - l - rhamnopyranosyl residue at position 3 via a glycosidic linkage .
a gallate ester obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of gallic acid with the  ( 3r )  - hydroxy group of epicatechin .
a type of tannin usually found in brown algae such as kelps and rockweeds .
a a gallocatechin that has  ( 2s , 3r )  - configuration .
any ketone that is 1 , 3 - diphenylpropanone and its derivatives obtained by substitution .
members of the class of tetrahydrochromenochromene that consists of a cis - fused tetrahydrochromeno [ 3 , 4 - b ] chromene skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
any 1 - benzopyran with an aryl substituent at position 4 .
a member of the class of flavans in which one or more ring hydrogens are replaced by hydroxy groups .
any organic molecular entity whose stucture is based on derivatives of a phenyl - substituted 1 - phenylpropane possessing a c15 or c16 skeleton ,  or such a structure which is condensed with a c6 - c3 lignan precursors .
any isoflavonoid with a 3 , 4 - dihydro - 3 - aryl - 2h - 1 - benzopyran skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
members of the class of benzofurochromene with a 6h -  [ 1 ] benzofuro [ 3 , 2 - c ] chromene skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a member of the class of coumestans that is 6h -  [ 1 ] benzofuro [ 3 , 2 - c ] chromene substituted by an oxo group at position 6 .
an hete having a 9 - hydroxy group and  ( 5e )  -  ,   ( 7z )  -  ,   ( 11z )  -  and  ( 14z )  - double bonds .
a 20 - carbon ,  polyunsaturated fatty acid having two double bonds at unspecified positions .
the simplest member of the class of pterocarpans that is 6a , 11a - dihydro - 6h -  [ 1 ] benzofuro [ 3 , 2 - c ] chromene .
a member of the class of isoflavones having one or more glycosyl residues attached at unspecified positions .
an anthocyanidin 3 - o - beta - d - sambubioside having cyanidin as the anthocyanidin component .
a trihydroxyflavanone that consists of 3' - methoxyflavanone in which the three hydroxy substituents are located at positions 4' ,  5 ,  and 7 .
any oligosaccharide that has a biosynthetic pathway in common with that of raffinose .
a flavanone glycoside that is  eriodictyol substituted by a 2 - o -  ( 6 - deoxy - alpha - l - mannopyranosyl )  - beta - d - glucopyranosyl residue at position 7 via a glycosidic linkage .
a dihydroxyflavone in which the two hydroxy groups are located at positions 5 and 7 .
any polyunsaturated fatty acid containing 22 carbons and 2 double bonds
a proanthocyanidin consisting of two molecules of  (  +  )  - catechin joined by a bond between positions 4 and 6' in alpha - configuration .
a proanthocyanidin  consisting of two molecules of  (  -  )  - epicatechin joined by a bond between positions 4 and 6' in beta - configuration .
a proanthocyanidin consisting of two molecules of  (  +  )  - catechin joined by a bond between positions 4 and 8' in alpha - configuration .
a proanthocyanidin consisting of two molecules of  (  -  )  - epicatechin joined by a bond between positions 4 and 8' in a beta - configuration .
a proanthocyanidin consisting of  (  -  )  - epicatechin and  (  +  )  - catechin units joined by a bond between positions 4 and 8' respectively  in a beta - configuration . . procyanidin b1 can be found in cinnamomum verum  ( ceylon cinnamon ,  in the rind ,  bark or cortex )  ,  in uncaria guianensis  ( cat's claw ,  in the root )  ,  and in vitis vinifera  ( common grape vine ,  in the leaf )  or in peach .
a proanthocyanidin consisting of three  (  -  )  - epicatechin units joined by two successive  ( 4beta -  > 8 )  - linkages .
a proanthocyanidin consisting of three  (  +  )  - catechin trimer joined by two successive  ( 4alpha -  > 8 )  - linkages .
a role played by any of the group of eight water - soluble vitamins originally thought to be a single compound  ( vitamin b )  .
a monomethoxyflavone that is scutellarein methylated at position 6 .
a methoxyflavone that is flavone substituted by methoxy groups at positions 5 ,  6 ,  7 ,  8 ,  3' and 4' respectively .
a catechin that is flavan carrying five hydroxy substituents at positions 3 ,  3' ,  4' ,  5 and 7  ( the 2s , 3s - stereoisomer )  .
a gallate ester obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of gallic acid with the  ( 3s )  - hydroxy group of  (  +  )  - catechin .
a monohydroxycinnamic acid that is cinnamic acid in which the phenyl hydrogens at positions 3 ,  4 ,  and 5 are replaced by methoxy ,  hydroxy ,  and methoxy groups ,  respectively .
a very long - chain polyunsaturated fatty acid that is tetracosanoic acid having six double bonds located at positions 6 ,  9 ,  12 ,  15 ,  18 and 21  ( the  ( 6z , 9z , 12z , 15z , 18z , 21z - isomer )  .
a flavonoid oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of the 5 - hydroxy group of luteolin 7 - o - beta - d - glucoside .
a 2 - hydroxy monocarboxylic acid that is propanoic acid in which one of the alpha - hydrogens is replaced by a hydroxy group .
a tannin that yields gallic or ellagic acids upon acid hydrolysis .
a tetramethoxyflavone that is  tangeretin in which the methoxy group at position 5 has been replaced by a hydroxy group .
a glycosyloxyisoflavone that is  daidzein substituted by a 6 - o -  ( carboxyacetyl )  - beta - d - glucopyranosyl residue at position 7 via a glycosidic linkage .
a  glycosyloxyisoflavone that is genistin in which the hydroxy hydrogen at position 6'' has been replaced by a malonyl group .
a glycosyloxyisoflavone that is isoflavone substituted by a methoxy group at position 6 ,  a hydroxy group at position 4' and a  beta - d - glucopyranosyloxy group at position 7 .
a glycosyloxyisoflavone that is glycitin substituted by a  malonyl group at position 6'' .
an aryl beta - d - glucoside that is  phloretin attached to a  beta - d - glucopyranosyl residue at position 2' via a glycosidic linkage .
a proanthocyanidin isolated from cinnamomum cassia .
a dimethoxyflavone that is flavone substituted by methoxy groups at positions 6 and 7 and hydroxy groups at positions 5 and 4' respectively .
any member of the class of  xanthones having one or more glycosyl residues attached at unspecified positions .
an aryl beta - d - glucoside that is 3 - hydroxyphloretin in which the hydroxyl hydrogen at position 2' is replaced by a 6 - o - beta - d - xylosyl - beta - d - glucosyl group .
a 3 - hydroxy steroid that is 5alpha - stigmastane which is substituted at the 3beta position by a hydroxy group .
a catechin with  ( 2r , 3r )  - configuration .
flavone substituted with hydroxy groups at c - 4' ,   - 5 ,   - 6 and  - 7 .
a pentamethoxyflavone that is flavone substituted by methoxy groups at positions 5 ,  6 ,  7 ,  3' and 4' respectively .
a pentamethoxyflavone flavone with methoxy groups at positions 4' ,  5 ,  6  ,  7 and 8 .
an environmental material that is the non - aqueous ,  non - gaseous residues that remain after something is burned .
a quality inhering in a substance by virtue of the amount of the bearer's there is mixed with another substance .
a plant anatomical entity  ( po:0025131 )  that is ,  or was ,  part of a plant ,  or was derived from a part of a plant .
