macrolides are a group of drugs  ( typically antibiotics )  that have a large macrocyclic lactone ring of 12 - 16 carbons to which one or more deoxy sugars ,  usually cladinose and desosamine ,  may be attached .
the fluoroquinolones are a family of synthetic broad - spectrum antibiotics that are 4 - quinolone - 3 - carboxylates .
a family of proteins known to bind to the 30s ribosomal subunit .
astromicin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic used to treat different types of bacterial infections .
monobactams are a class of beta - lactam antibiotics with a broad spectrum of antibacterial activity ,  and have a structure which renders them highly resistant to beta - lactamases .
neomycin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic used to treat different types of bacterial infections .
erythromycin is a macrolide antibiotic with a 14 - carbon ring that has an antimicrobial spectrum similar to or slightly wider than that of penicillin ,  and is often used for people that have an allergy to penicillins .
dibekacin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic used to treat different types of bacterial infections .
cefoxitin is a cephamycin antibiotic often grouped with the second generation cephalosporins .
tunicamycin is mixture of homologous nucleoside antibiotics that block the reaction of udp - n - acetylglucosamine and dolichyl phosphate in the first step of glycoprotein synthesis .
clusters of antibiotic resistance genes .
cloxacillin is a semisynthetic ,  isoxazolyl penicillin derivative in the beta - lactam class of antibiotics .
streptothricins are a group of n - glycoside antibiotics that include a carbamoylated d - glucosamine to which are attached a series of l - beta - lysine residues at position 2 and a streptolidine at position 1 .
amikacin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic that works by binding to the bacterial 30s ribosomal subunit ,  causing misreading of mrna and leaving the bacterium unable to synthesize proteins vital to its growth .
gentamicin c is a mixture of gentamicin c1 ,  gentamicin c1a ,  and gentamicin c2  ( these differ in substituents at position c6' )  .
derived from penicillin to combat penicillin - resistance ,  methicillin is insensitive to beta - lactamases  ( also known as penicillinases )  secreted by many penicillin - resistant bacteria .
aminoglycosides are a group of antibiotics that are mostly effective against gram - negative bacteria .
lincosamides  ( e .g .lincomycin ,  clindamycin )  are a class of drugs which bind to the 23s portion of the 50s subunit of bacterial ribosomes .
viomycin sulfate  ( viocin )  is an polypeptide antibiotic used in the treatment of tuberculosis .
carbapenems are a class of beta - lactam antibiotics with a broad spectrum of antibacterial activity ,  and have a structure which renders them highly resistant to beta - lactamases .
ribostamycin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic used to treat different types of bacterial infections .
polymyxins are cationic detergent antibiotics ,  with a general structure of a cyclic peptide with a long hydrophobic tail .
enoxacin belongs to a group called fluoroquinolones .
butirosin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic used to treat different types of bacterial infections .
fosfomycin  ( also known as phosphomycin and phosphonomycin )  is a broad - spectrum antibiotic produced by certain streptomyces species .
streptogramin antibiotics are natural products produced by various members of the streptomyces genus .
roxithromycin is a semi - synthetic ,  14 - carbon ring macrolide antibiotic derived from erythromycin .
vancomycin is a glycopeptide antibiotic used in the prophylaxis and treatment of infections caused by gram - positive bacteria .
teicoplanin is a glycopeptide antibiotic used in the prophylaxis and treatment of serious infections caused by gram - positive bacteria .
tigecycline is an glycylcycline antibiotic .
resistance to antibiotics is often conferred by single nucleotide polymorphisms  ( snps )  and other mutations in target genes .
cephalosporins are a class of beta - lactam antibiotics ,  containing the beta - lactam ring fused with a dihydrothiazolidine ring .
streptogramin a antibiotics are cyclic polyketide peptide hybrids that bind to the ribosomal peptidyl transfer centre .
sisomicin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic used to treat different types of bacterial infections .
ciprofloxacin is a bacteriocidal fluoroquinolone .
apramycin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic used to treat different types of bacterial infections in animals .
netilmicin is a member of the aminoglycoside family of antibiotics .
spectinomycin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic used to treat different types of bacterial infections .
streptomycin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic used to treat different types of bacterial infections .
bacitracin is a mixture of related cyclic polypeptides produced by organisms of the licheniformis group of bacillus subtilis var tracy .
glycylcyclines are a new class of antibiotics derived from tetracycline .
carbenicillin is a semi - synthetic antibiotic belonging to the carboxypenicillin subgroup of the penicillins .
cephamycins are a group of beta - lactam antibiotics ,  very similar to cephalosporins .
acriflavine is a topical antiseptic .
lincomycin is a lincosamide antibiotic that comes from the actinomyces streptomyces lincolnensis .
puromycin is an aminonucleoside antibiotic ,  derived from streptomyces alboniger ,  that causes premature chain termination during ribosomal protein translation .
kanamycin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic used to treat different types of bacterial infections .
streptogramin b antibiotics are are cyclic hepta -  or hexa - depsipeptides .
tetracycline is a broad - spectrum polyketide antibiotic produced by many streptomyces .
tobramycin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic used to treat different types of bacterial infections .
bleomycin is a family of glycopeptide antibiotics produced by the bacterium streptomyces verticillus .
penicillin  ( sometimes abbreviated pcn )  is a beta - lactam antibiotic used in the treatment of bacterial infections caused by susceptible ,  usually gram - positive ,  organisms .
bicyclomycin represents a unique class of antibiotics ,  discovered in 1972 .
oxacillin is a penicillinase - resistant beta - lactam .
telithromycin is a semi - synthetic derivative of erythromycin .
cefazolin  ( inn )  ,  also known as cefazoline or cephazolin ,  is a first generation cephalosporin antibiotic .
cefepime  ( inn )  is a fourth - generation cephalosporin antibiotic developed in 1994 .
ceftazidime is a third - generation cephalosporin antibiotic .
ceftobiprole  ( zeftera / zevtera )  is a next generation  ( 5th generation )  cephalosporin antibiotic with activity against methicillin - resistant staphylococcus aureus ,  penicillin - resistant streptococcus pneumoniae ,  pseudomonas aeruginosa ,  and enterococci .
ceftriaxone is a third - generation cephalosporin antibiotic .
cefuroxime is a second - generation cephalosporin antibiotic with increased stability with beta - lactamases than first - generation cephalosporins .
amoxicillin is a moderate - spectrum ,  bacteriolytic ,  beta - lactam antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections caused by susceptible microorganisms .
clarithromycin is a methyl derivative of erythromycin ,  sharing the 14 - carbon macrolide ring .
clindamycin is a lincosamide antibiotic that blocks a - site aminoacyl - trna binding .
colistins are polymyxin antibiotics produced by certain strains of bacillus polymyxa var .
daptomycin is a novel lipopeptide antibiotic used in the treatment of certain infections caused by gram - positive organisms .
doxycycline is second generation semi - synthetic derivative of the tetracycline group of antibiotics .
ertapenem is a carbapenem antibiotic and is highly resistant to beta - lactamases like other carbapenems .
levofloxacin is a synthetic chemotherapeutic antibiotic of the fluoroquinolone drug class .
linezolid is a synthetic antibiotic used for the treatment of serious infections caused by gram - positive bacteria that are resistant to several other antibiotics .
meropenem is an ultra - broad spectrum injectable antibiotic used to treat a wide variety of infections ,  including meningitis and pneumonia .
moxifloxacin is a fourth generation synthetic fluoroquinolone chemotherapeutic agent ,  and has been shown to be significantly more active than levofloxacin  ( 4 to 8 times more )  against streptococcus pneumoniae .
nitrofurantoin is an antibiotic used to treat urinary tract infections .
resistance - modifying agents  ( rma )  include antibiotic adjuvants and other inhibitors of antibiotic resistance ,  as well as antibiotic potentiators .
tazobactam is a compound which inhibits the action of bacterial beta - lactamases .
piperacillin is an acetylureidopenicillin and has an extended spectrum of targets relative to other beta - lactam antibiotics .
clavulanic acid is a beta - lactamase inhibitor  ( marketed by glaxosmithkline ,  formerly beecham )  combined with penicillin group antibiotics to overcome certain types of antibiotic resistance .
mutational alteration or enzymatic modification of antibiotic target which results in antibiotic resistance .
replacement or substitution of antibiotic action target ,  which process will result in antibiotic resistance .
protection of antibiotic action target from antibiotic binding ,  which process will result in antibiotic resistance .
enzymatic inactivation of antibiotic to confer drug resistance .
antibiotic resistance via the transport of antibiotics out of the cell .
directed pumping of antibiotic out of a cell to confer resistance .
directed pumping of antibiotic out of a cell to confer resistance .
directed pumping of antibiotic out of a cell to confer resistance .
directed pumping of antibiotic out of a cell to confer resistance .
antibiotic resistance is the ability of a microorganism to withstand the effects of an antibiotic .
antibiotic resistance mechanisms evolve naturally via natural selection through random mutation ,  but it could also be engineered by applying an evolutionary stress on a population .
antibiotics are commonly classified based on their mechanism of action ,  chemical structure or spectrum of activity .
a mutation ,  single nucleotide polymorphism ,  gene ,  or gene product that confers antibiotic resistance .
beta - lactamases are enzymes  ( ec 3 .5 .2 .6 )  produced by some bacteria and are responsible for their resistance to beta - lactam antibiotics like penicillins ,  cephalosporins  ( are relatively resistant to beta - lactamase )  ,  cephamycins ,  and carbapenems  ( ertapenem )  .
vanw is an accessory gene ,  with unknown function ,  found on vancomycin resistance operons .
these compounds are antibiotics of unique structure or origin ,  without a defined classification .
ambler class b beta - lactamases are the metallo - beta - lactamases .
vand is a d - ala - d - ala ligase homolog similar to vana ,  and can synthesize d - ala - d - lac ,  an alternative substrate for peptidoglycan synthesis that reduces vancomycin binding affinity .
vanh is a d - specific alpha - ketoacid dehydrogenase that synthesizes d - lactate .
beta - lactam antibiotics are a broad class of antibiotics that include penams  ( penicillin derivatives )  ,  cephems  ( cephalosporins )  ,  monobactams ,  and carbapenems .
penams ,  often referred to as penicillins ,  are a group of antibiotics derived from penicillium fungi .
vana is a d - ala - d - ala ligase homolog that synthesizes d - ala - d - lac ,  an alternative substrate for peptidoglycan synthesis that reduces vancomycin binding affinity .
vanx is a d , d - dipeptidase that cleaves d - ala - d - ala but not d - ala - d - lac ,  ensuring that the latter dipeptide that has reduced binding affinity with vancomycin is used to synthesize peptidoglycan substrate .
proteins involved in restructuring of the cell wall ,  causing antibiotic resistance .
vanb is a d - ala - d - ala ligase homolog similar to vana ,  and can synthesize d - ala - d - lac ,  an alternative substrate for peptidoglycan synthesis that reduces vancomycin binding affinity .
tem - 1 is the most commonly - encountered beta - lactamase in gram - negative bacteria .
shv - 1 shares 68 percent of its amino acids with tem - 1 and has a similar overall structure .
these enzymes were named for their greater activity against cefotaxime than other oxyimino - beta - lactam substrates  ( eg ,  ceftazidime ,  ceftriaxone ,  or cefepime )  .
oxa beta - lactamases were long recognized as a less common but also plasmid - mediated beta - lactamase variety that could hydrolyze oxacillin and related anti - staphylococcal penicillins .
imi beta - lactamases are a group of tem - 1 - like beta - lactamase that are known to hydrolyze imipenem .
plasmid mediated imp - type carbapenemases ,  of which at least 26 varieties are currently known ,  became established in japan in the 1990s in enteric gram - negative organisms ,  pseudomonas and acinetobacter species .
the verone integron - encoded metallo - beta - lactamase  ( vim )  family was reported from italy in 1999 .
ristocetin is a glycopeptide antibiotic similar to vancomycin but positively charged .
subunit of the topoisomerase iv sensitive to aminocoumarins
pata is an abc transporter of streptococcus pneumoniae that interacts with patb to confer fluoroquinolone resistance .
patb is an abc transporter of streptococcus pneumoniae that interacts with pata to confer fluoroquinolone resistance . .
mepa is an efflux protein regulated by mepr and part of the meprab cluster .
emra is a membrane fusion protein ,  providing an efflux pathway with emrb and tolc between the inner and outer membranes of e . coli ,  a gram - negative bacterium .
nucleoside antibiotics are made of modified nucleosides and nucleotides with wide - ranging activities and means of antibacterial effects .
lipopeptide antibiotics are aliphatic ,  with their hydrophobic components interacting with the bacterial cell membrane .
enzymes or other gene products which hydroxylate tetracycline and other tetracycline derivatives .
hydrolysis of an antibiotic molecule to confer resistance .
antibiotic adjuvants shown to inhibit the action of a beta - lactamase enzyme or enhance the ability of a beta - lactam antibiotic .
veb beta - lactamases or vietnamese extended - spectrum beta - lactamases are class a beta - lactamases that confer high - level resistance to oxyimino cephalosporins and to aztreonam
a collection of curated phenotypic terms relating to antibiotic resistance and the comprehensive antibiotic resistance database .
these antibiotics are derived from tetracycline ,  a polyketide antibiotic that inhibits the 30s subunit of bacterial ribosomes .
peptide antibiotics have a wide range of antibacterial mechanisms ,  depending on the amino acids that make up the antibiotic ,  although most act to disrupt the cell membrane in some manner .
acridine dyes are cell permeable ,  basic molecules with an acridine chromophore .
sme beta - lactamases are chromosome - mediated class a beta - lactamases that hydrolyze carbapenems in serratia marcescens .
per beta - lactamases are plasmid - mediated extended spectrum beta - lactamases found in the enterobacteriaceae family .
ndm beta - lactamases or new delhi metallo - beta - lactamases are class b beta - lactamases that confer resistance to a broad range of antibiotics including carbapenems ,  cephalosporins and penicillins .
mir beta - lactamases are plasmid - mediated beta - lactamases that confer resistance to oxyimino -  and alpha - methoxy beta - lactams
klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenem resistant  ( kpc )  beta - lactamases are notorious for their ability to efficiently hydrolyze carbapenems ,  unlike other ambler class a beta - lactamases .
ind beta - lactamases are class b carbapenem - hydrolyzing beta - lactamases
ges beta - lactamases or guiana extended - spectrum beta - lactamases are related to the other plasmid - located class a beta - lactamases
fox beta - lactamases are plasmid - encoded ampc - type beta - lactamase which conferred resistance to broad - spectrum cephalosporins and cephamycins
dha beta - lactamases are plasmid - mediated ampc β - lactamases that confer resistance to cephamycins and oxyimino - cephalosporins .
cmy beta - lactamases are plasmid - mediated class c beta - lactamases that encodes for resistance to cephamycins .
vans is similar to histidine protein kinases like envz and acts as a response regulator by activating vanr .
act beta - lactamases ,  also known as ampc beta - lactamases ,  are cephalosporinases that cannot be inhibited by clavulanate .
acc beta - lactamases or ambler class c beta - lactamases are ampc beta - lactamases .
emrb is a translocase in the emrb  - tolc efflux protein in e . coli .
class d beta - lactamases are one of the subgroups of beta - lactamases that are classified as serine enzymes .
ampc type beta - lactamases are commonly isolated from extended - spectrum cephalosporin - resistant gram - negative bacteria .
vany is a d , d - carboxypeptidase that cleaves removes the terminal d - ala from peptidoglycan for the addition of d - lactate .
the class a beta - lactamases are one of the subgroups of beta - lactamases that are classified as serine enzymes .
oxazolidinones are a class of synthetic antibiotics discovered the the 1980's .
aminonucleoside antibiotics are nucleoside antibiotics that contain an amino group .
glycopeptide antibiotics are natural products produced non - ribosomally by actinomycetales bacteria .
the biological synthesis of antibiotics .
mox beta - lactamases are plasmid - mediated ampc - type beta - lactamases .
a grouping of the related cmy ,  lat ,  and mox beta - lactamases
a grouping of the related cmy and lat beta - lactamases .
a grouping of the related cmy and mox beta - lactamases
aer beta - lactamases are capable of hydrolyzing arbenicillin .
bla1 is a chromosomal - encoded beta - lactamase ,  found in bacillus anthracis ,  which hydrolyzes penicillins .
carb beta - lactamases are class a lactamases that can hydrolyze carbenicillin .
och beta - lactamases are ambler class c chromosomal - encoded beta - lactamases in ochrobactrum anthropi
srt beta - lactamases .
a grouping of the related shv and len beta - lactamases .
len beta - lactamases are chromosomal class a beta - lactamases that confer resistance to ampicillin ,  amoxicillin ,  carbenicillin ,  and ticarcillin but not to extended - spectrum beta - lactams .
pdc beta - lactamases are class c beta - lactamases that are found in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
genes that directly or indirectly modulate beta - lactam resistance .
aminocoumarin antibiotics bind dna gyrase subunit b to inhibit atp - dependent dna supercoiling .
phosphorylation of antibiotic usually by atp ,  sometimes gtp
addition of an acyl group to an antibiotic ,  often via acetylation by acetylcoa .
modification by nmp ,  usually amp .
novobiocin is an aminocoumarin antibiotic produced by streptomyces spheroides and streptomyces niveus ,  and binds dna gyrase subunit b inhibiting atp - dependent dna supercoiling .
directed pumping of antibiotic out of a cell to confer resistance .
vga - type plasmid - borne abc - f proteins ,  expressed in staphylococci that confer resistance to streptogramin a antibiotics through ribosomal protection
kinases that modify aminoglycoside antibiotics by phosphorylation using ntps as cofactor
pare is a subunit of topoisomerase iv ,  which decatenates and relaxes dna to allow access to genes for transcription or translation .
vanz is a teicoplanin resistance gene that is an accessory protein .
a47934 is an 'aglycone' glycopeptide antibiotic produced by streptomyces toyocaensis .
vga ( b )  is an abc - f protein expressed in staphylococci that confers resistance to streptogramin a antibiotics and related compounds .
edeines are basic linear peptides produced by bacillus brevis vm4 .
balhimycin is a vancomycin - like glycopeptide antibiotic produced by amycolatopsis balhimycina .
aminoglycoside acetyltransferase enzymes modify aminoglycoside antibiotics by catalyzing the transfer of an acetyl group to one of the amino groups present in aminoglycosides ,  using acetyl coenzyme a as a donor substrate .
inactivates chloramphenicol by addition of an acyl group .
gramicidins are a family of antibiotics synthesized by bacillus brevis .
meci acts as a repressor of transcription of the meca / mecr1 / meci operon .
the use of different nucleophilic molecules by enzymes can break up the epoxide ring of fosfomycin and render the molecule ineffective .
phosphorylation of 2 - deoxystreptamine aminoglycosides on the hydroxyl group at position 3'
phosphorylation of streptomycin on the hydroxyl group at position 3''
phosphorylation of 2 - deoxystreptamine aminoglycosides on the hydroxyl group at position 2''
edeine a is a subtype of the peptide antibiotic edeine ,  composed of beta - tyr ,  beta - ser ,  diaminopropionic acid ,  diaminohydroxyazelaic acid ,  glycine ,  and spermidine .
clorobiocin is an aminocoumarin antibiotic produced by streptomyces roseochromogenes ,  and binds dna gyrase subunit b to inhibit atp - dependent dna supercoiling .
catalyzes the addition of a thiol group from a nucleophilic molecule to fosfomycin .
edeine b is a subtype of the peptide antibiotic edeine ,  composed of beta - tyr ,  beta - ser ,  diaminopropionic acid ,  diaminohydroxyazelaic acid ,  glycine ,  and guanylspermidine .
edeine d is a subtype of edeine similar to edeine a with the beta - tyr replaced by beta - phe - beta - ala . edeines bind to the 30s subunit to block fmet - trna interaction at the p site ,  inhibiting protein synthesis and subsequent structure / function processes critical for life or replication .
edeine f is a subtype of edeine similar to edeine b with beta - tyr replaced by beta - phe - beta - ala . edeines bind to the 30s subunit to block fmet - trna interaction at the p site ,  inhibiting protein synthesis and subsequent structure / function processes critical for life or replication .
tylosin is a 16 - membered macrolide ,  naturally produced by streptomyces fradiae .
an enzyme that confers resistance to fosfomycin in serratia marcescens by breaking the epoxide ring of the molecule .
coumermycin a1 is an antibiotic produced by streptomyces rishiriensis ,  and binds dna gyrase subunit b to inhibit atp - dependent dna supercoiling .
phosphorylation of streptomycin on the hydroxyl group at position 6
minocycline is second generation semi - synthetic derivative of the tetracycline group of antibiotics .
phosphorylation of spectinomycin on the hydroxyl group at position 9
phosphorylation of hygromycin on the hydroxyl group at position 7''
phosphorylation of hygromycin on the hydroxyl group at position 4
spiramycin is a 16 - membered macrolide and is natural product produced by streptomyces ambofaciens .
rifamycin antibiotics are a group of broad - spectrum ansamycin antibiotics that inhibit bacterial rna polymerase by binding to a highly conserved region ,  blocking the oligonucleotide exit tunnel ,  and preventing the extension of nascent mrnas .
azithromycin is a 15 - membered macrolide and falls under the subclass of azalide .
efflux proteins that pump antibiotic out of a cell to confer resistance .
blai acts as a repressor of transcription of the blaz / blar1 / blai operon .
catalyzes methylation of rrna
teta is a tetracycline efflux pump found in many species of gram - negative bacteria .
tet ( b )  is a tetracycline efflux protein expressed in many gram - negative bacteria .
tet ( c )  is a tetracycline efflux pump found in many species of gram - negative bacteria .
tetd is a tetracycline efflux pump found exclusively in gram - negative bacteria .
rifampin is a semi - synthetic rifamycin ,  and inhibits rna synthesis by binding to rna polymerase .
imipenem is a broad - spectrum antibiotic and is usually taken with cilastatin ,  which prevents hydrolysis of imipenem by renal dehydropeptidase - i .
diaminopyrimidines are a class of organic compounds containing a pyrimidine ring substituted by two amine groups .
a thiol transferase that leads to the resistance of fosfomycin .
tete is a tetracycline efflux pump found in many gram - negative bacteria ,  especially those in water environments .
tetg is a tetracycline efflux protein found in gram - negative bacteria .
teth is a tetracycline efflux protein expressed in gram - negative bacteria  ( actinobacillus ,  acinetobacter ,  gallibacterium ,  histophilus ,  mannheimia ,  moraxella ,  pasteurella ,  and psychrobacter )  .
dirithromycin is an oxazine derivative of erythromycin ,  sharing the 14 - carbon macrolide ring .
tetj is a tetracycline efflux protein expressed in gram - negative bacteria  ( escherichia ,  morganella ,  and proteus )  .
tetk is a tetracycline efflux protein found in both gram - negative  ( haemophilus and gallibacterium )  and gram - positive  ( many species ,  including mycobacteria )  bacteria .
tetl is a tetracycline efflux protein found in many species of gram - negative and gram - positive bacteria .
teta ( p )  is a inner membrane tetracycline efflux protein found on the same operon as the ribosomal protection protein tetb ( p )  .
tetv is a tetracycline efflux protein that has been found in mycolicibacterium smegmatis and mycolicibacterium fortuitum .
tety is a tetracycline efflux pump found in gram - negative bacteria  ( aeromonas and escherichia )  .
tetz is a tetracycline efflux protein found in gram - positive bacteria  ( corynebacterium and lactobacillus )  .
chloroeremomycin is a vancomycin - like glycopeptide ,  with three sugars instead of two in vancomycin and balhimycin .
these proteins confer antibiotic resistance by bind the antibiotic target to prevent antibiotic binding .
tetm is a ribosomal protection protein that confers tetracycline resistance .
mechanism of enzymatic degradation common to ambler class a ,  c and d beta - lactamases .
trimethoprim is a synthetic 5 -  ( 3 , 4 , 5 -  trimethoxybenzyl )  pyrimidine inhibitor of dihydrofolate reductase ,  inhibiting synthesis of tetrahydrofolic acid .
oritavancin is a semi - synthetic derivative of chloroeremomycin ,  a vancomycin - like glycopeptide .
teto is a ribosomal protection protein .
tetq is a ribosomal protection protein .
tet ( s )  is a ribosomal protection protein found in gram - positive and gram - negative strains .
tet ( t )  is a ribosomal protection protein of streptococci .
tetw is a ribosomal protection protein .
tetb ( p )  is a tetracycline ribosomal protection protein found on the same operon as teta ( p )  ,  a tetracycline efflux protein .
tet32 is a tetracycline resistance gene similar to tet ( o )  ,  and binds to the ribosome to confer tetracycline resistance as a ribosomal protection protein .
tet36 is a tetracycline resistance gene found in bacteroides similar to tet ( q )  ,  and binds to the ribosome to confer antibiotic resistance as a ribosomal protection protein .
fosx is an enzyme used to confer resistance to fosfomycin .
gramicidin d is a mixture of the linear peptides gramicidin a ,  b ,  and c ,  each with 15 alternating l -  and d - amino acids .
gramicidin s is a cyclical decapeptide with two pentapeptides  ( val - orn - leu - d - phe - pro )  joined head to tail .
enzymes shown to inactivate macrolide antibiotics by chemical modification ,  thereby conferring resistance to macrolides .
cfr genes produce enzymes which catalyze the methylation of the 23s rrna subunit at position 8 of adenine - 2503 .
mechanism of enzymatic degradation common to ambler class b beta - lactamases .
tetx is a flavin - dependent monooxygenase conferring resistance to tetracycline antibiotics .
emrk is a membrane fusion protein that is a homolog of emra .
protein subunit of acra - acrb - tolc multidrug efflux complex .
addition of glycosyl moiety to antibiotics thereby inactivating them .
pary is part of a topoisomerase iv that is resistant to antibiotics that affect other topoisomerases .
rifampin resistant rna polymerases include amino acids substitutions which disrupt the affinity of rifampin for its binding site .
chemical alteration of the ribosome results in modification of an antibiotic's target leading to resistance .
point mutations in the dna may lead to an altered gene product that may result in antibiotic resistance .
peptidoglycan precursors ending in d - ala - d - lac or d - ala - d - ser instead of d - ala - d - ala conferring high level glycopeptide resistance .
hygromycin b is an aminoglycoside antibiotic used to treat different types of bacterial infections .
mecr1 is a transmembrane spanning and signal transducing protein which in response to interaction with beta - lactam antibiotics results in upregulation of the meca / mecr1 / meci operon .
protein subunit of acra - acrb - tolc multidrug efflux complex .
blar1 is a transmembrane spanning and signal transducing protein which in response to interaction with beta - lactam antibiotics results in upregulation of the blaz / blar1 / blai operon .
covalent modification of aminoglycoside antibiotic hydroxyl group by atp - dependent transfer of amp .
efflux regulatory proteins with mutations that result in increased expression of efflux proteins .
point mutations in gyrb confer antibiotic resistance by preventing drugs from binding the beta - subunit of gyrase ,  essential for dna supercoiling .
resistance to the lincosamide antibiotic by atp - dependent modification of the 3' and / or 4' - hydroxyl groups of the methylthiolincosamide sugar .
gramicidin a is the most abundant  ( more than 80% )  of the three gramicidins in gramicidin d ,  with a tryptophan in position 11 .
gramicidin b is one of the three gramicidins in gramicidin d ,  with a phenylalanine in position 11 .
gramicidin c is one of the three gramicidins in gramicidin d ,  with a tyrosine in position 11 .
nucelotidylylation of streptomycin at the hydroxyl group at position 6
point mutations in dihydropteroate synthase folp prevent sulfonamide antibiotics from inhibiting its role in folate synthesis ,  thus conferring sulfonamide resistance .
tyrothricin is a mixture of antibiotics including tyrocidines and gramicidins ,  isolated from bacillus brevis .
nucleotidylylation of spectinomycin at the hydroxyl group at position 9
nucleotidylylation of 2 - deoxystreptamine aminoglycosides at the hydroxyl group at position 4'
plasmid or integron - encoded nucleotidylylation of 2 - deoxystreptamine aminoglycosides at the hydroxyl group at position 2'' in p . aeruginosa ,  k . pneumoniae ,  morganella morganii ,  e . coli ,  s . typhimurium ,  c . freundii and a . baumannii
an operon conferring resistance to beta - lactam antibiotics .
nucleotidylylation of streptomycin at the hydroxyl group at position 3''
resistance to streptogramin antibiotics may be conferred through enzymatic inactivation .
genes that when expressed confer resistance to vancomycin and teicoplanin type antibiotics .
embb gene encodes for an arabinosyl transferase in the arabinogalactan synthesis pathway .
this inducible cluster confers high resistance to both vancomycin and teicoplanin by allowing restructuring of peptidoglycan precursors to end in d - ala - d - lac .
tolc is a protein subunit of many multidrug efflux complexes in gram negative bacteria .
this inducible cluster confers resistance to vancomycin but organisms remain sensitive to teicoplanin by allowing restructuring of peptidoglycan precursors to end in d - ala - d - lac .
reduction in permeability to antibiotic ,  generally through reduced production of porins ,  can provide resistance .
rna - polymerase binding protein which confers resistance to rifampin .
confers low vancomycin resistance by engineering peptidoglycan precursors ending in d - ala - d - ser in an inducible or constitutive manner .
a tetrameric protein that converts phosphoenolpyruvate  ( pep )  to phosponopyruvate  ( ppyr )  .
dnaa is a chromosomal replication initiation protein which binds and interacts with rna polymerase in escherichia coli .
atp - dependent kinase modifies the c - 3 hydroxyl group of chloramphenicol .
ermc is a methyltransferase that catalyzes the methylation of a2058 of the 23s ribosomal rna in two steps .
msra is an abc - f subfamily ribosomal protection protein expressed in staphylococcus species which confers resistance to erythromycin and streptogramin b antibiotics through antibiotic target protection mechanisms .
homologous to vana ,  contains a d - ala - d - lac ligase .
emry is a multidrug transport that moves substrates across the inner membrane of the gram - negative e . coli .
homologous to vana ,  contains a d - ala - d - lac ligase .
homologous to vana ,  contains a d - ala - d - lac ligase .
contains a d - ala - d - ser ligase .the vang gene cluster is inducible and confers low resistance to vancomycin .
homologous to vanc ,  contains a d - ala - d - ser ligase .
homologous to vanc ,  contains a d - ala - d - ser ligase .
when bound to different sigma factors ,  rna - polymerase may possess an altered sensitivity to rifampin - mediated inhibition .
the bla operon is composed of blaz / blar1 / blai .
in the presence of antibiotic stress ,  e . coli overexpresses the global activator protein mara ,  which besides inducing mdr efflux pump acrab ,  also down -  regulates synthesis of the porin ompf .
emre is a small multidrug transporter that functions as a homodimer and that couples the efflux of small polyaromatic cations from the cell with the import of protons down an electrochemical gradient .
in the presence of antibiotic stress ,  e . coli overexpresses the global activator protein mara ,  which besides inducing mdr efflux pump acrab ,  also down -  regulates synthesis of the porin ompf .
the inactivation of antibiotics by the enzymatic addition of adp - ribose from nad +  .
the mec operon is composed of meca / mecr1 / meci .
brodimoprim is a structural derivative of trimethoprim and an inhibitor of bacterial dihydrofolate reductase .
enzymes or other proteins either directly or indirectly reducing overall permeability to antibiotics .
point mutations in gyra confer antibiotic resistance by preventing drugs from binding the alpha - subunit of gyrase ,  essential for dna supercoiling .
point mutations in parc confer antibiotic resistance by preventing drugs from binding the parc subunit of topoisomerase iv ,  essential for dna decatanation and relaxation .
cephems have a six - membered dihydrothiazine ring with a sulfur atom and double bond fused with its beta - lactam ring .
sulfonamides are broad spectrum ,  synthetic antibiotics that contain the sulfonamide group .
tetroxoprim is a trimethoprim derivative that inhibits bacterial dihydrofolate reductase .
stabilizes the c - p bond in phosphonopyruvate formed by phophoenolpyruvate mutase by catalyzing the self - removal of the carboxyl group .
lsaa is an abc - f subfamily protein expressed in enterococcus faecalis .
emrd is a multidrug transporter from the major facilitator superfamily  ( mfs )  primarily found in escherichia coli .
the mpha gene encodes for resistance enzyme mph ( 2' )  - i which preferentially inactivate 14 - membered macrolides  ( e .g .erythromycin ,  telithromycin ,  roxithromycin )  over 16 - membered macrolides  ( e .g .tylosin ,  spiramycin )  .
acetylation of paromomycin ,  and apramycin ,  on the amino group at position 1 in e . coli ,  actinomycete ,  campylobacter spp .
the mphb gene encodes for mph ( 2' )  - ii .
the mphc gene was identified from staphylococcus aureus .
hydrolytic enzymes that cleave the macrocycle lactone ring of macrolide antibiotics .
hydrolysis of the the macrocycle lactone ring of macrolide antibiotics .
acetylation of the aminoglycoside antibiotic on the amino group at position 3 .
sulfadiazine is a potent inhibitor of dihydropteroate synthase ,  interfering with the tetrahydrofolic biosynthesis pathway .
sulfadimidine is an alkaline sulfonamide antibiotic that inhibits dihydropteroate synthase ,  and enzyme in the tetrahydrofolic acid biosynthesis pathway .
erme is a methyltransferase found in the erythromycin producer saccharopolyspora erythraea .
sulfadoxine is an inhibitor of dihydropteroate synthase ,  interfering with the tetrahydrofolic biosynthesis pathway .
single nucleotide polymorphisms  ( snps )  in rrna can confer antibiotic resistance to drugs that target the bacterial ribosome .
sulfamethoxazole is a sulfonamide antibiotic usually taken with trimethoprim ,  a diaminopyrimidine antibiotic .
sulfisoxazole is an inhibitor of dihydropteroate synthase ,  interfering with the tetrahydrofolic biosynthesis pathway .
macrolide phosphotransferases  ( mph )  are enzymes encoded by macrolide phosphotransferase genes  ( mph genes )  .
point mutations in bacterial 23s rrna from the large ribosomal subunit that confer resistance to antibiotics .
iclaprim is a bactericidal compound that inhibits dihydrofolate reductase .
genes that confer antibiotic resistance by hydrolyzing bonds to linearize and deactivate antibiotics .
acetylation of the aminoglycoside antibiotic on the amino group at position 2' .
enzymes that inactivate fosfomycin by chemical modification .
efflux pump proteins contained within mycobacterial genomes which confer resistance to a number of different antibiotics including aminoglycosides ,  and tetracyclines .
emrab - tolc is a multidrug efflux system found in e . coli .
acetylation of the aminoglycoside antibiotic on the amino group at position 6' .
erma confers the mlsb phenotype .
in the presence of atp and magnesium  ( ii )  ,  fosfomycin gets phosphorylated at the phosphate group resulting in a diphosphate group which inactivates the antibiotic .
erea is an erythromycin esterase that hydrolyses the drug's lactone ring .
ereb is an erythromycin esterase - like protein that hydrolyses the drug's lactone ring .
vanc is a d - ala - d - ala ligase homolog that synthesizes d - ala - d - ser ,  an alternative substrate for peptidoglycan synthesis that reduces vancomycin binding affinity .
the mtr  ( multiple transferable resistance )  system of neisseria gonorrhoeae confers resistance to many hydrophobic agents including antibiotics ,  fatty - acids and detergents .
many drugs target topoisomerases to inhibit dna synthesis .
vant is a membrane bound serine racemase ,  converting l - serine to d - serine .
emrky is a homolog of emrab found in e . coli .
ermb confers the mlsb phenotype .
vgb  ( virginiamycin b )  lyase inactivates type b streptogramin antibiotics by linearizing the streptogramin lactone ring at the ester linkage through an elimination mechanism ,  thus conferring resistance to these compounds .
mexa is the membrane fusion protein of the mexab - oprm multidrug efflux complex .
mexb is the inner membrane multidrug exporter of the efflux complex mexab - oprm .
oprm is an outer membrane factor protein found in pseudomonas aeruginosa and burkholderia vietnamiensis .
fosc is an enzyme that phosphorylates fosfomycin to confer resistance
alternate proteins that have the same functions as other antibiotic target proteins ,  but are structurally different and thus resistant to antibiotics .
azidamfenicol is a water soluble derivative of chloramphenicol ,  sharing the same mode of action of inhibiting peptide synthesis by interacting with the 23s rna of the 50s ribosomal subunit .
acrab - tolc is a tripartite rnd efflux system that confers resistance to tetracycline ,  chloramphenicol ,  ampicillin ,  nalidixic acid ,  and rifampin  in gram - negative bacteria .
chloramphenicol is a bacteriostatic antimicrobial originally derived from the bacterium streptomyces venezuelae .
mexab - oprm is a multidrug efflux protein expressed in the gram - negative pseudomonas aeruginosa .
phenicols are broad spectrum bacteriostatic antibiotics acting on bacterial protein synthesis .
biosynthesis of streptoramin antibiotics .
type b streptogramins are cyclic hexa -  or hepta - depsipeptides produced by nrpss in streptomyces .
enzyme responsible for the adp - ribosylative inactivation of rifampin at the 23 - oh position using nad +  .
nora is a multidrug efflux pump in staphylococcus aureus that confers resistance to fluoroquinolones and other structurally unrelated antibiotics like acriflavine .
erm ( 37 )  is found in mycobacterium species and confers the mlsb phenotype .
synthesis of glycopeptide antibiotics .
biosynthesis of teicoplanin by actinoplanes teichomyceticus
sul1 is a sulfonamide resistant dihydropteroate synthase of gram - negative bacteria .
sul2 is a sulfonamide resistant dihydropteroate synthase of gram - negative bacteria ,  usually found on small plasmids .
sul3 is a sulfonamide resistant dihydropteroate synthase similar to sul1 and sul2 .
qnr proteins are pentapeptide repeat proteins that mimic dna and protect the cell from the activity of fluoroquinolone antibiotics
norb is a multidrug efflux pump in staphylococcus aureus that confers resistance to fluoroquinolones and other structurally unrelated antibiotics like tetracycline .
in the presence of atp and magnesium  ( ii )  ,  fosfomycin gets phosphorylated at the phosphate group resulting in a diphosphate group which inactivates the antibiotic .
the enzymatic inactivation of rifampin by glycosylation at the 23 - oh position .
the enzymatic inactivation of rifampin by phosphorylation at the 21 - oh position .
enzyme responsible for the decolorization of rifampin by monoxygenation .
mupirocin inhibits protein synthesis by interfering with isoleucyl - trna synthetase  ( iles )  .
qepa1 is a plasmid - mediated efflux pump in e . coli ,  shown to contribute to fluoroquinolone resistance .
an enzyme which on its own cannot provide fosfomycin resistance ,  however in conjunction with foma ,  it leads to the formation of fosfomycin with three phosphates total ,  which makes it inactive .
inactivation of an antibiotic via introduction a hydroxyl group  (  - oh )  .
protein ( s )  and two component regulatory systems that directly or indirectly change rates of antibiotic efflux .
fluoroquinolones inhibit type ii and type iv topoisomerases  ( 2 strand breaking enzymes )  such as gyra / gyrb and parc / pare .
vat  ( virginiamycin acetyltransferases )  enzymes catalyze the transfer of an acetyl group from acetyl - coa to the secondary alcohol of streptogramin a compounds ,  thus inactivating virginiamycin - like antibiotics and conferring resistance to these compounds .
polymyxin b is mixture of mostly polymyxins b1 and b2 ,  mainly used for resistant gram - negative infections .
type a streptogramins are produced by a hybrid nrps / pks composed of 8 nrps modules and 2 pks modules .
derivative of chloramphenicol .the nitro group  (  - no2 )  is substituted by a sulfomethyl group  (  - so2ch3 )  .
pare is a subunit of topoisomerase iv ,  which decatenates and relaxes dna to allow access to genes for transcription or translation .
macrolide glycosyltransferases are enzymes encoded by macrolide glycosyltransferase genes and inactivate macrolides by glycosylating them at 2' - oh of desosamine sugar moiety .
biosynthesis of fosfomycin .
florfenicol is a fluorine derivative of chloramphenicol ,  where the nitro group  (  - no2 )  is substituted by a sulfomethyl group  (  - so2ch3 )  and the hydroxyl group  (  - oh )  ,  by a fluorine group  (  - f )  .
a macrolide glycosyltransferase encoded by the mgta gene in streptomyces lividans .
a macrolide glycosyltransferase encoded by the gima gene in streptomyces ambofaciens ,  a natural producer of the macrolide antibiotic spiramycin .
mutant forms of the porin por result in reduced permeability to antibiotics ,  particularly tetracyclines and beta - lactams .
olei and oled are glycosyltransferases found in streptomyces antibioticus which is a natural producer of antibiotic oleandomycin .
dalbavancin is a semisynthetic second - generation lipoglycopeptide derived from teicoplanin .
new delhi beta - lactamase ndm - 5 .
the enzyme responsible for the final step of fosfomycin biosynthesis .
tet31 is a tetracycline efflux pump found in aeromonas salmonicida ,  a gram - negative bacteria .
tet33 is a tetracycline efflux pump found in gram - positive bacteria ,  including arthrobacter and corynebacterium .
point mutations in dna gyrase subunit b  ( gyrb )  can result in resistance to aminocoumarins .
expression of pary ( r )  ,  which encodes an aminocoumarin resistant topoisomerase iv ,  can confer aminocoumarin resistance .
tet35 is a tetracycline efflux pump found in the gram - negative vibrio and stenotrophomonas .
telavancin is a semi - synthetic derivative of vancomycin and is a second - generation lipoglycopeptide antibiotic .
sav1866 is a multidrug efflux pump in the gram - positive staphylococcus aureus .
tuberactinomycins are a family of cyclic peptide antibiotics that are important in the treatment of tuberculosis .
acrd is an aminoglycoside efflux pump expressed in e . coli .
genes that are involved in conferring self resistance to antibiotic
ermd confers mlsb phenotype .
vanxy is a protein with both d , d - carboxypeptidase and d , d - dipeptidase activity ,  found in enterococcus gallinarum .
ethambutol is an antimycobacterial drug prescribed to treat tuberculosis .
ermf confers the mlsb phenotype .
acre is a membrane fusion protein ,  similar to acra .
the enzyme responsible for converting phosphonoacetaldehyde to  ( s )  - 2 -  / nhydroxypropylphosphonic acid  ( s - hpp )  via an anionic methyl attack ,  which also reduces the aldehyde to an alcohol .
due to gene duplication ,  the genomes of nocardia species include both rifampin - sensitive beta - subunit of rna polymerase  ( rpob )  and rifampin - resistant beta - subunit of rna polymerase  ( rpob2 )  genes ,  with ~88% similarity between the two gene products .
acrf is a inner membrane transporter ,  similar to acrb .
acref - tolc is a tripartite multidrug efflux system similar to acrab - tolc and found in gram - negative bacteria .
gols is a regulator activated by the presence of gold ,  and promotes the expression of the mdsabc efflux pump .
mexr is the repressor of the mexrab - oprm operon .
proteins which have been experimentally shown to protect rna - polymerase from rifampin inhibition .
gadx is an arac - family regulator that promotes mdtef expression to confer multidrug resistance .
an alternative isoleucyl - trna synthetase conferring resistance to mupirocin .
evgsa is a two - component regulatory system that regulates mdtef and emrky expression for multidrug resistance .
emrr is a negative regulator for the emrab - tolc multidrug efflux pump in e . coli .
rifaximin is a semi - synthetic rifamycin used to treat traveller's diarrhea .
crp is a global regulator that represses mdtef multidrug efflux pump expression .
enzymes that confer resistance by modifying antibiotic targets .
isoniazid is an organic compound that is the first - line anti tuberculosis medication in prevention and treatment .
an alternative isoleucyl - trna synthetase conferring resistance to mupirocin .
ermg is a rrna adenine n - 6 - methyltransferase that protects the ribosome from inactivation due to antibiotic binding .
cpxar is a two - component regulatory system that involves a sensor kinase ,  cpxa ,  and the regulator cpxr .
a40926 is a glycopeptide antibiotic produced by nonomuraea sp .
cmer is a repressor for the cmeabc multidrug efflux pump ,  binding to the cmeabc promoter region .
polyamine antibiotics are organic compounds having two or more primary amino groups .
chlortetracycline was an early ,  first - generation tetracycline antibiotic developed in the 1940's .
rifabutin is a semisynthetic rifamycin used in tuberculosis therapy .
baesr is a two component regulatory system for efflux proteins in gram - negative bacteria .
biosynthesis of aminocoumarin antibiotics .
maca is a membrane fusion protein that forms an antibiotic efflux complex with macb and tolc .
rifapentine is a semisynthetic rifamycin that inhibits dna - dependent rna synthesis .
macb is an atp - binding cassette  ( abc )  transporter that exports macrolides with 14 -  or 15 -  membered lactones .
novobiocin is produced from biosynthetic clusters in streptomyces spheroides and streptomyces niveus .
macab - tolc is an abc efflux pump complex expressed in e . coli and salmonella enterica .
clorobiocin is produced by a biosynthetic cluster in streptomyces roseochromogenus subsp .
arlrs is a two - component regulatory system for nora .
coumermycin a1 is produced by a biosynthetic cluster in streptomyces rishiriensis .
ades is a sensor kinase in the aders regulatory system of adeabc .
aztreonam was the first monobactam discovered ,  and is greatly effective against gram - negative bacteria while inactive against gram - positive bacteria .
organoarsenic antibiotics are arsenic - containing compounds with antibacterial effects .
arsphenamine ,  also known as salvarsan and 606 ,  is a drug that was used beginning in the 1910s to treat syphilis and trypanosomiasis .
ader is a positive regulator of adeabc efflux system .
mupirocin ,  also known as pseudomonic acid ,  is a bacteriostatic polyketide antibiotic from pseudomonas fluorescens used to treat s . aureus and mrsa .
biosynthesis of macrolide antibiotics .
tet44 is a tetracycline resistance gene found in campylobacter fetus ,  and binds to the ribosome to confer antibiotic resistance as a ribosomal protection protein .
enzyme that catalyzes the inactivation of an antibiotic resulting in resistance .
aden is a repressor of adeijk ,  a rnd - type efflux pump in acinetobacter baumannii .
erm proteins are part of the rna methyltransferase family and methylate a2058  ( e . coli nomenclature )  of the 23s ribosomal rna conferring degrees of resistance to macrolides ,  lincosamides and streptogramin b .
tet30 is a tetracycline efflux pump found in agrobacterium ,  a gram - negative bacterium .
tet38 is a tetracycline efflux pump found in the gram - positive staphylococcus aureus .
tet39 is a tetracycline efflux pump found in gram - negative bacteria ,  including brevundimonas ,  stenotrophomonas ,  enterobacter ,  alcaligenes ,  acinetobacter ,  and providencia .
tet40 is a tetracycline efflux pump found in the gram - positive clostridium .
subclass b1 possess a binuclear active site .
tet41 is a tetracycline efflux pump found in serratia ,  a gram - negative bacterium .
metallo - beta - lactmases of subclass b2 contain only one zn ion in their active site and selectively hydrolyze carbapenems .
metallo - beta - lactamases of subclass b3 are similar to b1 in that they have activity against penicillins ,  cephalosporins and carbapenems ;  however ,  the are only active with two zn ( ii )  ions in the active site .
tet42 is a tetracycline efflux pump found in both gram - negative  ( pseudomonas )  and gram - positive  ( microbacterium ,  bacillus ,  staphylococcus ,  paenibacillus )  bacteria .
tet ( 43 )  is a tetracycline resistance gene with unknown origins ,  isolated from metagenomic dna .
vanr is a ompr - family transcriptional activator in the vansr regulatory system .
vanu is a transcriptional activator of vancomycin resistance genes .
enzymes that inactivate rifampin antibiotics by chemical modification .
bacillus cereus beta - lactamases are zinc metallo - beta - lactamases that hydrolyze a large number of penicillins and cephalosporins .
this ccra beta - lactamases is found in bacteroides fragilis .
this blab specific to chryseobacterium meningosepticum mediates resistance against many beta - lactam antibiotics ,  notably penams and carbapenems .
sao paulo metallo - beta - lactamase  ( spm - 1 )  confers resistance to carbapenem in pseudomonas aeruginosa
cpha is an ambler class b mbl ;  subclass b2 originally isolated from aeromonas hydrophilia .
l1 is an ambler class b mbl ;  subclass b3 originally isolated from stenotrophomonas maltophilia .
pristinamycin 1a is a type b streptogramin antibiotic produced by streptomyces pristinaespiralis .
quinupristin is a type b streptogramin and a semisynthetic derivative of pristinamycin 1a .
pulvomycin is a polyketide antibiotic that binds elongation factor tu  ( ef - tu )  to inhibit protein biosynthesis by preventing the formation of the ternary complex  ( ef - tu*gtp*aa - trna )  .
inhibitor of non - ampc ser beta - lactmases
ser beta - lactamase inhibitor targeting class a ,  class c ,  and some class d enzymes .
ndm - 1 is a metallo - beta - lactamase isolated from klebsiella pneumoniae with nearly complete resistance to all beta - lactam antibiotics .
ndm - 2 was isolated from a strain of acinetobacter baumannii in germany from a patient hospitalized in cairo .
ermn is a methyltransferase found in the tylosin producer streptomyces fradiae .
ermq confers mlsb phenotype .
ermr is a methyltransferase found in the erythromycin producer aeromicrobium erythreum .
ermt confers mlsb phenotype .
ermx is a rrna methyltransferase that protects the ribosome from inactivation due to antibiotic binding .
erm ( 31 )  confers a mlsb resistant phenotype .
ermd confers mlsb phenotype .
ermd confers mlsb phenotype .
ermd confers mlsb phenotype .
ermd confers mlsb phenotype .
erm41 confers mlsb phenotype .
ermd confers mlsb phenotype .
ermd confers mlsb phenotype .
fez - 1 is an ambler class b mbl ;  subclass b3 first isolated from legionella gormanii .
many genes involved in antibiotic resistance are mobile and microarray probes for these genes can thus provide positive results for any number of organisms .
mefe is a proton motive efflux pump in streptococcus pneumoniae that confers resistance to macrolides .
mel ,  a homolog of msra ,  is an abc - f subfamily protein associated with macrolide resistance .
a foreign pbp2a acquired by lateral gene transfer that able to perform peptidoglycan synthesis in the presence of beta - lactams .
parc is a subunit of topoisomerase iv ,  which decatenates and relaxes dna to allow access to genes for transcription or translation .
adel is a regulator of adefgh in acinetobacter baumannii .
the blaz beta - lactamase is found in bacillus subtilis and staphylococcus aureus .
colistin a ,  or polymyxin e1 ,  has a 6 - octanoic acid lipid tail .
colistin b ,  or polymyxin e2 ,  has a 6 - heptanoic acid lipid tail .
polymyxin b1 is in the family of polymyxin lipopeptides with a 6 - methyloctanoic acid acyl group .
polymyxin b2 is in the family of polymyxin lipopeptides with a 6 - methylheptanoic acid acyl group .
polymyxin b3 is in the family of polymyxin lipopeptides with an octanoic acid acyl group .
polymyxin b4 is in the family of polymyxin lipopeptides with a heptanoic acid acyl group .
bacitracin a is the primary component of bacitracin .
bacitracin b is a component of bacitracin ,  an antibiotic mixture that interferes with bacterial cell wall synthesis .
bacitracin f is a component of bacitracin ,  an antibiotic mixture that interferes with bacterial cell wall synthesis .
benzylpenicillin ,  commonly referred to as penicillin g ,  is effective against both gram - positive and gram - negative bacteria .
phenoxymethylpenicillin ,  or penicillin v ,  is a penicillin derivative that is acid stable but less active than benzylpenicillin  ( penicillin g )  .
propicillin is an orally taken penicillin derivative that has high absorption but poor activity .
dicloxacillin is a penicillin derivative that has an extra chlorine atom in comparison to cloxacillin .
flucloxacillin is similar to cloxacillin ,  with an extra additional fluorine atom .
ampicillin is a penicillin derivative that is highly acid stable ,  with its activity similar to benzylpenicillin .
azlocillin is a semisynthetic derivative of penicillin that is notably active against ps .
mezlocillin is a penicillin derivative taken parenterally .
doripenem is a carbapenem with a broad range of activity against gram - positive and gram - negative bacteria ,  and along with meropenem ,  it is the most active beta - lactam antibiotic against pseudomonas aeruginosa .
cefalexin is a cephalosporin antibiotic that causes filamentation .
cefadroxil ,  or p - hydroxycephalexin ,  is an cephalosporin antibiotic similar to cefalexin .
cefotiam is a cephalosporin antibiotic with similar activity to cefuroxime but more active against enterobacteria .
cefaclor is a semisynthetic cephalosporin derived from cephalexin .
cefotaxime is a semisynthetic cephalosporin taken parenterally .
cefixime is a cephalosporin resistant to most beta - lactamases .
cefpodoxime is a semisynthetic cephalosporin that acts similarly to cefotaxime with broad - spectrum activity .
ceftibuten is a semisynthetic cephalosporin active against gram - negative bacilli .
cefditoren is a semisynthetic cephalosporin active against staphylococci ,  streptococci ,  and and most enterobacteria .
cefdinir is similar to cefixime with a modified side - chain at its 7 - amino position .
ceftaroline is a novel cephalosporin active against methicillin resistant staphylococcus aureus .
a semi - synthetic derivative of gentamicin b  ( hydroxyamino propionyl genamicin b )  .
a gentamicin class aminoglycoside antibiotic often used in mammalian cell culture work as a selectable marker for the neo cassette  ( aph3' )  .
a synthetic derivative  ( 1 - n -  ( 4 - amino - 2 - hydroxybutyryl )  of dibekacin used in japan .
gentamicin b is a semisynthetic aminoglycoside antibacterial .
acrs is a repressor of the acrab efflux complex and is associated with the expression of acref .
an aminoglycoside antibiotic used for the treatment of parasitic infections .
lividomycins are aminoglycosidic antibiotics produced by streptomyces lividus .
gatifloxacin is an 8 - methoxy ,  7 - piperazinyl ,  6 - fluoroquinolone that can be taken orally or by intravenous administration .
lomefloxacin is a difluoropiperazinyl quinolone ,  sharing similar activities with other fluoroquinolones .
nalidixic acid is a quinolone derivative of naphthyridine active against many enterobacteria ,  but ineffective against ps aeruginosa ,  gram - positive bacteria ,  and anaerobes .
norfloxacin is a 6 - fluoro ,  7 - piperazinyl quinolone with a wide range of activity against gram - negative bacteria .
ofloxacin is a 6 - fluoro ,  7 - piperazinyl quinolone with a methyl - substituted oxazine ring .
trovafloxacin is a trifluoroquinalone with a broad spectrum of activity that acts by inhibiting the uncoiling of supercoiled dna .
grepafloxacin is a broad - spectrum antibacterial quinoline .
sparfloxacin is a dimethylpiperazinyl difluoroquinolone that acts by inhibiting dna gyrase .
demeclocycline is a tetracycline analog with 7 - chloro and 6 - methyl groups .
oxytetracycline is a derivative of tetracycline with a 5 - hydroxyl group .
pristinamycin iia is a streptogramin a antibiotic .
pleuromutilins are natural fungal products that target bacterial protein translation by binding the the 23s rrna ,  blocking the ribosome p site at the 50s subunit .
tiamulin is a pleuromutilin derivative currently used in veterinary medicine .
madumycin ii is a streptogramin a antibiotic .
griseoviridin is a streptogramin a antibiotic .
dalfopristin is a water - soluble semi - synthetic derivative of pristinamycin iia .
pristinamycin ib is a class b streptogramin similar to pristinamycin ia ,  the former containing a n - methyl - 4 -  ( methylamino ) phenylalanine instead of a n - methyl - 4 -  ( dimethylamino ) phenylalanine in its class a streptogramin counterpart  ( one less methyl group )  .
h - ns is a histone - like protein involved in global gene regulation in gram - negative bacteria .
virginiamycin s2 is a streptogramin b antibiotic .
vernamycin b - gamma is a class b streptogramin derived from virginiamycin s1 .
vernamycin c is a streptogramin b antibiotic .
patricin a is a streptogramin b antibiotic .
patricin b is a streptogramin b antibiotic .
ostreogrycin b3 is a derivative of pristinamycin ia ,  with an additional 3 - hydroxy group on its 4 - oxopipecolic acid .
sulfacetamide is a very soluable sulfonamide antibiotic previously used to treat urinary tract infections .
mafenide is a sulfonamide used topically for treating burns .
arylomycins are lipopeptide antibiotics ,  sharing a lipohexapeptide with a c - terminal tripeptide macrolide and varying by the length of its alkyl chains .
thiostrepton is a cyclic peptide active against gram - positive bacteria .
moemomycin antibiotics are phosphoglycolipids that contain a 3 - phosphoglyceric acid ,  often used as a mixture .
furazolidone is a nitrofuran antibiotic that is a non - ionic synthetic compound .
metronidazole is a nitroimidazole that is active against anaerobic bacteria and protozoa .
bleomycinic acid is a glycopeptide antibiotic produced by streptomyces verticillus taken as a mixture of bleomycins .
bleomycin a2 is a glycopeptide antibiotic produced by streptomyces verticillus taken as a mixture of bleomycins .
bleomycin b2 is a glycopeptide antibiotic produced by streptomyces verticillus taken as a mixture of bleomycins .
defensins are natural cationic peptides that have antibiotic properties .
magainins are antimicrobial peptides produced by amphibians skil cells as part of their innate immune system .
actinomycins are peptide antibiotics that interact with dna .
dactinomycin ,  also known as actinomycin d ,  is a cyclic peptide antibiotic that interacts with dna to inhibit rna synthesis .
moenomycin a1 is a major component of moenomycin mixtures .
sulfasalazine is a derivative of the early sulfonamide sulfapyridine  ( salicylazosulfapyridine )  .
sulfamethizole is a short - acting sulfonamide that inhibits dihydropteroate synthetase .
lividomycin a is a pentasaccharide antibiotic which interferes with bacterial protein synthesis .
lividomycin b is a derivative of lividomycin a with a removed mannose group  ( demannosyllividomycin a )  .
acrr is a repressor of the acrab - tolc multidrug efflux complex .
cefalotin is a semisynthetic cephalosporin antibiotic activate against staphylococci .
isopenicillin n is a natural penicillin derivative produced by penicillium chrysogenum with activity similar to penicillin n .
penicillin n is a penicillin derivative produced by cephalosporium acremonium .
mixtures of antibiotics are commonly used clinically .
antibiotic targets are components of the bacterial cell usually unique to bacteria or significantly different from their eukaryotic counterparts to allow for selective antibacterial activity .
cell wall biosynthesis provides bacteria with a layer of peptidoglycan that provides rigidity and protects the cell from lysis due to osmotic pressure .
interaction with the cell membrane phospholipids interferes with membrane permeability and integrity ,  leading to the leakage of cell contents .
protein synthesis in bacteria is accomplished by cytosolic ribosomes that are structurally different from eukaryotic ribosomes ,  and thus a target for many antibiotics .
bacterial dna and rna synthesis includes many enzymes unique to bacteria that are targeted by antibiotics .
nucleic acids can also be targeted by antibiotics .
enzymes in the folate synthesis pathway are targeted by two main classes of antibiotics: sulfonamides and diaminopyrimidines .
enzymes in this pathway generate important precursors for macromolecules .
mycolic acids are produced by mycobacteria .
signal peptidase i is a bacterial signal peptidase that cleaves signal peptides from translated proteins .
marr is a repressor of the mar operon marrab ,  thus regulating the expression of mara ,  the activator of multidrug efflux pump acrab .
isoprepnyl pyrophosphate removes a phosphate group that is added from the peptidoglycan subunit to permit its transfer across the cell membrane .
the acyl - d - alanyl - d - alanine group is found at the terminal end of the pentapeptide chains of peptidoglycan subunits .
the cell wall is unique to bacteria and provides rigidity and protects the cell from lysis due to osmotic pressure .
alanine racemase  ( alr )  converts the natural l - alanine to the d - alanine required in the pentapeptide chains in peptidoglycan .
ddla also known as d - alanine synthetase  ( or ligase )  ,  joins two d - alanines before their addition to the pentapeptide chains of peptidoglycan .
pyruvyl transferase is responsible for the conversion of n - acetylglucosamine  ( nag )  to n - acetylmuramic acid  ( nama )  .
arabinofuranosyltransferases allow for the polymerization of arabinose to form arabinan .
the pentaglycyl bridge is part of gram - positive peptidoglycan ,  allowing the formation of a thick and rigid cell wall .
the larger of two ribosomal subunits that make up the 70s bacterial ribosome .
the smaller of two ribosomal subunits that make up the 70s bacterial ribosome .
the ribosomal complex can be targeted by antibiotics that stabilize the entire complex and prevent further translation .
elongation factor g  ( ef - g )  provides energy for the translocation step in protein synthesis .
elongation factor tu is required for peptide elongation in bacterial protein synthesis .
isoleucyl - trna transferase recognizes isoleucine codons and works with the ribosome to incorporate isoleucine amino acids into polypeptide chains .
dna gyrase is responsible for dna supercoiling and consists of two alpha and two beta subunits .
dna gyrase is responsible for dna supercoiling and consists of two alpha and two beta subunits .
subunit of the dna topoisomerase iv sensitive to fluoroquinolone
the rho transcription terminator factor moves along rna as it is transcribed ,  unwinding the rna from the dna .
the beta - subunit of rna polymerase is targeted as a complex .
antibiotics can target dna to cause strand breaks or prevent transcription .
rna intron self - splicing action can be inhibited by antibiotics that target a g - binding site to compete with the guanosine cofactor .
many types of ribonucleic acids  ( rnas )  are targeted by antibiotics ,  including mrna templates and ribosomal rna .
dna in the transcriptional complex is partially unwound ,  allowing antibiotics to target exposed bases and prevent dna transcription .
dna in anaerobes are targeted by antibiotics that are converted to an active form in the anaerobe environment .
this reductoisomerase is found in an alternate isoprenoid synthase pathway that is mevalonate independent .
dihydropteroate synthase catalyzes the conversion of p - aminobenzoic acid to dihydropteroic acid as part of the tetrahydrofolic acid biosynthetic pathway .
dihydrofolate reductase synthesizes the co - enzyme tetrahydrofolic acid ,  which is also an essential precursor in the de novo synthesis of the dna nucleotide thymidine .
mepr is an upstream repressor of mepa in staphylococcus aureus .
mef efflux pumps are mfs - type transporters that confer macrolide resistance in streptococcus pneumoniae .
subunits of efflux proteins that pump antibiotic out of a cell to confer resistance .
penicillin - binding proteins  ( pbps )  are responsible for transpeptidation ,  joining subunits to form peptidoglycan .
a protein ,  either a histidine kinase or a response regulator ,  that is part of a two - component regulatory system that directly or indirectly change rates of antibiotic efflux .
abem is an multidrug efflux pump found in acinetobacter baumannii .
the bacterial 23s rrna ,  at the p site of the 50s subunit ,  has peptidyl transferase activity and is responsible for peptide synthesis and elongation .
the 16s rrna of the 30s ribosomal subunit helps to stabilize the aminoacyl - trnas for pairing with the mrna codons .
the p - site of the ribosome binds the peptidyl - trna with the growing polypeptide chain .
the p - site of the ribosome binds the peptidyl - trna with the growing polypeptide chain ,  and is a common target for many antibiotics that inhibit the 50s ribosomal subunit .
fosmidomycin is an inhibitor of 1 - deoxy - d - xylulose 5 - phosphate reductoisomerase ,  an enzyme in the non - mevalonate pathway for isoprenoid synthesis .
fusidic acid is the only commercially available fusidane ,  a group of steroid - like antibiotics .
cycloserine is an anti - mycobacterial agent ,  and is active against enterobacteria ,  streptococci ,  m . tuberculosis ,  staphylococcus aureus ,  and many gram - negative and gram - positive bacteria .
mecillinam is a broad - spectrum beta - lactam antibiotic that was semi - synthetically derived to have a different drug centre ,  being a 6 - alpha - amidinopenicillanate instead of a 6 - alpha - acylaminopenicillanate .
pefloxacin is structurally and functionally similar to norfloxacin .
embc is an arabinosyltransferase involved in lipoarabinomannan synthesis .
emba is an arabinosyltransferase that works as a heterodimer with embb .
embb is an arabinosyltransferase that works as a heterodimer with emba .
topoisomerases are responsible for winding and relaxing supercoiled dna .
avoparcin is a glycopeptide antibiotic that is an analog of vancomycin .
abes in an efflux pump of the smr family of transporters found in acinetobacter baumannii .
pata - patb is an efflux protein complex that is associated with fluoroquinolone resistance in streptococcus pneumoniae .
adeabc is an rnd multidrug efflux system in acinetobacter species ,  notably a . baunmannii .
adefgh is a rnd multidrug efflux pump expressed in acinetobacter baumannii .
adeijk is a rnd multidrug efflux pump expressed in acinetobacter baumannii .
cmeabc is a multidrug efflux pump in campylobacter jejuni .
adea is the membrane fusion protein of the multidrug efflux complex adeabc .
adeb is the multidrug transporter of the adeabc efflux system .
adef is the membrane fusion protein of the multidrug efflux complex adefgh .
adeg is the inner membrane transporter of the adefgh multidrug efflux complex .
adeh is the outer membrane channel protein of the adefgh multidrug efflux complex .
adei is the membrane fusion protein of the adeijk multidrug efflux complex .
adej is a rnd efflux protein that acts as the inner membrane transporter of the adeijk efflux complex .
adek is the outer membrane factor protein in the adeijk multidrug efflux complex .
cmea is the membrane fusion protein of the cmeabc multidrug efflux complex .
cmeb is the inner membrane transporter the cmeabc multidrug efflux complex .
cmec is the outer membrane channel protein of the cmeabc multidrug efflux complex .
mdsabc ,  or gesabc ,  is a rnd - type efflux complex found in salmonella .
mdtabc - tolc is a multidrug efflux system in gram - negative bacteria ,  including e . coli and salmonella .
mdtef - tolc is a multidrug efflux complex in gram - negative bacteria ,  including e . coli .
mdsa is the membrane fusion protein of the multidrug and metal efflux complex mdsabc .
mdsb is the inner membrane transporter of the multidrug and metal efflux complex mdsabc .
mdsc is the outer membrane channel of the multidrug and metal efflux complex mdsabc .
mdta is the membrane fusion protein of the multidrug efflux complex mdtabc .
mdtb is a transporter that forms a heteromultimer complex with mdtc to form a multidrug transporter .
mdtc is a transporter that forms a heteromultimer complex with mdtb to form a multidrug transporter .
mdte is the membrane fusion protein of the mdtef multidrug efflux complex .
mdtf is the multidrug inner membrane transporter for the mdtef - tolc efflux complex .
mexcd - oprj is a multidrug efflux protein expressed in the gram - negative pseudomonas aeruginosa .
mexef - oprn is a multidrug efflux protein expressed in the gram - negative pseudomonas aeruginosa .
mexghi - opmd is an efflux complex expressed in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
mexc is the membrane fusion protein of the mexcd - oprj multidrug efflux complex .
mexd is the multidrug inner membrane transporter of the mexcd - oprj complex .
oprj is the outer membrane channel component of the mexcd - oprj multidrug efflux complex .
mexe is the membrane fusion protein of the mexef - oprn multidrug efflux complex .
mexf is the multidrug inner membrane transporter of the mexef - oprn complex .
oprn is the outer membrane channel component of the mexef - oprn multidrug efflux complex .
mexg is a membrane protein required for mexghi - opmd efflux activity .
mexh is the membrane fusion protein of the efflux complex mexghi - opmd .
mexi is the inner membrane transporter of the efflux complex mexghi - opmd .
opmd is the outer membrane channel protein of the efflux complex mexghi - opmd .
mtrc is the membrane fusion protein of the mtrcde multidrug efflux complex .
mtrd is the inner membrane multidrug transporter of the mtrcde efflux complex .
mtre is an outer membrane exporter protein that is part of the mtrcde multidrug efflux complex .
mexs is a suppressor of mext ,  which is an activator of the multidrug pump mexef - oprn .
mext is a lysr - type transcriptional activator that positively regulates the expression of mexef - oprn ,  oprd ,  and mexs .
mgra ,  also known as norr ,  is a regulator for nora ,  norb ,  and tet38 .
mtra is a transcriptional activator of the mtrcde multidrug efflux pump of neisseria gonorrhoeae .
mtrr is a repressor of mtrcde expression .
nalc is a repressor of pa3720 - pa3719 ,  which are positive regulators of mexab - oprm .
nald is a repressor of mexab - oprm .
nfxb is a repressor of the efflux pump mexcd - oprj and itself  ( nfxb binds upstream of the nfxb gene and negatively regulates its own expression )  .
phopq is a two - component regulatory system .
pmra is a mfs - type efflux pump expressed in streptococcus pneumoniae that confers low - level resistance to norfloxacin ,  ciprofloxacin ,  and acriflavine .
rama  ( resistance antibiotic multiple )  is a positive regulator of acrab - tolc and leads to high level multidrug resistance in klebsiella pneumoniae ,  salmonella enterica ,  and enterobacter aerugenes ,  increasing the expression of both the mar operon as well as acrab .
ramr is a repressor that regulates rama expression .
roba is a positive regulator for the acrab efflux genes ,  and is structurally similar to soxs and mara .
sdia is a cell division regulator that is also a positive regulator of acrab only when it's expressed from a plasmid .
soxrs is a two - component regulator part of the superoxide stress response .
baer is a response regulator that promotes the expression of mdtabc and acrd efflux complexes .
baes is a sensor kinase in the baesr regulatory system .
cpxa is a membrane - localized sensor kinase that is activated by envelope stress .
cpxr is a regulator that promotes acrd expression when phosphorylated by a cascade involving cpxa ,  a sensor kinase .
evga ,  when phosphorylated ,  is a positive regulator for efflux protein complexes emrky and mdtef .
evgs is a sensor protein that phosphorylates the regulatory protein evga .
phop is a direct repressor of the macab efflux genes .
phoq is a sensor protein that is induced by low mg2 +  concentrations .
soxr is a sensory protein that upregulates soxs expression in the presence of redox - cycling drugs .
soxs is a global regulator that up - regulates the expression of acrab efflux genes .
arlr is a response regulator that binds to the nora promoter to activate expression .
arls is a protein histidine kinase that phosphorylates arlr ,  a promoter for nora expression .
john - 1 is an ambler class b carbapenem - hydrolysing beta - lactamase from flavobacterium johnsoniae .
cgb - 1 is an ambler class b beta - lactamase that mediates resistance for carbapenems in chryseobacterium gleum
ebr - 1 is an ambler class b beta - lactamase found in empedobacter brevis and is known to mediate the hydrolysis of penicillins ,  cephalosporins ,  and carbapenems efficiently but not aztreonam .
mus - 1 is a chromosome - encoded beta - lactamase from myroides odoratus and myroides odoratimimus .
tus - 1 is a chromosome - encoded beta - lactamase from myroides odoratus and myroides odoratimimus
gim - 1 is an integron - encoded b1 beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
sim - 1 is an integron - encoded ambler class b beta - lactamase isolated from acinetobacter baumannii
khm - 1 is a plasmid - mediated metallo - beta - lactamase found in citrobacter freundii that confers resistance to all broad - spectrum beta - lactams ,  execpt for monobactams .
dutch imipenemase or dim - 1 is an integron - encoded metallo - beta - lactamase from pseudomonas stutzeri
sfh - 1 confers resistance to carbapenems in serratia fonticola .
gob - 1 confers resistance to cephalosporins in elizabethkingia  ( chryseobacterium )  meningoseptica .
thin - b ,  isolated from janthinobacterium lividum ,  hydrolyzes a broad spectrum of beta - lactams including penicillins ,  cephalosporins ,  and carbapenems .
aim - 1 is an ambler class b beta - lactamase that hydrolyzes most beta - lactams except aztreonam and ceftazidime .
smb - 1 can hydrolyze a variety of beta - lactams ,  including penicillins ,  cephalosporins ,  and carbapenems .
cau - 1 is a b3 metallo - beta - lactamase that is encoded by the caulobacter crescentus chromosome
bjp - 1 is a subclass b3 ortholog found in bradyrhizobium japonicum that hydrolyzes most beta - lactams except aztreonam ,  ticarcillin ,  and temocillin .
methyltransferases that modify the 16s rrna of the 30s subunit of bacterial ribosomes ,  conferring resistance to drugs that target 16s rrna .
arma is a 16s rrna methyltransferase that targets mature or nearly mature 30s subunits .
rmta is a 16s rrna methyltransferase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa which methylates g1405 of the 16s rrna .
rmtb is a 16s rrna methyltransferase that targets mature or nearly mature 30s subunits .
rmtc is a rrna methyltransferase found in proteus mirabilis with high level resistance to similar to aminoglycosides ,  with the exception of non - 4 , 6 - disubstituted deoxystreptamines  ( streptomycin and neomycin )  .
sgm ,  or sisomicin - gentamicin methyltransferase ,  methylates g1405 of 16s rrna to confer resistance to various aminoglycosides .
mprf is a integral membrane protein that modifies the negatively - charged phosphatidylglycerol on the membrane surface of both gram - positive and gram - negative bacteria .
point mutations in dna gyrase subunit b  ( gyrb )  observed in mycobacterium tuberculosis can result in resistance to fluoroquinolones .
oled is a glycotransferase found in streptomyces antibioticus ,  a natural producer  of oleandomycin .
olei is a glycosyltransferase found in streptomyces antibioticus ,  specifically the oleandomycin biosynthetic cluster .
oleandomycin is a 14 - membered macrolide produced by streptomyces antibioticus .
acetylcoa dependent acetyltransferase that acetylate streptothricins such as nourseothricin at position 16  ( beta position of beta - lysine )  .
triclosan is a common antibacterial agent added to many consumer products as a biocide .
antibiotics can target bacteria - specific fatty acid biosynthesis enzymes .
enoyl - acyl carrier reductases catalyze the final enoyl reduction step in bacterial type ii fatty acid elongation .
tem - 1 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in many gram - negative bacteria .
tem - 2 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase .
tem - 3 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 4 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 5 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 6 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 7 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 8 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 9 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 10 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase round in morganella morganii .
tem - 11 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in proteus mirabilis .
tem - 12 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca .
tem - 13 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 15 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in haemophilus parainfluenzae .
tem - 16 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 17 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in capnocytophaga ochracea .
tem - 18 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 19 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 20 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in several species of gram - negative bacteria .
tem - 21 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in many species of gram - negative bacteria .
tem - 22 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 24 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 25 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 26 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 27 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 28 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 29 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 30 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 31 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 32 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 33 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 34 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 35 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 36 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 37 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 38 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 39 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 40 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 42 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 43 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 44 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 45 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 46 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 47 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 48 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 49 extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 50 is an inhibitor - resistant ,  extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 51 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 52 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae and salmonella enterica .
tem - 53 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 54 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 55 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 56 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 57 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 58 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 59 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 60 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 61 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 63 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 65 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 66 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 67 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase found in proteus mirabilis .
tem - 68 is an inhibitor resistant ,  extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 70 is a beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 71 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 72 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in proteus mirabilis and morganella morganii .
tem - 73 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 74 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 75 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 76 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 78 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 79 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 80 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase found in enterobacter cloacae .
tem - 81 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 82 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 83 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 84 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 85 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 86 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 87 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in proteus mirabilis .
tem - 88 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 89 is an inhibitor - resistant ,  extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 90 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 91 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 92 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in proteus mirabilis .
tem - 93 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 94 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 95 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 96 is a beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 101 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 102 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 103 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase that has been found in e . coli .
tem - 104 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 105 is a beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 106 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 107 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 108 is a beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 109 is an inhibitor - resistant ,  extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 110 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 111 is a beta - lactamase found in e . coli and p . mirabilis
tem - 112 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 113 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in proteus mirabilis .
tem - 114 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella aerogenes .
tem - 115 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 116 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in many species of bacteria .
tem - 117 is a beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 118 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 120 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca .
tem - 121 is an inhibitor - resistant ,  extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli and klebsiella aerogenes .
tem - 122 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 123 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in proteus mirabilis .
tem - 124 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in morganella morganii .
tem - 125 is a cmt - type ,  inhibitor - resistant ,  extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 126 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 127 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 128 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 129 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca .
tem - 130 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 131 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in salmonella enterica .
tem - 132 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli and klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 133 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 134 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in citrobacter koseri .
tem - 135 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in salmonella enterica .
tem - 136 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 137 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in shigella sonnei .
tem - 138 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in salmonella enterica .
tem - 139 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 141 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in enterobacter cloacae .
tem - 142 is an beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 143 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 144 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in salmonella enterica .
tem - 145 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 146 is a beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 147 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
tem - 148 is a tem beta - lactamase .
tem - 149 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella aerogenes .
tem - 150 is a beta - lactamase found in enterobacter spp . ,  e . coli ,  and klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 151 is a cmt - type ,  inhibitor - resistant ,  extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 152 is a cmt - type ,  inhibitor - resistant ,  extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 154 is a cmt - type ,  inhibitor - resistant ,  extended - spectrum beta - lactamase .
tem - 155 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase .
tem - 156 is a tem beta - lactamase .
tem - 157 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in enterobacter cloacae .
tem - 158 is an inhibitor - resistant ,  extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 159 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase found in proteus mirabilis .
tem - 160 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase found in proteus mirabilis .
tem - 161 is a beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 162 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter haemolyticus .
tem - 163 is an inhibitor resistant beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 164 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
tem - 165 is a beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
tem - 166 is a beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 167 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
tem - 168 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase .
tem - 169 is an extended spectrum beta - lactamase .
tem - 170 is a beta - lactamase .
tem - 171 is a beta - lactamase .
tem - 172 is a beta - lactamase .
tem - 173 is a beta - lactamase .
tem - 174 is a beta - lactamase .
tem - 176 is a beta - lactamase .
tem - 177 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase .
tem - 178 is an inhibitor - resistant ,  extended - spectrum beta - lactamase .
tem - 181 is a beta - lactamase .
tem - 183 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase .
tem - 186 is a beta - lactamase .
tem - 187 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in p . mirabilis
tem - 188 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase .
tem - 189 is a beta - lactamase .
tem - 190 is a beta - lactamase .
tem - 191 is a beta - lactamase .
tem - 192 is a beta - lactamase .
tem - 193 is a beta - lactamase .
tem - 194 is a beta - lactamase .
tem - 195 is a beta - lactamase .
tem - 197 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase .
tem - 198 is a beta - lactamase .
tem - 199 is a beta - lactamase .
shv - 1 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella spp . ,  as well as acinetobacter spp . ,  e .
shv - 2 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e .
shv - 2a is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in enterobacter cloacae ,  klebsiella pneumoniae ,  pseudomonas aeruginosa ,  and salmonella enterica .
shv - 3 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 4 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 5 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii ,  enterobacter cloacae ,  e . coli ,  klebsiella pneumoniae ,  pseudomonas aeruginosa ,  and salmonella enterica .
shv - 6 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 7 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
shv - 8 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
shv - 9 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 10 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 11 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli ,  klebsiella pneumoniae ,  proteus mirabilis ,  and shigella dysenteriae .
shv - 12 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii .
shv - 13 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 14 is an broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 15 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
shv - 16 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 18 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii and klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 19 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 20 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 21 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 22 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 23 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 24 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
shv - 25 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 26 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 27 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 28 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 29 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 30 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in enterobacter cloacae .
shv - 31 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 32 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 33 is an broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 34 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
shv - 35 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 36 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 37 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 38 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 39 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 40 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 41 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 42 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 43 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 44 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 45 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 46 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca .
shv - 48 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 49 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 50 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 51 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 52 is a beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 53 is a beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 55 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 56 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 57 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
shv - 59 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 60 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 61 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 62 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 63 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 64 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 65 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 66 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 67 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 69 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 70 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in enterobacter cloacae .
shv - 71 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae and shigella .
shv - 72 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 73 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 74 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 75 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase that is found in clinical isolates .
shv - 76 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 77 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae and e . coli .
shv - 78 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 79 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 80 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 81 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 82 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 83 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 84 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 85 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 86 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 89 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 90 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 91 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 92 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 93 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 94 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 95 is a beta - lactamase found in citrobacter freundii .
shv - 96 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii .
shv - 97 is a beta - lactamase found in enterococcus faecalis .
shv - 101 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 102 is an extended spectrum beta - lactamase found in e . coli .
shv - 103 is a beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 104 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 105 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 106 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 107 is an inhibitor - resistant beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 108 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 109 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 110 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 111 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 112 is a beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 113 is a beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 114 is a beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 115 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 116 is a beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 117 is a beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 120 is a beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 121 is a beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 122 is a beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 123 is a beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 124 is a beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 125 is a beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 126 is a beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 127 is a beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 128 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 129 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase that has been found in clinical isolates .
shv - 133 is a beta - lactamase .
shv - 134 is an extended - spectrum beta - lactamase .
shv - 135 is a beta - lactamase .
shv - 137 is a beta - lactamase .
shv - 140 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase .
shv - 141 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase .
shv - 142 is a beta - lactamase .
shv - 145 is a beta - lactamase .
shv - 147 is a beta - lactamase .
shv - 148 is a beta - lactamase .
shv - 149 is a beta - lactamase .
shv - 150 is a beta - lactamase .
shv - 151 is a beta - lactamase .
shv - 152 is a beta - lactamase .
shv - 153 is a beta - lactamase .
shv - 154 is a beta - lactamase .
shv - 155 is a beta - lactamase .
shv - 156 is a beta - lactamase .
shv - 157 is a beta - lactamase .
shv - 158 is a beta - lactamase .
shv - 159 is a beta - lactamase .
shv - 160 is a beta - lactamase .
shv - 161 is a beta - lactamase .
shv - 162 is a beta - lactamase .
shv - 163 is a beta - lactamase .
shv - 165 is a beta - lactamase .
shv - 167 is a beta - lactamase .
a novel bleomycin resistance protein encoded by a metallo - beta - lactamase - associated ble gene .
inactivation of an antibiotic by formation of a complex ,  preventing interaction of the antibiotic with its target .
a gene whose product inactivates an antibiotic by formation of a complex ,  preventing interaction of the antibiotic with its target .
in methicillin sensitive s . aureus  ( mssa )  ,  beta - lactams bind to native penicillin - binding proteins  ( pbps )  and disrupt synthesis of the cell membrane's peptidoglycan layer .
a foreign pbp2a acquired by lateral gene transfer that able to perform peptidoglycan synthesis in the presence of beta - lactams .
multidrug resistance protein mdtm
putative / predicted multidrug resistance protein mdtl  ( yidy )  .
multidrug resistance protein mdth
alternative dihydropteroate synthase dfr present on plasmids produces alternate proteins that are less sensitive to trimethoprim from inhibiting its role in folate synthesis ,  thus conferring trimethoprim resistance .
elfamycins are molecules that inhibit bacterial elongation factor tu  ( ef - tu )  ,  a key protein which brings aminoacyl - trna  ( aa - trna )  to the ribosome during protein synthesis .
factumycin is a kirromycin - like antibiotic produced by kitasatospora setae and streptomyces strains .
a macrolide antibiotic from streptomyces narbonensis subsp .
produced by streptomyces bikiniensis
produced by streptomyces mycarofaciens .
produced by micromonospora griseorubida .
produced by micromonospora megalomicia .
produced by streptomyces narbonensis .
kitasamycin is a macrolide antibiotic and is produced by streptoverticillium kitasatoense .
produced by streptomyces halstedii and streptomyces thermotolerans .
produced by micromonospora rosaria .
produced by streptomyces caelestis .
produced by streptomyces caelestis ,  which also produces the macrolide niddamycin .
produced by streptomyces venezuelae atcc 15439 .
produced by streptomyces venezuelae atcc 15439 .
kirromycin ,  also known as mocimycin ,  is the representative molecule of its own class of elfamycins which is composed of more than 10 analogs .
aurodox is an elongation factor tu inhibiting antibiotic .
efrotomycin is produced by streptomyces lactamodurans nrrl 3802 .
ge2270a is the model molecule of cyclic thiazolyl peptide elfamycins .
enacyloxin iia is structurally distinct but acts in a similar mechanism to kirromycin - like elfamycins .
kirrothricin is produced by streptomyces cinnamoneus and is structurally related to kirromycin ,  aurodox ,  heneicomycin and shares a similar spectrum of antibacterial activity .
azimycin is produced by streptomyces diastatochromogenes atcc 31013 .
dihydromocimycin is produced by streptomyces ramocissimus cbs190 .69 .
phenelfamycin a was isolated from two environmental isolates called ab999f - 80 and ab1047t - 33 .
phenelfamycin b was isolated from two environmental isolates called ab999f - 80 and ab1047t - 33 .
phenelfamycin c was isolated from two environmental isolates called ab999f - 80 and ab1047t - 33 .
phenelfamycin d was isolated from two environmental isolates called ab999f - 80 and ab1047t - 33 .
phenelfamycin e was isolated from two environmental isolates called ab999f - 80 and ab1047t - 33 .
phenelfamycin f was isolated from two environmental isolates called ab999f - 80 and ab1047t - 33 .
unphenelfamycin was isolated from two environmental isolates called ab999f - 80 and ab1047t - 33 .
l - 681217 is a kirromycin - like antibiotic produced by streptomyces cattleya .
ge37468 is a thiazolyl peptide produced by streptomyces atcc 55365 .
amythiamicin a is a cyclic thiazolyl peptide antibiotic with a structure similar to ge2270a .
heneicomycin is a kirromycin - like antibiotic ,  isolated from streptomyces filipinensis .
erm ( 30 )  confers a mlsb resistant phenotype .
a gentamicin - group aminoglycoside isolated from micromonospora .
a semisynthetic genamicin - group aminoglycoside ,  derived from verdamicin .
an unusual aminoglycoside because the cyclitol ring is not amino substituted ;  it was discovered as a fermentation product of streptomyces kasugaensis .
non - erm 23s ribosomal rna methyltransferases modify guanosine 748  ( e . coli numbering )  to confer resistance to some macrolides and lincosamides
tlrb is a methyltransferase found in streptomyces fradiae and confers resistance to mycinamicin ,  tylosin and lincosamides .
myra is a methyltransferase found in micromonospora griseorubida and confers resistance to mycinamicin ,  tylosin and lincosamides .
rlma ( ii )  is a methyltransferase found in streptococcus pneumoniae and confers resistance to mycinamicin ,  tylosin and lincosamides .
chrb is a methyltransferase found in streptomyces bikiniensis and confers resistance to chalcomycin ,  mycinamicin ,  tylosin and lincosamides .
ermo  ( gene srma )  is a methyltransferase found in the spiramycin producer streptomyces ambofaciens .
erms is a methyltransferase found in the tylosin producer streptomyces fradiae .
ermu is a methyltransferase found in the lincomycin producer streptomyces lincolnensis .
ermw is a methyltransferase found in the mycinamicin producer micromonospora griseorubida .
vgba inactivates streptogramin b - type antibiotics by linearizing the lactone ring on the ester bond using an elimination mechanism ,  thus conferring resistance to these compounds .
vgbb inactivates streptogramin b - type antibiotics by linearizing the lactone ring on the ester bond through an elimination mechanism ,  thus conferring resistance .
cyclic thiazolyl peptide elfamycins inhibit protein synthesis by preventing the formation of the ef - tu*gtp - aa - trna ternary complex ,  a mechanism similar to that of pulvomycin .
kirromycin - like antibiotics bind to the domain 1 , 2 interface of elongation factor tu .
sequence variants of elongation factor tu that confer resistance to elfamycin antibiotics .
efflux protein fact confers resistance to factumycin .
retapamulin is a semi - synthetic pleuromutilin antibiotic approved for the treatment of skin infections .
two semi - synthetic pleuromutilin derivatives ,  tiamulin and valnemulin ,  have been developed as antibiotics for veterinary use .
azamulin is a semi - synthetic pleuromutilin derivative that failed stage 1 clinical trials due to poor bioavailability .
pleuromutilin is a natural product antibiotic produced by clitopilus passeckerianus .
narrow spectrum macrocyclic antibiotics ,  in the general sense ,  is a cyclic molecule containing more than 12 atoms in the macrocyclic lactone ring .
a narrow spectrum antibiotic effective against  clostridioides difficile infection  ( cdi )  .
sb22484 antibiotics are of the same chemical group as kirromycins .
uk - 69 , 753 is a glycosylated form of factumycin .
phenelfamycin g is produced by streptomyces albospinus strain acta 3619 .
phenelfamycin h is produced by streptomyces albospinus strain acta 3619 .
one of a small group of kirromycin - like elfamycins which lack the pyridone moiety .
a multidrug and toxic compound extrusions  ( mate )  transporter conferring resistance to norfloxacin ,  doxorubicin and acriflavine .
multidrug efflux pump in e . coli .
the mdtg protein ,  also named ycee ,  appears to be a member of the major facilitator superfamily of transporters ,  and it has been reported ,  when overexpressed ,  to increase fosfomycin and deoxycholate resistances .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
shv - 98 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 99 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
shv - 100 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
shv - 144 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
shv - 174 is a beta - lactamase found in enterobacteriaceae
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
tem - 153 is a beta - lactamase found in enterobacteriaceae .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
tem - 182 is a beta - lactamase found in clinical isolates of h . parainfluenzae
tem - 185 is a beta - lactamase found in e . coli
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
tem - 201 is a beta - lactamase found in enterobacteriaceae .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
tem - 210
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
oxa - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in e . coli
oxa - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family .
oxa - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in p . aeruginosa
oxa - 4 is a beta - lactamase found in enterobacteriaceae and p . aeruginosa
oxa - 5 is a beta - lactamase found in p . aeruginosa and enterobacteriaceae .
oxa - 5 is a beta - lactamase found in p . aeruginosa and enterobacteriaceae .
oxa - 7 is a beta - lactamase found in p . aeruginosa and enterobacteriaceae .
oxa - 8 is an uncharacterized beta - lactamase .
oxa - 9 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
oxa - 10 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii and p . aeruginosa .
oxa - 11 is a beta - lactamase found in p . aeruginosa .
oxa - 12 is a beta - lactamase found in aeromonas jandaei
oxa - 13 is a beta - lactamase found in p . aeruginosa .
oxa - 14 is a beta - lactamase found in p . aeruginosa .
oxa - 15 is a beta - lactamase found in p . aeruginosa .
oxa - 16 is a beta - lactamase found in p . aeruginosa .
oxa - 17 is a beta - lactamase found in p . aeruginosa and klebsiella pneumoniae .
oxa - 18 is a beta - lactamase found in p . aeruginosa and rickettsia .
oxa - 19 is a beta - lactamase found in p . aeruginosa .
oxa - 20 is a beta - lactamase found in p . aeruginosa
oxa - 21 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 22 is a beta - lactamase found in ralstonia pickettii
oxa - 23 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 24 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii and p . aeruginosa .
oxa - 25 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 26 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 27 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 28 is a beta - lactamase found in p . aeruginosa
oxa - 29 is a beta - lactamase found in legionella gormanii
oxa - 31 is a beta - lactamase found in p . aeruginosa
oxa - 32 is a beta - lactamase found in p . aeruginosa
oxa - 33 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 34 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 35 is a beta - lactamase found in p . aeruginosa
oxa - 36 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 37 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 38 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 39 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 41 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 44 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 52 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 67 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 100 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 101 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 115 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 116 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 117 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 121 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 122 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 123 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 124 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 125 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 126 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 127 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 139 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 140 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 148 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 149 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 150 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 151 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 152 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 153 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 154 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 155 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 156 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 157 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 158 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 159 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 165 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 166 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 167 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 168 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 169 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 170 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 171 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 178 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 179 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 180 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 183 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 184 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 185 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 193 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 194 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 195 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 196 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 197 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 205 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 206 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 207 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 208 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 210 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 216 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 217 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 220 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 221 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 222 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 225 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 227 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 233 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 234 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii
oxa - 238 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 239 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 240 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 251 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 252 is a beta - lactamase found in shewanella spp .
oxa - 256 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 258 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 309 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 310 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 311 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 318 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 319 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 321 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 322 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 323 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 324 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 325 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 326 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 327 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 328 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 329 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 330 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 331 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 332 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 333 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 334 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 335 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 336 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 337 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 338 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 339 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 340 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 341 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 342 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 343 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 344 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 345 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 346 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 348 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 349 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 350 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 351 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 352 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 353 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 354 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 355 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 356 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 357 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 358 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 359 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 360 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 361 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 362 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 363 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 364 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 365 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 366 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 367 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 368 is a beta - lactamase found in aeromonas sobria .
oxa - 371 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 372 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 373 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 374 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 375 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 376 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 377 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 378 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 379 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 380 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 381 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 382 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 383 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 384 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 385 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 386 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 387 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 388 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 389 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 390 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 391 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 392 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 393 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 394 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 395 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 396 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 397 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 398 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 399 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 400 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 401 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 402 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 403 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 404 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 405 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 406 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 407 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 408 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 409 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 410 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 411 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 412 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 413 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 414 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 415 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases
oxa - 416 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 417 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
oxa - 114a is a beta - lactamase found in achromobacter xylosoxidans .
oxa - 243 is a beta - lactamase found in achromobacter xylosoxidans .
oxa - 58 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 51 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 64 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 65 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 66 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 68 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 69 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 70 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 71 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 75 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 76 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 77 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 83 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 84 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 89 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 88 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 91 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 93 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 94 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 95 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 96 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 92 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 79 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 80 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 82 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 104 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 106 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 107 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 108 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 109 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 110 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 111 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 112 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 113 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 78 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 98 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 97 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 128 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 99 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 90 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 130 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 131 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 132 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 143 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 138 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 172 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 173 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 174 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 175 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 176 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 177 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 164 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 160 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 203 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 200 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 201 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 202 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 219 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 223 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 231 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 49 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 120 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 248 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 249 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 250 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 235 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 236 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 237 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 241 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 242 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 278 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 254 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 312 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 313 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 314 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 315 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 316 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 317 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 253 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 255 is a beta - lactamase found in a . baumannii
oxa - 228 is a beta - lactamase found in a . bereziniae
oxa - 229 is a beta - lactamase found in a . bereziniae
oxa - 230 is a beta - lactamase found in a . bereziniae
oxa - 257 is a beta - lactamase found in a . bereziniae
oxa - 134 is a beta - lactamase found in a . lwoffii
oxa - 186 is a beta - lactamase found in a . lwoffii
oxa - 187 is a beta - lactamase found in a . lwoffii
oxa - 188 is a beta - lactamase found in a . lwoffii
oxa - 189 is a beta - lactamase found in a . lwoffii
oxa - 190 is a beta - lactamase found in a . lwoffii
oxa - 191 is a beta - lactamase found in a . lwoffii
oxa - 133 is a beta - lactamase found in a . radioresistens
oxa - 86 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 87 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 72 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 102 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 103 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 105 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 182 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 211 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 212 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 213 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 214 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 215 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 259 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 260 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 261 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 262 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 263 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 264 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 265 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 266 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 267 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 268 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 269 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 270 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 271 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 272 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 273 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 274 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 275 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 276 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 277 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 279 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 280 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 281 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 282 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 283 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 284 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 285 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 286 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 287 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 288 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 289 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 290 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 291 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 292 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 293 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 294 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 295 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 296 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 297 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 298 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 299 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 300 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 301 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 302 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 303 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 304 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 305 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 306 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 307 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 308 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
oxa - 63 is a beta - lactamase found in brachyspira spp .
oxa - 136 is a beta - lactamase found in brachyspira spp .
oxa - 192 is a beta - lactamase found in brachyspira spp .
oxa - 137 is a beta - lactamase found in brachyspira spp .
oxa - 118 is a beta - lactamase found in burkholderia cepacia
oxa - 42 is a beta - lactamase found in burkholderia pseudomallei
oxa - 43 is a beta - lactamase found in burkholderia pseudomallei
oxa - 57 is a beta - lactamase found in burkholderia pseudomallei
oxa - 59 is a beta - lactamase found in burkholderia pseudomallei
oxa - 61 is a beta - lactamase found in campylobacter jejuni
oxa - 370 is a beta - lactamase found in enterobacter hormaechei
oxa - 119 is a beta - lactamase found in enterobacteriaceae
oxa - 162 is a beta - lactamase found in enterobacteriaceae
oxa - 347 is a beta - lactamase found in enterobacteriaceae
oxa - 232 is a beta - lactamase found in enterobacteriaceae
oxa - 146 is a beta - lactamase found in enterobacteriaceae
oxa - 85 is a beta - lactamase found in fusobacterium nucleatum
oxa - 47 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
oxa - 48 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
oxa - 163 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
oxa - 181 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
oxa - 73 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumonia
oxa - 244 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
oxa - 245 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
oxa - 204 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
oxa - 247 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
oxa - 62 is a beta - lactamase found in pandoraea pnomenusa
oxa - 320 is a beta - lactamase found in proteus mirabilis
oxa - 45 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
oxa - 56 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
oxa - 50 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
oxa - 46 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
oxa - 74 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
oxa - 161 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
oxa - 226 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
oxa - 147 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
oxa - 141 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
oxa - 142 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
oxa - 145 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
oxa - 198 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
oxa - 224 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
oxa - 246 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
oxa - 60 is a beta - lactamase found in ralstonia pickettii
oxa - 209 is a beta - lactamase found in riemerella anatipestifer
oxa - 53 is a beta - lactamase found in salmonella enterica
oxa - 129 is a beta - lactamase found in salmonella enterica
oxa - 54 is a beta - lactamase found in shewanella spp .
oxa - 55 is a beta - lactamase found in shewanella spp .
oxa - 199 is a beta - lactamase found in shewanella spp .
acc - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
acc - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in hafnia alvei
acc - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in hafnia alvei
acc - 4 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
acc - 5 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of acc beta - lactamases .
act - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
act - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
act - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
act - 5 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
act - 6 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
act - 9 is a beta - lactamase found in pantoea agglomerans
act - 16 is a beta - lactamase found in enterobacteriaceae
act - 23 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
act - 4 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 7 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 8 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 10 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 11 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 12 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 13 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 14 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 15 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 17 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 18 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 19 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 20 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 21 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 22 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 24 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 25 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 27 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 28 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 29 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 30 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 31 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 32 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 33 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 34 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
act - 35 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of act beta - lactamases .
cfe - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
lat - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
imi - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in enterobacter cloacae
imi - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in enterobacteriaceae
imi - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in enterobacteriaceae
imi - 4 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of imi beta - lactamases .
imi - 5 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of imi beta - lactamases .
imi - 6 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of imi beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in citrobacter freundii
ctx - m - 4 is a beta - lactamase found in salmonella typhimurium
ctx - m - 5 is a beta - lactamase found in salmonella typhimurium
ctx - m - 6 is a beta - lactamase found in salmonella typhimurium
ctx - m - 7 is a beta - lactamase found in salmonella typhimurium
ctx - m - 8 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 9 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 10 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 11 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 12 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
ctx - m - 13 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 14 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 15 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 16 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 17 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
ctx - m - 19 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
ctx - m - 20 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 21 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 22 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 23 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 24 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 25 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 26 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
ctx - m - 27 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 28 is a beta - lactamase found in salmonella enterica
ctx - m - 29 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 30 is a beta - lactamase found in citrobacter freundii
ctx - m - 31 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 32 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 33 is a beta - lactamase found in salmonella enterica
ctx - m - 34 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 35 is a beta - lactamase found in citrobacter koseri
ctx - m - 36 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 37 is a beta - lactamase found in salmonella enterica
ctx - m - 38 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 39 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 40 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 41 is a beta - lactamase found in proteus mirabilis
ctx - m - 42 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 43 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa and acinetobacter spp .
ctx - m - 44 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 45 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 46 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 47 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 48 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 49 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 50 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 51 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 52 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 53 is a beta - lactamase found in salmonella enterica
ctx - m - 54 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
ctx - m - 55 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 56 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 58 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 59 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
ctx - m - 60 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 61 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 62 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 63 is a beta - lactamase found in salmonella enterica
ctx - m - 64 is a beta - lactamase found in shigella sonnei
ctx - m - 65 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 66 is a beta - lactamase found in proteus mirabilis
ctx - m - 67 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 68 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 69 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 70 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 71 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
ctx - m - 72 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
ctx - m - 73 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 74 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 75 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 76 is a beta - lactamase found in kluyvera spp .
ctx - m - 77 is a beta - lactamase found in kluyvera spp .
ctx - m - 78 is a beta - lactamase found in kluyvera georgiana
ctx - m - 79 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 80 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
ctx - m - 81 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
ctx - m - 82 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 83 is a beta - lactamase found in salmonella enterica
ctx - m - 84 is a beta - lactamase found in salmonella enterica
ctx - m - 86 is a beta - lactamase found in salmonella enterica
ctx - m - 87 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 88 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 89 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 90 is a beta - lactamase found in proteus mirabilis
ctx - m - 91 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 92 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 93 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 94 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 95 is a beta - lactamase found in kluyvera spp .
ctx - m - 96 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 98 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 99 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
ctx - m - 100 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 101 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 102 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 103 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 104 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 105 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 106 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 107 is a beta - lactamase found in shigella spp .
ctx - m - 108 is a beta - lactamase found in shigella spp .
ctx - m - 109 is a beta - lactamase found in shigella spp .
ctx - m - 110 is a beta - lactamase found in shigella spp .
ctx - m - 111 is a beta - lactamase found in shigella spp .
ctx - m - 112 is a beta - lactamase found in shigella spp .
ctx - m - 113 is a beta - lactamase found in shigella spp .
ctx - m - 114 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 115 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii
ctx - m - 116 is a beta - lactamase found in proteus mirabilis
ctx - m - 117 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 119 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 120 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 121 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 122 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 123 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 124 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 125 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 126 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 127 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 128 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 129 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 130 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 131 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 132 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 134 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 135 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ctx - m - 137 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ctx - m - 136 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 138 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 139 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 140 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 141 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 142 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 143 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 144 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 145 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 146 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 147 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 148 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 150 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 151 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 152 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 153 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
ctx - m - 154 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ctx - m beta - lactamases .
cmy - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
cmy - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
cmy - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in proteus mirabilis
cmy - 4 is a beta - lactamase found in proteus mirabilis
cmy - 5 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
cmy - 6 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
cmy - 7 is a beta - lactamase found in salmonella typhimurium
cmy - 8 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
cmy - 9 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
cmy - 10 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella aerogenes
cmy - 11 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
cmy - 12 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
cmy - 13 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
cmy - 14 is a beta - lactamase found in proteus mirabilis
cmy - 15 is a beta - lactamase found in proteus mirabilis
cmy - 16 is a beta - lactamase found in proteus mirabilis
cmy - 17 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 18 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
cmy - 19 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
cmy - 20 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
cmy - 21 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
cmy - 22 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 23 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
cmy - 24 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
cmy - 25 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
cmy - 26 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
cmy - 27 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
cmy - 28 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 29 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
cmy - 30 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 31 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
cmy - 32 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
cmy - 33 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
cmy - 34 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
cmy - 35 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 36 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
cmy - 37 is a beta - lactamase found in citrobacter freundii
cmy - 38 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
cmy - 39 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 40 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
cmy - 41 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
cmy - 42 is a plasmid - borne ampc cephalosporinase gene found in escherichia coli
cmy - 43 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 44 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
cmy - 45 is a beta - lactamase found in proteus mirabilis
cmy - 46 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 47 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 48 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 49 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 50 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 51 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 52 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 53 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
cmy - 54 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
cmy - 55 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
cmy - 56 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
cmy - 57 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
cmy - 59 is a beta - lactamase found in shigella spp .
cmy - 99 is a beta - lactamase found in proteus mirabilis
cmy - 110 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
cmy - 58 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 60 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 61 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 62 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 63 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 64 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 65 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 66 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 67 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 68 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 69 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 70 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 71 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 72 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 73 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 74 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 75 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 76 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 77 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 78 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 79 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 80 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 81 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 82 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 83 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 84 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 85 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 86 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 87 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 88 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 89 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 90 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 91 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 92 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 93 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 94 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 95 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 96 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 97 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 98 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 100 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 101 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 102 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 103 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 104 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 105 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 106 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 107 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 108 is a beta - lactamase present in plasmids of clinical escherichia coli from humans and companion animals in the upper midwestern usa  .
cmy - 109 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 111 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 112 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 113 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 114 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 115 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 116 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 117 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 118 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 119 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
cmy - 120 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of cmy beta - lactamases .
dha - 1 is a class c beta - lactamase found in morganella morganii and salmonella enterica
dha - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
dha - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
dha - 6 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
dha - 7 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
dha - 4 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of dha beta - lactamases .
dha - 5 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of dha beta - lactamases .
dha - 8 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of dha beta - lactamases .
dha - 9 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of dha beta - lactamases .
dha - 10 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of dha beta - lactamases .
dha - 11 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of dha beta - lactamases .
dha - 12 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of dha beta - lactamases .
dha - 13 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of dha beta - lactamases .
dha - 14 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of dha beta - lactamases .
dha - 15 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of dha beta - lactamases .
dha - 16 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of dha beta - lactamases .
dha - 17 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of dha beta - lactamases .
dha - 18 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of dha beta - lactamases .
dha - 19 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of dha beta - lactamases .
dha - 20 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of dha beta - lactamases .
dha - 21 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of dha beta - lactamases .
dha - 22 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of dha beta - lactamases .
dha - 23 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of dha beta - lactamases .
fox - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
fox - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
fox - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
fox - 4 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
fox - 5 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
fox - 7 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
fox - 8 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
fox - 10 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of fox beta - lactamases .
fox - 9 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of fox beta - lactamases .
fox - 11 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of fox beta - lactamases .
fox - 12 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of fox beta - lactamases .
mir - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
mir - 4 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
mir - 2 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of mir beta - lactamases .
mir - 3 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of mir beta - lactamases .
mir - 5 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of mir beta - lactamases .
mir - 6 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of mir beta - lactamases .
mir - 7 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of mir beta - lactamases .
mir - 9 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of mir beta - lactamases .
mir - 10 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of mir beta - lactamases .
mir - 11 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of mir beta - lactamases .
mir - 12 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of mir beta - lactamases .
mir - 13 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of mir beta - lactamases .
mir - 14 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of mir beta - lactamases .
mir - 15 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of mir beta - lactamases .
mir - 16 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of mir beta - lactamases .
mox - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
mox - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
mox - 4 is a beta - lactamase found in aeromonas caviae
mox - 6 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
mox - 3 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of mox beta - lactamases .
mox - 5 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of mox beta - lactamases .
mox - 7 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of mox beta - lactamases .
mox - 8 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of mox beta - lactamases .
mox - 9 is a beta - lactamase found in citrobacter freundii .
imp - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in serratia marcescens
imp - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii
imp - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii
imp - 4 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii
imp - 5 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii
imp - 6 is a beta - lactamase found in serratia marcescens
imp - 7 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
imp - 8 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
imp - 9 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
imp - 10 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
imp - 11 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas and acinetobacter spp .
imp - 12 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas putida
imp - 13 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
imp - 14 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas and acinetobacter spp .
imp - 15 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
imp - 16 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
imp - 17 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of imp beta - lactamases .
imp - 18 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
imp - 19 is a beta - lactamase found in aeromonas caviae
imp - 20 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas and acinetobacter spp .
imp - 21 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas and acinetobacter spp .
imp - 22 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas spp .
imp - 23 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of imp beta - lactamases .
imp - 24 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
imp - 25 is a beta - lactamase found in serratia marcescens
imp - 26 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
imp - 27 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of imp beta - lactamases .
imp - 28 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
imp - 29 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
imp - 30 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
imp - 31 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of imp beta - lactamases .
imp - 32 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of imp beta - lactamases .
imp - 33 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
imp - 34 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella spp .
imp - 35 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
imp - 36 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of imp beta - lactamases .
imp - 37 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of imp beta - lactamases .
imp - 38 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of imp beta - lactamases .
imp - 39 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of imp beta - lactamases .
imp - 40 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas and acinetobacter spp .
imp - 41 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas and acinetobacter spp .
imp - 42 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas and acinetobacter spp .
imp - 43 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
imp - 44 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
imp - 45 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
imp - 46 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of imp beta - lactamases .
imp - 48 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of imp beta - lactamases .
carb - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
carb - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
carb - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
carb - 4 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
carb - 5 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter calcoaceticus
carb - 6 is a beta - lactamase found in vibrio cholerae
carb - 7 is a beta - lactamase found in vibrio cholerae .
carb - 8 is a beta - lactamase found in oligella urethralis
carb - 9 is a beta - lactamase found in vibrio cholerae
carb - 10 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii
carb - 12 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of imp beta - lactamases .
carb - 13 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of imp beta - lactamases .
carb - 14 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii
carb - 15 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of imp beta - lactamases .
carb - 17 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of imp beta - lactamases .
carb - 16 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of imp beta - lactamases .
ind - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in chryseobacterium indologenes
ind - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in chryseobacterium indologenes
ind - 2a is a beta - lactamase found in chryseobacterium indologenes
ind - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in chryseobacterium indologenes
ind - 4 is a beta - lactamase found in chryseobacterium indologenes
ind - 5 is a beta - lactamase found in chryseobacterium indologenes
ind - 6 is a beta - lactamase found in chryseobacterium indologenes
ind - 7 is a beta - lactamase found in chryseobacterium indologenes
ind - 8 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ind - 9 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ind - 10 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ind - 11 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ind - 12 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ind - 14 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ind - 15 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
vim - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas spp .
vim - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas spp .
vim - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas spp .
vim - 4 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
vim - 5 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
vim - 6 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas spp .
vim - 7 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
vim - 8 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
vim - 9 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas spp .
vim - 10 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas spp .
vim - 11 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
vim - 12 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
vim - 13 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
vim - 14 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
vim - 15 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
vim - 16 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
vim - 17 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
vim - 18 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
vim - 19 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
vim - 20 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of vim beta - lactamases .
vim - 21 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of vim beta - lactamases .
vim - 22 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of vim beta - lactamases .
vim - 23 is a beta - lactamase found in enterobacter cloacae
vim - 24 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
vim - 25 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of vim beta - lactamases .
vim - 26 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of vim beta - lactamases .
vim - 27 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
vim - 28 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of vim beta - lactamases .
vim - 29 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
vim - 30 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
vim - 31 is a beta - lactamase found in enterobacter cloacae
vim - 32 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of vim beta - lactamases .
vim - 33 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
vim - 34 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
vim - 35 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of vim beta - lactamases .
vim - 36 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
vim - 37 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
vim - 38 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
vim - 39 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of vim beta - lactamases .
vim - 40 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of vim beta - lactamases .
vim - 41 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of vim beta - lactamases .
kpc - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae and pseudomonas aeruginosa .
kpc - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
kpc - 4 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
kpc - 5 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae and pseudomonas aeruginosa .
kpc - 6 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
kpc - 7 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
kpc - 8 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
kpc - 9 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
kpc - 10 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
kpc - 11 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
kpc - 12 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of kpc beta - lactamases .
kpc - 13 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of kpc beta - lactamases .
kpc - 14 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of kpc beta - lactamases .
kpc - 15 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of kpc beta - lactamases .
kpc - 16 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of kpc beta - lactamases .
kpc - 17 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of kpc beta - lactamases .
kpc - 18 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of kpc beta - lactamases .
kpc - 19 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of kpc beta - lactamases .
ges - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
ges - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
ges - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
ges - 4 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
ges - 5 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ges - 6 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ges - 7 is a beta - lactamase found in enterobacter cloacae
ges - 8 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
ges - 9 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
ges - 10 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ges beta - lactamases .
ges - 11 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii
ges - 12 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii
ges - 13 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
ges - 14 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii
ges - 15 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ges beta - lactamases .
ges - 16 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ges beta - lactamases .
ges - 17 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ges beta - lactamases .
ges - 18 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
ges - 19 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ges - 20 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ges - 21 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ges beta - lactamases .
ges - 22 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ges beta - lactamases .
ges - 23 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ges beta - lactamases .
ges - 24 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ges beta - lactamases .
ndm - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ndm - 4 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ndm - 6 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
ndm - 7 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ndm - 8 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
ndm - 9 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae .
ndm - 10 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ndm beta - lactamases .
ndm - 11 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of ndm beta - lactamases .
ndm - 12 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli .
per - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
per - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in salmonella typhimurium
per - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in aeromonas spp .
per - 4 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of per beta - lactamases .
per - 5 is a beta - lactamase found in the enterobacteriaceae family
per - 6 is a beta - lactamase found in aeromonas allosaccharophila
per - 7 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii
veb - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli and pseudomonas aeruginosa .
veb - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
veb - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in enterobacter cloacae
veb - 4 is a beta - lactamase found in proteus mirabilis
veb - 6 is a beta - lactamase found in proteus mirabilis
veb - 5 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of veb beta - lactamases .
veb - 7 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of veb beta - lactamases .
veb - 8 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of veb beta - lactamases .
veb - 9 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of veb beta - lactamases .
sme - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in serratia marcescens
sme - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in serratia marcescens
sme - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in serratia marcescens
sme - 4 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of sme beta - lactamases .
sme - 5 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of sme beta - lactamases .
bel beta - lactamases are class a expanded - spectrum beta - lactamases that are inhibited by clavulanic acid .
bel - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
bel - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
bel - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
oxy beta - lactamases are chromosomal class a beta - lactamases that are found in klebsiella oxytoca .
oxy - 1 - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
oxy - 1 - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
oxy - 1 - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
oxy - 1 - 4 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
oxy - 1 - 6 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
oxy - 2 - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
oxy - 2 - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
oxy - 2 - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
oxy - 2 - 4 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
oxy - 2 - 5 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
oxy - 2 - 6 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
oxy - 2 - 7 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
oxy - 2 - 8 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
oxy - 2 - 9 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
oxy - 2 - 10 is a beta - lactamase .from the pasteur institute  ( genopole )  list of oxy beta - lactamases .
oxy - 2 - 11 is a beta - lactamase .from the pasteur institute  ( genopole )  list of oxy beta - lactamases .
oxy - 2 - 12 is a beta - lactamase .from the pasteur institute  ( genopole )  list of oxy beta - lactamases .
oxy - 2 - 13 is a beta - lactamase .from the pasteur institute  ( genopole )  list of oxy beta - lactamases .
oxy - 3 - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
oxy - 4 - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
oxy - 5 - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
oxy - 5 - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
oxy - 6 - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
oxy - 6 - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
oxy - 6 - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
oxy - 6 - 4 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella oxytoca
okp beta - lactamases are chromosomal class a beta - lactamase that confer resistance to penicillins and early cephalosporins in klebsiella pneumoniae .
okp - a - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - a - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - a - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - a - 4 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - a - 5 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - a - 6 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - a - 7 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - a - 8 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - a - 9 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - a - 10 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - a - 11 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - a - 12 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - a - 13 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - a - 14 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - a - 15 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - a - 16 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - b - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - b - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - b - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - b - 4 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - b - 5 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - b - 6 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - b - 7 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - b - 8 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - b - 9 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - b - 10 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - b - 11 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - b - 12 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - b - 13 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - b - 14 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - b - 17 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - b - 18 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - b - 19 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
okp - b - 20 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
len - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
len - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
len - 5 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
len - 7 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
len - 8 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
len - 9 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
len - 10 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
len - 11 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
len - 12 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
len - 13 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae and klebsiella variicola .
len - 16 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
len - 18 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
len - 19 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
len - 20 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
len - 21 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
len - 22 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
len - 23 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
len - 24 is a beta - lactamase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
len - 4 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
len - 17 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli
len - 26 is a beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli and klebsiella pneumoniae .
len - 3 is a beta - lactamase .from the pasteur institute list of len beta - lactamases .
len - 6 is a beta - lactamase .from the pasteur institute list of len beta - lactamases .
len - 14 is a beta - lactamase .from the pasteur institute list of len beta - lactamases .
len - 15 is a beta - lactamase .from the pasteur institute list of len beta - lactamases .
len - 25 is a beta - lactamase .from the pasteur institute list of len beta - lactamases .
oxa - 144 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
aer - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in aeromonas hydrophila
lra - 1 is a beta - lactamase isolated from soil samples in alaska
lra - 5 is a beta - lactamase isolated from soil samples in alaska
lra - 13 is a class d / class c fusion bifunctional beta - lactamase isolated from soil samples in alaska .
lra - 2 is a beta - lactamase isolated from soil samples in alaska
lra - 7 is a beta - lactamase isolated from soil samples in alaska
lra - 8 is a beta - lactamase isolated from soil samples in alaska
lra - 9 is a beta - lactamase isolated from soil samples in alaska
lra - 10 is a beta - lactamase isolated from soil samples in alaska
lra - 18 is a beta - lactamase isolated from soil samples in alaska
srt - 1 ,  isolated from serratia marcescens ,  confers resistance to cephalosporins but not carbapenems ,  penems and monobactams .
srt - 2 ,  isolated from serratia marcescens ,  is a chromosomal beta - lactamase that confers resistance to cefotaxime
ctx - m - 85 is a beta - lactamase found in salmonella enterica
oxa - 418 is a beta - lactamase .from the lahey list of oxa beta - lactamases .
pdc - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
pdc - 2 is a extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
pdc - 3 is a extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
pdc - 4 is a extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
pdc - 5 is a extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
pdc - 6 is a beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
pdc - 7 is a extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
pdc - 8 is a extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
pdc - 9 is a extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
pdc - 10 is a extended - spectrum beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
lra - 3 is a beta - lactamase isolated from soil samples in alaska
lra - 12 is a beta - lactamase isolated from soil samples in alaska
lra - 17 is a beta - lactamase isolated from soil samples in alaska
lra - 19 is a beta - lactamase isolated from soil samples in alaska
och - 1 beta - lactamase is an ambler class c chromosomal - encoded beta - lactamases in ochrobactrum anthropi
och - 2 beta - lactamase is an ambler class c chromosomal - encoded beta - lactamases in ochrobactrum anthropi
och - 3 beta - lactamase is an ambler class c chromosomal - encoded beta - lactamases in ochrobactrum anthropi
och - 4 beta - lactamase is an ambler class c chromosomal - encoded beta - lactamases in ochrobactrum anthropi
och - 5 beta - lactamase is an ambler class c chromosomal - encoded beta - lactamases in ochrobactrum anthropi
och - 6 beta - lactamase is an ambler class c chromosomal - encoded beta - lactamases in ochrobactrum anthropi
och - 7 beta - lactamase is an ambler class c chromosomal - encoded beta - lactamases in ochrobactrum anthropi
och - 8 beta - lactamase is an ambler class c chromosomal - encoded beta - lactamases in ochrobactrum anthropi
a type iii abc transporter ,  identified on the novobiocin biosynthetic gene cluster ,  involved in the transport and resistance of novobiocin .
aac ( 2' )  - ia is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in p . stuartii
aac ( 2' )  - ib is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in mycolicibacterium fortuitum and a . baumannii
aac ( 2' )  - ic is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in m . tuberculosis and mycobacterium tuberculosis variant bovis
aac ( 2' )  - id is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in mycolicibacterium smegmatis
aac ( 2' )  - ie is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in m . leprae
aac ( 3 )  - ia is an aminoglycoside acetyltransferase encoded by plasmids ,  transposons ,  integrons in s . marcescens ,  e . coli ,  acinetobacter baumannii ,  klebsiella pneumoniae ,  klebsiella oxytoca ,  p . aeruginosa ,  salmonella typhimurium and proteus mirabilis
aac ( 3 )  - id is an aminoglycoside acetyltransferase encoded by genomic islands and integrons in s . enterica ,  p . mirabilis and vibrio fluvialis
aac ( 3 )  - ib is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in p . aeruginosa
aac ( 3 )  - ic is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in p . aeruginosa
aac ( 3 )  - iia is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in k . pneumoniae ,  e . cloacae ,  actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae ,  s . typhimurium ,  citrobacter freundii ,  and p . aeruginosa .
aac ( 3 )  - iib is an aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in e . coli ,  a . faecalis and s . marcescens
aac ( 3 )  - iic is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in e . coli and p . aeruginosa
aac ( 3 )  - iiia is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in p . aeruginosa
aac ( 3 )  - iiib is an aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in p . aeruginosa
aac ( 3 )  - iiic is an aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in p . aeruginosa
aac ( 3 )  - iv is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in e . coli ,  c . jejuni and p . stutzeri
aac ( 3 )  - via is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in e . cloacae ,  s . enterica and e . coli
aac ( 3 )  - viia is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in streptomyces rimosus
aac ( 3 )  - viiia is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in streptomyces fradiae
aac ( 3 )  - ixa is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in micromonospora chalcea
aac ( 3 )  - xa is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in streptomyces griseus
aac ( 6' )  - ia is an aminoglycoside acetyltransferase encoded by plasmids ,  transposons ,  integrons in citrobacter diversus ,  e . coli ,  k . pneumoniae ,  shigella sonnei ,  and p . aeruginosa .
aac ( 6' )  - ib is an aminoglycoside acetyltransferase encoded by plasmids ,  transposons ,  integrons in k . pneumoniae ,  p . mirabilis ,  p . aeruginosa ,  s . enterica ,  k . oxytoca ,  s . maltophilia ,  e . cloacae and v . cholerae
aac ( 6' )  - ib - cr is an aminoglycoside acetyltransferase encoded by plasmids ,  transposons ,  integrons in enterobacteriaceae .
aac ( 6' )  - ic is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in s . marcescens
aac ( 6' )  - if is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in e . cloacae
aac ( 6' )  - ig is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in acinetobacter haemolyticus
aac ( 6' )  - ih is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in a . baumannii
aac ( 6' )  - ii is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in enterococcus spp .
aac ( 6' )  - ij is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in acinetobacter genomosp .
aac ( 6' )  - ik is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in acinetobacter sp .
aac ( 6' )  - ip is an aminoglycoside acetyltransferase encoded by plasmids and integrons in c . freundii ,  e . coli ,  e . faecium and klebsiella aerogenes
aac ( 6' )  - iq is a aminoglycoside acetyltransferase encoded by plasmids and integrons in k . pneumoniae
aac ( 6' )  - ir is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in acinetobacter colistiniresistens
aac ( 6' )  - is is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in acinetobacter variabilis
aac ( 6' )  - isa is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in streptomyces albulus
aac ( 6' )  - it is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in acinetobacter genomosp .
aac ( 6' )  - iu is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in acinetobacter genomosp .
aac ( 6' )  - iv is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in acinetobacter sp .
aac ( 6' )  - iw is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in acinetobacter sp .
aac ( 6' )  - ix is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in acinetobacter sp .
aac ( 6' )  - iy is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in s . enteritidis and s . enterica .
aac ( 6' )  - iz is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in s . maltophilia
aac ( 6' )  - iaa is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in s . typhimurium
aac ( 6' )  - iad is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in acinetobacter genomosp .
aac ( 6' )  - iae is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in p . aeruginosa and s . enterica
aac ( 6' )  - iaf is an aminoglycoside acetyltransferase encoded by plasmids and integrons in p . aeruginosa
aac ( 6' )  - iai is an aminoglycoside acetyltransferase encoded by plasmids and integrons in p . aeruginosa
aac ( 6' )  - ib3 is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in p . aeruginosa
aac ( 6' )  - ib4 is an aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in serratia spp .
aac ( 6' )  - ib7 is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in e . cloacae and c . freundii
aac ( 6' )  - ib8 is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in e . cloacae
aac ( 6' )  - ib9 is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in p . aeruginosa
aac ( 6' )  - ib10 is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in p . aeruginosa
aac ( 6' )  - ib11 is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in s . enterica
aac ( 6' )  - 29a is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in p . aeruginosa
aac ( 6' )  - 29b is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in p . aeruginosa
aac ( 6' )  - 31 is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in pseudomonas putida ,  a . baumannii and k . pneumoniae
aac ( 6' )  - 32 is an aminoglycoside acetyltransferase encoded by plasmids and integrons in p . aeruginosa
aac ( 6' )  - 33 is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in p . aeruginosa
aac ( 6' )  - i30 is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in s . enterica
aac ( 6' )  - iid is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in enterococcus durans
aac ( 6' )  - iih is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in enterococcus hirae
aac ( 6' )  - ib - suzhou is an aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in e . cloacae and k . pneumoniae
aac ( 6' )  - ib - hangzhou is an aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in a . baumannii
aac ( 6' )  - ib - sk is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in streptomyces kanamyceticus
aac ( 6' )  - iia is an aminoglycoside acetyltransferase encoded by plasmids and integrons in p . aeruginosa and s . enterica
aac ( 6' )  - iib is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in p . fluorescens
aac ( 6' )  - iic is an aminoglycoside acetyltransferase encoded by plasmids and integrons in e . cloacae
aac ( 6' )  - ie - aph ( 2'' )  - ia is an aminoglycoside acetyltransferase encoded by plasmids and transposons in s . aureus ,  e . faecalis ,  e . faecium and staphylococcus warneri
ant ( 3'' )  - ii - aac ( 6' )  - iid is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in s . marcescens .
aac ( 6' )  - 30 / aac ( 6' )  - ib' is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in p . aeruginosa
aac ( 3 )  - ib / aac ( 6' )  - ib'' is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in p . aeruginosa
ant ( 3'' )  - ia is an aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene encoded by plasmids ,  transposons ,  integrons in enterobacteriaceae ,  a . baumannii ,  p . aeruginosa and vibrio cholerae
aada2 is an aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene encoded by plasmids and integrons in k . pneumoniae ,  salmonella spp . ,  corynebacterium glutamicum ,  c . freundii and aeromonas spp .
aada3 is an aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene encoded by plasmids ,  transposons and integrons in e . coli
aada4 is an aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene encoded by plasmids and chromosomes in bordetella parapertussis and e . coli
aada5 is an aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene encoded by plasmids ,  transposons and integrons in e . coli ,  k . pneumoniae ,  kluyvera georgiana ,  p . aeruginosa and e . cloacae
aada6 is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene in p . aeruginosa
aada7 is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene in v . fluvialis ,  p . aeruginosa ,  e . coli ,  v . cholerae and s . enterica
aada8 is an aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene encoded by plasmids and integrons in v . cholerae ,  k . pneumoniae and bacillus endophyticus
aada9 is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene in c . glutamicum
aada11 is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene in e . coli and p . aeruginosa
aada12 is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene in e . coli ,  yersinia enterocolitica and s . enterica
aada13 is an aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene encoded by plasmids and integrons in pseudomonas rettgeri ,  p . aeruginosa ,  y . enterocolitica and e . coli
aada14 is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene in pasteurella multocida
aada15 is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene in p . aeruginosa
aada16 is an aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene encoded by plasmids and integrons in e . coli ,  v . cholerae and k . pneumoniae
aada17 is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene in aeromonas media
aada21 is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene in salmonella spp .
aada22 is an aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene encoded by plasmids and integrons in s . enterica and e . coli
aada23 is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene in s . enterica
aada24 is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene in salmonella spp .
aada6 / aada10 is an integron - encoded aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene cassette in p . aeruginosa
ant ( 4' )  - ia is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase in s . epidermidis ,  s . aureus ,  enterococcus spp .
ant ( 4' )  - iia is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase in p . aeruginosa and enterobacteriaceae
ant ( 4' )  - iib is a transposon - encoded aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase in p . aeruginosa
ant ( 6 )  - ia is an aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene encoded by plasmids and chromosomes in staphylococcus epidermidis ,  e . faecium ,  streptococcus suis ,  s . aureus ,  e . faecalis and streptococcus mitis
aadk is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene in b . subtilis and bacillus spp .
ant ( 6 )  - ia / aad ( 6 )  is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene in e . faecalis and streptococcus oralis
ant ( 6 )  - ib is an aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene encoded by transferable pathogenicity islands in c . fetus subsp .
ant ( 9 )  - ia is an aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase encoded by plasmids and transposons in s . aureus ,  enterococcus spp . ,  staphylococcus sciuri and e . faecalis
spd is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene in s . aureus
aph ( 2'' )  - ie is a plasmid or transposon - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in e . faecium and e . casseliflavus
aph ( 2'' )  - iia is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in e . faecium and e . coli
aph ( 2'' )  - iiia is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in enterococcus gallinarum
aph ( 2'' )  - iva is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in e . casseliflavus
aph ( 3'' )  - ia is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in s . griseus
aph ( 3'' )  - ib is an aminoglycoside phosphotransferase encoded by plasmids ,  transposons ,  integrative conjugative elements and chromosomes in enterobacteriaceae and pseudomonas spp .
aph ( 3'' )  - ic is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in mycolicibacterium fortuitum
aph ( 3' )  - ia is a transposon - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in e . coli and s . enterica .
aph ( 3' )  - ib is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in e . coli
aph ( 3' )  - iia is a transposon - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in e . coli
aph ( 3' )  - iib is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in p . aeruginosa
aph ( 3' )  - iic is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in s . maltophilia
aph ( 3' )  - iiia is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in s . aureus and enterococcus spp .
aph ( 3' )  - iva is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in b . circulans
aph ( 3' )  - va is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in streptomyces fradiae
aph ( 3' )  - vb is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in streptomyces ribosidificus
aph ( 3' )  - vc is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in m . chalcea
aph ( 3' )  - via is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in a . baumannii
aph ( 3' )  - vib is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in k . pneumoniae and s . marcescens
aph ( 3' )  - viia is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in c . jejuni
aph ( 4 )  - ia is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in e . coli
aph ( 4 )  - ib is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in pseudomonas pseudomallei
aph ( 6 )  - ia is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in s . griseus
aph ( 6 )  - ib is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in s . glaucescens
aph ( 6 )  - ic is a transposon - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in s . enterica ,  p . aeruginosa and e . coli
aph ( 6 )  - id is an aminoglycoside phosphotransferase encoded by plasmids ,  integrative conjugative elements and chromosomal genomic islands in k . pneumoniae ,  salmonella spp . ,  e . coli ,  shigella flexneri ,  providencia alcalifaciens ,  pseudomonas spp . ,  v . cholerae ,  edwardsiella tarda ,  pasteurella multocida and aeromonas bestiarum
aph ( 7'' )  - ia is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in s . hygroscopicus
aph ( 9 )  - ia is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in l . pneumophila
aph ( 9 )  - ib is a chromosomal - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in s . flavopersicus
npma is a plasmid - mediated aminoglycoside - resistance 16s rrna methyltransferase by interfering with aminoglycoside binding with the a site of 16s rrna through n - 1 methylation at position a1408 .
rmtf is a 16s rrna methyltransferase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa which methylates g1405 of the 16s rrna .
rmtd is a 16s rrna methyltransferase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa which methylates g1405 of the 16s rrna .
rmtg is a 16s rrna methyltransferase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa which methylates g1405 of the 16s rrna .
aph ( '' )  - ig is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside phosphotransferase in campylobacter coli
cat is used to describe many variants of the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase gene in a range of organisms including acinetobacter calcoaceticus ,  agrobacterium tumefaciens ,  bacillus clausii ,  bacillus subtilis ,  campylobacter coli ,  enterococcus faecalis ,  enterococcus faecium ,  lactococcus lactis ,  listeria monocytogenes ,  listonella anguillarum morganella morganii ,  photobacterium damselae subsp .
cat - tc is a plasmid - encoded variant of the cat gene found in lactobacillus reuteri
cat86 is a chromosome - encoded variant of the cat gene found in bacillus pumilus
catb is a chromosome - encoded variant of the cat gene found in clostridium butyricum
catb2 is a plasmid - encoded variant of the cat gene found in escherichia coli ,  salmonella enteritidis and pasteurella multocida
catb3 is a plasmid or chromosome - encoded variant of the cat gene found in salmonella typhimurium ,  acinetobacter baumannii and escherichia coli
catb6 is a plasmid - encoded variant of the cat gene found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
catb7 is a chromosome - encoded variant of the cat gene found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
catb8 is a plasmid or integron - encoded variant of the cat gene found in klebsiella pneumoniae ,  salmonella typhi and pseudomonas aeruginosa
catb9 is a chromosome - encoded variant of the cat gene found in vibrio cholerae
catd is a chromosome and transposon - encoded variant of the cat gene found in clostridioides difficile
cati is a chromosome and transposon - encoded variant of the cat gene found in escherichia coli and acinetobacter baumannii
catii is a plasmid - encoded variant of the cat gene found in haemophilus influenzae ,  agrobacterium tumefaciens and escherichia coli
catiii is a plasmid - encoded variant of the cat gene found in shigella flexneri
catp is a transposon and chromosome - encoded variant of the cat gene found in clostridium perfringens and neisseria meningitidis
catq is a chromosome - encoded variant of the cat gene found in clostridium perfringens
cats is a chromosome - encoded variant of the cat gene found in streptococcus pyogenes
pp - cat is a plasmid - encoded variant of the cat gene found in photobacterium damselae subsp .
cmlr is a plasmid or chromosome - encoded chloramphenicol resistance determinant  ( putative transmembrane protein )  that is found in escherichia coli and streptomyces lividans
cmla is a plasmid - encoded chloramphenicol exporter that is found in salmonella typhimurium
cmla1 is a plasmid or transposon - encoded chloramphenicol exporter that is found in pseudomonas aeruginosa and klebsiella pneumoniae
cmla4 is a plasmid - encoded chloramphenicol exporter that is found in klebsiella pneumoniae
cmla5 is a plasmid or transposon - encoded chloramphenicol exporter that is found in escherichia coli
cmla6 is a plasmid - encoded chloramphenicol exporter that is found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
cmlb is a plasmid - encoded chloramphenicol exporter that is found in klebsiella aerogenes
cmlb1 is a plasmid - encoded chloramphenicol exporter that is found in bordetella bronchiseptica
cmlv is a chromosome - encoded chloramphenicol phoshotransferase that is found in streptomyces venezuelae
cmr is a plasmid - encoded chloramphenicol exporter that is found in rhodococcus fascians and corynebacterium glutamicum
cmra is a transposon - encoded chloramphenicol exporter that is found in rhodococcus rhodochrous
cmx is a plasmid or transposon - encoded chloramphenicol exporter that is found in corynebacterium striatum and pseudomonas aeruginosa .
fexa is a plasmid - encoded chloramphenicol exporter that is found in staphylococcus lentus
flor is a plasmid or chromosome - encoded chloramphenicol exporter that is found in bordetella bronchiseptica ,  escherichia coli ,  klebsiella pneumoniae ,  salmonella enterica subsp .
mycobacterium tuberculosis embc mutations at codon 270 confer resistance to ethambutol .
qnra1 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in klebsiella pneumoniae
qnra2 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in klebsiella oxytoca
qnra3 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in shewanella algae
qnra4 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in shewanella algae
qnra5 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in shewanella algae
qnra6 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in proteus mirabilis
qnra7 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in shewanella algae
qnrb1 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in klebsiella pneumoniae
qnrb2 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter koseri
qnrb3 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in escherichia coli
qnrb4 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in escherichia coli
qnrb5 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in salmonella enterica
qnrb6 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in pantoea agglomerans
qnrb7 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in enterobacter cloacae
qnrb8 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb9 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb10 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb11 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb12  is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter werkmanii
qnrb13 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb14 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb15 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb16 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb17 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb18 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb19 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in escherichia coli
qnrb20 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in escherichia coli
qnrb21 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in escherichia coli
qnrb22 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter werkmanii
qnrb23 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb24 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb25 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb26 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in proteus vulgaris
qnrb27 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter braakii
qnrb28 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb29 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb30 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter braakii
qnrb31 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in klebsiella pneumoniae
qnrb32 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb33 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter braakii
qnrb34 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter werkmanii
qnrb35 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb36 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb37 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb38 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb39 is a chromosome - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter youngae
qnrb40 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter braakii
qnrb41 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb42 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in klebsiella pneumoniae
qnrb43 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in escherichia coli
qnrb44 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in escherichia coli
qnrb45 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in escherichia coli
qnrb46 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in escherichia coli
qnrb47 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in escherichia coli
qnrb48 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb49 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb50 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb54 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb55 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in raoultella terrigena
qnrb56 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb57 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb58 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb59 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb60 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb61 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter braakii
qnrb62 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb64 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb65 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb66 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb67 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter braakii
qnrb68 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter braakii
qnrb69 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb70 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb71 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter braakii
qnrb72 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter sp .
qnrb73 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in citrobacter freundii
qnrb74 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in escherichia coli
qnrc is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in proteus mirabilis
qnrd1 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in salmonella enterica
qnrd2 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in salmonella enterica
qnrs1 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in shigella flexneri
qnrs2 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in salmonella enterica
qnrs3 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in escherichia coli
qnrs4 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in salmonella enterica
qnrs5 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in aeromonas sobria
qnrs6 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in aeromonas hydrophila
qnrs7 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in escherichia coli
qnrs8 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in klebsiella pneumoniae
qnrs9 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in klebsiella pneumoniae
qnrvc1 is an integron - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in vibrio cholerae
qnrvc3 is an integron - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in vibrio cholerae
qnrvc4 is an integron - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in aeromonas punctata
qnrvc5 is an integron - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in vibrio fluvialis
qnrvc6 is an integron - mediated quinolone resistance protein found in acinetobacter baumannii
an enzyme that confers resistance to fosfomycin in enterobacter cloacae by breaking the epoxide ring of the molecule .
mura or udp - n - acetylglucosamine enolpyruvyl transferase catalyses the initial step in peptidoglycan biosynthesis and is inhibited by fosfomycin .
pp - flo is a plasmid chloramphenicol exporter that is found in photobacterium damselae subsp .
lmrb is a chromosomally - encoded efflux pump that confers resistance to lincosamides in bacillus subtilis
clba is a plasmid - encoded cfr gene found in bacillus velezensis  ( bacillus amyloliquefaciens subsp .
clbb is a plasmid - encoded cfr gene found in bacillus brevis
clbc is a plasmid - encoded cfr gene found in bacillus clausii
cara is an abc - f subfamily protein involved in macrolide resistance .
msrb is an abc - f subfamily protein expressed to staphylococcus species that confers resistance to erythromycin and streptogramin b antibiotics .
msrc is a chromosomal - encoded abc - f subfamily protein expressed in enterococcus faecium that confers resistance to erythromycin and other macrolide and streptogramin b antibiotics .
ermh is a plasmid - mediated methyltransferase found in streptomyces thermotolerans
ermv is a plasmid - mediated methyltransferase found in streptomyces viridochromogenes
ermy is a plasmid - mediated methyltransferase found in staphylococcus aureus
erea2 is an integron - encoded erythromycin esterase that hydrolyses the drug's lactone ring .
tlrc is an abc - f subfamily protein found in streptomyces fradiae and confers resistance to mycinamicin ,  tylosin and lincosamides .
srmb is an abc - f subfamily protein found in streptomyces ambofaciens that confers resistance to spiramycin
vgaa is an abc - f subfamily protein expressed in staphylococci that confers resistance to streptogramin a antibiotics and related compounds .
vgaalc is an abc - f subfamily protein expressed in staphylococci that confers resistance to streptogramin a antibiotics and related compounds .
vgac is an abc - f subfamily protein expressed in staphylococci that confers resistance to streptogramin a antibiotics and related compounds .
vgad is an abc - f subfamily protein expressed in enterococcus faecium that confers resistance to streptogramin a antibiotics and related compounds .
vgae is an abc - f subfamily protein expressed in staphylococci that confers resistance to streptogramin a antibiotics and related compounds .
lnua is a plasmid - mediated nucleotidyltransferase found in staphylococcus chromogenes
lnub is a plasmid - mediated nucleotidyltransferase found in streptococcus lutetiensis
lnuc is a transposon - mediated nucleotidyltransferase found in streptococcus agalactiae
lnud is a plasmid - mediated nucleotidyltransferase found in streptococcus uberis
lnuf is an integron - mediated nucleotidyltransferase found in escherichia coli
vata is a plasmid - mediated acetyltransferase found in staphylococcus aureus
vatb is a plasmid - mediated acetyltransferase found in staphylococcus aureus
vatc is a plasmid - mediated acetyltransferase found in staphylococcus cohnii
vatd is a transposon - mediated acetyltransferase found in enterococcus faecium
vate is a transposon - mediated acetyltransferase found in enterococcus faecium
vath is a plasmid - mediated acetyltransferase found in enterococcus faecium
arr - 1 is a chromosome - encoded ribosyltransferase found in mycolicibacterium smegmatis
arr - 2 is an integron - encoded ribosyltransferase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
arr - 3 is a plasmid - encoded ribosyltransferase found in vibrio fluvialis
arr - 4 is an integron - encoded ribosyltransferase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
arr - 5 is an integron - encoded ribosyltransferase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
arr - 7 is an integron - encoded ribosyltransferase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
arr - 8 is an integron - encoded ribosyltransferase found in klebsiella oxytoca
dfra1 is an integron - encoded dihydrofolate reductase
dfra24 is an integron - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in escherichia coli
dfra26 is an integron - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in escherichia coli
dfra12 is an integron - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in vibrio cholerae
dfra14 is an integron - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in escherichia coli
dfra17 is an integron - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in escherichia coli
dfra5 is an integron - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in vibrio cholerae
dfra7 is an integron - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in escherichia coli
dfra8 is a transposon - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in salmonella enterica
a plasmid - associated trimethoprim - resistant dihydrofolate reductase detected in bordetella bronchispetica on pkbb958 .
dfrc is a chromosome - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in staphylococcus aureus
dfrd is a plasmid - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in listeria monocytogenes
dfrf is a chromosome - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in streptococcus pyogenes
dfrg is a plasmid - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in staphylococcus aureus
dfrk is a plasmid - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in staphylococcus aureus
tet34 causes the activation of mg2 +  - dependent purine nucleotide synthesis ,  which protects the protein synthesis pathway .
tet37 is a chromosome - encoded oxidoreductase isolated from an uncultured bacterium that confers resistance to tetracycline
an enzyme that confers resistance to fosfomycin in escherichia coli by breaking the epoxide ring of the molecule .
a thiol transferase that leads to the resistance of fosfomycin in enterococcus faecium .
fosc2 is an enzyme that phosphorylates fosfomycin to confer resistance in escherichia coli
dfre is a chromosome - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in enterococcus faecalis
arabinofuranosyltransferases allow for the polymerization of arabinose to form arabinan .
bacillus cereus beta - lactamase i is a zinc metallo - beta - lactamase that hydrolyzes a large number of penicillins and cephalosporins in the bacillus cereus strain 569 / h / 9
bacillus cereus beta - lactamase ii is a zinc metallo - beta - lactamase that hydrolyzes a large number of penicillins and cephalosporins in the bacillus cereus strain 5 / b / 6
ling is an integron - associated gene cassette ,  with aada2 ,  encoding a lincosomide nucleotidyltransferase found in salmonella enterica .
lmrc is an abc - f subfamily protein that confers resistance to lincosamides in streptomyces lincolnensis and lactococcus lactis .
lmrd is a chromosomally - encoded efflux pump that confers resistance to lincosamides in streptomyces lincolnensis and lactococcus lactis .
rgt1438 is a glycosyltransferase that confers rifampin resistance in streptomyces
iri is a monooxygenase that confers resistance to rifampin found in rhodococcus hoagii
otr ( a )  is an oxytetracycline resistance ribosomal protection protein found in streptomyces rimosus
otr ( b )  is a tetracycline resistance efflux pump found in streptomyces rimosus
tcr3 is a tetracycline efflux pump that confers self - resistance to kitasatospora aureofaciens
otrc is a tetracycline resistance efflux pump found in streptomyces rimosus
sat - 2 is a plasmid - mediated streptothricin acetyltransferase ,  which confers resistance to streptothricin ,  a nucleoside antibiotic .
sat - 4 is a plasmid - mediated streptothricin acetyltransferase and streptothricin  ( a nucleoside antibiotic )  resistant determinant .
sat - 3 is a plasmid - mediated streptothricin acetyltransferase and streptothricin resistance determinant .
van genes that are involved in activating and regulating transcription of gene clusters
van ligases synthesize alternative substrates for peptidoglycan synthesis that reduce vancomycin binding affinity .
vane is a d - ala - d - ala ligase homolog that can synthesize d - ala - d - ser ,  an alternative substrate for peptidoglycan synthesis that reduces vancomycin binding affinity in enterococcus faecalis
vanf is a d - ala - d - ala ligase homolog that can synthesize d - ala - d - lac ,  an alternative substrate for peptidoglycan synthesis that reduces vancomycin binding affinity .
vang is a d - ala - d - ala ligase homolog that can synthesize d - ala - d - ser ,  an alternative substrate for peptidoglycan synthesis that reduces vancomycin binding affinity in enterococcus faecalis
vanl is a d - ala - d - ala ligase homolog that can synthesize d - ala - d - ser ,  an alternative substrate for peptidoglycan synthesis that reduces vancomycin binding affinity in enterococcus faecalis
vanm is a d - ala - d - ala ligase homolog that can synthesize d - ala - d - lac ,  an alternative substrate for peptidoglycan synthesis that reduces vancomycin binding affinity .
vann is a d - ala - d - ala ligase homolog that can synthesize d - ala - d - ser ,  an alternative substrate for peptidoglycan synthesis that reduces vancomycin binding affinity in enterococcus faecium
vano is a d - ala - d - ala ligase homolog that can synthesize d - ala - d - lac ,  an alternative substrate for peptidoglycan synthesis that reduces vancomycin binding affinity .
vanj is a novel membrane protein that confers resistance to teicoplanin and its derivatives in streptomyces coelicolor by recycling undecaprenol pyrophosphate during cell wall biosynthesis .
vank is a member of the fem family of enzymes that add the cross - bridge amino acids to the stem pentapeptide of cell wall precursors in streptomyces coelicolor that confers inducible ,  high - level vancomycin resistance
vanv is an accessory protein of van operons ,  first identified in the vanb operon .
homologous to vanc ,  contains a d - ala - d - ser ligase .
homologous to vana ,  contains a d - ala - d - lac ligase .
vanra ,  also known as vanr ,  is a vanr variant found in the vana gene cluster
vanrb is a vanr variant found in the vanb gene cluster
vanrc is a vanr variant found in the vanc gene cluster
vanrd is a mutated vanr variant found in the vand gene cluster that caused constitutive expression of vand peptidoglycan synthesis
vanre is a vanr variant found in the vane gene cluster
vanrf is a vanr variant found in the vanf gene cluster
vanrg is a vanr variant found in the vang gene cluster
vanrl is a vanr variant found in the vanl gene cluster
vanrm is a vanr variant found in the vanm gene cluster
vanrn is a vanr variant found in the vann gene cluster
vanro is a vanr variant found in the vano gene cluster
vansa ,  also known as vans ,  is a vans variant found in the vana gene cluster
vansb is a vans variant found in the vanb gene cluster
vansc is a vans variant found in the vanc gene cluster
vansd is a mutated vans variant found in the vand gene cluster that caused constitutive expression of vand peptidoglycan synthesis
vanse is a vans variant found in the vane gene cluster
vansf is a vans variant found in the vanf gene cluster
vansg is a vans variant found in the vang gene cluster
vansl is a vans variant found in the vanl gene cluster
vansm is a vans variant found in the vanm gene cluster
vansn is a vans variant found in the vann gene cluster
vanso is a vans variant found in the vano gene cluster
vanha ,  also known as vanh ,  is a vanh variant in the vana gene cluster
vanhb is a vanh variant in the vanb gene cluster
vanhd is a vanh variant in the vand gene cluster
vanhf is a vanh variant in the vanf gene cluster
vanhm is a vanh variant in the vanm gene cluster
vanho is a vanh variant in the vano gene cluster
vanxa ,  also known as vanx ,  is a vanx variant found in the vana gene cluster
vanxb is a vanx variant found in the vanb gene cluster
vanxf is a vanx variant found in the vanf gene cluster
vanxm is a vanx variant found in the vanm gene cluster
vanxo is a vanx variant found in the vano gene cluster
vanya ,  also known as vany ,  is a vany variant found in the vana gene cluster
vanyb is a vany variant found in the vanb gene cluster
vanyd is a vany variant found in the vand gene cluster
vanyf is a vany variant found in the vanf gene cluster
vanyg1 is a vany variant found in the vang gene cluster
vanym is a vany variant found in the vanm gene cluster
vanza ,  also known as vanz ,  is a vanz variant found in the vana gene cluster
vanzf is a vanz variant found in the vanf gene cluster
vanwb ,  also known as vanw ,  is a vanw variant found in the vanb gene cluster
vanwg is a vanw variant found in the vang gene cluster
vanxyc is a vanxy variant found in the vanc gene cluster
vanxye is a vanxy variant found in the vane gene cluster
vanxyl is a vanxy variant found in the vanl gene cluster
vanxyn is a vanxy variant found in the vann gene cluster
vantc is a vant variant found in the vanc gene cluster
vante is a vant variant found in the vane gene cluster
vantg is a vant variant found in the vang gene cluster
vantml is a vant variant found in the vanl gene cluster .
vantrl is a vant variant found in the vanl gene cluster .
vantn is a vant variant found in the vann gene cluster
van genes encode for various proteins that are involved in conferring vancomycin and teicoplanin resistance .
van ligases that synthesize d - ala - d - lac ,  an alternative peptidoglycan substrate that confers resistance to vancomycin
van ligases that synthesize d - ala - d - ser ,  an alternative peptidoglycan substrate that confers resistance to vancomycin
aspergillomarasmine a ,  a fungal natural product ,  has been shown to inhibit the ndm - 1 and vim - 2 enzymes ,  restoring of the activity of meropenem against carbapenem - resistant pathogens possessing either ndm - 1 or vim - 2 .
amrab is an rnd efflux system that impairs aminoglycoside accumulation in clinical burkholderia vietnamiensis strains
amra is the efflux pump subunit of the amrab - oprm multidrug efflux complex .
amrb is the membrane fusion protein of the amrab - oprm multidrug efflux complex .
arna modifies lipid a with 4 - amino - 4 - deoxy - l - arabinose  ( ara4n )  which allows gram - negative bacteria to resist the antimicrobial activity of cationic antimicrobial peptides and antibiotics such as polymyxin .
the baca gene product  ( baca )  recycles undecaprenyl pyrophosphate during cell wall biosynthesis which confers resistance to bacitracin .
bcra is an abc transporter found in bacillus licheniformis that confers bacitracin resistance
bcrb is an abc transporter found in bacillus licheniformis that confers bacitracin resistance
aqu beta - lactamases are chromosomal class c beta - lactamases that confer resistance to cephalosporins .
aqu - 1 is a chromosomal class c beta - lactamase found in clinical aeromonas dhakensis isolates
rob beta - lactamases are a class a beta - lactamases .
rob - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in pasteurella and haemophilus
lcr beta - lactamases are a class d beta - lactamase that hydrolyze a variety of penams and some cephalosporins .
lcr - 1 is a class d beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
cbla beta - lactamases are class a beta - lactamases that confer resistance to cephalosporins .
cbla - 1 beta - lactamase is a class a beta - lactamase found in bacteroides uniformis that is species - specific .
cfxa beta - lactamases are class a beta - lactamases
cfxa beta - lactamase is a class a beta - lactamase found in bacteroides vulgatus
cfxa2 beta - lactamase is a class a beta - lactamase found in prevotella intermedia
cfxa3 beta - lactamase is a class a beta - lactamase found in capnocytophaga ochracea
cfxa4 beta - lactamase is a class a beta - lactamase found in bacteroides fragilis
blt is an mfs efflux pump that confers resistance to multiple drugs such as rhodamine and acridine dyes ,  and fluoroquinolone antibiotics
bmr is an mfs antibiotic efflux pump that confers resistance to multiple drugs including acridine dyes ,  fluoroquinolone antibiotics ,  chloramphenicol ,  and puromycin
ceoab is an rnd efflux system that confers multidrug resistance in burkholderia cenocepacia
ceoa is a periplasmic linker subunit of the ceoab - opcm efflux pump
ceob is a cytoplasmic membrane component of the ceoab - opcm efflux pump
dfra10 is an integron - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
dfra13 is an integron - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in escherichia coli
dfra15 is an integron - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in vibrio cholerae
dfra16 is an integron - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in salmonella enterica
dfra19 is an integron - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in klebsiella pneumoniae
dfra20 is a plasmid - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in pasteurella multocida
dfra21 is an integron - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in salmonella enterica
dfra22 is an integron - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in salmonella enterica
dfra23 is an integron - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in salmonella enterica
dfra25 is an integron - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in salmonella agona
dfrb2 is an integron - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in an uncultured bacterium from a wastewater treatment plant
dfrb3 is an integron - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in klebsiella oxytoca
dfrb6 is an integron - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in salmonella enterica
enzymes that confer resistance to fusidic acid by inactivation
fush is a highly specific fusidic acid esterase found in streptomyces lividans
lmrab operon is involved in lincosamide resistance in bacillus subtilis
lmra is the repressor to the lmrab operon in bacillus subtilis .
mexvw - oprm is a multidrug efflux protein expressed in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
mexv is the membrane fusion protein of the mexvw - oprm multidrug efflux complex .
mexw is the rnd - type membrane protein of the efflux complex mexvw - oprm .
mexxy - oprm is a multidrug efflux protein expressed in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
mexy is the rnd - type membrane protein of the efflux complex mexxy - oprm .
mexx is the membrane fusion protein of the mexxy - oprm multidrug efflux complex .
mfpa is a qnr homolog and a pentapeptide repeat protein that confers resistance to fluoroquinolones in mycolicibacterium smegmatis
oleb is an abc - f subfamily protein in streptomyces antibioticus and is involved in oleandomycin secretion
opcm is an outer membrane factor protein found in burkholderia cepacia .
mexxy - opra is a multidrug efflux protein expressed in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
opra is an outer membrane factor protein found in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
pencillin - binding proteins are transpeptidase proteins essential for cell wall synthesis .
pbp1a is a penicillin - binding protein found in streptococcus pneumoniae
pbp2b is a penicillin - binding protein found in streptococcus pneumoniae
pbp2x is a penicillin - binding protein found in streptococcus pneumoniae
qaca is a subunit of the qac multidrug efflux pump
qacb is a subunit of the qac multidrug efflux pump
rosa is part of an efflux pump / potassium antiporter system  ( rosab )  in yersinia that confers resistance to cationic antimicrobial peptides such as polymyxin b .
rosb is part of an efflux pump / potassium antiporter system  ( rosab )  in yersinia that confers resistance to cationic antimicrobial peptides such as polymyxin b .
smeabc is a multidrug resistance efflux pump that confers resistance to aminoglycosides ,  beta - lactams ,  and fluoroquinolones in stenotrophomonas maltophilia
smea is the membrane fusion protein of the smeabc multidrug efflux complex in stenotrophomonas maltophilia
smeb is the inner membrane multidrug exporter of the efflux complex smeabc in stenotrophomonas maltophilia
smec is an outer membrane multidrug efflux protein of the smeabc complex in stenotrophomonas maltophilia
smedef is a multidrug resistance efflux pump that confers resistance to quinolones ,  tetracyclines ,  macrolides ,  chloramphenicol ,  and novobiocin in stenotrophomonas maltophilia
smed is the membrane fusion protein of the smedef multidrug efflux complex in stenotrophomonas maltophilia
smee is the rnd protein of the efflux complex smedef in stenotrophomonas maltophilia
smef is an outer membrane multidrug efflux protein of the smedef complex in stenotrophomonas maltophilia
tmrb is an atp - binding tunicamycin resistance protein found in bacillus subtilis
tsnr is a 23s ribosomal rna methyltransferase that methylates adenosine - 1067 to confer resistance to thiostrepton
vph is a phosphotransferase that confers resistance to viomycin in streptomyces vinaceus
ykkcd is a multidrug efflux pump with two smr - type protein subunits that confers resistance to cationic drugs ,  chloramphenicol ,  streptomycin and tetracycline .
ykkc is an smr - type protein that is a subunit of the ykkcd efflux pump
ykkd is an smr - type protein that is a subunit of the ykkcd efflux pump
non - erm 23s ribosomal rna methyltransferases modify adenosine 1067 to confer resistance to peptide antibiotics
smer is the responder component of a two component signal transduction system that includes smes
smes is the protein kinase sensor component of a two component signal transduction system that includes smer
smers is a two component regulatory system for smeabc where smer is a response regulator ,  while smes is a sensor kinase .
vanxyg is a vanxy variant found in the vang gene cluster
vanxd is a vanx variant found in the vand gene cluster
mphf is a macrolide phosphotransferase and resistance gene identified on the incp plasmid prsb111
mphl is a chromosomally - encoded macrolide phosphotransferases that inactivate 14 -  and 15 - membered macrolides such as erythromycin ,  clarithromycin ,  azithromycin .
cls or cardiolipin synthetase is an inner membrane protein that is involved in membrane synthesis .
liafsr is a two - component signal transduction pathway in b . subtilis that responds to peptide and lipopeptide antibiotics .
liaf is an accessory protein that acts as a negative regulator of liars signal transduction pathway .
liar is a response regulator found in the liafsr signal transduction pathway .
lias is a histidine kinase found in the liafsr signal transduction pathway .
pgsa or phosphatidylglycerophosphate synthetase is an integral membrane protein involved in phospholipid biosynthesis .
daptomycin resistant rna polymerases include amino acids substitutions which alter expression of the dlt operon ,  which increases the cell surface positive charge .
mprf is a integral membrane protein that modifies the negatively - charged phosphatidylglycerol on the membrane surface of both gram - positive and gram - negative bacteria .
cls or cardiolipin synthetase is an inner membrane protein that is involved in membrane synthesis .
ceph - a3 is an ambler class b mbl ;  subclass b2 originally isolated from aeromonas veronii .
imih is an ambler class b mbl ;  subclass b2 originally isolated from aeromonas hydrophila .
imis is an ambler class b mbl ;  subclass b2 originally isolated from aeromonas veronii .
cfxa5 beta - lactamase is a class a beta - lactamase found in bacteroides distasonis
cfxa6 beta - lactamase is a class a beta - lactamase found in an uncultured bacterium
cpha2 is an ambler class b mbl ;  subclass b2 originally isolated from aeromonas hydrophila .
cpha4 is an ambler class b mbl ;  subclass b2 originally isolated from aeromonas allosaccharophila .
cpha5 is an ambler class b mbl ;  subclass b2 originally isolated from aeromonas salmonicida .
cpha6 is an ambler class b mbl ;  subclass b2 originally isolated from aeromonas veronii .
cpha7 is an ambler class b mbl ;  subclass b2 originally isolated from aeromonas jandaei .
cpha8 is an ambler class b mbl ;  subclass b2 originally isolated from aeromonas sobria .
dfra3 is an integron - encoded dihydrofolate reductase found in escherichia coli
erm42 confers mlsb phenotype in pasteurella multocida
mef ( b )  is a macrolide efflux gene located in the vicinity of sul3 in escherichia coli .
msre is an abc - f subfamily protein expressed to klebsiella pneumoniae that confers resistance to erythromycin and streptogramin b antibiotics .
catb10 is an integron - encoded variant of the cat gene found in p . aeruginosa
lsab is an abc - f subfamily protein expressed in staphylococcus sciuri .
lsac is an abc - f subfamily protein expressed in streptococcus agalactiae .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
an oxa - 48 - like plasmid - encoded beta - lactamase shown to confer resistance to carbapenems through hydrolysis .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
oxa - 424 is a beta - lactamase found in clinical isolates of acinetobacter baumannii found in china .
oxa - 425 is a beta - lactamase found in clinical isolates of acinetobacter baumannii .
oxa - 426 is a beta - lactamase found in clinical isolates of acinetobacter baumannii .
carb - 20 is a beta - lactamase found worldwide in vibrio parahaemolyticus
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli clinical isolates in nepal .
ndm - 14 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter lwoffii .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases .
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  not yet released
present in lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  not yet released
qnrb75 is a fluoroquinolone resistance gene in lahey's list of qnr genes
qnrb76 is a fluoroquinolone resistance gene in lahey's list of qnr genes
qnrb77 is a fluoroquinolone resistance gene in lahey's list of qnr genes
qnrb78 is a fluoroquinolone resistance gene in lahey's list of qnr genes
qnrb79 is a fluoroquinolone resistance gene in lahey's list of qnr genes
qnrb80 is a fluoroquinolone resistance gene in lahey's list of qnr genes
qnrvc7 is a fluoroquinolone resistance gene in lahey's list of qnr genes .
gim - 2 is a metallo - beta - lactamase present on an integron found in clinical isolates of enterobacter cloacae in germany
gim beta - lactamase enzymes isolated from pseudomonas aeruginosa ,  and found to confer broad - spectrum resistance to beta - lactam antibiotics .
tet45 is a tetracycline efflux pump found in bhargavaea cecembensis strain previously isolated from a poultry - litter - impacted soil .
streptomycin / spectinomycin resistance gene found in pasteurella multocida isolated from bovine respiratory tract
rmth is a 16s ribosomal rna methyltransferase found in klebsiella pneumoniae strain mrsn2404 that was isolated from the chronic wound of a soldier wounded in iraq in 2006 .
aac ( 6' )  - iak is a 6' - n - aminoglycoside acetyltransferase - encoding gene isolated from a multidrug - resistant clinical isolate of stenotrophomonas maltophilia
aac ( 6' )  - ian is an amikacin acetyltransferase gene found on a transferable plasmid of the serratia marcescens strain nubl - 11663 .
the tla beta - lactamases are resistant to expanded - spectrum cephalosporins ,  aztreonam ,  ciprofloxacin ,  and ofloxacin but was susceptible to amikacin ,  cefotetan ,  and imipenem .
tla - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in plasmids of clinical isolates of escherichia coli strain r170 in latin america .
tla - 2 is a beta - lactamase is present on a plasmid isolated from an unidentified bacterial strain from a waste water treatment plant .
tla - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in a transferable plasmid of serratia marcescens clinical isolate .
erm ( 43 )  is a macrolide ,  lincosamide ,  and streptogramin b resistance gene found in staphylococcus lentus chromosome isolated from human ,  dog and chicken .
lsae is an abc - f subfamily protein found in porcine mrsa isolates .
fosk is a fosfomycin thiol transferase isolated from acinetobacter soli .
fosxcc is a fosfomycin resistance gene that modifies mura isolated from campylobacter species .
fosa5 is a fosfomycin resistance gene isolated from clinical strain of escherichia coli e265 .
fosa4 is an enzyme that confers resistance to fosfomycin in escherichia coli by breaking the epoxide ring of the molecule .
many antibiotics inhibit the growth of bacteria by blocking protein synthesis on the ribosome .
point mutations in the 3' minor domain of the 16s rrna in escherichia coli can confer resistance to edeine
precursor molecule during the synthesis of bacterial cell wall .
lipid iii is the precursor to the wall teichoic acid .
point mutations in the 16s rrna of mycobacteroides abscessus conferring resistance to kanamycin
point mutations in the 16s rrna of mycobacteroides abscessus conferring resistance to tobramycin
point mutations in the 16s rrna of mycobacteroides abscessus conferring resistance to neomycin
point mutations in the 16s rrna of mycobacteroides abscessus conferring resistance to amikacin
point mutations in the 16s rrna of mycobacteroides abscessus conferring resistance to gentamicin
teixobactin is a peptide antibiotic isolated from the gram - negative bacteria ,  eleftheria terrae .
the bcrc gene product  ( bcrc )  is an undecaprenyl pyrophosphate phosphatase originally isolated from bacillus subtilis .
undecaprenyl pyrophosphate is a precursor to a cell wall polymer carrier .
subunit of topoisomerase iv sensitive to aminocourmarins
dna gyrase is responsible for dna supercoiling and consists of two alpha and two beta subunits .
parc is a subunit of topoisomerase iv ,  which decatenates and relaxes dna to allow access to genes for transcription or translation .
pary is a subunit of the topoisomerase iv .
pare is a subunit of topoisomerase iv ,  which decatenates and relaxes dna to allow access to genes for transcription or translation .
beta - subunit of dna gyrase sensitive to inhibition by aminocoumarins
beta - subunit of dna gyrase sensitive to inhibition by fluoroquinolones
sensitive form of 16s susceptable to antibiotics
sensitive form of 16s susceptible to antibiotics
sensitive form of 16s susceptible to antibiotics
sensitive form of 16s susceptible to antibiotics
cardiolipin synthetase catalyzes the formation of cardiolipin from two phosphatidylglycerol molecules .
interaction with the cell membrane phospholipids interferes with membrane permeability and integrity ,  leading to the leakage of cell contents .
cardiolipin synthetase catalyzes the formation of cardiolipin from two phosphatidylglycerol molecules .
cardiolipin synthetase catalyzes the formation of cardiolipin from two phosphatidylglycerol molecules .
rna polymerase is a multisubunit enzyme that is necessary for transcription .
rna polymerase is a multisubunit enzyme that is necessary for transcription .
daptomycin binds to the cytoplasmic membrane of gram - positive .
the liafsr system regulates the cell envelope stress response .
mprf is a integral membrane protein that modifies the negatively - charged phosphatidylglycerol on the membrane surface of both gram - positive and gram - negative bacteria .
pgsa or phosphatidylglycerophosphate synthetase is an integral membrane protein involved in phospholipid biosynthesis .
point mutations that occurs in mycobacterium tuberculosis rpob resulting in resistance to rifampicin .
point mutations that occurs in mycobacterium leprae rpob resulting in resistance to rifampicin
point mutations that occurs in staphylococcus aureus rpob resulting in resistance to rifampicin
point mutations that occurs in staphylococcus aureus rpob resulting in resistance to daptomycin
point mutations that occurs in escherichia coli rpob resulting in resistance to rifampicin
rna polymerase is a multisubunit enzyme that is necessary for transcription .
daptomycin resistant rna polymerases include amino acids substitutions which alter the binding affinity of daptomycin to the protein ,  resulting in antibiotic resistance .
point mutations that occurs in staphylococcus aureus rpoc resulting in resistance to daptomycin
dna gyrase is responsible for dna supercoiling and consists of two alpha and two beta subunits .
point mutation of escherichia coli gyra resulted in the lowered affinity between fluoroquinolones and gyra .
point mutation of mycobacterium tuberculosis gyra resulted in the lowered affinity between fluoroquinolones and gyra .
point mutation of staphylococcus aureus gyra resulted in the lowered affinity between fluoroquinolones and gyra .
point mutation of bartonella bacilliformis gyra resulted in the lowered affinity between fluoroquinolones and gyra .
point mutation of mycobacterium leprae gyra resulted in the lowered affinity between fluoroquinolones and gyra .
point mutation in staphylococcus aureus resulting in aminocoumarin resistance
point mutation in bartonella bacilliformis resulting in aminocoumarin resistance
point mutation in escherichia coli resulting in aminocoumarin resistance
point mutation in mycobacterium leprae gyrb resulting in fluoroquinolone resistance
point mutation in ureaplasma urealyticum resulting in fluoroquinolone resistance
point mutation in morganella morganii resulting in fluoroquinolone resistance
point mutation in salmonella serovars resulting in fluoroquinolone resistance
point mutation in escherichia coli parc resulting in fluoroquinolone resistance
point mutation in ureaplasma urealyticum parc resulting in fluoroquinolone resistance
point mutation in mycoplasma hominis parc resulting in fluoroquinolone resistance
point mutation in streptococcus pneumoniae parc resulting in fluoroquinolone resistance
point mutation in staphylococcus aureus parc resulting in fluoroquinolone resistance
pare is a subunit of topoisomerase iv ,  necessary for cell survival .
point mutation in staphylococcus aureus pare resulting in aminocoumarin resistance .
point mutation in staphylococcus aureus pare resulting in fluoroquinolones resistance
point mutation in escherichia coli pare resulting in fluoroquinolones resistance
point mutation in salmonella serovars pare resulting in fluoroquinolones resistance
intrinsically aminocoumarin - resistant pary variant found in streptomyces ,  an aminocoumarin - producing genus .
point mutations that occur within staphylococcus aureus mprf gene resulting in resistance to daptomycin
point mutations that occur within staphylococcus aureus pgsa gene resulting in resistance to daptomycin
mprf is a integral membrane protein that modifies the negatively - charged phosphatidylglycerol on the membrane surface .
point mutations that occur within mycobacterium tuberculosis variant bovis embb gene resulting in resistance to ethambutol
point mutations that occur within mycobacterium tuberculosis embb gene resulting in resistance to ethambutol
point mutations in mycobacterium tuberculosis embc that result in lower affinity between ethambutol and embc ,  resulting in resistance
point mutations in the 3' minor ,  3' major ,  and central domains in the rrsc 16s rrna gene of escherichia coli can confer resistance to kasugamicin
sequence variants of elongation factor tu that confer resistance to different classes of antibiotics .
sequence variants of clostridioides difficile elongation factor tu that confer resistance to elfamycin antibiotics .
sequence variants of escherichia coli elongation factor tu that confer resistance to elfamycin antibiotics .
sequence variants of streptomyces cinnamoneus elongation factor tu that confer resistance to elfamycin antibiotics .
sequence variants of planobispora rosea elongation factor tu that confer resistance to elfamycin antibiotics .
sequence variants of planobispora rosea elongation factor tu that confer resistance to inhibitor ge2270a
sequence variants of escherichia coli elongation factor tu that confer resistance to kirromycin
sequence variants of escherichia coli elongation factor tu that confer resistance to pulvomycin
sequence variants of escherichia coli elongation factor tu that confer resistance to enacyloxin iia
point mutations in the 3' major domain of the rrsh 16s rrna gene of escherichia coli can confer resistance to spectinomycin
acrr is a repressor of the acrab - tolc multidrug efflux complex .
acrr is a repressor of the acrab - tolc multidrug efflux complex .
point mutations in the 3' major domain of the rrsb 16s rrna gene of escherichia coli can confer resistance to spectinomycin
point mutations in the 3' major domain of helix 35 ,  in the rrnb gene operon for 16s rrna of escherichia coli can confer resistance to spectinomycin
marr is a repressor of the mar operon marrab ,  thus regulating the expression of mara ,  the activator of multidrug efflux pump acrab .
ramr is a repressor that regulates rama expression .
ramr is a repressor that regulates rama expression .
soxr is a sensory protein that upregulates soxs expression in the presence of redox - cycling drugs .
soxr is a sensory protein that upregulates soxs expression in the presence of redox - cycling drugs .
soxs is a global regulator that up - regulates the expression of acrab efflux genes .
mutant forms of the porin omp36 result in reduced permeability to antibiotics .
point mutations in escherichia coli dihydropteroate synthase folp prevent sulfonamide antibiotics from inhibiting its role in folate synthesis ,  thus conferring sulfonamide resistance .
point mutations in streptococcus pyogenes dihydropteroate synthase folp prevent sulfonamide antibiotics from inhibiting its role in folate synthesis ,  thus conferring sulfonamide resistance .
dapsone inhibits bacterial synthesis of dihydrofolic acid by competing with with para - aminobenzoate for the active site of dihydropteroate synthetase .
dapsone inhibits bacterial synthesis of dihydrofolic acid by competing with with para - aminobenzoate for the active site of dihydropteroate synthetase .
the escherichia coli ompf  ( oprf )  is a nonspecific porin channel involved in the membrane translocation of small hydrophilic molecules ,  including and especially beta - lactam antibiotics .
katg is a catalase - peroxidase that catalyzes the activation of isoniazid .
inha is a enoyl - acyl carrier reductase used in lipid metabolism and farry acid biosynthesis .
pnca is a pyrazinamidase / nicotinamidase .it catalyzes the activation of pyrazinamide .
ribosomal protein s12 stabilizes the highly conserved pseudoknot structure formed by 16s rrna .
point mutations in the 3' minor domain of helix 44 ,  in the rrsb 16s rrna gene of escherichia coli can confer resistance to gentamicin c
point mutations in the 3' minor domain of helix 44 ,  in the rrsb 16s rrna gene of escherichia coli can confer resistance to g418
undecaprenyl phosphate is a universal lipid carrier of glycan biosynthetic intermediates for carbohydrate polymers that are exported to the bacterial cell envelope .
point mutations in the 3' minor domain of helix 44 ,  in the rrsb 16s rrna gene of escherichia coli can confer resistance to kanamycin a
a sulfone active against a wide range of bacteria but mainly employed for its actions against mycobacterium laprae .
point mutations in the 3' minor domain of helix 44 ,  in the rrsb 16s rrna gene of escherichia coli can confer resistance to neomycin
point mutations in the 3' minor domain of helix 44 ,  in the rrsb 16s rrna gene of escherichia coli can confer resistance to paromomycin
point mutations in the 5' domain of helix 18 ,  in the rrsb 16s rrna gene of escherichia coli can confer resistance to streptomycin
point mutations in the 5' domain of helix 18 ,  in the rrnb 16s rrna gene of escherichia coli can confer resistance to streptomycin
point mutations in the 3' minor domain of the rrnb 16s rrna gene of escherichia coli can confer resistance to tobramycin
point mutations in the 3' major domain of the rrsb 16s rrna gene of escherichia coli can confer resistance to tetracycline
point mutations in the 3' major domain of the rrnb 16s rrna gene of escherichia coli can confer resistance to tetracycline
dapsone is a sulfone in which it inhibits folic acid synthesis ,  such as the dihydropteroate synthase .
pyrazinamide is an antimycobacterial .it is highly specific and active only against mycobacterium tuberculosis .
lff571 is a novel semi - synthetic thiopeptide antibiotic derived from ge2270 .
point mutations in dihydropteroate synthase folp prevent sulfonamide antibiotics from inhibiting its role in folate synthesis ,  thus conferring sulfonamide resistance
bifunctional enzyme with both catalase and broad - spectrum peroxidase activity .
inha is a enoyl - acyl carrier reductase used in lipid metabolism and fatty acid biosynthesis .
pnca is a pyrazinamidase / nicotinamidase .it catalyzes the activation of pyrazinamide to pyrazinoic acid .
ribosomal protein s12 stabilizes the highly conserved pseudoknot structure formed by 16s rrna .
pgsa or phosphatidylglycerophosphate synthetase is an integral membrane protein involved in phospholipid biosynthesis .
catalyzes the transfer of a lysyl group from l - lysyl - trna ( lys )  to membrane - bound phosphatidylglycerol  ( pg )  ,  which produces lysylphosphatidylglycerol  ( lpg )  ,  a major component of the bacterial membrane with a positive net charge .
arabinofuranosyltransferase is involved in the biosynthesis of the arabinogalactan region of the magp complex ,  an essential component of the mycobacterial cell wall .
key enzyme in folate metabolism .
inha is a enoyl - acyl carrier reductase used in lipid metabolism and fatty acid biosynthesis .
porin proteins permeable to antibiotics .
rna polymerase is a multisubunit enzyme that is necessary for transcription .
pare is a subunit of topoisomerase iv ,  necessary for cell survival .
ribosomal protein s12 stabilizes the highly conserved pseudoknot structure formed by 16s rrna .
point mutations in the 3' domain of 16s rrna of mycobacterium tuberculosis can confer resistance to kanamycin .
peptide antibiotics inhibit protein synthesis .
sequence variants of enterococcus faecium elongation factor tu that confer resistance to ge2270a
the switch region is a structural element that mediates conformational changes and contacts required for rnap to load dna into the rnap active - center cleft during transcription initiation .
a foreign pbp2 acquired by lateral gene transfer that able to perform peptidoglycan synthesis in the presence of beta - lactams .
cfra is a chloramphenicol - florfenicol resistance gene and methyltransferase enzyme .
tlya encodes for hemolysin .it catalyzes the 2' - o - methylation at nucleotides c1409 in 16s rrna and c1920 in 23s rrna .
specific mutations that arise in mycobacterium tuberculosis tlya resulting in aminoglycosides resistance
inia ,  an isoniazid - induced protein ,  is part of the inibac operon that participates in the development of tolerance to both isoniazid and ethambutol .
mutations that occurs on the inia genes resulting in the resistance to ethambutol
specific mutations in mycobacterium tuberculosis inia resulting in resistance to ethambutol
inic ,  an isoniazid - induced protein ,  is part of the inibac operon that participates in the development of tolerance to both isoniazid and ethambutol .
mutations that occurs on the inic genes resulting in the resistance to ethambutol
specific mutations that occurs on mycobacterium tuberculosis inic causing it to be ethambutol resistant .
mutations that occurs on the emba genes resulting in the resistance to ethambutol
specific mutations that occurs on mycobacterium tuberculosis emba leading to the lowered affinity of ethambutol to emba
mutations that occurs on the embr genes resulting in the resistance to ethambutol
point mutation in the m .tuberculosis embr results in increased resistance to ethambutol
monooxygenase able to convert a wide range of ketones to the corresponding esters or lactones via a baeyer - villiger oxidation reaction .
mutations that occurs on the etha genes resulting in the inability to catalyzes the oxidation of ethionamide  ( eth )  to the corresponding sulfoxide  ( the active drug ) 
specific mutations that occurs on mycobacterium tuberculosis etha causing it to be ethionamide resistant
point mutation in mycobacterium tuberculosis gyrb resulting in fluoroquinolone resistance
ndh is a nadh oxidase .
point mutations in the mycobacterium tuberculosis ndh gene shown clinically to confer resistance to isoniazid .
kasa is a  ketoacyl acyl carrier protein synthase that catalyzes the condensation reaction of fatty acid synthesis by the addition to an acyl acceptor of two carbons from malonyl - acp .
specific mutations on the mycobacterium tuberculosis kasa gene resulting in lowered affinity of isoniazid ,  resulting in resistance
arabinosyl transferases allow for the polymerization of arabinose to form arabinan .
specific mutations that occurs on mycobacterium tuberculosis embb causing it to be rifampicin resistant
gidb is a m7g methyltransferase specific for 16s rrna .
specific mutations that occurs on mycobacterium tuberculosis gidb causing it to be streptomycin resistant
wildtype embr sensitive to antibiotics .
ethionamide is a second - line antitubercular agent that inhibits mycolic acid synthesis
etha is a monooxygenase that is able to convert a wide range of ketones to the corresponding esters or lactones via a baeyer - villiger oxidation reaction .
it catalyzes the 2' - o - methylation at nucleotides c1409 in 16s rrna and c1920 in 23s rrna .
gidb is a m7g methyltransferase specific for 16s rrna .
kasa is a ketoacyl acyl carrier protein synthase that catalyzes the condensation reaction of fatty acid synthesis by the addition to an acyl acceptor of two carbons from malonyl - acp .
tetr is the repressor of the tetracycline resistance element ;  its n - terminal region forms a helix - turn - helix structure and binds dna .
point mutations within the 530 loop of the 16s rrna of mycobacterium tuberculosis can result in resistance against streptomycin .
point mutations in the 3' domain of 16s rrna of mycobacterium tuberculosis can confer resistance to amikacin .
point mutation in the 16s rrna helix 34 region of chlamydophila psittaci can confer resistance against spectinomycin
point mutations in the helix 34 region of 16s rrna of pasteurella multocida can confer resistance to spectinomycin
point mutations in the helix 34 region of 16s rrna of neisseria gonorrhoeae can confer resistance against spectinomycin
point mutations in the 16s rrna of neisseria meningitidis can confer resistance to spectinomycin
tetracycline binds tightly to the helix 34 domain in 16s rrna ,  where it interferes sterically with the binding of aminoacyl - trna to the ribosome a site to block protein synthesis .
point mutations in the 3' major domain of the 16s rrna gene of borreliella burgdorferi can confer resistance to spectinomycin
point mutations in the 3' minor domain of the 16s rrna gene of borreliella burgdorferi can confer resistance to kanamycin
point mutations in the 3' minor domain of the 16s rrna gene of borreliella burgdorferi can confer resistance to gentamicin
tetracycline binds tightly to the helix 34 domain in 16s rrna ,  where it interferes sterically with the binding of aminoacyl - trna to the ribosome a site to block protein synthesis .
soxs is a global regulator that up - regulates the expression of acrab efflux genes .
point mutations in the helix 34 region of the rrsd 16s rrna gene of salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium can confer resistance to spectinomycin
point mutations in the 16s rrna of mycobacteroides chelonae can cause resistance to amikacin .
point mutations in the 16s rrna of mycobacteroides chelonae can cause resistance to kanamycin a .
point mutations in the 16s rrna of mycobacteroides chelonae can cause resistance to tobramycin .
point mutations in the 16s rrna of mycobacteroides chelonae can confer resistance to gentamicin c
point mutations in the 16s rrna of mycobacteroides chelonae can cause resistance to neomycin .
sensitive form of 16s susceptable to antibiotics
sensitive form of 16s susceptable to antibiotics
sensitive form of 16s susceptable to antibiotics
sensitive form of 16s susceptable to antibiotics
sensitive form of 16s susceptable to antibiotics
sensitive form of 16s susceptable to antibiotics
sensitive form of 16s susceptable to antibiotics
sensitive form of 16s susceptable to antibiotics
sensitive form of 16s susceptable to antibiotics
sensitive form of 16s susceptable to antibiotics
sensitive form of 16s susceptable to antibiotics
point mutations in the highly conserved helix 44 of the 16s rrsa rrna gene of mycolicibacterium smegmatis can confer resistance to hygromycin b .
point mutations in the highly conserved helix 44 of the 16s rrsb rrna gene of mycolicibacterium smegmatis can confer resistance to hygromycin b .
point mutations in the helix 44 region of the 16s rrna rrsb gene of mycolicibacterium smegmatis can confer resistance to streptomycin
point mutations in the helix 44 region of the 16s rrna rrsb gene of mycolicibacterium smegmatis can confer resistance to kanamycin a
point mutations in the helix 44 region of the 16s rrna rrsa gene of mycolicibacterium smegmatis can confer resistance to kanamycin a
point mutations in the helix 44 region of the 16s rrna rrsa gene of mycolicibacterium smegmatis can confer resistance to neomycin
point mutations in the helix 44 region of the 16s rrna rrsb gene of mycolicibacterium smegmatis can confer resistance to neomycin
point mutations in the helix 44 region of the 16s rrna rrsa gene of mycolicibacterium smegmatis can confer resistance to viomycin .
point mutations in the helix 44 region of the 16s rrna rrsb gene of mycolicibacterium smegmatis can confer resistance to viomycin .
multidrug resistance efflux pump .could be involved in resistance to puromycin ,  acriflavine and tetraphenylarsonium chloride .
multidrug resistance efflux pump .could be involved in resistance to puromycin ,  acriflavine and tetraphenylarsonium chloride
multidrug resistance efflux pump .could be involved in resistance to puromycin ,  acriflavine and tetraphenylarsonium chloride
a multidrug efflux pump from enterococcus faecalis .
fusb encodes a 2 - domain zinc - binding protein that binds the ribosomal translocase ef - g ,  causing it to dissociate from the ribosome .
ceps is a typical class c cephalosporinase found in aeromonas sobria ,  first isolated from strain 163a .
major facilitator superfamily transporter .resistance to tetracenomycin c by an active tetracenomycin c efflux system which is probably energized by transmembrane electrochemical gradients .
this family of sublcass b1 beta - lactamases were discovered in species of the shewanella genus .
this enzyme breaks the beta - lactam antibiotic ring open and deactivates the molecule's antibacterial properties .
this enzyme breaks the beta - lactam antibiotic ring open and deactivates the molecule's antibacterial properties .
class a beta - lactamase found in yersinia enterocolitica biovar 1a
a beta - lactamase found in bacteroides fragilis producing either low or high levels of the endogenous cephalosporinase activity
sed - 1 is a chromosomal - encoded class a beta - lactamase identified in citrobacter sedlakii .
class a beta - lactamase found in mycolicibacterium fortuitum
rcp is a class a beta - lactamase found in rhodopseudomonas capsulata .
class a beta - lactamase found in streptomyces albus g
class a beta - lactamase found in actinomadura r39
magainins a are antimicrobial peptides produced by amphibians as part of their innate immune system .
magainin b is is a synthetic analog of magainin 1 ,  an antimicrobial peptide
magainin g is is a synthetic analog of magainin 1 ,  an antimicrobial peptide .
magainin h is is a synthetic analog of magainin 1 ,  an antimicrobial peptide .
magainin1 is an antimicrobial peptides produced by amphibians as part of their innate immune system .
magainin 2 is an antimicrobial peptides produced from xenopus laevis skin .
the lpxa gene is widely known to be involved in the biosynthesis of lipid a in gram - negative bacteria and mutations to this gene may cause resistance to antimicrobial peptides that target the outer membrane
the lpxc gene is widely known to be involved in the biosynthesis of lipid a in gram - negative bacteria and mutations to this gene may cause resistance to antimicrobial peptides that target the outer membrane
the lpxd gene is widely known to be involved in the biosynthesis of lipid a in gram - negative bacteria and mutations to this gene may cause resistance to antimicrobial peptides that target the outer membrane
pmrc mediates the modification of lipid a by the addition of 4 - amino - 4 - deoxy - l - arabinose  ( l - ara4n )  and phosphoethanolamine ,  resulting in a less negative cell membrane and decreased binding of polymyxin b .
pmre is required for the synthesis and transfer of 4 - amino - 4 - deoxy - l - arabinose  ( ara4n )  to lipid a ,  which allows gram - negative bacteria to resist the antimicrobial activity of cationic antimicrobial peptides and antibiotics such as polymyxin
pmrf is required for the synthesis and transfer of 4 - amino - 4 - deoxy - l - arabinose  ( ara4n )  to lipid a ,  which allows gram - negative bacteria to resist the antimicrobial activity of cationic antimicrobial peptides and antibiotics such as polymyxin .
basrs is a two - component regulatory system .
genes involved in alteration of the cell wall overall charge ,  leading to antimicrobial resistance due to reduced binding
these genes are involved in the biosynthesis of lipid a in gram - negative bacteria and mutations to this gene may cause resistance to antimicrobial peptides that target the outer membrane .
response regulator for lipid a modification genes ;  two - component system involved in polymyxin resistance that senses high extracellular fe ( 2 +  ) 
histidine protein kinase sensor lipid a modification gene ;  part of a two - component system involved in polymyxin resistance that senses high extracellular fe ( 2 +  ) 
a mutant phop activates pmrhfijklm expression responsible for l - aminoarabinose synthesis and polymyxin resistance ,  by way of alteration of negative charge
the loss or reduction of the net negative charge within the cell wall of gram negative bacteria is a mechanism of resistance for cationic antimicrobials that depend on the negative charge for binding to the surface
nmca is a class a serine beta - lactamase isolated from enterobacter cloacae .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases ,  not yet released .
from the lahey list of beta - lactamases ,  not yet released .
from lahey's list of beta - lactamase ,  not yet released
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no accessions or other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamase ,  no other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamase ,  no other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamase ,  no other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamase ,  no other information available
assigned by lahey's list of beta - lactamase ,  no other information available
from lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no additional information available
from lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no additional information available
from lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no additional information available
a class c beta - lactamase from citrobacter freundii .
from lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no additional information available
from lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no additional information available
from lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no additional information available
from lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no additional information available
from lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no additional information available
from lahey's list of beta - lactamases ,  no additional information available
new delhi metallo - beta - lactamase - 15 variant of ndm - 1
new delhi class b metallo - beta - lactamase - 16 variant of ndm - 1
nmcr is a homolog of the lysr regulator found in enterobacter cloacae that contribute to the regulation of nmca beta - lactamase
point mutations in the 16s rrna of bacteria can confer resistance to aminoglycosides .
point mutations in the 16s rrna of bacteria can confer resistance to peptide antibiotics .
point mutations in the 16s rrna of bacteria can confer resistance to polyamine antibiotics .
point mutations in the bacterial 16s rrna region shown clinically to confer resistance to tetracycline and tetracycline derivatives  ( polyketide antibiotics )  .
pedo - 1 is a subclass b3 metallo - beta lactamase isolated from pedobacter roseus exhibiting resistance to carbapenems .
plazomicin is a neoglycoside ,  or next - generation ,  aminoglycoside ,  that has been identified as a potentially useful agent to combat drug - resistant bacteria ,  such as acinetobacter baumannii and pseudomonas aeruginosa .
aac ( 6' )  - ib' is an aminoglycoside acetyltransferase encoded by plasmids ,  transposons ,  integrons in p . aeruginosa and p . fluorescens .
aac ( 6' )  - iaj is a functional acetyltransferase that modifies the amino groups at the 6' positions of aminoglycosides and contributes to aminoglycoside resistance of p . aeruginosa
triabc - opmh is a triclosan - specific efflux pump expressed in the gram - negative pseudomonas aeruginosa .
tria is a membrane protein that is fused to trib and both are required for the triclosan efflux pump function of triabc - opmh in p . aeruginosa .
trib is a membrane protein that is fused to tria and both are required for the triclosan efflux pump function of triabc - opmh in p . aeruginosa .
tric is a resistance nodulation cell division  ( rnd )  transporter that is a part of triabc - opmh ,  a triclosan - specific efflux protein .
opmh is an outer membrane efflux protein required for triclosan - specific efflux pump function .
point mutation of pseudomonas aeruginosa gyra resulted in the lowered affinity between fluoroquinolones and gyra .
point mutation in pseudomonas aeruginosa pare resulting in sensitivity to fluoroquinolones  ( ciprofloxacin )  .
oprd is an outer membrane porin which facilitates the uptake of basic amino acids and imipenem in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
aph ( 3' )  - vi is an aminoglycoside phosphoryltransferase that acts on the 3 - oh of target of aminoglycosides .
pvrr is a response regulator that controls the conversion between antibiotic - resistant and antibiotic - susceptible forms of pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilms through porin deletion / gene absence
mcr - 1 is a plasmid - borne phosphoethanolamine transferase that interferes with binding of colistin to the cell membrane via addition of phosphoethanolamine to lipid a ,  resulting reduction in negative charge of the cell membrane .
sitafloxacin is a fluoroquinolone active against multi - resistant gram - positive and negative pathogens .
mexjk - opmh is a triclosan efflux protein expressed in the gram - negative pseudomonas aeruginosa .
mexj is the membrane fusion protein of the mexjk multidrug efflux protein .
mexk is the inner membrane resistance - nodulation - cell division  ( rnd )  transporter in the mexjk multidrug efflux protein .
mexjk - oprm is a multidrug efflux protein expressed in the gram - negative pseudomonas aeruginosa .
mexpq - opme multidrug efflux pump expressed in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
mexp is the membrane fusion protein of the mexpq - opme multidrug efflux complex
mexq is the inner membrane transporter of the multidrug efflux pump mexpq - opme .
opme is an outer membrane factor protein that is part of the multidrug efflux pump mexpq - opme .
rokitamycin is a macrolide antibiotic .
point mutation in pseudomonas aeruginosa parc resulting in fluoroquinolone resistance also requiring a gyra mutation .
mexmn - oprm is a multidrug efflux pump expressed in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
mexm is the membrane fusion protein of the mexmn - oprm multidrug efflux complex .
mexn is the inner membrane transporter of the mexmn - oprm multidrug efflux complex .
penems are a class of unsaturated beta - lactam antibiotics with a broad spectrum of antibacterial activity and have a structure which renders them highly resistant to beta - lactamases .
faropenem is an orally active beta - lactam antibiotic belonging to the penem group .
panipenem is a carbapenem antibacterial agent with a broad spectrum of in vitro activity covering a wide range of gram - negative and gram - positive aerobic and anaerobic bacterial .
mexz is a transcriptional regulator that downregulates the mexxy multidrug transporter operon ,  which confers to aminoglycoside resistance on pseudomonas aeruginosa .
mexl is a specific repressor of mexjk transcription and autoregulates its own expression .
veb - 1b is a beta - lactamase that is found in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
vcc - 1 is a class a carbapenemase isolated from vibrio cholerae and exhibits resistance to penicillins ,  carbapenems and monobactam antibiotics .
pedo - 2 is a subclass b3 metallo - beta lactamase isolated from pedobacter borealis exhibiting carbapenem resistance .
pedo - 3 is a class b1 metallo - beta lactamase isolated from pedobacter kyungheensis exhibiting resistance to carbapenems .
cps - 1 is a subclass b3 metallo - beta lactamase isolated from chyseobacterium piscium exhibiting carbapenem resistance .
esp - 1 is a subclass b3 metallo - beta lactamase isolated from epilithonimonas tenax conferring resistance to carbapenems .
msi - 1 is a subclass b3 metallo - beta lactamase isolated from massilia oculi conferring resistance to carbapenems .
msi - oxa is an oxa - 85 - like class d beta lactamase isolated from massilia oculi .
spg - 1 is a subclass b3 metallo - beta lactamase isolated from sphingomonas sp .
this inducible cluster confers high resistance to vancomycin and intermediate resistance to teicoplanin .
vani is a d - ala - d - lac ligase that reduces vancomycin binding affinity ,  helping to confer vancomycin resistance as part of the vani resistance gene cluster in desulfitobacterium spp .
vanwi is a vanw variant found in the vani gene cluster
vanxi is a vanx variant found in the vani glycopeptide resistance gene cluster .
vansi is a vans variant found in the vani gene cluster ;  it is a histidine kinase .
vanki is a peptidoglycan bridge formation protein also known as femab that is part of the vani glycopeptide resistance gene cluster .
vanri is the regulatory transcriptional activator in the vansr regulator within the vani glycopeptide resistance gene cluster .
a specific fusidic acid resistance gene conferring intrinsic resistance in the bacteria staphylococcus saprophyticus .
fusc is a fusidic acid resistance gene enabling ribosomal translocase ef - g dissociation from the ribosome that has been detected in staphylococcus aureus and staphylococcus intermedius .
antibiotic resistant fusa is caused by mutations to the elongation factor g  ( ef - g )  and confers resistance to fusidic acid .
the mutations to this gene are involved in altering the translation elongation factor g  ( ef - g )  in association with the ribosome to prevent fusidic acid from binding ef - g and preventing translation .
antibiotic resistant fuse is caused by mutations in a region of the rplf gene encoding riboprotein l6 ,  and confers resistance to fusidic acid .
the mutations to the rplf gene encoding riboprotein l6 have been shown to cause fusidic acid resistance ,  demonstrating a potential secondary site of action of the antibiotic that is blocked through these mutations .
mphe is a macrolide phosphotransferase and resistance gene identified on a plasmid ,  prsb105
the mphg gene encodes a macrolide 2' - phosphotransferase found in photobacterium damselae sharing sequence similarity to mpha in e . coli .
vatf is a streptogramin a acetyl transferase gene isolated from the chromosome of yersinia enterocolitica .
lnue encodes a lincosamide resistance gene isolated from streptococcus suis that was truncated by an isenfa5 - cfr - isenfa5 segment insertion .
mefc is a macrolide efflux gene isolated from a plasmid in photobacterium damselae .
optra is a member of the abc - f protein subfamily that confers resistance to oxazolidinones .
olec is an abc transporter isolated from streptomyces antibioticus and is involved in oleandomycin secretion .
sala is an abc - f subfamily protein gene isolated from the chromosome of staphylococcus sciuri conferring resistance to lincosamides and streptogramins .
nfsa encodes the major oxygen - insesitive nitroreductase in e . coli .
eatav is a mutated form of the wildtype eata abc - f subfamily protein isolated from enterococcus faecium conferring resistance to lincosamides ,  streptogramin a's and pleuromutilins  ( lsap phenotype )  .
the nfsa - encoded nitroreductase is the major oxygen - insensitive nitroreductase present in e . coli .
nsfb encodes a minor oxygen - insensitive nitroreductase .
nfsb encodes the minor oxygen - insesitive nitroreductase in e . coli .
cls or cardiolipin synthase is an inner membrane protein involved in membrane synthesis and phosopholipid metabolism ,  with mutations to the gene being capable of conferring daptomycin resistance .
point mutations to the isoleucyl - trna synthetase  ( iles )  in staphylococcus aureus that confer resistance to mupirocin .
bifidobacteria have an intrinsically resistant form of iles  ( isoleucyl - trna synthetase )  that confers resistance to mupirocin .
mechanism of antibiotic resistance conferred by deletion of gene  ( usually a porin ) 
mphm is a chromosomally - encoded macrolide phosphotransferases that inactivate 14 -  ,  15 -  and 16 - membered macrolides .
deletion of gene or gene product results in resistance .
mprf is a integral membrane protein that modifies the negatively - charged phosphatidylglycerol on the membrane surface .
mprf is a integral membrane protein that modifies the negatively - charged phosphatidylglycerol on the membrane surface .
mprf is a integral membrane protein that modifies the negatively - charged phosphatidylglycerol on the membrane surface .
mprf is a integral membrane protein that modifies the negatively - charged phosphatidylglycerol on the membrane surface .
mprf is a integral membrane protein that modifies the negatively - charged phosphatidylglycerol on the membrane surface .
mura or udp - n - acetylglucosamine enolpyruvyl transferase catalyses the initial step in peptidoglycan biosynthesis and is inhibited by fosfomycin .
mura or udp - n - acetylglucosamine enolpyruvyl transferase catalyses the initial step in peptidoglycan biosynthesis and is inhibited by fosfomycin .
mura or udp - n - acetylglucosamine enolpyruvyl transferase catalyses the initial step in peptidoglycan biosynthesis and is inhibited by fosfomycin .
mutations in the mycolicibacterium smegmatis ndh gene that results in increased resistance to isoniazid .
mutations in the mycobacterium tuberculosis variant bovis ndh gene that results in increased resistance to isoniazid .
a  heterocyclic antibiotic that targets mutant gyra  ( type ii topoisomerase )  containing an s84l substitution ,  counteracting acquired quinolone resistance .
mycobacterium tuberculosis mura confers intrinsic resistance to fosfomycin .
chlamydia mura confers intrinsic resistance to fosfomycin .
inherent parc resistance to fluoroquinolone from an antibiotic producer .
inherent pary resistant to aminocoumarin from an antibiotic producer .
point mutations that occur within the bacillus subtilis pgsa gene resulting in resistance to daptomycin .
campylobacter jejuni is a major bacterial infectious agent associated with gastroenteritis .
liaf is an accessory protein that acts as a negative regulator of liars signal transduction pathway .
lias is a histidine kinase found in the liafsr signal transduction pathway .
liar is a response regulator found in the liafsr signal transduction pathway .
plasmid - mediated spm metallo - beta - lactamase conferring resistance to carbapenem .
walk is the histidine kinase sensor of a two - component regulatory system controlling peptidoglycan metabolism through regulation of the expression of most of the peptidoglycan hydrolase genes .
mutations to the walk gene ,  part of a cell wall metabolism 2 - component regulatory system ,  confers resistance to antibiotics ,  specifically daptomycin .
a class c beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii that confers resistance to piperacillin and cefepime .
yybt has phosphodiesterase activity towards cyclic dinucleotides using a c - di - gmp hydrolyzing phosphodiesterase domain .
mutations to the yybt gene confers daptomycin resistance
gdpd is a glycerolphosphodiesterase whose mutations confer resistance to daptomycin .
transmembrane protein which expels bicyclomycin from the cell ,  leading to bicyclomycin resistance .
mutations to the gdpd glycerolphosphodiesterase confer resistance to daptomycin .
agra is an autoinducer in a peptide - quorum two - component regulatory system whose mutations confer daptomycin resistance .
mutations to the regulatory gene agra confer daptomycin resistance .
gshf is a bifunctional glutamate - cysteine ligase /  glutathione synthetase that when mutated ,  confers daptomycin resistance .
mutations to the glutathione synthetase gshf confers daptomycin resistance .
acrr is a repressor of the acrab - tolc multidrug efflux complex .
caro is a transmembrane beta - barrel involved in the influx of carbapenem antibiotics in acinetobacter baumannii .
an outer member protein  ( omp )  found in acinetobacter baumannii involved in the uptake of imipenem and basic amino acids .
natural producers of kirromycin and kirromycin - like antibiotics  ( i .e . ,  kirrothrycin )  possess self - resistance ,  which is classified here
adec is the outer membrane factor of the adeabc multidrug efflux complex .
drma is an uncharacterized 6 - pass membrane protein ,  with mutations to the protein causing modest resistance to daptomycin .
mutations to drma confer daptomycin resistance .
yvlb is a putative target of the liafsr signalling pathway ,  whose mutations confer daptomycin resistance .
mutations to the putative liafsr target yvlb confer daptomycin resistance .
mutations in the a subunit of dna gyrase reduce its affinity for fluoroquinolones ,  thereby conferring resistance .
mutations in acinetobacter baumannii parc that result in resistance to fluoroquinolones .
mgrb is a small transmembrane protein produced in the phopq signalling system .
bal30072 is a monocyclic beta - lactam antibiotic belonging to the sulfactams .
battacin is a cationic lipopeptide antibiotic produced from a paenibacillus tianmuensis soil isolate .
benzalkonium chloride is a type of cationic surfactant .
rhodamine is a flurone dye that is often used as a tracer due to determine the rate and direction of flow and transport .
alanyl - trna synthetase conferring resistance to novobiocin in escherichia coli
temocillin is a beta - lactamase resistant carboxypenicillin .
ticarcillin is a carboxypenicillin used for the treatment of gram - negative bacteria ,  particularly p . aeruginosa .
clostridioides difficile and escherichia coli multidrug efflux transporter with antiporter function .
qach is a subunit of the qac multidrug efflux pump in vibrio cholerae
gadw is an arac - family regulator that promotes mdtef expression to confer multidrug resistance .
positive regulator of gene expression in the cysteine regulon .
kdpe is a transcriptional activator that is part of the two - component system kdpd / kdpe that is studied for its regulatory role in potassium transport and has been identified as an adaptive regulator involved in the virulence and intracellular survival of pathogenic bacteria .
mus - 2 is a chromosome - encoded beta - lactamase from myroides odoratimimus .
leuo ,  a lysr family transcription factor ,  exists in a wide variety of bacteria of the family enterobacteriaceae and is involved in the regulation of as yet unidentified genes affecting the stress response and pathogenesis expression .
mfd dissociates transcription elongation complexes blocked at nonpairing lesions and mediates recruitment of dna repair proteins .
adc beta - lactamases ,  also known as ampc beta - lactamases ,  are cephalosporinases with extended - spectrum resistance to cephalosporins but not to carbapenems .
adc - 1 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii .
adc - 2 is a beta - lactamase found in oligella urethralis .
adc - 3 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii .
adc - 4 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii .
adc - 5 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter pittii .
adc - 6 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii .
adc - 7 is a beta - lactamase that is found in acinetobacter baumannii .
adc - 8 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter sp .
adc - 10 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii .
adc - 12 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter pittii .
adc - 13 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter pittii .
adc - 14 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter pittii .
adc - 15 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter pittii .
adc - 16 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter pittii .
adc - 17 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter pittii .
adc - 18 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter pittii .
adc - 19 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter pittii .
adc - 20 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter pittii .
adc - 21 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter pittii .
adc - 22 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter pittii .
adc - 23 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter pittii .
adc - 25 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii .
adc - 31 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii .
adc - 39 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii .
adc - 41 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter pittii .
adc - 42 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter pittii .
adc - 43 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter pittii .
sequence variants of enterococcus faecium elongation factor tu that confer resistance to elfamycin antibiotics .
adc - 44 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter pittii .
adc - 56 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii .
adc - 61 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii .
adc - 74 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii .
adc - 75 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii .
adc - 76 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii .
adc - 77 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii .
adc - 78 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii .
adc - 79 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii .
adc - 80 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii .
adc - 81 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii .
adc - 82 is a beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii .
point mutations to the active importer glpt ,  which is involved with the uptake of many phosphorylated sugars ,  confer resistance to fosfomycin by reducing import of the drug into the bacteria .
mutations to the active importer uhpt ,  which is involved with the uptake of many phosphorylated sugars ,  confer resistance to fosfomycin by reducing import of the drug into the bacteria .
uhpa is a positive activator of the fosfomycin importer uhpt ,  thus mutations to uhpa confer fosfomycin resistance by reducing uhpt expression .
rm3 is a class b3 metallo - beta - lactamase isolated from a metagenomic soil sample in yorkshire ,  united kingdom ,  shown to confer resistance to clinically used penicillins ,  cephalosporins ,  and carbapenems .
mutations in pseudomonas aeruginosa phop of the two - component phopq regulatory system .
mutations in pseudomonas aeruginosa phoq of the two - component phopq regulatory system .
tedizolid is a synthetic oxazolidinone antibiotic that is administered to the patient as a prodrug that is activated in vivo .
lugdunin is a thiazolidine - containing cyclic peptide antibiotic isolated from nasal staphylococcus lugnunensis that prohibits staphylococcus aureus colony formation .
ptsi  ( phosphoenolpyruvate - protein phosphotransferase )  is involved in cyclic amp synthesis ,  which regulates glpt expression .
cyaa  ( adenylate cyclase )  is involved with the synthesis of cyclic amp which regulates the fosfomycin transporter glpt .
mutations to the active importer glpt ,  which is involved with the uptake of many phosphorylated sugars ,  confer resistance to fosfomycin by reducing import of the drug into the bacteria .
mutations to the active importer uhpt ,  which is involved with the uptake of many phosphorylated sugars ,  confer resistance to fosfomycin by reducing import of the drug into the bacteria .
thusin is a two - component lantibiotic isolated from b . thuringiensis strain bgsc 4bt1 ,  exhibiting antimicrobial activity against several gram - positive pathogens .
formicin is a two - component broad - spectrum lantibiotic produced by bacillus paralicheniformis apc 1576 ,  exhibiting antimicrobial activity against several gram - positive species ,  including staphylococcus aureus ,  clostridioides difficile and listeria monocytogenes .
kanamycin nucleotidyltransferase sequence from staphylococcus aureus plasmid .
cfr - like methyltransferase enzyme conferring resistance to multiple clinically relevant antibiotic classes .
chromosome - encoded gene conferring mlsb resistance .
a drug which binds to menaquinone in the bacterial cell membrane .
a molecule involved in electron transport in bacterial cell membrane .
mena encodes a 1 , 4 - dihydroxy - 2 - naphthoate octaprenyltransferase ,  with mutations to the protein conferring resistance to lysocin e .
plasmid - borne apramycin - resistant aminocyclitol acetyltransferase gene identified from bovine mrsa .
lysocin family of peptide antibiotics isolated from lysobacter spp .
a gene that produces the protein lipid a 4' - phosphatase
oqxab encodes for oqxab ,  a plasmid - encoded efflux pump ,  which confer resistance to multiple agents including fluoroquinolones .
rnd efflux pump conferring resistance to fluoroquinolone
rnd efflux pump conferring resistance to fluoroquinolone
point mutation of haemophilus parainfluenzae gyra resulted in the lowered affinity between fluoroquinolones and gyra .
point mutation of haemophilus parainfluenzae parc resulted in the lowered affinity between fluoroquinolones and parc .
point mutations in salmonella gyra that confer resistance to nalidixic acid ,  a fluoroquinolone antibiotic .
a 5th generation cephalosporin antibiotic
point mutation in neisseria gonorrhoeae dna gyrase subunit a . decreases affinity between fluoroquinolone antibiotic molecule and gyra ,  thereby conferring resistance to fluoroquinolone
point mutations in neisseria gonorrhoeae parc protein that confer resistance to fluoroquinolone by reducing affinity to antibiotic binding site
rpsj is a tetracycline resistance protein identified in neisseria gonorrhoeae .
point mutation in capnocytophaga gingivalis that decreases binding affinity of fluoroquinolone antibiotics to gyra ,  thereby conferring resistance .
compounds and molecules that inhibit the action of antibiotic efflux proteins ,  thereby decreasing resistance caused by efflux pumps
berberine is a benzylisoquinoline alkaloid shown to reduce mexxy - dependent antibiotic resistance of cephalosporins ,  macrolides ,  lincosamides and aminoglycosides in pseudomonas ,  burkholderia and achromobacter
a aminomethylcycline antibiotic that targets 16s rrna in gram positive and gram negative bacteria
point mutation in neisseria meningititis pbp2  ( pena )  decreases affinity between beta - lactam antibiotic molecule and pbp2 ,  thereby conferring resistance to beta - lactam .
mutations in pbp transpeptidases that change the affinity for penicillin thereby conferring resistance to penicillin antibiotics
point mutations in salmonella parc gene implicated in decreased susceptibility to fluoroquinolone antibiotics ,  primarily ciprofloxacin and nalidixic acid .
point mutations in shigella flexneri gyra observed to confer resistance to fluoroquinolone antibiotics .
point mutation in parc conferring resistance to fluoroquinolone antibiotics in shigella flexneri , 
abca is a multidrug resistant abc transporter that confers resistance to methicillin ,  daptomycin ,  cefotaxime ,  and moenomycin .
efrab is a heterodimeric abc transporter efflux pump found in enterococcus faecalis and enterococcus faecium that confers resistance to ciprofloxacin ,  erythromycin ,  rifampicin ,  quinupristine .
efra is a part of the efrab efflux pump ,  and both efra and efrb are necessary to confer drug resistance .
efrb is a part of the efrab efflux pump ,  and both efra and efrb are necessary to confer multidrug resistance .
msba is a multidrug resistance transporter homolog from e . coli and belongs to a superfamily of transporters that contain an adenosine triphosphate  ( atp )  binding cassette  ( abc )  which is also called a nucleotide - binding domain  ( nbd )  .
microcin j25 is a peptide antibiotic that inhibits transcription by bacterial rna polymerase .
yoji mediates resistance to the peptide antibiotic microcin j25 when it is expressed from a multicopy vector .
hmrm is a multidrug efflux pump belonging to the mate family and functions as a  na +  / drug antiporter .
efma is an mfs transporter permease in  e . faecium .
efpa is an mfs transporter found in mycobacterium tuberculosis .
amongst the diverse and potent biological activities of free fatty acids  ( ffas )  is the ability to kill or inhibit the growth of bacteria .
palmitic acid is the most common saturated fatty acid found in animals ,  plants ,  and microorganisms .
oleic acid is a fatty acid that occurs naturally in various animal and vegetable fats and oils .
linoleic acid is a polyunsaturated omega - 6 fatty acid .
farab is an mfs efflux pump found in gonococci that is involved in antibacterial fatty acid resistance .
fara is the membrane fusion protein that is part of the farab efflux pump .
farb is the cytoplasmic transporter protein that is part of the farab efflux pump .
the flo transporters can be plasmid -  or chromosome - encoded .
hp1181 is a translocase that is part of the mfs efflux pump family .
hp1184 is a translocase that belongs to the mate efflux pump family .
klebsiella pneumoniae outer membrane porin protein .
lfra is involved in the active efflux of quinolones and is found in mycobacteroides abscessus .
klebsiella pneumoniae outer membrane porin protein .
lmrp is a proton motive force - dependent drug transporter that is part of the mfs efflux pump family .
non - van ligases that synthesize d - ala - d - ala ,  the default cell wall precursor that makes a cell vulnerable to glycopeptide antibiotics .
variant of erm ( 44 ) v isolated from staphylococcus saprophyticus ,  confers resistance to lincosamide and macrolide antibiotics but not streptogramins .
a clinically developed macrolide antibiotic targeting gram positive and gram negative bacteria .
point mutations in cutibacterium acnes gyra protein known to confer resistance to fluoroquinolone antibiotics .
antibiotic produced by streptomyces pactum ,  considered a universal translation inhibitor
point mutations in bacterial 16s rrna that confer resistance to antibiotic pactamycin
point mutations in halobacterium 16s rrna that confer resistance to pactamycin antibiotic
point mutation in c . reinhardtii rrns conferring resistance to streptomycin antibiotic .
a fluorocycline that acts to inhibit the bacterial ribosome .
teta ( 58 )  is a tetracycline efflux pump described in paenibacillus sp .
tetracycline resistant tetb ( 58 )  efflux pump found in paenibacillus sp .
lincosamide  ( clindamycin )  resistant  ( putative )  ribosomal methyltransferase related to the rlmk 23s rrna methyltransferase cog family .
chloramphenicol acetyltransferase conferring resistance to phenicol antibiotics detected in paenibacillus sp .
bacitracin amidohydrolase found in paenibacillus sp .
hydrolysis of amido side - chain of asparagine - 12 forming hydrogen bond with undecaprenyl pyrophosphate in bacitracin leading to antibiotic inactivation .
pleuromutilin  ( tiamulin )  abc efflux pump found in paenibacillus sp .
streptogramin a acetyltransferase found in paenibacillus sp .
aac ( 2' )  - iib is an intrinsic kasugamycin 2' acetyltransferase protein found in paenibacillus sp .
aac ( 6' )  - 34 is an aminoglycoside 6' - phosphotransferase found in paenibacillus sp .
vgbc is a streptogramin b - type lyase found in paenibacillus sp .
mphi is a macrolide phosphotransferase protein found in paenibacillus sp .
rphb is a rifampin phosphotransferase protein found in paenibacillus sp .
capreomycin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic ,  capable of treating a large number of infections but in particular used for killing bacteria causing tuberculosis .
cpaa is a capreomycin acetyltransferase protein found in paenibacillus sp .
amino acid substitutions in clostridioides difficile gyrase subunit a which when present confer functional resistance to fluoroquinolone antibiotics .
an antibiotic cocktail containing the beta - lactam antibiotic amoxicillin and the beta - lactamase inhibitor clavulanic acid  ( potassium clavulanate )  .
an antibiotic mixture containing the penicillin - derived beta - lactam antibiotic ampicillin and the beta - lactamase inhibitor sulbactam .
cefamandole is a second - generation cephalosporin - class beta - lactam antibiotic .
cefetamet is a third - generation semi - synthetic beta - lactam antibiotic that inactivates inner cell wall pbps through targeting binding ,  resulting in cell lysis .
cefmetazole is a semi - synthetic cephamycin antibiotic with broad spectrum antibiotic activity against both gram - positive and gram - negative bacteria ,  that disrupt cell wall synthesis through binding to pbps causing cell lysis .
cefonicid is a second - generation cephalosporin - class beta - lactam antibiotic with broad spectrum activity .
cefoperazone is a semi - synthetic cephalosporin containing a tetrazolyl moiety that is resistant to beta - lactamases .
cefotetan is a cephamycin - class beta - lactam antibiotic that is highly resistant to beta - lactamases and effective against a wide range of gram - negative and gram - positive bacteria .
cefprozil is a cephalosporin and beta - lactam antibiotic with bactericidal activity .
ceftiofur is a third - generation broad spectrum cephalosporin and beta - lactam antibiotic .
ceftizoxime is a third - generation cephalosporin and broad spectrum beta - lactam antibiotic .
cephapirin is a first - generation cephalosporin and broad spectrum beta - lactam antibiotic .
cefradine is a first - generation cephalosporin and broad spectrum beta - lactam antibiotic .
cinoxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibiotic primarily used for the treatment of urinary tract infections in adults .
clinafloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibiotic and gyrase  ( dna topoisomerase ii )  inhibitor .
clofazimine is a fluoroquinolone - class phenazine dye used for the treatment of leprosy .
fleroxacin is a broad spectrum fluoroquinolone antibiotic that inhibits the dna supercoiling activity of bacterial dna gyrase ,  resulting in double - stranded dna breaks and subsequent cell death .
flomoxef is a second - generation cephamycin  ( oxacephem )  and beta - lactam antibiotic .
gentamicin a is part of a complex of broad spectrum aminoglycoside antibiotics .
loracarbef is a second - generation cephalosporin  ( carbacephem )  and broad spectrum beta - lactam antibiotic .
moxalactam  ( latamoxef )  is a broad spectrum cephalosporin  ( oxacephem )  and beta - lactam antibiotic .
nafcillin is a penicillin - class narrow - spectrum beta - lactam antibiotic .
para - aminosalicylic acid  ( pas )  is an anti - tubercular antibiotic agent ,  often used in conjunction with isoniazid for treatment of m . tuberculosis infections .
an antibiotic cocktail containing the beta - lactam penam antibiotic piperacillin and the beta - lactamase inhibitor sulbactam .
an antibiotic cocktail containing the penam beta - lactam antibiotic piperacillin and the beta - lactamase inhibitor tazobactam .
an antibiotic cocktail of the streptogramin a dalfopristin and the streptogramin b quinupristin antibiotics .
an antibiotic cocktail containing the beta - lactam antibiotic ticarcillin and the beta - lactamase inhibitor clavulanic acid  ( clavulanate )  .
an antibiotic cocktail containing the diaminopyrimidine antibiotic trimethoprim and the sulfonamide antibiotic sulfamethoxazole  ( 1 tmp:5 smx )  .
prothionamide is a thioamide derivative with antibacterial properties .
tinidazole is a nitroimidazole anti - parasitic drug .
an efflux pump / potassium antiporter system  ( rosab )  formed by the rosa and rosb proteins found in yersinia .
tetab ( 46 )  is a heterodimeric abc transporter conferring tetracycline resistance in streptococcus australis isolated from the oral cavity .
teta ( 46 )  is a subunit of tetab ( 46 )  ,  a heterodimeric abc transporter ,  that is required for conferring tetracycline resistance in streptococcus australis isolated from the oral cavity .
tetb ( 46 )  is a subunit of tetab ( 46 )  ,  a heterodimeric abc transporter ,  that is required for conferring tetracycline resistance in streptococcus australis isolated from the oral cavity .
tetab ( 60 )  is an abc transporter that confers resistance to tetracycline and tigercycline identified by screening a human saliva metagenomic library in escherichia coli .
teta ( 60 )  is a subunit of tetab ( 60 )  ,  an abc transporter that confers resistance to tetracycline and tigercycline identified by screening a human saliva metagenomic library in escherichia coli ,  which is required for resistance .
tetb ( 60 )  is a subunit of tetab ( 60 )  ,  an abc transporter that confers resistance to tetracycline and tigercycline identified by screening a human saliva metagenomic library in escherichia coli ,  which is required for resistance .
emre is a small multidrug transporter that functions as a homodimer and that couples the efflux of small polyaromatic cations from the cell with the import of protons down an electrochemical gradient .
member of the small mdr  ( multidrug resistance )  family of transporters ;  in escherichia coli this protein provides resistance against a number of positively charged compounds including ethidium bromide and erythromycin ;  proton - dependent secondary transporter which exchanges protons for compound translocation
enzymes ,  protein or other gene products that inactivate rifampin  ( rifamycin )  antibiotics through phosphorylation of the antibiotic at the 21 - oh position .
acra is a subunit of the acrab multidrug efflux system that in k . pneumoniae ,  which is encoded by the acrrab operon .
acra is a subunit of the acrab - tolc multidrug efflux system that in e . cloacae .
acra is a subunit of the acrab - tolc multidrug efflux system that in e . coli .
fabi is a bacterial enoyl - acyl carrier reductase  ( enr )  isozyme .
fabi is a enoyl - acyl carrier reductase used in lipid metabolism and fatty acid biosynthesis .
kdpde is a two - component regulatory system in escherichia coli ,  well studied for its role in potassium transport and homeostasis .
kdpd is a component of the two - component regulatory system ,  kdpde .
mexab - oprm efflux pump system with a prematurely terminated mexr confers resistance to meropenem and ciprofloxacin .
fabg is a 3 - oxoacyl - acyl carrier protein reductase involved in lipid metabolism and fatty acid biosynthesis .the bacterial biocide triclosan blocks the final reduction step in fatty acid elongation ,  inhibiting biosynthesis .
fabg is a bacterial 3 - oxoacyl enoyl - acyl carrier reductase  ( enr )  isozyme .
mexab - oprm efflux pump system with nalc mutations conferring resistance to aztreonam .
mexab - oprm efflux pump system with a nald mutation conferring resistance to multiple antibiotics .
cpxr is directly involved in activation of expression of rnd efflux pump mexab - oprm in p . aeruginosa .
cpxr is directly involved in activation of expression of rnd efflux pump mexab - oprm in p . aeruginosa .
the escherichia coli cpxr / cpxa system responds to general periplasmic stress and has been used as a model two - component system for transcription regulation in bacteria .
armr ,  a 53 - amino - acid antirepressor ,  allosterically inhibits mexr dimer - dna binding by occupying a hydrophobic binding cavity within the center of the mexr dimer .
point mutations in the 23s rrna subunit may confer resistance to linezolid and other oxazolidinone antibiotics .
point mutations in the 23s rrna subunit of the large ribosomal bacterial subunit in staphylococcus aureus ,  which confer resistance to linezolid by disrupting antibiotic target binding
type a nfxb mutants are four to eight times more resistant to ofloxacin ,  erythromycin ,  and new zwitterionic cephems ,  i .e . ,  cefpirome ,  cefclidin ,  cefozopran ,  and cefoselis ,  than the parent strain ,  pao1 .
type b nfxb mutants are more resistant to tetracycline and chloramphenicol ,  as well as ofloxacin ,  erythromycin ,  and the new zwitterionic cephems ,  than was pao1 ,  and they are four to eight times more susceptible to carbenicillin ,  sulbenicillin ,  imipenem ,  panipenem ,  biapenem ,  moxalactam ,  aztreonam ,  gentamicin ,  and kanamycin than pao1 .
mexcd–oprj with type a nfxb phenotype are four to eight times more resistant to ofloxacin ,  erythromycin ,  and new zwitterionic cephems ,  i .e . ,  cefpirome ,  cefclidin ,  cefozopran ,  and cefoselis ,  than the parent strain ,  pao1 .
mexcd - oprj with type b nfxb mutions are more resistant to tetracycline and chloramphenicol ,  as well as ofloxacin ,  erythromycin ,  and the new zwitterionic cephems ,  than was pao1 ,  and they are four to eight times more susceptible to carbenicillin ,  sulbenicillin ,  imipenem ,  panipenem ,  biapenem ,  moxalactam ,  aztreonam ,  gentamicin ,  and kanamycin than pao1 .
edeq is an n - acetyltransferase enzyme that confers high - level self - resistance to edeine in brevibacillus brevis ,  a natural edeine producer .
edeine acetyltransferase enzymes catalyze the transfer of an acetyl group to active edeine ,  converting it to an inactive form in vivo .
the mexef–oprn efflux pump in p . aeruginosa is overexpressed with mext mutation conferring resistance to chloramphenicol and ciprofloxacin
subclass b1  ( metallo -  )  beta - lactamases found in myroides spp . ,  which confer resistance to carbapenam class beta - lactamase antibiotics .
the mexef–oprn efflux pump with mexs mutations conferring resistance to chloramphenicol and ciprofloxacin .
mvat ,  a global regulator of virulence genes in p . aeruginosa ,  has also shown to be able to repress the expression of the mexef - oprn pump .
a deletion of mvat results in the overexpression of mexef - oprn conferring resistance to chloramphenicol and norfloxacin .
opmb is an outer membrane efflux protein in pseudomonas aeruginosa that shows functional cooperation with muxabc ,  to form the efflux pump system muxabc - opmb .
muxa is a membrane fusion protein component of the efflux pump system muxabc - opmb in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
muxb is one of the two necessary rnd components in the pseudomonas aeruginosa efflux pump system muxabc - opmb .
muxc is one of the two necessary rnd components of the muxabc - opmb efflux pumps system in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
muxabc - opmb is an rnd - type multidrug efflux pump in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
pmpm is a multidrug efflux pump belonging to the mate family of pseudomonas aeruginosa .
acrr is the repressor of the acrab operon ,  where a mutation in acrr allows acrab - tolc to confer resistance to ciprofloxacin ,  tetracycline ,  and ceftazidime .
the escherichia coli acrab - tolc with marr mutation  ( y137h )  conferring resistance to ciprofloxacin and tetracycline .
mexab - oprm efflux pump system with mexr mutations confers resistance to multiple antibiotics in p . aeruginosa .
the acrad - tolc efflux pump system in e . coli confers resistance to amikacin ,  gentamicin ,  and tobramycin .
acrad - tolc efflux pump system in e . coli from the resistance - nodulation - division family ,  was shown to participate in the efflux of aminoglycosides .
acref - tolc efflux pump system of e . coli confers resistance to fluoroquinolones  ( ciprofloxacin )  .
lnug is a transposon - mediated lincosamide nucleotidyltransferase found in enterococcus faecalis on tn6260 .
aph ( 3' )  - viiib is an aminoglycoside phosphoryltransferase that acts on the 3 - oh target of aminoglycosides found in acinetobacter rudis .
aph ( 3' )  - ix is an aminoglycoside phosphoryltransferase that acts on the 3 - oh target of aminoglycosides .
lefamulin is a semi - synthetic pleuromutilin compound highly active against multi - resistant pathogens .
ant ( 3'' )  - iia is a aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase identified in acinetobacter spp .
ant ( 3'' )  - iib is a aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase identified in acinetobacter spp .
ant ( 3'' )  - iic is a aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase identified in acinetobacter spp .
shotgun cloning of beta - lactam resistant p . aeruginosa nrz - 03096 yielded a clone producing a novel subclass b1 enzyme with only 74 .3% identity to the next nearest relative ,  khm - 1 .
ndm - 17 is a metallo - beta - lactamase isolated from escherichia coli with enhanced carbapenemase activity compared to ndm - 1 .
erm ( 48 )  is a macrolide - lincosamide - streptogramin resistance gene identified on resistance plasmid pjw2311 .
mutations to the cdsa phosphatidate cytidylyltransferase conferring resistance to daptomycin .
cdsa is a phosphatidate cytidylyltransferase which plays a role in the production of membrane phosphatidylglycerol and cardiolipin .
lpeab are components of an efflux pump ,  which is a macrolide resistance determinant in l . pneumophila paris strain .
lpea is a subunit of the lpeab efflux pump in legionella pneumophila ,  which is homologous to acra in e . coli .
lpeb is a subunit of the lpeab efflux pump in legionella pneumophila ,  which is homologous to acrb in e . coli .
mdtnop is a mfs efflux pump protein found in e . coli .
methyltransferase enzyme first described in streptoalloteichus tenebrarius .
qepa2 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance pump found in an escherichia coli isolate from france
tmb - 1 ,  the first known member of the tripoli metallo - beta - lactamase family  ( tmb )  was isolated from achromobacter xylosoxidans in a tripoli central hospital .
tmb - 1 is a tmb metallo - beta - lactamase found in achromobacter sp .
tmb - 2 is a tmb metallo - beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter sp .
soxr is a redox - sensitive transcriptional activator that induces expression of a small regulon that includes the rnd efflux pump - encoding operon mexghi - opmd .
rob is a positive regulator for the acrab efflux genes ,  and is structurally similar to soxs and mara .
rob is a positive regulator for the acrab efflux genes ,  and is structurally similar to soxs and mara .
mcr - 2 is a plasmid - borne phosphoethanolamine transferase that interferes with binding of colistin to the cell membrane via addition of phosphoethanolamine to lipid a ,  resulting in reduction of the negative charge of the cell membrane .
fosa6 is a plasmid - encoded enzyme that confers resistance to fosfomycin in escherichia coli by breaking the epoxide ring of the molecule .
this group of enzymes catalyzes the addition of a phosphoethanolamine group to another molecule .
fosa7 is an enzyme that confers resistance to fosfomycin in escherichia coli by breaking the epoxide ring of the molecule .
in the presence of antibiotic stress ,  there is a coupled down - regulation of the porin ompc with the ompf .
nitroimidazoles are a group of drugs that have both antiprotozoal and antibacterial activity ,  classified with respect to the location of the nitro functional group .
nitrofurans are chemotherapeutic agents with antibacterial and antiprotozoal activity .
a toxr - regulated outer membrane porin .
a toxr negatively regulated outer membrane porin .
cbp c1 - aminomethylene vancomycin is a synthetic vancomycin derivative which exhibits multiple synergistic mechanisms of action ,  allowing it to effectively inhibit otherwise - glycopeptide resistant gram - positive bacteria  ( notably those with functioning vana clusters )  .
bactericidal / permeability - increasing  ( bpi )  protein is a member of a new generation of proteins known as super - antibiotics that are implicated as endotoxin neutralising agents .
klebsiella pneumoniae outer membrane porin protein .
heterologous expression of burkholderia pseudomallei omp38  ( bpsomp38 )  in omp - deficient e . coli host cells lowers their permeability and in consequence ,  their antimicrobial susceptibility to penicillin g ,  cefoxitin ,  ceftazidime and imipenem .
the outer membrane protein m35 of moraxella catarrhalis is an antigenically conserved porin .
nucleotide point mutations in the 23s rrna subunit may confer resistance to macrolide antibiotics .
lamb is a negative regulator for antibiotic resistance ,  it serves as a porin to influx antibiotic .
mlta - interacting protein  ( mipa )  ,  is an antibiotic resistance - related outer membrane protein .
omp1 is an outer membrane porin that confers resistance by absence in s . marcescens .
cephaloridine is a semisynthetic ,  broad - spectrum ,  first - generation cephalosporin with antibacterial activity .
balofloxacin is an 8 - methoxy fluoroquinolone antibiotic .
point mutation in the 23s rrna of escherichia coli shown clinically to confer resistance to the macrolide - class antibiotics erythromycin and telithromycin .
point mutation in 23s rrna of c . reinhardtii chloroplast shown clinically to confer resistance to erythromycin ,  a macrolide antibiotic .
point mutation in b . hyodysenteriae 23s rrna shown to confer resistance to tylosin and erythromycin
point mutations in helicobacter pylori shown to confer resistance to clarithromycin ,  a macrolide antibiotic
point mutations in m . tuberculosis inib shown to confer resistance to ethambutol .
point mutations occurring in the inib region of the inibac operon shown to confer resistance to ethambutol
inib ,  an isoniazid - induced protein ,  is part of the inibac operon that participates in the development of tolerance to both isoniazid and ethambutol .
point mutations in the 23s ribosomal rna subunit of m . catarrhalis shown clinically to confer resistance to macrolide class antibiotics .
mcr - 3 is a plasmid - borne phosphoethanolamine transferase that interferes with binding of colistin to the cell membrane via addition of phosphoethanolamine to lipid a ,  resulting reduction in negative charge of the cell membrane .
enzymes shown to inactivate fusidic acid by hydrolytic cleavage from the 16 beta - position of fusidic acid and its derivatives .
an rnd - type efflux system that confers innate aminoglycoside resistance to achromobacter spp .
oprz is the outer membrane component of the axyxy - oprz efflux pump system in achromobacter spp .
axyx is the inner membrane transporter of the axyxy - oprz efflux pump system in achromobacter spp .
axyy is the periplasmic adaptor protein of the axyxy - oprz efflux pump system in achromobacter spp .
axyz is a transcriptional regulator of the axyxy - oprz efflux pump system .
a cfr - like 23s rrna methyltransferase shown to confer resistance to linezolid and phenicol antibiotics ,  including florfenicol and chloramphenicol ,  in clostridium .
point mutation in the 23s rrna of escherichia coli shown clinically to confer resistance to clindamycin ,  a lincosamide antibiotic
point mutation in the 23s rrna of escherichia coli shown clinically to confer resistance to chloramphenicol
antibiotic resistant form of thymidylate synthase  ( synthetase )  ,  an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of dump to dtmp in nucleotide biosynthesis .
point mutations in the thymidylate synthetase thya gene shown clinically to confer resistance to para - aminosalicylic acid .
thymidylate synthase  ( synthetase )  catalyzes the conversion of dump to dtmp in the nucleic acid biosynthesis pathway .
dihydrofolate synthase  ( synthetase )  enzymes resistant to aminosalicylates  ( inc . para - aminosalicylic acid )  caused by mutation .
wild - type form of dihydrofolate synthase  ( synthetase )  enzymes .
point mutations in the dihydrofolate synthetase folc gene shown clinically to confer resistance to p - aminosalicylic acid or other aminosalicylates .
point mutations in the 23s rrna  ( domain v )  of mycoplasma gallisepticum can confer resistance to pleuromutilin antibiotics  ( tiamulin and valnemulin )  .
point mutation in the 23s rrna of escherichia coli shown clinically to confer resistance to clarithromycin ,  a macrolide antibiotic
point mutation in the 23s rrna of propionibacteria shown clinically to confer resistance to macrolides
point mutation in the 23s rrna of mycobacteroides abscessus shown to confer resistance to clarithromycin ,  a macrolide type antibiotic .
point mutation in the 23s rrna of mycobacterium avium shown to confer resistance to clarithromycin ,  a macrolide type antibiotic .
point mutation in the 23s rrna of mycobacteroides chelonae shown to confer resistance to clarithromycin ,  a macrolide type antibiotic .
point mutation in the 23s rrna of mycobacterium intracellulare shown to confer resistance to clarithromycin ,  a macrolide type antibiotic .
point mutation in the 23s rrna of mycobaccterium avium shown to confer resistance to azithromycin ,  a macrolide type antibiotic .
point mutation in the 23s rrna of mycobacterium kansasii shown to confer resistance to clarithromycin ,  a macrolide type antibiotic .
point mutation in the 23s rrna of mycolicibacterium smegmatis shown to confer resistance to clarithromycin ,  a macrolide type antibiotic .
point mutation in the 23s rrna of streptococcus pneumoniae shown to confer resistance to macrolide type antibiotics
point mutation in the 23s rrna of streptomyces ambofaciens shown to confer resistance to macrolide type antibiotics
point mutations in the 23s rrna subunit may confer resistance to oxazolidinone antibiotics
point mutation in the 23s rrna of escherichia coli shown to confer resistance to oxazolidinone type antibiotics
point mutation in the 23s rrna of chlamydia trachomatis shown to confer resistance to macrolide type antibiotics
point mutation in the 23s rrna of mycoplasma hominis shown to confer resistance to macrolide type antibiotics
point mutation in the 23s rrna of mycoplasma fermentans shown to confer resistance to macrolide type antibiotics
point mutations in the 23s rrna subunit may confer resistance to pleuromutilin antibiotics
point mutation in the 23s rrna of mycoplasma pneumoniae shown to confer resistance to erythromycin
point mutation in the 23s rrna of halobacterium halobium shown to confer resistance to chloramphenicol
point mutation in the 23s rrna of streptococcus pneumoniae shown to confer resistance to macrolides and streptogramins types of antibiotics
nucleotide point mutations in the 23s rrna subunit may confer resistance to streptogramins antibiotics .
antibiotic target replacement dihydrofolate reductase enzymes or domains with catalytic activity that confer resistance to aminosalicylates ,  esp .
ribd is a mycobacterium tuberculosis riboflavin biosynthesis enzyme .
mecd is a pbp2a variant identified on a genomic resistance island in macrococcus caseolyticus .
point mutations in the 23s rrna subunit may confer resistance to lincosamide antibiotics by reducing antibiotic binding - site affinity .
point mutations in the 23s rrna subunit shown clinically to confer resistance to phenicol class antibiotics ,  including chloramphenicol and florfenicol ,  by disrupting antibiotic binding - site affinity
bla2 is a chromosomal - encoded beta - lactamase ,  found in bacillus anthracis ,  which has penicillin ,  cephalosporin ,  and carbapenem - hydrolizing abilities .
blaa beta - lactamases are class a beta - lactamases first identified in yersinia enterocolitica and have the ability to hydrolize penicilins and cephalosporins .
aminoglycoside 2'' - phosphotransferase identified from the gram - negative pathogen campylobacter jejuni .
cepa beta - lactamases are class a beta - lactamases found in bateroides fragilis and have the ability to hydrolyze cephalosporin .
sed beta - lactamases are class a beta - lactamases that are capable of hydrolyzing benzypenicillin ,  cephalothin ,  and cloxacillin .
a plasmid - borne novel mcr - 1 functional variant detected in a klebsiella pneumoniae isolate collected from a rectal swab in italy .
nmca beta - lactamases are chromosomal - encoded class a beta - lactamases first isolated from enterobacter cloacae ,  specifically a clinical strain known as nor - 1 .
vcc beta - lactamases are class a beta - lactamases .
blaz beta - lactamases are class a beta - lactamases .
r39 beta - lactamases are class a beta - lactamases encoded in actinomadura r39 with the ability to hydrolyze penicillins .
ceps beta - lactamases are class c beta - lactamases capable of hydrolyzing cephalosporin .
ccra beta - lactamases are chromosomal - encoded carbapenemase commonly found in bacteroides fragilis isolates .
blab beta - lactamases are class b beta - lactamases that are found in a variety of species and have the ability to hydrolyze penams and carbapenems .
john beta - lactamases hydrolyse penicillins ,  narrow -  and expanded - spectrum cephalosporins ,  and carbapenems .
cgb beta - lactamases are class b beta - lactamases found in chryseobacterium gleu that can hydrolyze penicillins ;  narrow -  and expanded - spectrum cephalosporins ;  and carbapenems .
ebr beta - lactamases are class b beta - lactamases first isolated from empedobacter brevis and are able to hydrolyze penicillins ,  cephalosporins ,  and carbapenems .
tus beta - lactamases are class b beta - lactamases that can hydrolyze a variety of beta - lactams ,  such as cephems and carbapenems
sim beta - lactamases are class b beta - lactamases that are capable of hydrolyzing a wide variety of beta - lactams ,  including penicillins ,  narrow -  to expanded - spectrum cephalosporins ,  and carbapenem .
khm beta - lactamases are class b beta - lactamases that can confer resistance to all classes of beta - lactams ,  except the monobactams .
dim type beta - lactamases were first identified from a carbapenem - resistant pseudomonas stutzeri strain isolated from a dutch patient .
first identified from a multi - drug resistant pseudomonas aeruginosa clinical isolate in 2012 ,  hmb type beta - lactamases can be encoded in transposons and hydrolyze carbapenems .
this type of subclass b2 beta - lactamases was first identified from a serratia fonticola environmental isolate .
the fez family of beta - lactamases are subclass b3 beta - lactamases that hydrolyze penicillins ,  cephalosporins ,  and carbapenems .
the gob family of beta - lactamases have been discovered in the elizabethkingia meningoseptica and are classified as subclass b3 beta - lactamase .
gob - 18 is a member of subclass b3 gob family of beta - lactamases isolated from elizabethkingia meningoseptica .
beta - lactamases that are part of the thin - b family ,  which is a subclass b3 beta - lactamase family and hydrolyze a broad spectrum of beta - lactams including penicillins ,  cephalosporins ,  and carbapenems .
this subclass b3 of beta - lactamses have the ability to hydrolyze cephalosporins .
a subclass b3 family of beta - lactamases that confer resistance to a range of beta - lactam antibiotics including penams ,  cephamycins ,  and cephalosporins .
smb beta - lactamases are a subclass b3 beta - lactamases that hydrolyze a variety of beta - lactams ,  including penicillins ,  cephalosporins ,  and carbapenems .
cau beta - lactamases are a subclass b3 family .
bjp beta - lactamases are a subclass b3 family .
pedo family enzymes that are classified under subclass b3  ( metallo -  )  beta - lactamases .
cps beta - lactamases are a subclass b3 family .
esp family beta - lactamases are subclass b3  ( metallo -  )  beta - lactamases .
msi beta - lactamases are a family of subclass b3  ( metallo -  )  beta - lactamases .
spg beta - lactamases are a family of subclass b3  ( metallo -  )  beta - lactamases .
a family encompassing subclass b3 rm3 - like beta - lactamases .
beta - lactamases that are part of the lra gene family and are classified as b3  ( metallo -  )  beta - lactamases .
beta - lactamases that are part of the pedo gene family and are classified as subclass b1  ( metallo -  )  beta - lactamases .
beta - lactamases that are part of the lra gene family and are classified as class a beta - lactamases .
beta - lactamases belonging to the bla genes from bacillus anthracis that are classified as class a beta - lactamases .
beta - lactamases belonging to the bla genes from bacillus anthracis that are classified as subclass b1 beta - lactamases .
beta - lactamases that are part of the lra gene family and are classified as class c beta - lactamases .
ampc beta - lactamases are clinically important class c beta - lactamase enzymes which confer resistance to cephalosporins and penicillin - like antibiotics .
class a beta - lactamases first isolated from mycolicibacterium fortuitum .
beta - lactamases part of this family discovered in streptomyces albus g .
a family of class a beta - lactamases that have been discovered in the rhodobacter genus .
this family of macrolide glycosyltransferases derive from gima ,  which was discovered in streptomyces ambofaciens .
the mgt family encompasses macrolide glycotransferases of the streptomyces genus .
the sul genes encode forms of dihydropteroate synthase that confer resistance to sulfonamide .
nps - 1 is a plasmid - encoded class d beta - lactamases identified from two pseudomonas aeruginosa isolates in 1986 .
nps beta - lactamases are class d beta - lactamases that have partial hydrolyzing abilities against penicillins and cephalosporin .
beta - lactamases that are part of the lra gene family and are classified as class d beta - lactamases .
members of the msi - oxa family are class d beta - lactamases that encompass hybrids of msi - 1 and putative oxa homologues .
rbpa is a family of bacterial rna polymerase - binding proteins ,  which acts as a transcription factor and binds to the sigma subunit of rna polymerase .
the dnaa family of replication initiation proteins interact with rna polymerase to confer resistance against rifampicin anitibiotics .
the fosc family of phosphotransferases phosphorylate fosfomycin to confer resistance and have been found in various bacterial isolates .
two members of the fom family have been identified ,  foma and fomb .
fosfomycin is transported bacterial cells through transporters ,  one of them being glycerol - 3 - phosphate ,  which is encoded by the glpt gene .
uhpt encodes a transporter that can import fosfomycin - type drugs into bacterial cells .
uhpa acts as a positive regulator of uhpt ,  which is a transporter to bring fosfomycin drugs into bacterial cells .
ptsi family phosphotransferases are involved in cyclic amp synthesis ,  which regulates glpt expression .
adenylate cyclases encoded by cya genes ,  which are involved in the synthesis cyclic amp which regulates the fosfomycin transporter glpt .
vanug is a vang variant found in the vang gene cluster .
vanvb is a vanv variant found in the vanb gene cluster .
vanj and vanj homologue proteins confer resistance to the teicoplanin .
bleomycin resistant proteins  ( brp )  confer resistance to bleomycin and to bleomycin - like molecules .
acetyltransferases of the cpa family confer resistance to capreomycin ,  an aminoglycoside antibiotic
a family of acetyltransferases that confer resistance to apramycin .
acetylation of the aminoglycoside antibiotic on the amino group at position 1 .
bah amidohydrolases are membrane proteins that inactivate bacitracin .
viomycin family of phosphotransferases confer resistance to viomycin antibiotics .
mutations to the liaf accessory protein that confer resistance to daptomycin .
mutations to the liar response regulator that confer resistance to daptomycin .
mutations in the lias histidine kinase that confer daptomycin resistance .
mutations to dema confer lycosin resistance .
point mutations in katg confer antibiotic resistance by preventing katg from catalyzing the activation of antibiotics .
point mutations in pnca prevent the enzyme from activating antibiotics ,  such as pyrazinamide .
a group of mobile colistin resistance genes encode the mcr family of phosphoethanolamine transferases ,  which catalyze the addition of phosphoethanolamine onto lipid a ,  thus interfering with the binding of colistin to the cell membrane .
this family of phosphoethanolamine transferase catalyze the addition of 4 - amino - 4 - deoxy - l - arabinose  ( l - ara4n )  and phosphoethanolamine to lipid a ,  which impedes the binding of colistin to the cell membrane .
fabi is a enoyl - acyl carrier reductase used in lipid metabolism and fatty acid biosynthesis .
methyltransferases that methylate the g1405 position of 16s rrna ,  which is part of an aminoglycoside binding site .
methyltransferases that methylate the a1408 position of 16s rrna ,  which is part of an aminoglycoside binding site .
a family of lincosamide resistant 23s rrna methyltransferases .
methyltransferases that modify the 23s rrna of the 50s subunit of bacterial ribosomes ,  conferring resistance to drugs that target 23s rrna .
nucleotidylylation of streptomycin at the hydroxyl group at position 3''
nucelotidylylation of streptomycin at the hydroxyl group at position 2'' .
general bacterial porins are a family of porins found in the outer membrane of gram - negative bacteria .
the opr family consists of porins in pseudomonas species ,  and other gram - negative bacteria ,  that exhibit a variety of substrate selectivities .
members of the sugar porin family tend to facilitate the transport of maltodextrins and other sugars across the outer membrane of gram - negative bacteria .
the mlta - interacting protein  ( mipa )  family consists mainly of homologs to mipa and ompv proteins .
these are gbps that are associated with decreased susceptibility to beta - lactams either through mutations in the porin protein ,  absence of the porin protein ,  or expression of the porin protein .
these are gbps that are associated with decreased susceptibility to peptide antibiotics either through mutations in the porin protein ,  absence of the porin protein ,  or expression of the porin protein .
the imipenum resistance - associated caro porin family is composed of the caro porin originally identified in acinetobacter baumannii .
fabg is a 3 - oxoacyl - acyl carrier protein reductase involved in lipid metabolism and fatty acid biosynthesis .
a grouping of tunicamycin resistance proteins that are homologous to tmrb found in bacillus subtilis .
phenotypic variant regulator proteins play a role in controlling the switch between antibiotic - susceptible and antibiotic - resistant forms of bacteria .
the antimicrobial activity of certain antibiotics ,  such as peptide antibiotics ,  is proposed to be initiated through binding to the lipid a moiety of lipopolysaccharides .
varg is an ambler class b metallo - beta - lactamase found on the antibiotic resistance var regulon in vibrio cholerae ,  along with an antibiotic efflux pump varabcdef .
varg is an ambler class b metallo - beta - lactamase found on the antibiotic resistance var regulon in vibrio cholerae ,  along with an antibiotic efflux pump varabcdef .
a class c ampc beta - lactamase  ( cephalosporinase )  enzyme described in escherichia coli shown clinically to confer resistance to penicillin - like and cephalosporin - class antibiotics .
a periplasmic cephalosporinase described in rhodobacter sphaeroides shown to contribute to resistance of beta - lactam antibiotics .
a chromosome - encoded class c beta - lactamase described in the pathogen laribacter hongkongensis ,  often associated with gastroenteritis .
a class c beta - lactamase family of chromosome - encoded antibiotic resistance genes originally described from buttiauxella spp .
a chromosome - encoded  class c cephalosporinase and penicillinase from buttiauxella spp .
a ribosomally synthesized cyclic peptide antibiotic .
bulgecin a is a lytic transglycosylase inhibitor and antibiotic adjuvant produced from pseudomonas mesoacidophila .
qualitative description of a microbial response to antimicrobial agents and the expected clinical outcome .
intermediate sensitivity of a bacterial strain to a given antibiotic occurs when it is inhibited by a concentration of the drug that is associated with uncertain therapeutic effect .
a bacterial strain is said to be resistant to a given antibiotic when it is inhibited in vitro by a concentration of this drug that is associated with a high likelihood of therapeutic failure .
a bacterial strain is said to be susceptible to a given antibiotic when it is inhibited in vitro by a concentration of a drug that is associated with a high likelihood of therapeutic success
a bacterial strain is said to be nonsusceptible to a given antibiotic drug if it demonstrates either an intermediate or resistant phenotype when exposed to a concentration of a drug that is associated with a high likelihood of therapeutic failure ,  i .e .
a bacterial strain is said to be susceptible - dose dependent  ( sdd )  to a given antibiotic when growth is inhibited with a high likelihood of therapeutic success ,  but when multiple approved dosing options exist .
multidrug - resistant organisms are defined as bacterial strains that have become resistant to multiple classes of antibacterial drugs or other agents .
any strain of staphylococcus aureus that has tested resistant  ( r )  to at least one of methicillin ,  oxacillin or cefoxitin by standard susceptibility testing methods .
methicillin - resistant staphylococcus aureus that has additionally tested resistant to the antibiotic drug linezolid
methicillin - resistant staphylococcus aureus that has additionally tested resistant to the fluoroquinolone antibiotics ciprofloxacin and / or levofloxacin
methicillin - resistant staphylococcus aureus that has additionally tested intermediate to vancomycin antibiotics .
methicillin - resistant staphylococcus aureus that has additionally tested non - susceptible  ( ns ,  resistant or intermediate )  to daptomycin antibiotics
any strain of acinetobacter spp .
any strain of an acinetobacter spp .
any strain of e . coli that has tested resistant to one of the following carbapenem antibiotics: imipenem ,  meropenem ,  doripenem ,  ertapenem .
any e .coli that has tested resistant  ( r )  to at least one of the following: ceftriaxone ,  ceftazidime ,  cefepime ,  and cefotaxime
any e .coli that has tested resistant  ( r )  to at least one of the following: ciprofloxacin ,  levofloxacin ,  and moxifloxacin .
any e .coli that has tested either intermediate  ( i )  or resistant  ( r )  to at least one drug in at least 3 of the following 5 categories: 1 )  extended - spectrum cephalosporins ,  2 )  fluoroquinolones  ( ciprofloxacin ,  levofloxacin ,  moxifloxacin )  ,  3 )  aminoglycosides  ( amikacin ,  gentamicin ,  tobramycin )  ,  4 )  carbapenems  ( imipenem ,  meropenem ,  doripenem ,  ertapenem )  ,  5 )  piperacillin group  ( piperacillin ,  piperacillin / tazobactam ) 
any enterobacter spp .that has tested resistant to at least one of the following antibiotic drugs: imipenem ,  meropenem ,  doripenem ,  ertapenem .
any enterobacter spp .that has tested resistant to at least one of the following antibiotics: ceftriaxone ,  ceftazidime ,  cefepime ,  and / or cefotaxime .
any enterobacter spp .that has tested either intermediate or resistant to at least one drug in at least 3 of the following categories: extended - spectrum cephalosporins ,  fluoroquinolones ,  aminoglycosides ,  carbapenems ,  and / or pipericillin / tazobactam
any klebsiella oxytoca or klebsiella pneumoniae that has tested resistant to at least one of the following antibiotics: imipenem ,  meropenem ,  doripenem ,  ertapenem .
any klebsiella oxytoca or klebsiella pneumoniae that has tested resistant to at least one of the following antibiotics: ceftriaxone ,  ceftazidime ,  cefepime ,  and / or cefotaxime .
any klebsiella oxytoca or klebsiella pneumoniae that has tested intermediate or resistant in at least 3 of the following categories: extended - spectrum cephalosporins ,  fluoroquinolones ,  aminoglycosides ,  carbapenems ,  or pipericillin / tazobactam
any strain of pseudomonas aeruginosa that has tested either intermediate or resistant to at least one of the following antibiotics: imipenem ,  meropenem and / or doripenem
any strain of pseudomonas aeruginosa that has tested resistant to at least one of the following antibiotics: cefepime and / or ceftazidime
mcr - 4 is a plasmid - borne phosphoethanolamine transferase variant of mcr - 1 ,  isolated from salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium of porcine origin in italy ,  spain and belgium through 2013 and 2015 - 2016 .
any pseudomonas aeruginosa that has tested resistant  ( r )  to at least one of the following: ciprofloxacin ,  levofloxacin
any pseudomonas aeruginosa that has tested resistant  ( r )  to at least one of the following: amikacin ,  gentamicin ,  tobramycin
any pseudomonas aeruginosa that has tested resistant  ( r )  to at least one of the following: piperacillin ,  piperacillin / tazobactam
any enterococcus faecium or enterococcus faecalis that has tested resistant  ( r )  to vancomycin
any enterococcus faecium or enterococcus faecalis that has tested non - susceptible  ( ns )  to daptomycin
coagulase - negative staphylococci that has tested resistant ( r )  or intermediate ( i )  to vancomycin
mcr - 5 is a transposon - associated phosphoethanolamine transferase gene ,  identified in salmonella paratyphi b dta +   ( d - tartrate fermenting salmonella enterica subsp .
dna gyrase is responsible for dna supercoiling and consists of two alpha and two beta subunits .
point mutations in salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium which have been shown to increase the minimum inhibitory concentration of the antibiotic triclosan .
point mutations in escherichia coli which have been shown to increase the minimum inhibitory concentration of the antibiotic triclosan .
an ampc - like beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
an ampc - like beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
an ampc - like beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
an ampc - like beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
an ampc - like beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
an ampc - like beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
an ampc - like beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
an ampc - like beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
an ampc - like beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
an ampc - like beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
an ampc - like beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
an ampc - like beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
an ampc - like beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
an ampc - like beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
an ampc - like beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
an ampc - like beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
an ampc - like beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
an ampc - like beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
an ampc - like beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
an ampc - like beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
an ampc - like beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase identified in brevibacillus brevis and shown to confer resistance to chloramphenicol antibiotics .
a family of class a beta - lactamase enzymes described in the gram - negative cocci acidaminococcus fermentans .
a class a beta - lactamase described in acidaminococcus fermentans .
uses breakpoints to create standards for interpreting the clinical outcome of an mic value for a particular microbial species and antimicrobial agent
sul4 is a dihydropteroate synthase gene and mobile sulfonamide resistance gene shown to confer resistance when expressed in e . coli .
a chromosome - carried oxa - 48 - like beta - lactamase ,  oxa - 535 ,  identified in shewanella spp .
lipid a acyltransferase genes confer resistance to certain types of peptide antibiotics such as polymyxins through the aminoacylation of lipopolysaccharide ,  thereby decreasing the negative charge of the outer membrane surface .
a member of the almefg operon ,  responsible for polymyxin resistance in vibrio cholerae .
bsac is a british inter - professional organisation involved in antibiotic education ,  research and leadership .
the clinical and laboratory standards institute develops and implements clinical laboratory testing standards .
din is recognized by the federal government of germany as the competent standards organization for germany and as the national standards body representing germany in non - governmental international standards organizations .
eucast is a standing committee jointly organized by escmid ,  ecdc and european national breakpoint committees ;  it deals with breakpoints and technical aspects of phenotypic in - vitro antimicrobial susceptibility testing .
the french society of microbiology  ( sfm )  is a non - profit association which aims to bring together microbiologists from french - speaking countries ,  working in the domains of bacteria ,  viruses ,  fungi and parasites ,  and related medical ,  industrial and environmental microbiology ,  physiology ,  genetics ,  taxonomy ,  hygiene ,  and antimicrobial agents .
minimum inhibitory concentration  ( mic )  ,  in microbiology ,  is the lowest concentration of an antimicrobial that will inhibit the visible growth of a microorganism after overnight incubation .
the measured or quantified mic
a calcium - dependent cyclic lipopeptide found to be effective against multidrug - resistant staphylococcus aureus in cutaneous wound infections .
biosynthesis of malacidin a and malacidin b calcium - dependent cyclic lipopeptide antibiotics from uncultured soil bacteria .
biosynthesis of the broad - spectrum rho transcription factor inhibitor bicyclomycin by hydroxylation of a trna - dependent cyclodipeptide synthase core .
a method to determine whether microbial growth is affected by an antimicrobial compound
a plasmid - mediate quinolone efflux pump described in klebsiella aerogenes and escherichia coli .
a plasmid - mediated quinolone efflux pump variant described in escherichia coli .
antibiotic adjuvant and beta - lactamase inhibitor ,  often paired with meropenem for clinical use .
an experimental test conducted inside of a living organism ,  none of which currently exist for antimicrobial resistance testing
an experimental test conducted outside of a living organism ,  usually in a tube or plate .
reagents and procedures used during microbial susceptibility testing .
system of analysis for determining antimicrobial susceptibility .
microbial species are inoculated in a growth medium onto which antimicrobial agents are transferred by diffusion .
components of complex mixtures such as plant extracts are separated across a tlc plate and tested for anti - microbial activity .
allows for time - dependent or concentration - dependent analysis of antimicrobial effects .
relies on the indirect measurement of microbe populations by quantifying microbial atp production .
microbes exposed to antimicrobial agents are then stained with the intercalating agent propidium iodide .
test that directly detect the presence of a particular resistance mechanism .
the microbial species are inoculated in liquid growth medium containing incremental dilutions  ( usually 2 - fold )  of the antimicrobial agent .
automated system of analysis for determining antimicrobial susceptibility .
non - automated system of analysis for determining antimicrobial susceptibility .
specific automated system of analysis for determining antimicrobial susceptibility developed by omron .
specific automated system of analysis for determining antimicrobial susceptibility developed by becton dickinson .
specific automated system of analysis for determining antimicrobial susceptibility developed by trek ,  thermo fisher scientific .
specific automated system of analysis for determining antimicrobial susceptibility developed by biomérieux .
vendor of automated system of analysis for determining antimicrobial susceptibility .
specific vendor of automated system of analysis for determining antimicrobial susceptibility headquartered in new jersey ,  usa .
specific vendor of automated system of analysis for determining antimicrobial susceptibility headquartered in france .
specific vendor of automated system of analysis for determining antimicrobial susceptibility headquartered in berlin and munich .
specific vendor of automated system of analysis for determining antimicrobial susceptibility based in japan .
specific vendor of automated system of analysis for determining antimicrobial susceptibility that was acquired by thermo fisher scientific inc . thermo fisher scienfiic inc . is headquartered in massachusetts ,  usa .
a method to determine the minimum inhibitory concentration  ( mic )  of antibiotics in which growth media is pipetted into a multi - well plate .
broth dilution conducted on 96 - well microtiter plates  ( ≤200 µl per well )  .
a method to determine microbial susceptibility to antibiotics wherein bacteria are inoculated onto agar plates and the antimicrobial agent diffused onto the agar plate from a filter paper disk .
a method to determine microbial susceptibility to antibiotics in which a plastic strip impregnated with the antibiotic of interest is placed on an agar plate that has been inoculated with bacteria .
this test is a common method of evaluating the antimicrobial activity of plants or microbial extracts .
this method is commonly used to study the antagonism between microorganisms .
this method is commonly used to study the antagonism between microorganisms .
the antimicrobial agent is transferred from a chromatogram to an agar plate previously inoculated with the test microorganism .
a developed tlc plate is dipped into or sprayed with a microbial suspension and then incubated .
the tlc plate is covered with a molten agar medium seeded with the test microbe and the antimicrobial compounds are allowed to diffuse onto the agar medium .
concentration at which bacterial cells in suspension ,  calculated with respect to final volume  ( colony forming units / milliliter  ( cfu / ml )  )  .
medium that supports microorganism growth .
assay for beta lactamase detection
commercial colorimetric assay for detection of chloramphenicol modifying enzyme chloramphenicol acetyltransferase .
greater than 5 x 105 cfu / ml for broth dilution and 104 cfu / ml for agar dilution .
less than 5 x 105 cfu / ml for broth dilution and 104 cfu / ml for agar dilution .
around equal to 5 x 105 cfu / ml for broth dilution and 104 cfu / ml for agar dilution .
general purpose medium used for culture of nonfastidious microorganisms .
incubation atmosphere supplemented with co2 .
medium supplementation with 20–25 mg ca2 +  and 10–12 .5 mg mg2 +  per liter ,  which is representative of the divalent cation concentration in blood .
growth medium supplemented with 2%  ( wt / vol )  sodium chloride for testing susceptibility of staphylococcus aureus to methicillin ,  oxacillin and nafcillin .
low thymine and thymidine content .
high thymine and thymidine content .
the tissue type used to select breakpoints from a particular standard ,  for the interpretation of mic results .
a circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the skin .
a cystitis characterized by a sudden onset or severe symptoms .
a female organ involved in reproduction .
a male organ involved in reproduction .
a disease of anatomical entity that located_in the respiratory system which extends from the nasal sinuses to the diaphragm .
an integumentary system disease that is located in the skin .
the outer epithelial layer of the skin that is superficial to the dermis .
skin lesion is a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as an abnormal change in structure of the skin that is especially circumscribed and well defined due to injury or disease .
a respiratory system disease which involves the lower respiratory tract .
a lower respiratory tract disease in which the function of the lungs is adversely affected by narrowing or blockage of the airways resulting in poor air flow ,  a loss of elasticity in the lungs that produces a decrease in the total volume of air that the lungs are able to hold ,  and clotting ,  scarring ,  or inflammation of the blood vessels that affect the ability of the lungs to take up oxygen and to release carbon dioxide .
a lung disease characterized by inadequate gas exchange by the respiratory system .
a respiratory failure that results from diffuse injury to the endothelium of the lung  ( as in sepsis ,  chest trauma ,  massive blood transfusion ,  aspiration of the gastric contents ,  or pneumonia )  and is characterized by pulmonary edema with an abnormally high amount of protein in the edematous fluid and by difficult rapid breathing and hypoxemia .
a respiratory failure that is characterized by deficiency of the surfactant coating the inner surface of the lungs ,  by failure of the lungs to expand and contract properly during breathing with resulting collapse ,  and by the accumulation of a protein - containing film lining the alveoli and their ducts .
qualitative description of a microbial response to antimicrobial agents as described by eucast using breakpoints determined through in - vitro testing .
a microbe whose susceptibility to antibiotics is comparable to that of a reference susceptible microbe ,  meaning that the microbe is sensitive to the particular antibiotic .
a microbe whose susceptibility to antibiotics differs from that of a reference susceptible microbe ,  meaning that the microbe is resistant to the particular antibiotic .
vendor of amr testing equipment and reagents .
details required in reporting antimicrobial resistance .
qualitative description of a microbial response to antimicrobial agents as described by clsi using breakpoints that take into consideration tissue specificity of infection .
tet ( 59 )  is a chromosome - encoded tetracycline efflux pump described from a chinese pig manure sample .
tet ( w / n / w )  is a mosaic tetracycline resistance gene and ribosomal protection protein .
a family of class a beta - lactamase enzymes ,  rsa beta - lactamases show carbapenemase and cephalosporinase activity
rsa - 1 is a class a beta - lactamase resistance enzyme identified from a functional metagenomic study of contaminated river sediments .
rsa - 2 is a class a beta - lactamase enzyme identified from a functional metagenomics study of contaminated river sediments in india .
pbp3 is a penicillin - binding protein and beta - lactam resistance enzyme encoded by the ftsi gene in haemophilus influenzae .
a class a beta - lactamase family shown to hydrolyze penicillin but without cephalosporinase activity .
a class a beta - lactamase with penicillinase activity described in atlantibacter  ( escherichia )  hermannii
a class c beta - lactamase endogenous to aeromonas enteropelogenes  ( tructi ) 
a class c beta - lactamase enzyme identified from aeromonas enteropelogenes .
a chloramphenicol resistance determinant described in the gram - negative bacterium agrobacterium fabrum .
a chloramphenicol resistance determinant described in bacillus clausii .
a chloramphenicol resistance determinant described in campylobacter coli .
a chloramphenicol resistance determinant described in streptococcus suis .
a chloramphenicol resistance determinant described in an enterococcus faecium plasmid
a chloramphenicol resistance determinant described in staphylococcus intermedius
a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase and resistance determinant described in enterococcus faecalis
a chloramphenicol resistance determinant described in a vibrio anguillarum plasmid sequence
delafloxacin is a novel fluoroquinolone antibiotic ,  differentiated from other on - market fluoroquinolones by the absence of a protonatable substituent conferring a weakly acidic character to the molecule .
ebr - 2 is a novel ebr - like class b beta - lactamase isolated from an extensively drug - resistant strain of empedobacter falsenii
cfe - 2 is a plasmid - encoded ampc beta - lactamase first described from citrobacter freundii by chen et al .
chromosomally - encoded phosphoethanolamine  ( petn )  transferases shown to confer resistance to polymyxin antibiotics ,  including colistin .
a chromosomally - encoded colistin resistance phosphoethanolamine  ( petn )  transferase of moraxella catarrhalis .
a class of phosphotransferase enzymes shown to confer resistance to ciprofloxacin by antibiotic inactivation through phosphorylation .
a plasmid - encoded ciprofloxacin resistance protein identified from a pseudomonas aeruginosa plasmid .
a subfamily of the atp - binding cassette protein superfamily .
poxta is an abc - f subfamily atp - binding cassette protein that confers resistance to tetracycline ,   - phenicol ,  and oxazolidinone via modification of the bacterial ribosome .
msr - type abc - f subfamily ribosomal protection proteins expression in staphylococci species and confer resistance to erythromycin and streptogramin b antibiotics through antibiotic target protection mechanisms .
a subgroup of the abc - f protein subfamily of atp - binding cassette proteins .
a carbapenem antibiotic ,  administered as the oral drug tebipenem - pivoxil ,  shown to be effective at treating bacterial infections .
a siderophore cephalosporin with antibiotic activity against gram - negative pathogens including and specifically pseudomonas aeruginosa .
vmlr is an abc - f atpase ribosomal protection protein identified in bacillus subtilus .
eremomycin pyrrolidide  ( 5 )  is a semisynthetic glycopeptides 3 - 6 that is derived from vancomycin or eremomycin .
beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter rudis efficiently inactivating carbapenems and amoxicillin conferring resistance to cephalosporins
beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter spp .
bifidobacterium are antibiotic resistant probiotics are prescribed to upkeep the population beneficial bacteria in the gut microbiome .
an oxa - 10 family class beta - lactamase identified from a klebsiella pneumoniae bidmc 35 isolate .
a novel nitroimidazole antibiotic for treating mycobacterium tuberculosis infection .
a class of antibiotics used to treat specifically mycobacterium tuberculosis infection ;  therefore ,  referred to as an antimycobacterial .
a diarylquinoline antibiotic drug sold under the brand name sirturo ,  used to treat infection from mycobacterium spp . ,  particularly multidrug - resistant tuberculosis .
a class c carbapenemase and extended - spectrum beta - lactamase identified from acinetobacter baumannii
an imp class b metallo - beta - lactamase enzyme identified from acinetobacter baumannii .
an imp class b metallo - beta - lactamase enzyme identified from carbapenem - resistant pseudomonas aeruginosa
a kpc class a beta - lactamase and carbapenemase identified from chilean isolates of klebsiella pneumoniae .
a trimethoprim - resistant dihydrofolate reductase characterized on a class i integron from an e . coli isolate .
tosufloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibiotic with an extended spectrum of activity .
an mcr - 3 phosphoethanolamine transferase and polymyxin resistance gene variant differing by 2 amino acid substitutions ,  identified from an escherichia coli isolate .
an mcr - 2 phosphoethanolamine transferase and polymyxin resistance gene variant identified in moraxella isolated from pigs in the united kingdom .
an mcr - 2 phosphoethanolamine transferase and polymyxin resistance gene variant identified in moraxella isolated from pigs in great britain
an mcr - 3 phosphoethanolamine transferase and polymyxin resistance gene variant identified in aeromonas .
an mcr - 3 phosphoethanolamine transferase and polymyxin  ( colistin )  resistance gene variant identified from aeromonas ,  proteus and escherichia coli .
an mcr - 3 phosphoethanolamine transferase and polymyxin  ( colistin )  resistance gene variant identified from an extensively - resistant escherichia coli clinical isolate .
an mcr - 1 phosphoethanolamine transferase and polymyxin  ( colistin )  resistance gene variant identified from an escherichia porcine isolate in great britain .
an mcr - 1 phosphoethanolamine transferase and polymyxin resistance gene variant identified from an enterotoxigenic escherichia coli clinical isolate .
an mcr - 3 polymyxin  ( incl .
an mcr - 3 polymyxin  ( incl .
an mcr polymyxin  ( colistin )  resistance gene variant identified in aeromonas
an mcr - 3 polymyxin resistance gene variant identified in a colistin - resistant salmonella isolate from canada ,  located on an inchi - 2 plasmid
an mcr - 1 polymyxin resistance gene variant identified from colistin - resistant salmonella enterica  ( serovar typhimurium )  isolate ,  carried by an incp plasmid .
an mcr - 1 polymyxin resistance gene variant identified from a poultry raoultella planticola isolate
an mcr - 1 polymyxin resistance gene variant identified from a colistin - resistant escherichia coli isolate .
a novel phosphoethanolamine transferase and mobile colistin resistance gene identified from carbapenem - resistant ndm - 1 - producing klebsiella pneumoniae .
a novel plasmid - mediated colistin - resistant phosphoethanolamine transferase identified from a poultry isolate of klebsiella pneumoniae
mic sign  (  >  ,   <  ,  = )  of the mic value
greater than mic value .
less than mic value .
equal to mic value .
mic is a range of two mic values  ( e .g . ,  given 10 clinical isolates with a resistance determinant ,  there are 5 that have an mic of 25ug / ml and 5 that have an mic of 100ug / ml agaisnt tobramycin ) 
strain type used for antibiotic susceptibility testing .
resistant determinant is identified in strain without any experimental methods .
experimental deletion of resistance determinant in the chromosome of the strain initially with this resistance determinant .
experimental protocol where there is a deletion of resistance determinant and the transformation of a plasmid harbouring resistance determinant into the same strain .
experimental procedure where plasmid harbouring a resistance determinant is transformed into a strain .
without any experimental protocol ,  the resistance determinant is absent from the strain .
experimental insertion of resistance determinant in the chromosome of the strain initially without this resistance determinant .
specific strain of bacteria that was used to perform the antibiotic susceptibility test .
source of the strain used in the antibiotic susceptibility test  ( e .g . ,  clinical ,  environmental ,  agriculture ) 
strain isolated in a clinical setting  ( e .g . ,  from a patient ) 
strain collected from environment  ( e .g . ,  soil ,  water ) 
strain collected from agricultural setting  ( e .g . ,  chicken ,  pig ) 
the control of the antibiotic susceptibility testing ,  whether there was an experimental control  ( same strain ,  with and without resistance determinant )  or if there was a group of clinical isolates found to have a resistance determinant compared against a strain without that resistance determinant .
antimicrobial susceptibility testing was performed on the same strain with and without a resistance determinant .
antibiotic susceptibility testing is performed on a group of clinical isolates with a resistance determinant compared to different strains that do not have this resistance determinant .
a chromosomal macrolide 2' - phosphotransferase and resistance gene identified from a brachybacterium faecium cave isolate
source is an experimental ,  commonly used lab strain  ( e .g . ,  p . aeruginosa pao1 )  .
a chromosomal macrolide phosphotransferase identified from bacillus subtilis
a macrolide phosphotransferase identified on a plasmid in exiguobacterium
a chromosomal macrolide phosphostransferase identified in brachybacterium paraconglomeratum
a chromosomal macrolide phosphotransferase identified in brevibacillus brevis vm4 .
adc beta - lactamase enzymes with demonstrable carbapenemase activity ,  an exception amongst these enzymes .
point mutations in the 23s ribosomal rna domain of campylobacter jejuni which confer resistance to macrolide antibiotics ,  including erythromycin .
a dihydrofolate reductase and antibiotic resistance gene identified from an integron in vibrio cholerae
a dihydrofolate reductase and trimethoprim resistance gene identified from porcine isolates of esherichia coli
a dihydrofolate reductase and trimethoprim resistance gene identified from an integron in pseudomonas aeruginosa
a dihydrofolate reductase and trimethoprim resistance gene from non - o1 ,  non - o139 vibrio cholerae
a dihydrofolate reductase and trimethoprim resistance gene from aeromonas hydrophilia
a dihydrofolate reductase and trimethoprim resistance gene from klebsiella pneumoniae
a dihydrofolate reductase and trimethoprim resistance gene isolated from canine escherichia coli infection
a dihydrofolate reductase and trimethoprim resistance gene identified from non - typhoidal multidrug - resistant salmonella enterica
a dihydrofolate reductase and trimethoprim resistance gene identified on an integron in multidrug - resistant gram - negative bacteria
cam  ( central alberta metallo )  beta - lactamases are class b metallo - beta - lactamases and carbapenemases found to confer resistance to broad spectrum antibiotics in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
cam - 1 is a cam  ( central alberta metallo )  beta - lactamase and carbapenemase identified from 4 clinical isolates of pseudomonas aeruginosa from a canadian hospital
murg acetylglucosaminyltransferase enzymes inhibited by vancomycin .
mutations in murg which confer resistance to vancomycin in clostridioides difficile
point mutations in gyrb of clostridioides difficile conferring resistance to fluoroquinolone antibiotics
point mutations in the rpob region of clostridioides difficilewhich confer resistance to rifampin and rifampicin antibiotics
beta - lactam potentiators are a type of resistance - modifying agent  ( rma )  which do not impose antibacterial or beta - lactamase inhibitory ability on their own ,  but improve the performance of antibiotic drugs ,  specifically beta - lactams .
a class of resistance - modifying agents and beta - lactam potentiators which selectively potentiate beta - lactam antibiotics ,  specifically amoxicillin - clavulanic acid ,  in methicillin - resistant staphylococcus aureus  ( mrsa )  without their own antimicrobial activity .
rifalazil is a rifamycin derivative antibiotic ,  sometimes used for treating clostridioides difficile infections .
ramoplanin is a glycolipodepsipeptide antibiotic derived from gram - positive actinoplanes used to treat infection with clostridioides difficile
a trimethoprim - resistant dihydrofolate reductase identified from vibrio cholerae
a chromosomally - encoded colistin resistance phosphoethanolamine  ( petn )  transferase of moraxella osloensis .
pngm is a family of metallo - beta - lactamases first identified from a deep - sea sediment metagenome and shown to reduce antibiotic susceptibility by hydrolysis of penicillins ,  carbapenems and extended -  and broad - spectrum cephalosporins .
pngm - 1 is a subclass b3 metallo - beta - lactamase first identified from a deep - sea sediment meta - genome .
mfs transporters are secondary active transporters with single - polypeptide chains containing 400 - 600 amino acids that transport small solutes across the membrane by using electrochemical gradients .
expression of abaf in e . coli resulted in increased resistance to fosfomycin .
abaq is an mfs transporter mainly involved in the extrusion of quinolone - type drugs in a . baumannii
members of the radical sam superfamily are involved in a wide variety of reactions ,  including unusual methylations ,  isomerization ,  sulfur insertion ,  ring formation ,  anaerobic oxidation ,  and protein radical formation .
a tetracycline - resistance ribosomal protection protein
amva has 14 alpha - helical transmembrane segments ,  qualifying it as a member of the dha2 transporter family of the major facilitator superfamily  ( mfs )  .
abuo is akin to the tolc outer membrane efflux protein .
kpne subunit of kpnef resembles ebrab from e . coli .
a tetracycline inactivating enzyme .a flavoenzyme capable of degrading tetracycline antibiotics .
a tetracycline inactivating enzyme .a flavoenzyme capable of degrading tetracycline antibiotics .
kpnf subunit of kpnef resembles ebrab from e . coli .
a tetracycline inactivating enzyme .a flavoenzyme capable of degrading tetracycline antibiotics .
kpnef resembles ebrab from e . coli .
a tetracycline inactivating enzyme .a flavoenzyme capable of degrading tetracycline antibiotics .
a tetracycline inactivating enzyme .a flavoenzyme capable of degrading tetracycline antibiotics .
kpng consists of ~390 residues and resembles emra of e . coli .
a tetracycline inactivating enzyme .a flavoenzyme capable of degrading tetracycline antibiotics .
a tetracycline inactivating enzyme .a flavoenzyme capable of degrading tetracycline antibiotics .
a tetracycline inactivating enzyme .a flavoenzyme capable of degrading tetracycline antibiotics .
erm ( 32 )  is a rrna methyltransferase .
erm45 is an rrna methylase that confers resistances to macrolide ,  lincosamide ,  and streptogramin b .
erm ( 46 )  is transferable determinant that confers resistance to macrolides .
kpnh consists of ~511 residues ,  resembles emrb of e . coli ,  and is probably a translocase in the kpngh - tolc efflux protein in k . pneumoniae .
disruption of the pump components kpngh signficantly decrease resistance to azithromycin ,  ceftazidime ,  ciprofloxacin ,  ertapenem ,  erythromycin ,  gentamicin ,  imipenem ,  ticarcillin ,  norfloxacin ,  polymyxin - b ,  piperacillin ,  spectinomycin ,  tobramycin ,  and streptomycin
clcd gene can provide resistance to representatives of five of the six antibiotic groups previously shown to be affected by cfr .
lnuh is a lincosamide nucleotidyltransferase transferase
lnup is a lincosamide nucleotidyltransferase major efflux facilitator
a tetracycline inactivating enzyme .a flavoenzyme capable of degrading tetracycline antibiotics .
ermz is an methyltransferase modifying 23s rrna conferring resistance to spiramycin .
erm ( 40 )  is an adenine rna methylase and confers intrinsic resistance in mycobacteria .
the cfr groups were determined by candela et al  ( 2017 )  by determining the phylogenetic relationship using the neighbour - joining method to compare the cfr - like proteins to cfr .
erythromycin esterase protein
the cfr groups were determined by candela et al  ( 2017 )  by determining the phylogenetic relationship using the neighbour - joining method to compare the cfr - like proteins to cfr .
the cfr groups were determined by candela et al  ( 2017 )  by determining the phylogenetic relationship using the neighbour - joining method to compare the cfr - like proteins to cfr .
an ampc - like beta - lactamase identified from escherichia coli .
amph is a class c ampc - like beta - lactamase and penicillin - binding protein identified in escherichia coli .
a tetracycline inactivating enzyme .a flavoenzyme capable of degrading tetracycline antibiotics .
adc - 11 is a class c beta - lactamase found in acinetobacter baumannii
mycoplasma genitalium strain m6320 contains mutations that lead to resistance to fluoroquinolone and macrolide antibiotics .
an adc beta - lactamase and cephalosporinase from acinetobacter baumannii
an adc beta - lactamase and cephalosporinase from acinetobacter baumannii
an adc beta - lactamase and cephalosporinase from acinetobacter baumannii
an adc beta - lactamase and cephalosporinase from acinetobacter baumannii
aac ( 3 )  - iie is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in e . coli
qnrs10 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein .
aac ( 3 )  - iid is a plasmid - encoded aminoglycoside acetyltransferase in e . coli
qnrs11 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein .
qnrs12 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein .
erm ( 49 )  is an rrna methylase gene
qnrs15 is a plasmid - mediated quinolone resistance protein .
aac ( 2' )  - iia is a kasugamycin 2' n - acetyltransferase protein found in burkholderia glumae and acidovorax avenae isolates
aac ( 6' )  - im is an aminoglycoside acetyltransferase encoded by plasmids in e . coli ,  and e . faecium
mycoplasma genitalium exhibits multiple mutations in parc which confers resistance to moxifloxacin .
mycoplasma genitalium gyra mutations confers resistance to fluoroquinolones such as moxifloxacin .
a class adc beta - lactamase and cephalosporinase from acinetobacter baumannii
a class c beta - lactamase and cephalosporinase from acinetobacter baumannii
a class c adc beta - lactamase and cephalosporinase found in acinetobacter baumannii
aac ( 6' )  - il is an aminoglycoside acetyltransferase encoded by plasmids and integrons in enterobacter cloaecae and klebsiella aerogenes
qnre1 is a member of the qnre family of plasmid - borne  ( fluoro ) quinolone - resistance genes ,  with chromosomal origins from enterobacter spp .
qnre2 is a qnre - member of plasmid - borne  ( fluoro ) quinolone - resistance genes .
aac ( 6' )  - iag is an aminoglycoside acetyltransferase encoded by integrons in pseudomonas aeruginosa
tetab genes of the corynebacterium striatum r - plasmid which encode an abc transporter and confer tetracycline ,  oxytetracycline ,  and oxalic resistance
a dihydrofolate reductase found in salmonella enterica .
aaca43 is an aminoglycoside acetyltransferase encoded by integrons found in klebsiella pneumoniae ,  escherichia coli ,  and enterobacter cloaecae
a dihydrofolate reductase that confers resistance to trimethoprim
23s rrna  ( adenine ( 2058 )  - n ( 6 )  )  - methyltransferase erm ( k )   [ bacillus halodurans ] 
dfra6 is a dihydrofolate reductase that confers resistance to trimethoprim .
dfri is a dihydrofolate reductase that is resistant to trimethoprim .
aqu - 2 is a chromosomally - encoded aqu class c beta - lactamase and cephalosporinase from aeromonas
aqu - 3 is a chromosomally - encoded aqu class c beta - lactamase and cephalosporinase from
cfr ( b )  has been observed in mobile genetic elements in e . faecium and clostridioides difficile and confers resistance to linezolid ,  clindamycin ,  erythromycin ,  chloramphenicol ,  and retapamulin .
tetracycline - resistant determinant encoded on the plasmid pkq10 in enterococcus faecium
listeria monocytogenes egd - e lin gene for lincomycin resistance abc - f type ribosomal protection protein ,  complete cds .
ermo  ( gene lrm )  lincomycin resistance methylase  [ streptomyces lividans ]  .
class g tetracycline resistance determinant from vibrio anguillarum
snp causing high - level ery resistance and low - level cli resistance .
catii is a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase .
cata4 is a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase that confers resistance to chloramphenicol .
cata8 is a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase that confers resistance to chloramphenicol .
nbu2 - encoded resistance gene .an mefe homolog in bacteroides species .
catb11 is a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase that confers resistance to chloramphenicol .
the bacillus subtilis fosb gene encodes a fosfomycin resistance protein
mcr - 3 .3 is a colistin resistance gene variant in the chromosome of an aeromonas veronii .
a fusidic acid resistance determinant in staphylococcus cohnii .
cmla8 is a plasmid that confers resistance to chloramphenicol .
pexa is a florfenicol and chloramphenicol resistance gene discovered in alaskan soil .
nora gene cloned from staphylococcus aureus conferred relatively high resistance to hydrophilic quinolones such as norfloxacin ,  enoxacin ,  ofloxacin ,  and ciprofloxacin in s . aureus and escherichia coli .
located on the chromosome of aliivibrio salmonicida .
a rrna methyltransferase conferring high - level evernimicin resistance
subtype of fosb ,  fosfomycin resistant .
fosfomycin resistance gene .shares a high homology with fosb1 and fosb3 .
fosfomycin resistance gene .high homology with fosb1 and fosb3
fosfomycin resistance gene .high homology with fosb1 and fosb3
a fosfomycin resistance gene .
expression of cloned apha15 gene in escherichia coli reduced the susceptibility to kanamycin and neomycin ,  as well as to amikacin ,  netilmicin ,  and streptomycin
the first allele of a 16s rrna methyltransferase gene ,  rmtd2 ,  confers a high resistance to all clinically available aminoglycosides
aminoglycoside - resistance gene
16s rrna mathyltransferase gene with a single nucleotide mutation compared to rmte .
aph ( 3' )  - viiia is an aminoglycoside phosphoryltransferase that acts on the 3 - oh target of aminoglycosides found in streptomyces rimosus .
point mutations in the rpoc region of clostridioides difficile which confer resistance to vancomycin
small mobilizable plasmid palwed1 .8 containing a novel variant of the streptomycin / spectinomycin resistance gene
a novel tn4551 streptomycin - resistance gene that was phenotypically silent in wild - type bacteroides ;  expression could be activated by a trans - acting chromosomal mutation
a mobilized and plasmid - mediated colistin resistance gene and phosphoethanolamine transferase identified from a salmonella enterica isolate
a plasmid - mediated mcr - 1 variant identified from polyclonal clinical escherichia coli .
a plasmid - mediated mcr - 1 variant identified from escherichia coli .
an unpublished mcr - 1 variant included in ncbi and indicated by partridge et al .
a plasmid - mediated phosphoethanolamine transferase and mcr - 1 variant identified from escherichia coli as conferring resistance to colistin antibiotics .
a plasmid - mediated phosphoethanolamine transferase and mcr - 1 variant identified from escherichia coli and conferring resistance to colistin antibiotics .
a plasmid - mediated phosphoethanolamine transferase and mcr - 1 variant identified from escherichia coli
a plasmid - mediated mcr - 3 .1 variant
aada10 is a aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene encoded by plasmids in p . aeruginosa .
a plasmid - mediated phosphoethanolamine transferase and mcr - 3 variant conferring resistance to colistin antibiotics .
a plasmid - mediated mcr - 4 variant which confers resistance to colistin antibiotics .
a plasmid - mediated mcr - 4 variant and colistin resistance gene from clinical enterobacteriaceae
a plasmid - mediated mcr - 4 variant and colistin resistance gene
a plasmid - mediated mcr - 4 variant and colistin resistance gene
a plasmid - mediated mcr - 5 variant from escheichia coli which confers resistance to colistin antibiotics .
streptothricin acetyltransferase gene  ( stat gene )  that confers streptothricin resistance on escherichia coli and bacillus subtilis .
mutation in a resistance determinant rendering it non - functional
an antibiotic cocktail containing beta - lactam penam antibiotic cloxacillin and the cephalosporin ceftazidime .
an antibiotic cocktail containing the cephalosporin cefepime and the penicillin cloxacillin .
an antibiotic cocktail containing beta - lactam penam antibiotic cloxacillin and the beta - lactam carbapenam antibiotic imipenam
aada8b is an aminoglycoside nucleotidyltransferase gene encoded by plasmids in e . coli ;  can be created by a recombination event  between aada1 and aada2
an antibiotic cocktail containing the cephalosporin antibiotic ceftazidime and the beta - lactamase inhibitor clavulanic acid .
experimental protocol where there is a mutation of resistance determinant and the transformation of a plasmid harbouring resistance determinant into the same strain .
an antibiotic cocktail containing the cephamycin antibiotic cefoxitin and the beta - lactamase inhibitor clavulanate
an antibiotic cocktail containing the cephamycin antibiotic cefoxitin and the beta - lactamase inhibitor sulbactam
an antibiotic cocktail containing the cephamycin antibiotic cefoxitin and the beta - lactamase inhibitor tazobactam
an antibiotic cocktail containing the cephalosporin antibiotic cefotaxime and the beta - lactamase inhibitor clavulanic acid .
an antibiotic cocktail containing the cephalosporin antibiotic cefotaxime and the beta - lactamase inhibitor tazobactam .
an antibiotic cocktail containing the cephalosporin antibiotic ceftazidime and the beta - lactamase inhibitor tazobactam
an antibiotic cocktail containing the beta - lactam antibiotic aztreonam and the conjugate base of the beta - lactamase inhibitor clavulanic acid  ( clavulanate )  .
an antibiotic cocktail containing the beta - lactam antibiotic aztreonam and the beta - lactamase inhibitor tazobactam
vga ( e )  gene variant that confers resistance to pleuromutilins ,  lincosamides and streptogramin a antibiotics in staphylococci
antibiotic similar to clorobiocin ,  but with vanillic acid as the acyl component instead of crenelated 4 - hydroxybenzoic acid .
antibiotic similar to clorobiocin ,  but with vanillic acid as the acyl component instead of crenelated 4 - hydroxybenzoic acid .
antibiotic similar to clorobiocin ,  but with vanillic acid as the acyl component instead of crenelated 4 - hydroxybenzoic acid .
a tetracyline resistance gene located on an approximately 300 - kb plasmid ,  designated p47ab .
a tetracyline resistance gene located on an approximately 180 - kb plasmid ,  designated p47ec .
rpsa ,  the 30s ribosomal protein s1 of mycobacterium tuberculosis ,  is involved in trans - translation and is targeted by pyrazinonic acid ,  the active form of the antibiotic pyrazinamide ,  which disrupts the initiation of mrna translation .
the 30s ribosomal protein s1 of mycobacterium tuberculosis is required for mrna translation initiation ,  playing a particular role in trans - translation .
a method to determine microbial susceptibility to antibiotics in which test bacteria is inoculated onto an agar plate that contains a concentration gradient of antibiotic .
an antibiotic cocktail containing the cephalosporin antibiotic ceftolozane and the beta - lactamase inhibitor tazobactam
point mutations in rpoc ,  an rna polymerase subunit ,  which confer resistance to vancomycin
cefpirome is a fourth generation cephalosporin with activity against methicillin - susceptible staphylococcus aureus ,  coagulase - negative staphylococci and viridans group streptococci ,  and in vitro activity towards streptococcus pneumoniae .
cefsulodin is a third generation cephalosporin with with activity against pseudomonas spp . ,  but little activity against other gram - negative  bacteria .
carumonam is a monobactam antibiotic .
a monobactam with potent activity against enterobacteriaceae .
a pleuromutilin resistance gene encoding a predicted abc - f transporter .
a fluoroquinolone with potent activity against gram - positive pathogens .
an 8 - cyano - substituted fluoroquinolone with increased antibacterial activity in acidic conditions in contrast to other fluoroquinolones which demonstrate reduced activity in lower ph .
a c - 8 - methoxy non - fluorinated quinolone exhibiting potent antibacterial activities against gram - positive ,  including mrsa and fluoroquinolone - resistant mrsa ,  gram - negative ,  and atypical pathogens ,  especially methicillin - resistant staphylococcus aureus .
arl - 1 is a beta - lactamase gene found in staphylococcus arlettae .
arl - 2 is a beta - lactamase gene found in staphylococcus arlettae .
arl - 3 is a beta - lactamase gene found in staphylococcus arlettae .
arl - 4 is a beta - lactamase gene found in staphylococcus arlettae .
arl - 5 is a beta - lactamase gene found in staphylococcus arlettae .
arl - 6 is a beta - lactamase gene found in staphylococcus arlettae .
ast - 1 is a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase gene found in nocardia asteroides .
a family of beta - lactamase known for their broad spectrum resistance profile .
arl beta - lactamase is an amr gene family associated with staphylococcus arlettae .
mir - 23 ,  originally described as azecl - 25 ,  is a class c beta - lactamase that is found in enterobacter cloacae .
bat is a class d beta - lactamase .
bat - 1 is a class d beta - lactamase found in bacillus atrophaeus .
bcl beta - lactamase is a class a beta - lactamase .
bcl - 1 is a class a beta - lactamase found in bacillus clausii .
bes beta - lactamase is a class a beta - lactamase family .
bes - 1 is a class a beta - lactamase that is found in serratia marcescens .
bic is a class a beta - lactamase conferring resistance to carbapenem .
bic - 1 is a beta - lactamase conferring resistance to carbapenems that is found in pseudomonas fluorescens .
bil beta - lactamase is plasmid - borne and is a class c beta - lactamase .
bil - 1 is a plasmid - borne beta - lactamase that is also a class c beta - lactamase .
bkc beta - lactamase is a class a beta - lactamase .
bkc - 1 is a beta - lactamase conferring resistance to carbapenem and is found in brazilian klebsiella .
bpu is a class d beta lactamase gene family .
bpu - 1 is a class d beta - lactamase found in bacillus pumilus .
bro is a class a beta - lactamase that is found in m .catarrhalis .
bro - 1 is a class a beta - lactamase found in m .catarrhalis .
bro - 2 is a class a beta - lactamase found in m .catarrhalis .
cbp is a class a beta - lactamase family found in c . botulinum .
cbp - 1 is a class a beta - lactamase gene found in c . botulinum .
cga is a class a beta - lactamase family that is found in chryseobacterium gleum .
cga - 1 is a class a beta - lactamase gene found in chryseobacterium gleum .
cia is a class a beta - lactamase gene family found in chryseobacterium indologenes .
cia - 1 is a class a beta - lactamase gene found in chryseobacterium indologenes .
cia - 2 is a class a beta - lactamase gene found in chryseobacterium indologenes .
cia - 3 is a class a beta - lactamase gene found in chryseobacterium indologenes .
cia - 4 is a class a beta - lactamase gene found in chryseobacterium indologenes .
cko is a class a beta - lactamase gene family found in citrobacter koseri .
cko - 1 is a class a beta - lactamase gene found in citrobacter koseri .
cme is a class a beta - lactamase gene family belonging to chryseobacterium meningosepticum .
cme - 1 is a class a beta - lactamase gene belonging to chryseobacterium meningosepticum .
cmh is a class c beta - lactamase gene family belonging to enterobacter cloacae .
cmh - 1 is a class c beta - lactamase gene found in enterobacter cloacae .
cmy - 135 is a class c beta - lactamase that confers resistance to cephamycin .
des is a class a beta - lactamase gene family found in desulfovibrio desulfuricans .
des - 1 is a class a beta - lactamase gene found in desulfovibrio desulfuricans .
erp is a class a beta - lactamase gene family found in erwinia persicina .
erp - 1 is a class a beta - lactamase gene found in erwinia persicina .
far is a class a extended spectrum beta - lactamase gene family found in nocardia farcinica .
far - 1 is a class a beta - lactamase gene found in nocardia farcinica .
fim is a metallo - beta - lactamase gene family found in pseudomonas aeruginosa .
fim - 1 is a metallo - beta - lactamase gene found in pseudomonas aeruginosa from isolates in italy .
fona is a class a beta - lactamase gene family found in serratia fonticola .
fona - 1 is a class a beta - lactamase gene found in serratia fonticola .
fona - 2 is a class a beta - lactamase gene found in serratia fonticola .
fona - 3 is a class a beta - lactamase gene found in serratia fonticola .
fona - 4 is a class a beta - lactamase gene found in serratia fonticola .
fona - 5 is a class a beta - lactamase gene found in serratia fonticola .
fona - 6 is a class a beta - lactamase gene found in serratia fonticola .
fph is a carbapenem - hydrolyzing class a beta - lactamase found in francisella philomiragia .
fph - 1 is a carbapenem - hydrolyzing class a beta - lactamase gene found in francisella philomiragia .
fri is a carbapenem - hydrolyzing class a beta - lactamase from enterobacter cloacae .
fri - 1 is a carbapenem - hydrolyzing class a beta - lactamase found in enterobacter cloacae .
fri - 2 is a carbapenem - hydrolyzing class a beta - lactamase gene found in enterobacter asburiae .
fri - 3 is a carbapenem - hydrolyzing class a beta - lactamase gene found in enterobacter cloacae .
ftu is a class a beta - lactamase gene family found in francisella tularensis .
ftu - 1 is a class a beta - lactamase gene found in francisella tularensis .
gob - 10 is a class b beta - lactamase gene found in chryseobacterium meningosepticum .
gob - 11 is a class b beta - lactamase gene found in chryseobacterium meningosepticum .
gob - 12 is a class b beta - lactamase gene found in elizabethkingia meningoseptica .
gob - 13 is a class b beta - lactamase gene found in elizabethkingia meningoseptica .
gob - 14 is a class b beta - lactamase gene found in elizabethkingia meningoseptica .
gob - 15 is a class b beta - lactamase gene found in elizabethkingia meningoseptica .
gob - 16 is a class b beta - lactamase gene found in elizabethkingia meningoseptica .
gob - 2 is class b beta - lactamase gene found in elizabethkingia meningoseptica .
gob - 3 is a class b beta - lactamase gene found in elizabethkingia meningoseptica .
gob - 4 is a class b beta - lactamase gene found in elizabethkingia meningoseptica .
gob - 5 is a class b beta - lactamase gene found in elizabethkingia meningoseptica .
gob - 6 is a class b beta - lactamase gene found in elizabethkingia meningoseptica .
gob - 7 is a class b beta - lactamase gene found in elizabethkingia meningoseptica .
gob - 8 is a class b beta - lactamase gene found in elizabethkingia meningoseptica .
gob - 9 is a class b beta - lactamase gene found in elizabethkingia meningoseptica .
hera - 2 is a class a beta - lactamase found in atlantibacter hermannii .
hera - 3 is a class a beta - lactamase found in escherichia hermannii .
hera - 4 is a class a beta - lactamase found in escherichia hermannii .
hera - 5 is a class a beta - lactamase found in escherichia hermannii .
hera - 6 is a class a beta - lactamase found in escherichia hermannii .
hera - 8 is a class a beta - lactamase found in escherichia hermannii .
imp - 52 is a class b metallo - beta - lactamase found in escherichia coli .
lap is a ambler class a beta - lactamase gene family that confers resistance to quinolones .
lap - 1 is an ambler class a beta - lactamase gene conferring resistance to quinolones .
lap - 2 is an ambler class a beta - lactamase gene conferring resistance to quinolones .
len - 35 is a class a beta - lactamase gene found in klebsiella variicola .
len - 36 is a class a beta - lactamase gene found in klebsiella variicola .
len - 37 is a class a beta - lactamase gene found in klebsiella variicola .
pbp2 is a penicillin - binding protein and beta - lactam resistance enzyme encoded by the pena gene ,  due to mutations can cause resistance to various drugs such as penicillin and ceftriaxone .
point mutation in neisseria gonorrhoea pbp1  ( pona )  decreases affinity between beta - lactam antibiotic molecule and pbp1 ,  thereby conferring resistance to beta - lactam .
pilq is an important gonococcal outer membrane component ,  member of secretin protein family ,  and involved in type iv pilus formation .
point mutation in the 23s rrna of neisseria gonorrhoea shown to confer resistance to azithromycin ,  a macrolide type antibiotic
an oxa - 12 - family class d beta - lactamase identified from aeromonas hydrophila
a class - a beta - lactamase from klebsiella pneumoniae
a class - a beta - lactamase from klebsiella variicola
a class - a beta - lactamase from klebsiella variicola
a class - a beta - lactamase from klebsiella
a class - a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase identified from klebsiella sp .
a class - a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase identified from klebsiella sp .
a class - a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase identified from klebsiella
a class - a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase from klebsiella
a class - a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase from klebsiella
a class - a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase from klebsiella
a class - a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase from klebsiella
a class - a broad - spectrum beta - lactamase from klebsiella
mtrr is a repressor of mtrcde efflux pump expression ,  point mutations in mtrr increase multidrug resistance .
a beta - lactamase inhibitor comparable to clavulanic acid ,  tazobactam and sulbactam .
point mutations in the 3' domain of 16s rrna of mycobacterium tuberculosis can confer resistance to capreomycin .
a cmy - 2 - like beta - lactamase which confers resistance to cephalosporin antibiotics ,  and is also capable of hydrolyzing the cmy - 2 inhibitors ticarcillin and cloxacillin .
scos are class a beta - lactamases that confer resistance to a narrow range of penams ,  with some minor activity on cephalosporins and carbapenems .
narrow - spectrum beta - lactamase isolated from several acinetobacter spp .
experimental antibiotic in phase two trial for neisseria gonorrhoeae treatment .
point mutation in neisseria gonorrhoea gyrase b decreases affinity to zolifladacin antibiotic
point mutations in burkholderia gyra that confer resistance to ciprofloxacin ,  a fluoroquinolone antibiotic .
a class b new delhi metallo - beta - lactamase and ndm - 1 variant
a class b new delhi metallo - beta - lactamase and ndm - 1 variant
a class b new delhi metallo - beta - lactamase
a class b new delhi metallo - beta - lactamase and ndm - 1 variant
a class b new delhi metallo - beta - lactamase and ndm - 1 variant
a class b new delhi metallo - beta - lactamase
a class b new delhi metallo - beta - lactamase
a class b new delhi metallo - beta - lactamase
a class b new delhi metallo - beta - lactamase and ndm - 1 variant
a class b new delhi metallo - beta - lactamase and ndm - 1 variant
a class b new delhi metallo - beta - lactamase and ndm - 1 variant
point mutations in neisseria gonorrhoeae dihydropteroate synthase folp prevent sulfonamide antibiotics from inhibiting its role in folate synthesis ,  thus conferring sulfonamide resistance .
genes with mutations in inha which confer resistance to isoniazid class antibiotics
genes with mutations in inha which confer resistance to ethionamide class antibiotics
inha is a enoyl - acyl carrier reductase used in lipid metabolism and farry acid biosynthesis .
mutations that occur in the clp protease subunit clpc1 that increases resistance to antibiotics
clpc1 is a subunit of the clp protease that is atp - dependent .
mutations that occur in gpsi that increases resistance to antibiotics
gpsi codes for polyribonucleotide nucleotidyltransferase which is a protein involved in mrna degradation .
mutations that occur in the mas that increases resistance to antibiotics
mas is a multifunctional mycocerosic acid synthase membrane - associated mas .
mutations that occur in the ppsc that increases resistance to antibiotics
ppsc codes for the phthiocerol synthesis polyketide synthase type 1 .
mutations that occur in the ppsd that increases resistance to antibiotics
ppsd codes for the phthiocerol synthesis polyketide synthase type 1 .
mutations that occur in the fabg1 gene resulting in the inability for the antibiotic to inhibit mycolic acid biosynthesis .
fabg1 is involved in the fatty acid synthesis pathway ,  acting in the first reduction step for mycolic acid .
mutations that occur on the mshc gene resulting in the inability for antibiotic to function .
mutations that occur in mshc which is involved in the third step of mycothiol biosynthesis .
mutations that occur on the nudc gene resulting in the inability for antibiotic to function .
nudc is a nadh pyrophosphatase that is involved in nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism .
mutations in ahpc that contribute to antibiotic resistance by preventing ahpc from activating antibiotics .
an alkyl hydroperoxide reductase that catalyzes the reduction of organic hydrogen peroxide to water and organic alcohols .
fabg1 is involved in the fatty acid synthesis pathway ,  acting in the first reduction step for mycolic acid .
mutations that occur in fura which is in the regulatory region of katg .
transcriptional regulator fura ,  represses the transcription of the catalase - peroxidase gene katg and its own transcription by binding to the promoter region .
mutations in inbr that contribute to antibiotic resistance by preventing antibiotic activation .
inbr is part of the transcriptional factor family tetr .
mutations that occur in the msha gene resulting in the inability for antibiotic to activate .
msha is a glycosyltransferase and is involved in the first step of mycothiol biosynthesis .
mutations that occur in the mshb gene that results in antibiotic resistance .
mshb is a deacetylase that is involved in the second step of mycothiol synthesis .
mutations that occur on the mshc gene resulting in the inability for isoniazid to function .
mutations that occur within the coding region of myma that prevent effective antibiotic function .
myma is an operon that begins at rv3083 and ends at rv3089 and is required for maintaining the appropriate mycolic acid composition and permeability of the envelope on its exposure to acidic ph .
mutations that occur in mmaa3 which decreases effective functioning of antibiotics .
methoxy mycolic acid synthase 3 is involved in the modification of mycolic acids .
mutations that occur in nat that inactivate antibiotic functioning and contribute to antibiotic resistance .
arylamine n - acetyltransferase catalyzes the transfer of the acetyl group from acetyl coenzyme a to the free amino group of arylamines and hydrazines .
nudc is a nadh pyrophosphatase that is involved in nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism .
mutations that occur in sigi sigma factor that increase resistance to antibiotics .
a sigma factor that acts as an initiation factor that promotes attachment of the rna polymerase to specific initiation sites and then is released .
esx - 5 secretion system is are important for virulence of mycobacteria and is required for mycobacterial cell wall stability and host cell lysis .
subunits of the secretion system complex that secretes proteins that contribute to resistance .
mutations in the eccb5 gene contributing to antibiotic resistance to fluoroquinolone .
eccb5 is a transmembrane protein within the esx - 5 secretion system complex .
eccc5 is a membrane - bound atpase within the esx - 5 secretion system complex .
mutations in the eccc5 gene contributing to antibiotic resistance to fluoroquinolone .
mutations that occur in ahpc that result in ahpc overexpression thus conferring or contributing to resistance to isoniazid .
mutations that occur in fabg1 resulting in or contributing to resistance in isoniazid .
mutations that occur in fura that result in or contribute to antibiotic resistance to isoniazid .
mutations that occur in inbr that result in or contribute to antibiotic resistance to isoniazid
mutations that occur in msha that result in or contribute to antibiotic resistance to isoniazid .
mutations that occur in mshc that result in or contribute to antibiotic resistance to isoniazid .
mutations that occur in the myma operon that result in or contribute to antibiotic resistance to isoniazid
mutations that occur in mmaa3 that result in or contribute to antibiotic resistance to isoniazid .
mutations that occur in nat which through overexpression of the enzyme can result in or contribute to antibiotic resistance to isoniazid .
mutations that occur in nudc which through overexpression of the enzyme can result in or contribute to antibiotic resistance to isoniazid .
mycobacterium tuberculosis sigi mutations conferring resistance to isoniazid
mutations that occur in mycobacterium tuberculosis fabg1 resulting in or contributing to resistance in ethionamide .
mutations that occur in mshc resulting in or contributing to conferring resistance to ethionamide .
mutations that occur in nudc resulting in or contributing to conferring resistance to ethionamide
point mutations in the 23s rrna of bacteria can confer resistance to aminoglycosides .
point mutations in 23s rrna of mycobacterium tuberculosis can confer resistance to capreomycin .
mutations in the d - alanine synthase of mycobacterium tuberculosis can confer resistance to antibiotics .
ddla catalyzes the atp - driven ligation of two d - alanine molecules to form the d - alanyl - d - alanine dipeptide ,  key in forming the cell wall .
point mutations that occur within mycobacterium tuberculosis ddla gene resulting in resistance to cycloserine .
mutations that occur in ald which decreases effective functioning of antibiotics .
ald plays a role in cell wall synthesis as l - alanine is an important constituent of the peptidoglycan layer .
mutations that occur in alr which decreases effective functioning of antibiotics .
mutations in the ald gene that contribute to or confer resistance to cycloserine
provides the d - alanine required for cell wall biosynthesis .
mutations in the alr mutation contribute to or confer resistance to cycloserine .
decaprenylphosphoryl - 5 - phosphoribose  ( dppr )  synthase involved in arabinogalactan synthesis
ddpr synthase involved in arabinogalactan synthesis .
mutations in the ubia gene contribute to or confer resistance to ethambutol .
mutations in afta gene contribute to or confer resistance to ethamutol .
thiacetazone is an inexpensive ,  antitubercular ,  bacteriostatic drug that has been widely used in combination with isoniazid in africa and south america .
rv0565c is a bacterial monoxygenase that has been newly uncovered in recent literature to show resistance to antibiotic .
mycobacterial monoxygenase has been shown to confer resistance to ethionamide in recent literature
mutations in a bacterial monooxygenase ,  rv0565c ,  are significantly associated with ethionamide resistance as an activator of ethionamide
rpld encodes for the 50s l4 ribosomal protein ,  is a macrolide resistance protein identified in neisseria gonorrhoeae .
mutations that occur in clpc1 that result in or contribute to antibiotic resistance to pyrazinamide
a probable bifunctional penicillin - binding protein that is involved in the final stages of peptidoglycan synthesis .
mutations in the pona1 gene that can contribute to or confer resistance to rifamycin - class antibiotics .
mutations in pona1 that contribute to or confer resistance to rifabutin antibiotic .
mutations in the eis gene that can contribute to antibiotic resistance
involved in acetylation and intracellular survival .
mutations in eis that contribute to or confer resistance to kanamycin .
mutations in the whib7 gene that cause antibiotic resistance
a protein involved in transcriptional mechanisms .
a protein involved in transcriptional mechanisms .
mutations in whib7 that can contribute to or confer resistance to kanamycin
mutations in whib7 that can contribute to or confer resistance to streptomycin
mutations in tap gene confer antibiotic resistance
an efflux pump in mycobacterium that contributes to intrinsic antibiotic resistance .
mutations in the tap gene that can contribute to or confer resistance to streptomycin
mutations in ppsa can result in antibiotic resistance .
involved in the elongation of either c22 - 24 fatty acids by the addition of malonyl - coa and methylmalonyl - coa extender units to yield phthiocerol derivatives .
mutations in ppsc can contribute to or confer resistance to pyrazinamide .
mutations in ppsd can contribute to or confer resistance to pyrazinamide
mutations in gpsi that can contribute to or confer resistance to pyrazinamide
mutations in mas that can contribute to or confer resistance to pyrazinamide
mutations in the gene can contribute to antibiotic resistance
a probable conserved integral membrane protein that acts as an active efflux pump .
mutations in the rv0191 gene contribute to or confer resistance to pyrazinamide .
mutations in the rv1667 gene can contribute or confer resistance to antibiotics
a probable transport protein thought to be involved in the active transport of macrolide across the membrane in mycobacterium .
mutations in the rv1667 gene that can contribute to or confer resistance to pyrazinamide .
mutations in the rv2731 gene that contribute to antibiotic resistance
a conserved alanine and arginine - rich protein with an unknown function .
mutations in the rv2731 gene that contribute to or confer resistance to pyrazinamide .
mutations in rv3008 can contribute to or confer resistance to antibiotics
a hypothetical protein for which it has been predicted but no experimental evidence exists to determine its function .
mutations in the rv3169 gene contribute to  or confer resistance to antibiotics
a conserved protein with an unknown function determined through proteomics study .
mutations in the rv3169 gene that can contribute to or confer resistance to pyrazinamide resistance
mutations in rpoc that contribute to or confer resistance to rifampicin antibiotic
rpoc catalyzes the transcription of dna into rna and mutations confer resistance to rifampicin
rna polymerase is a multisubunit enzyme that is necessary for transcription .
rna polymerase is a multisubunit enzyme that is necessary for transcription .
rpoa catalyzes the transcription of dna into rna and mutations confer resistance to rifampicin
mutations in rpoa that contribute to or confer resistance to rifampicin antibiotic
point mutations in dna gyrase subunit b  ( gyrb )  of neisseria gonorrhoeae can result in resistance to zoliflodacin .
nucleotide point mutations in the 50s rrna subunit  ( not in the 23s rrna range )  may confer resistance to macrolide antibiotics .
genes ppsa - e constitute an operon encoding enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of phthiocerol dimycocerosate and other lipids in mycobacterium tuberculosis .
mutations in the prokaryotic 50s ribosomal rna subunit which disrupt binding sites and thereby reduce antibiotic efficacy
mutation in the mtrc efflux pump of neisseria gonorrhoea shown to confer resistance to azithromycin ,  a macrolide type antibiotic .
known antibiotic - resistant variants of emb arabinosyltransferases ,  primarily in mycobacterium and conferring resistance to ethambutol through point mutation .
a tetracycline efflux mfs transporter from providencia sp .
qnrvc2 is a class 1 integron found in ciprofloxacin - resistant vibro choleraeo1 .
txr is a putative transcription regulator that plays a role in conferring tetracycline resistance .
qace is a resistance gene conferring resistance to antiseptics .
qacedelta1 is a resistance gene conferring resistance to antiseptics .
idc beta - lactamases are class c beta - lactamases inc . cephalosporinases and carbapenemases .
blaidc - 1 is an idc class c beta - lactamase and an integron cephalosprinase
blaidc - 1 is an idc class c beta - lactamase and an integron cephalosprinase
vibro metallo - b - lactamase ,  also known as vmb is a carbapenemase beta - lactamase gene family .
vibrio metallo - b - lactamase 1 ,  also known as vmb - 1 ,  is carbapenemase beta - lactamase that is found in plasmid pvb1796 from vibrio alginolyticus .
cmy - 150 is a cmy - 2 variant differing by 15 amino - acid substitutions .
lmb is an amr gene family belonging to subclass b3 metallo - beta - lactamases .
lmb - 1 is a subclass b3 metallo - beta - lactamase that confers resistance to penams ,  cephalosporins ,  and carbapenems .
imp - 68 is a subclass b1 metallo - beta - lactamase that confers resistance to carbapenems .
the cfr ( d )  group are cfr ( d )  genes found in enterococcus faecium that confer resistance to vancomycin ,  teicoplanin and linezolid .
cfr ( d )  is found in enterococcus faecium .
cfr ( e )  is a cfr - like gene described by  ( stojkovic et al ,  2019 )  .
cfr ( e )  is a cfr - like gene found in clostridioides difficile isolate df11 .
fosl1 is related to fosa - like genes .
antibiotic adjuvants shown to inhibit the action of atp synthase ,  restoring antibiotic activity by depolarizing the bacterial membrane .
venturicidin a is an atp synthase inhibitor and antibiotic adjuvant produced in actinomycetes .
fri - 4 is a carbapenem - hydrolyzing class a beta - lactamase gene found in enterobacter asburiae .
fri - 5 is a carbapenem - hydrolyzing class a beta - lactamase gene found in enterobacter cloacae .
fri - 6 is a carbapenem - hydrolyzing class a beta - lactamase gene found in enterobacter cloacae .
fri - 7 is a carbapenem - hydrolyzing class a beta - lactamase gene found in enterobacter asburiae .
fri - 8 is a carbapenem - hydrolyzing class a beta - lactamase gene found in enterobacter sp .
fri - 9 is a carbapenem - hydrolyzing class a beta - lactamase gene found in enterobacter asburiae .
flc - 1 is part of the fri beta - lactamase family .
yrc is a ambler class c beta - lactamase from yersinia ruckeri .
yrc - 1 is a ampc - like beta - lactamase that confers resistance to penams and cephalosporins .
blmt is a bleomycin  ( bm )  resistance protein ,  encoded by the ble gene on the transposon tn5 .
adc - 159 is an adc beta - lactamase and a ambler class c beta - lactamase .
pdc - 65 is an ambler class c beta - lactamase found in pseudomonas aeruginosa
pdc - 55 is an ambler class c beta - lactamase from pseudomonas aeruginosa .
yajc interacts with the acrab - tolc efflux pump in a way that in uncharacterized but is shown to grant increased fitness in the presence of linezolid ,  rifampicin ,  and vancomycin .
mlaf from the mla system is a gene proposed to play a part in the transport of phospholipids to the outer membrane .
mlad from the mla system is a gene proposed to play a part in the transport of phospholipids to the outer membrane .
cmla9 is a major facilitator superfamily efflux gene that is found in salmonella enterica .
ompa is a porin that confers resistance to beta - lactam antibiotics .
sata is part of the streptothricin acetyltransferase gene family .
this meci is a methicillin - resistant repressor resembling mecc .
eptb is a phosphoethanolamine transferase .
crcb is part of the camphor resistance protein family .
lpsb is involved in lipopolysaccharide synthesis .
lpsb is involved in lipopolysaccharide synthesis .
lpsa plays a role in lipooligosaccharide biosynthesis .
arnt is involved in cell wall biosynthesis ,  specifically 4 - amino - 4 - deoxy - l - arabinose  ( ara4n )  .
tet ( x6 )  is a tetracycline inactivating enzyme .
tet ( x5 )  is a tetracycline inactivating enzyme .
abc transporter complex which is involved in a phospholipid transport pathway that maintains lipid asymmetry in the outer membrane by retrograde trafficking of phospholipids from the outer membrane to the inner membrane
lptd is involved in lps transport in a abc transporter efflux system .
a class d oxa - like beta - lactamase described in the emerging pathogen cupriavidus gilardii
a novel aminoglycoside resistance gene identified from cupriavidus gilardii ;  aac ( 3 )  - ivb  /  aacc10 is an aminoglycoside - 3 - n - acetyltransferase gene which confers resistance to gentamicin and tobramycin
a novel aminoglycoside 3'' - adenyltransferase gene and aminoglycoside resistance gene identified from cupriavidus gilardii .
cprr is one part of a two - component regulatory system .
cprs is part of a two - component regulatory system that ,  with its counterpart cprr ,  induces the arn operon in the presence of cationic peptides to confer resistance .
cprrs is a two - component regulatory system .
parrs is a two - component sensor that mediates mexxy / oprm and porin oprd to confer resistance to polycationic antibiotics .
pars is the sensor component of the two - component parrs system .
parr is a component of the two - component sensor parrs .
rsma is a gene that regulates virulence of pseudomonas aeruginosa .
a glycopeptide antibiotic which binds to essential peptidoglycan hydrolases ,  thereby preventing autolysis and inhibited cell wall remodelling during growth .
a glycopeptide antibiotic which binds to essential peptidoglycan hydrolases ,  thereby preventing autolysis and cell wall remodelling
rob - 2 is a beta - lactamase from the blarob amr gene family .
rob - 3 is a beta - lactamase from the blarob amr gene family .
rob - 4 is a beta - lactamase from the blarob amr gene family .
rob - 5 is a class a beta - lactamase from the blarob amr gene family .
rob - 6 is a class a beta - lactamase from the blarob amr gene family .
rob - 7 is a class a beta - lactamase from the blarob amr gene family .
rob - 8 is a class a beta - lactamase from the blarob amr gene family .
rob - 9 is a class a beta - lactamase from the blarob amr gene family it is described by kadlec et al .
rob - 10 is a class a beta - lactamase from the blarob amr gene family .
thermus thermophilus ribosomal protein ul3 containing various mutations conferring resistance to tiamulin .
ribosomal protein mutations that interfere with the rrna conformation at the active site thus conferring antibiotic resistance .
mutations in the 23s rrna of thermus thermophilus confers resistance to pleuromutilin antibiotics such as tiamulin .
dfra31 is an antibiotic resistance dihydrofolate reductase from an integron found from vibrio cholerae .
aac ( 3 )  - iig is part of the aac ( 3 )  family .
fusidic acid resistance determinants through the mediation of target protection .
msrf is an abc - f binding cassette ribosomal protection protein .
msrh is a abc - f binding cassette ribosomal protection protein .
mef ( d )  is a major facilitator superfamily efflux pump protein .
ranb is the determinant of antibiotic resistance within the ranaranb abc - type efflux system .
rana is a part of the ranaranb abc - type efflux system .
ranaranb is the combination of both rana and ranb to form an abc - type efflux system .
oxa - 899 is a class d beta - lactamase and part of the oxa family .
oxa - 898 is a class d beta - lactamase from the oxa family .
gpc is a class a beta - lactamase family .
gpc - 1 is a class a beta - lactamase .
