b is an independent continuant = def .
p is a process = def .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
p is a process boundary =def .
b is a continuant fiat boundary = def .
b is a process_profile =def .
b is a relational quality = def .
a single - stranded rna molecule containing about 70 - 90 nucleotides ,  folded by intrastrand base pairing into a characteristic secondary  ( 'cloverleaf' )  structure that carries a specific amino acid and matches it to its corresponding codon on an mrna during protein synthesis .
rna molecules which are essential structural and functional components of ribosomes ,  the subcellular units responsible for protein synthesis .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
any substituent group or skeleton containing carbon .
high molecular weight ,  linear polymers ,  composed of nucleotides containing ribose and linked by phosphodiester bonds ;  rna is central to the synthesis of proteins .
when two or more amino acids combine to form a peptide ,  the elements of water are removed ,  and what remains of each amino acid is called an amino - acid residue .
a class of small rna molecules which are comprised of approximately 150 nucleotides and which are found within the nucleus of eukaryotic cells .
a disease that is characterized by abnormally rapid cell division .
a disease of cellular proliferation that is malignant and primary ,  characterized by uncontrolled cellular proliferation ,  local cell invasion and metastasis .
a disease is a disposition  ( i )  to undergo pathological processes that  ( ii )  exists in an organism because of one or more disorders in that organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
catalysis of the sequential cleavage of mononucleotides from a free 3' terminus of an rna molecule .
elemental activities ,  such as catalysis or binding ,  describing the actions of a gene product at the molecular level .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an rna molecule or a portion thereof .
catalysis of a biochemical reaction at physiological temperatures .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids by creating internal breaks .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within ribonucleic acid by creating internal breaks .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids by removing nucleotide residues from the 3' or 5' end .
catalysis of the sequential cleavage of mononucleotides from a free 5' or 3' terminus of an rna molecule .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of phosphodiester bonds in chains of rna .
enables the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells .
the selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric ,  interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
the part of a cell or its extracellular environment in which a gene product is located .
the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
that part of the nuclear content other than the chromosomes or the nucleolus .
all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
any cellular metabolic process involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
the cellular synthesis of rna on a template of dna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
any process in which a pre - mrna or mrna molecule is cleaved at specific sites or in a regulated manner .
any process involved in the conversion of one or more primary rna transcripts into one or more mature rna molecules .
any process involved in the conversion of a primary mrna transcript into one or more mature mrna ( s )  prior to translation into polypeptide .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
a process in which rna is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the directed movement of rna from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
the cellular metabolic process in which a protein is formed ,  using the sequence of a mature mrna molecule to specify the sequence of amino acids in a polypeptide chain .
the successive addition of amino acid residues to a nascent polypeptide chain during protein biosynthesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aromatic compounds ,  any organic compound characterized by one or more planar rings ,  each of which contains conjugated double bonds and delocalized pi electrons ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells ,  tissues ,  organs ,  and organisms .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  including the breakdown of carbon compounds with the liberation of energy for use by the cell or organism .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ;  typically the energy - requiring part of metabolism in which simpler substances are transformed into more complex ones .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
the covalent alteration of one or more nucleotides within an rna molecule to produce an rna molecule with a sequence that differs from that coded genetically .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
cleavage of double - stranded rna to form trans - acting small interfering rna molecules  ( sirnas )  of 21 - 23 nucleotides .
a small round nuclear body ,  measuring 0 .2 - 0 .8 microns in diameter that is diffusely distributed throughout the nucleoplasm .
the process in which a gene's sequence is converted into a mature gene product or products  ( proteins or rna )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving mirna ,  microrna ,  a class of single - stranded rna molecules of about 21 - 23 nucleotides in length ,  which regulates gene expression .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of mirna ,  microrna ,  a class of single - stranded rna molecules of about 21 - 23 nucleotides in length ,  which regulates gene expression .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression after the production of an rna transcript .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
the cellular chemical reactions and pathways involving rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
the process in which double - stranded rnas silence cognate genes .
the inactivation of gene expression by a posttranscriptional mechanism .
a ribonucleoprotein complex that contains members of the argonaute family of proteins ,  small interfering rnas  ( sirnas )  or micrornas  ( mirnas )  ,  and mirna or sirna - complementary mrnas ,  in addition to a number of accessory factors .
any process carried out at the cellular level that results in either long - term transcriptional repression via action on chromatin structure or rna mediated ,  postranscriptional repression of gene expression .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within ribonucleic acids by creating internal breaks to yield 5' - phosphomonoesters .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within ribonucleic acids by removing nucleotide residues from the 3' or 5' end to yield 5' phosphomonoesters .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
any cellular process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of aromatic compounds ,  any substance containing an aromatic carbon ring .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of aromatic compounds ,  any substance containing an aromatic carbon ring .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a specific protein ,  rather than of proteins in general .
a cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a complex containing rna and proteins .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins and rna molecules to form a ribonucleoprotein complex .
cleavage of double - stranded rna to form small interfering rna molecules  ( sirnas )  of 21 - 23 nucleotides ,  in the context of rna interference .
a macromolecular complex containing both protein and rna molecules .
cleavage of double - stranded rna molecules by an rnaseiii - family enzyme to produce small rnas  ( generally 20 - 30 nucleotides ,  depending on species )  with biological function .
any process involved in the conversion of a primary microrna transcript into a pre - microrna molecule .
any process involved in the conversion of a pre - microrna transcript into a mature microrna molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the volume enclosed by the nuclear inner membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
a stable assembly of two or more macromolecules ,  i .e .
a ribonucleoprotein complex found in the cytoplasm of male germ cells ,  composed of exceedingly thin filaments that are consolidated into a compact mass or into dense strands of varying thickness that branch to form an irregular network .
any process that results in the conversion of one or more primary non - coding rna  ( ncrna )  transcripts into one or more mature ncrna molecules .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving various organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving non - coding rna transcripts  ( ncrnas )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of non - coding rna transcripts  ( ncrnas )  .
a complex containing both protein and micro - rna  ( mirna )  molecules .
any process of posttranscriptional gene inactivation  ( silencing )  mediated by small rna molecules that may trigger mrna degradation or negatively regulate translation .
downregulation of gene expression through the action of micrornas  ( mirnas )  ,  endogenous 21 - 24 nucleotide small rnas processed from stem - loop rna precursors  ( pre - mirnas )  .
cleavage of stem - loop rna precursors into micrornas  ( mirnas )  ,  a class of small rnas that primarily silence genes by blocking the translation of mrna transcripts into protein .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a microrna ,  a 21 - 23 nucleotide rna that is processed from a stem - loop rna precursor  ( pre - mirna )  that is encoded within plant and animal genomes .
the process in which micrornas  ( mirnas )  block the translation of target mrnas into proteins .
the process in which micrornas  ( mirnas )  direct the cleavage of target mrnas .
the transfer of a microrna  ( mirna )  strand from a mirna:mirna duplex onto the rna - initiated silencing complex  ( risc )  .
transport of pre - micrornas  ( pre - mirnas )  from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
a non - membranous macromolecular complex containing proteins and translationally silenced mrnas .
a ribonucleoprotein granule located in the cytoplasm .
any process ,  mediated by small non - coding rnas ,  that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate that mrnas are effectively translated into protein .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
the internal volume enclosed by the membranes of a particular organelle ;  includes the volume enclosed by a single organelle membrane ,  e .g .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process involved in forming the mature 3' end of a non - coding rna molecule .
any process in which macromolecules aggregate ,  disaggregate ,  or are modified ,  resulting in the formation ,  disassembly ,  or alteration of a macromolecular complex .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving those compounds which are formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a macromolecule ,  any large molecule including proteins ,  nucleic acids and carbohydrates ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a specific protein ,  rather than of proteins in general ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds .
any constituent part of an organelle ,  an organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
any constituent part of the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
any constituent part of the nucleus ,  a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
any constituent part of the cytoplasm ,  all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
a constituent part of an intracellular organelle ,  an organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
any constituent part of the nucleoplasm ,  that part of the nuclear content other than the chromosomes or the nucleolus .
any constituent part of a cell ,  the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
a biological process that involves only one organism .
a metabolic process  -  chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances  -  which involves a single organism .
any process involved in forming distinct mirna isoforms from a mature mirna that differ at their 3' - ends .
catalysis of the sequential cleavage of mononucleotides from a free 3' terminus of an rna molecule that contributes to forming distinct mirna isoforms from a mature mirna .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  occurring within a single organism .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore ,  involving a single organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any cellular process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any cellular process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the directed movement of substances within a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to a stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
the directed movement of rna ,  ribonucleic acids ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the directed movement of substances out of the nucleus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to or maintained in a specific location .
the directed movement of a cell ,  substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  to a specific location .
the directed movement of rna to a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inactivation of gene expression by a posttranscriptional mechanism .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inactivation of gene expression by a posttranscriptional mechanism .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inactivation of gene expression by a posttranscriptional mechanism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the downregulation of gene expression through the action of micrornas  ( mirnas )  ,  endogenous 21 - 24 nucleotide small rnas processed from stem - loop rna precursors  ( pre - mirnas )  .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the downregulation of gene expression through the action of micrornas  ( mirnas )  ,  endogenous 21 - 24 nucleotide small rnas processed from stem - loop rna precursors  ( pre - mirnas )  .
any process that regulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of gene silencing by rna .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of gene silencing by rna .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of gene silencing ,  the transcriptional or post - transcriptional process carried out at the cellular level that results in long - term gene inactivation .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of gene silencing ,  the transcriptional or post - transcriptional process carried out at the cellular level that results in long - term gene inactivation .
the cellular synthesis of primary microrna  ( pri - mirna )  transcripts from a dna template by rna polymerase ii ,  originating at an rna polymerase ii promoter .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of macromolecules to form a complex .
an organelle lumen that is part of an intracellular organelle .
a trimeric ribonucleoprotein complex that and is required for the formation of a mature rna induced silencing complex  ( risc )  .
a protein complex that binds to heme and to pri - mirnas ,  and is required for the formation of a pre - microrna  ( pre - mirna )  ,  the initial step of microrna  ( mirna )  biogenesis .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a primary microrna  ( pri - mirna )  transcript ,  an rna molecule that is processed into a short hairpin - shaped structure called a pre - mirna and finally into a functional mirna .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a precursor microrna  ( pre - mirna )  transcript ,  a stem - loop - containing precursor of microrna .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which a double - stranded rna precursor is processed into short  ( 20 - 30 nt )  fragments .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the production of small rna involved in gene silencing by rna .
any process in which a ribonucleoprotein complex is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location within a cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the directed movement of a ribonucleoprotein complex from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
the directed movement of a ribonucleoprotein complex that contains pre - microrna from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism involving those compounds formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
any cellular metabolic process involving nucleic acids .
the nucleic acid metabolic process in which the phosphodiester bonds between nucleotides are cleaved by hydrolysis .
the rna metabolic process in which the phosphodiester bonds between ribonucleotides are cleaved by hydrolysis .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the hydrolysis of internal 3' , 5' - phosphodiester bonds in one or two strands of ribonucleotides .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the hydrolysis of terminal 3' , 5' - phosphodiester bonds in one or two strands of ribonucleotides .
catalysis of the endonucleolytic cleavage of the mrna in a double - stranded rna molecule formed by the base pairing of an mrna with an mirna .
enables the directed movement of pre - mirnas between the nucleus and the cytoplasm of a cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic cyclic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organic cyclic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic cyclic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna catabolic process .
a localization which involves only one organism .
an intracellular transport which involves only one organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of pri - mirna transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of pri - mirna transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of pri - mirna transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of production of mirnas involved in gene silencing by mirna .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of production of mirnas involved in gene silencing by mirna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of production of mirnas involved in gene silencing by mirna .
the directed movement of microrna  ( mirna )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
a macromolecular complex containing separate protein ,  lipid and rna molecules .
a protein - lipid - rna complex containing separate high - density lipoprotein  ( hdl )  ,  lipid and rna molecules .
a protein - lipid - rna complex containing separate low - density lipoprotein  ( ldl )  ,  lipid and rna molecules .
the covalent alteration of one or more nucleotides within a primary mirna molecule to produce a primary mirna molecule with a sequence that differs from that coded genetically .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mirna catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mirna catabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mirna catabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mirna metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mirna metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mirna metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of pre - microrna processing .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of pre - microrna processing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of pre - microrna processing .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of primary microrna processing .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of primary microrna processing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of primary microrna processing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene silencing by mirna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
a generically dependent continuant that is about some thing .
the curation status of the term .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
the reason for which a term has been deprecated .
a denotator type indicates how a term should be interpreted from an ontological perspective .
an experimental variable is the variable that is used in an experiment and is known as the dependent variable that can be manipulated and is being studied
the ratio of force to the area over which that force is distributed
numerical measure of hot or cold
the potential capacity of certain species of microbes to cause a disease
 the ability or tendency to produce cancer .
small infectious agent that replicates only inside the living cells of other organisms
tissue in an embryo
tissue that connects ,  supports ,  binds ,  or separates other tissues or organs ,  typically having relatively few cells embedded in an amorphous matrix ,  often with collagen or other fibers ,  and including cartilaginous ,  fatty ,  and elastic tissues .
membranous tissue covering internal organs and other internal surfaces of the body .
muscle tissue is one of four basic biological tissues present in animals .
tissue composed of neurons .
a kind of body tissue containing stored fat that serves as a source of energy ;  it also cushions and insulates vital organs .
bodily fluid in animals that delivers necessary substances such as nutrients and oxygen to the cells and transports metabolic waste products away .
rigid organs that constitute part of the endoskeleton of vertebrates .
a tough ,  elastic ,  fibrous connective tissue found in various parts of the body ,  such as the joints ,  outer ear ,  and larynx .
type of involuntary striated muscle found in the walls and histological foundation of the heart .
form of striated muscle tissue which is under the control of the somatic nervous system .
responsible for the contractility of hollow organs ,  such as blood vessels ,  the gastrointestinal tract ,  the bladder ,  or the uterus .
outermost of the three primary germ layers of an embryo ,  from which the epidermis ,  nervous tissue ,  and ,  in vertebrates ,  sense organs develop .
innermost of the three primary germ layers of an animal embryo ,  developing into the gastrointestinal tract ,  the lungs ,  and associated structures .
middle embryonic germ layer ,  lying between the ectoderm and the endoderm ,  from which connective tissue ,  muscle ,  bone ,  and the urogenital and circulatory systems develop .
a health care profession primarily concerned with the remediation of impairments and disabilities and the promotion of mobility ,  functional ability ,  quality of life and movement potential through examination ,  evaluation ,  diagnosis and physical intervention .
branch of medicine that deals with the diagnosis and treatment of injury ,  deformity ,  and disease by manual and instrumental means .
treatment of cancer with one or more cytotoxic antineoplastic drugs .
immunosuppression involves an act that reduces the activation or efficacy of the immune system .
the treatment of disease ,  esp .
an organism of microscopic or submicroscopic size ,  especially a bacterium or protozoan
microorganisms that are similar to bacteria in size and simplicity of structure but radically different in molecular organization .
a member of a large group of unicellular microorganisms that have cell walls but lack organelles and an organized nucleus ,  including some that can cause diseas
a non - coding rna  ( ncrna )  is an rna molecule that is not translated into a protein .
a genetic non - coding rna is a non - coding rna that is created by transcription in a cell
long non - coding rnas  ( long ncrnas ,  lncrna )  are non - protein coding transcripts longer than 200 nucleotides .
small interfering rna  ( sirna )  is a class of double - stranded rna molecules ,  20 - 25 base pairs in length .
is a material entity that is created or changed during material processing .
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
a processed material comprised of a collection of cultured cells that has been continuously maintained together in culture and shares a common propagation history .
an amino acid chain that is produced de novo by ribosome - mediated translation of a genetically - encoded mrna .
a molecular entity that is a polymer of amino acids residues linked by peptide bonds .
a sequence_feature with an extent greater than zero .
a folded sequence .
a group of loci that can be grouped in a linear order representing the different degrees of linkage among the genes concerned .
a gene from nuclear sequence .
a gene located in mitochondrial sequence .
a gene located in kinetoplast sequence .
a gene from plastid sequence .
a gene from apicoplast sequence .
a gene from chloroplast sequence .
a gene from chromoplast_sequence .
a gene from cyanelle sequence .
a plastid gene from leucoplast sequence .
a gene from proplastid sequence .
a gene from nucleomorph sequence .
a gene from plasmid sequence .
a gene from proviral sequence .
a proviral gene with origin endogenous retrovirus .
a transposon or insertion sequence .
a sequence of amino acids linked by peptide bonds which may lack appreciable tertiary structure and may not be liable to irreversible denaturation .
an mrna with a frameshift .
any extent of continuous biological sequence .
a gene encoded within a transposable element .
a gene that is silenced .
a gene that is silenced by dna modification .
a gene that is silenced by dna methylation .
an epigenetically modified gene ,  rearranged at the dna level .
the point at which one or more contiguous nucleotides were excised .
a regulatory_region composed of the tss ( s )  and binding sites for tf_complexes of the basal transcription machinery .
a dna sequence in eukaryotic dna to which rna polymerase i binds ,  to begin transcription .
a dna sequence in eukaryotic dna to which rna polymerase ii binds ,  to begin transcription .
a dna sequence in eukaryotic dna to which rna polymerase iii binds ,  to begin transcription .
a transcript that in its initial state requires modification to be functional .
a transcript which has undergone the necessary modifications ,  if any ,  for its function .
messenger rna is the intermediate molecule between dna and protein .
the sequences extending on either side of a specific region .
small ,  ~22 - nt ,  rna molecule that is the endogenous transcript of a mirna gene  ( or the product of other non coding rna genes .
a gene that is engineered .
a gene that is engineered and foreign .
an mrna with a minus 1 frameshift .
a transposable_element that is engineered and foreign .
a gene that is foreign .
a gene that is a fusion .
a fusion gene that is engineered .
the origin of replication ;  starting site for duplication of a nucleic acid molecule to give two identical copies .
regions of a few hundred to a few thousand bases in vertebrate genomes that are relatively gc and cpg rich ;  they are typically unmethylated and often found near the 5' ends of genes .
an mrna with a plus 1 frameshift .
an mrna with a plus 2 frameshift .
a mrna with a minus 2 frameshift .
a sequence that closely resembles a known functional gene ,  at another locus within a genome ,  that is non - functional as a consequence of  ( usually several )  mutations that prevent either its transcription or translation  ( or both )  .
a transgene that is floxed .
the region of sequence surrounding a transposable element .
the junction where an insertion occurred .
the junction in a genome where a transposable_element has inserted .
a non - coding rna ,  usually with a specific secondary structure ,  that acts to regulate gene expression .
a recombinationally rearranged gene by inversion .
a small  ( 184 - nt in e . coli )  rna that forms a hairpin type structure .
an enterobacterial rna that binds the csra protein .
dsra rna regulates both transcription ,  by overcoming transcriptional silencing by the nucleoid - associated h - ns protein ,  and translation ,  by promoting efficient translation of the stress sigma factor ,  rpos .
a small untranslated rna which is induced in response to oxidative stress in escherichia coli .
translational regulation of the stationary phase sigma factor rpos is mediated by the formation of a double - stranded rna stem - loop structure in the upstream region of the rpos messenger rna ,  occluding the translation initiation site .
the rev response element  ( rre )  is encoded within the hiv - env gene .
a 109 - nucleotide rna of e . coli that seems to have a regulatory role on the galactose operon .
a biological_region of sequence that ,  in the molecule ,  interacts selectively and non - covalently with other molecules .
a gene that encodes a polyadenylated mrna .
a gene that encodes an mrna with a frameshift .
a gene that is recombinationally rearranged .
a gene with a transcript that is trans - spliced .
a non - functional descendant of a functional entity .
a primary transcript that is never translated into a protein .
a gene that encodes a transcript that is edited .
an unregulated promoter that allows continuous expression .
a structure consisting of a 7 - methylguanosine in 5' - 5' triphosphate linkage with the first nucleotide of an mrna .
a tmrna liberates a mrna from a stalled ribosome .
a region containing or overlapping no genes that is bounded on either side by a gene ,  or bounded by a gene and the end of the chromosome .
the string of non - encoded u's at the 3' end of a guide rna  ( so:0000602 )  .
sequence of about 100 nucleotides of a added to the 3' end of most eukaryotic mrnas .
a dna sequence to which bacterial rna polymerase binds ,  to begin transcription .
a transcriptional cis regulatory region that when located between a cm and a gene's promoter prevents the crm from modulating that genes expression .
an mrna with either a single protein product ,  or for which the regions encoding all its protein products overlap .
an mrna that encodes multiple proteins from at least two non - overlapping regions .
a primary transcript encoding a micro rna .
a mitochondrial gene located in a maxicircle .
an rna transcript that does not encode for a protein rather the rna molecule is the gene product .
a region of sequence containing one or more repeat units .
the sequence of one or more nucleotides added between two adjacent nucleotides in the sequence .
an rna synthesized on a dna or rna template by an rna polymerase .
a gene that encodes a polycistronic transcript .
a gene that encodes a dicistronic transcript .
a gene that encodes an mrna that is recoded .
a gene that encodes a transcript with stop codon readthrough .
a gene encoding an mrna that has the stop codon redefined as pyrrolysine .
a sequence_feature with an extent of zero .
a region  ( or regions )  that includes all of the sequence elements necessary to encode a functional transcript .
a gene encoding an mrna that has the stop codon redefined as selenocysteine .
a gene with mrna recoded by translational bypass .
a gene encoding a transcript that has a translational frameshift .
an mrna that has the quality dicistronic .
a transposable element that is foreign .
a gene that encodes a dicistronic primary transcript .
a gene that encodes a polycistronic mrna .
the simplest repeated component of a repeat region .
a regulatory region where transcription factor binding sites clustered to regulate various aspects of transcription activities .
an exemplar is a representative cdna sequence for each gene .
a quantitative trait locus  ( qtl )  is a polymorphic locus which contains alleles that differentially affect the expression of a continuously distributed phenotypic trait .
te that exists  ( or existed )  in nature .
te that has been modified by manipulations in vitro .
a gene that rescues .
a gene that rescues .
a region of a chromosome .
a region of a gene .
a region of a transcript .
biological sequence region that can be assigned to a specific subsequence of a polypeptide .
an mrna that is capped .
an mrna that is polyadenylated .
an mrna that is trans - spliced .
a gene that is maternally_imprinted .
a gene that is paternally imprinted .
a gene that is post translationally regulated .
a gene that is negatively autoreguated .
a gene that is positively autoregulated .
a gene that is translationally regulated .
a gene that is allelically_excluded .
a gene that is epigenetically modified .
a transgene is a gene that has been transferred naturally or by any of a number of genetic engineering techniques from one organism to another .
an mrna that is edited .
a recombinationally rearranged gene of the vertebrate immune system .
a nucleotide region with either intra - genome or intracellular mobility ,  of varying length ,  which often carry the information necessary for transfer and recombination with the host genome .
a regulatory_region that modulates the transcription of a gene or genes .
a transcriptional_cis_regulatory_region that restricts the activity of a crm to a single promoter and which functions only when both itself and an insulator are located between the crm and the promoter .
a region  ( dna )  to which rna polymerase binds ,  to begin transcription .
a region  ( dna )  to which bacteriophage rna polymerase binds ,  to begin transcription .
a region  ( dna )  to which the sp6 rna polymerase binds ,  to begin transcription .
a dna sequence to which the t3 rna polymerase binds ,  to begin transcription .
a region  ( dna )  to which the t7 rna polymerase binds ,  to begin transcription .
a gene that is silenced by rna interference .
a gene that is silenced by histone modification .
a gene that is silenced by histone methylation .
a gene that is silenced by histone deacetylation .
a region containing at least one unique origin of replication and a unique termination site .
a base is a sequence feature that corresponds to a single unit of a nucleotide polymer .
a sequence feature that corresponds to a single amino acid residue in a polypeptide .
a region defined by its disposition to be involved in a biological process .
a region that is defined according to its relations with other regions within the same sequence .
a gene that is not transcribed under normal conditions and is not critical to normal cellular functioning .
a gene that encodes for ribosomal rna .
a gene that encodes for an piwi associated rna .
a gene that encodes an rnase p rna .
a gene that encodes a rnase_mrp_rna .
a gene that encodes large intervening non - coding rna .
a telomerase rna gene is a non coding rna gene the rna product of which is a component of telomerase .
a measurable sequence feature that varies within a population .
the minimal portion of the promoter required to properly initiate transcription in rna polymerase ii transcribed genes .
a regulatory region that is involved in the control of the process of transcription .
a sequence motif is a nucleotide or amino - acid sequence pattern that may have biological significance .
the nucleotide region  ( usually a palindrome )  that is recognized by a restriction enzyme .
a terminal region of dna sequence where the end of the region is not blunt ended .
an isre is a transcriptional cis regulatory region ,  containing the consensus region: yagtttc ( a / t ) ytttycc ,  responsible for increased transcription via interferon binding .
a biological region implicated in inherited changes caused by mechanisms other than changes in the underlying dna sequence .
a gene with a start codon other than aug .
a gene with a translational start codon of cug .
a dna sequence that in the normal state of the chromosome corresponds to an unfolded ,  un - complexed stretch of double - stranded dna .
a gene suspected of being involved in the expression of a trait .
a candidate gene whose association with a trait is based on the gene's location on a chromosome .
a candidate gene whose function has something in common biologically with the trait under investigation .
a region of a chromosome ,  where the chromosome has undergone a large structural rearrangement that altered the genome organization .
a cds that is part of a transposable element .
a pseudogene contained within a transposable element .
a bacterial promoter with sigma ecf factor binding dependency .
a region of sequence that is involved in the control of a biological process .
a gene that can be substituted for a related gene at a different site in the genome .
a collection of related genes .
a sequence alteration where the length of the change in the variant is the same as that of the reference .
a continuous nucleotide sequence is inverted in the same position .
a maxicircle gene so extensively edited that it cannot be matched to its edited mrna sequence .
the sequence of a mature mrna transcript ,  modified before translation or during translation ,  usually by special cis - acting signals .
a recoded_mrna where translation was suspended at a particular codon and resumed at a particular non - overlapping downstream codon .
a recoded_mrna that was modified by an alteration of codon meaning .
sequence coding for a short ,  single - stranded ,  dna sequence via a retrotransposed rna intermediate ;  characteristic of some microbial genomes .
material anatomical entity that is a single connected structure with inherent 3d shape generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical structure that performs a specific function or group of functions  [ wp ]  .
anatomical entity that has mass .
multicellular anatomical structure that consists of many cells of one or a few types ,  arranged in an extracellular matrix such that their long - range organisation is at least partly a repetition of their short - range organisation .
