a structured controlled vocabulary for the source of an enzyme .
a benign tumor cell of bone .
established from a human primary embryonal kidney transformed by adenovirus type 5 .
l1 is a continuous substrain of 3t3 swiss albino developed through clonal isolation .
human brain glioblastoma cell line .
human epidermoid carcinoma established from the solid tumor of an 85 - year - old woman ;  cells were reported to have large numbers of egf binding sites ;  cell line was used as indicator cell line for anti - tgf binding .
human lung carcinoma established from an explanted lung tumor which was removed from a 58 - year - old caucasian man in 1972 ;  cells were described to induce tumors in athymic mice and to synthesize lecithin .
rat embryonic thoracic aorta smooth muscle cell line .
1: the part of the body between the thorax and the pelvis ;  also: the cavity of this part of the trunk containing the chief viscera .
the visceral sacs nerve knot is called visceral ganglion .
any of the muscles which connect the ventral walls of the chest with the bones of the upper arm and shoulder and of which there are two on each side of the human body .
the fourth compartment of the ruminant stomach that follows the omasum and has a true digestive function .
the space within the amnion .
a small dry indehiscent one - seeded fruit  ( as of a sunflower )  developing from a simple ovary and usually having a thin pericarp attached to the seed at only one point .
cells of the pancreas that secrete digestive enzymes ,  the archetypal secretory cell upon which much of the early work on the sequence of events in the secretory process was done .
adductor arising from the superior ramus of the pubis and inserted into the middle third of the linea aspera .
any of three powerful triangular muscles that contribute to the adduction of the human thigh .
a short stalk at the base of a fruit .
a cell of an adenocarcinoma of the colon is a malignant neoplastic epithelial lesion ,  arising from the colonic mucosa .
human colon adenocarcinoma ,  established from the adenocarcinoma  ( grade iii )  of a 51 - year - old caucasian woman ;  cells were described to produce carcinoembryonic antigen  ( cea )  and to be tumorigenic in nude mice .
a group of cells at the tip of the stem and root that give rise by cell division to the primary tissues and are ultimately responsible for the structural organization of the entire primary plant body .
adenocarcinoma cell related to the colon and / or rectum .
a cell of any of a group of common stomach cancers ,  usually located in the antrum ;  it may present as a bulky mass with central ulceration invading the wall ,  a mass that narrows the antral lumen ,  a polypoid lesion ,  or a tumor that spreads superficially over the mucosal surface .
carcinoma cell of the renal parenchyma usually occurring in middle age or later and composed of tubular cells in varying arrangements ;  symptoms depend on extent of invasion .
human colon adenocarcinoma ,  established from the tumor of a 50 - year - old caucasian man with colon adenocarcinoma .
a thimble - shaped group of cells found at the tip of roots ;  it functions to protect the meristem .
the anterior glandular lobe of the pituitary gland .
the part of the vertebrate brain that is continuous posteriorly with the spinal cord and that contains the centers controlling involuntary vital functions .
any of a kingdom  ( animalia )  of living things including many - celled organisms and often many of the single - celled ones  ( as protozoans )  that typically differ from plants in having cells without cellulose walls ,  in lacking chlorophyll and the capacity for photosynthesis ,  in requiring more complex food materials  ( as proteins )  ,  in being organized to a greater degree of complexity ,  and in having the capacity for spontaneous movement and rapid motor responses to stimulation .
the superficial gray matter of the cerebellum .
an acinous gland that is about the size and shape of an almond ,  secretes tears ,  and is situated laterally and superiorly to the bulb of the eye in a shallow depression on the inner surface of the frontal bone .
the outer portion of the adrenal glands that produces several steroid hormones ,  including cortisol and aldosterone .
mouse adrenal cortex tumor .mouse ,  laf1 male ;  tissue: adrenal cortex ;  tumor: adrenal tumor .
either of a pair of complex endocrine organs near the anterior medial border of the kidney consisting of a mesodermal cortex that produces glucocorticoid ,  mineralocorticoid ,  and androgenic hormones and an ectodermal medulla that produces epinephrine and norepinephrine .
the outermost of the three layers of the adrenal cortex that consists of round masses of granular epithelial cells that stain deeply .
the inner ,  reddish - brown portion of the adrenal glands that synthesizes ,  stores ,  and releases epinephrine and norepinephrine .
the middle of the three layers of the adrenal cortex that consists of radially arranged columnar epithelial cells .
a synovial sheath covering a tendon  ( as in the hand or foot )  .
the epidermal complex consisting of two guard cells and the pore between them .
the spongy white tissue on the inside of the rind of citrus fruit .
the posterior oviduct opens into the large white albumen gland which adds a layer of albumen to the zygote before it reaches the egg capsule gland .
proximal straight tubule: part of the descending limb of the renal tubule ,  extending from the proximal convoluted tubule to the thin tubule .
the innermost of the three layers of the adrenal cortex that consists of irregularly arranged cylindrical masses of epithelial cells .
a group of cells rich in protein granules and located as the outer layer of the endosperm of many grain seeds .
the mucous membrane - lined tube of the digestive system through which food passes ,  in which digestion takes place ,  and from which wastes are eliminated .
a tiny ,  thin - walled ,  capillary - rich sac in the lungs where the exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide takes place .
each large alveolar sac is like a grape cluster which contains ten or more alveoli .
any of the bodies representing the morphologic  ( leishmanial )  stage in the life cycle of all trypanosomatid protozoa resembling the typical adult form of members of the genus leishmania ,  in which the oval or round cell has a nucleus ,  kinetoplast ,  and basal body but lacks a free - flowing flagellum ,  the flagellum being either very short or entirely absent .
pertaining to the amnion and chorion .
a thin ,  tough ,  membranous sac that encloses the embryo or fetus of a mammal ,  bird ,  or reptile .
a cell of fetal origin obtained in an amniotic fluid specimen .
fluid within the amniotic cavity produced by the amnion during the early embryonic period ,  and later by the lungs and kidneys ;  at first crystal clear ,  it later becomes cloudy .
human amnion cell line with hela markers .
a cell  ( as a phagocyte )  having amoeboid form or movements .
the female reproductive part of a flower ,  consisting of stigma ,  style ,  and ovary .
one of a pair of slender movable segmented sensory organs on the head of insects ,  myriapods ,  and crustaceans .
excretory gland situated in the basal article of the antennal peduncle .
the small ,  non - neural ,  interstitial cells of mesodermal origin that form part of the supporting structure of the central nervous system .
the male reproductive organ enclosing and containing the pollen grains .
in women ,  the organs that are directly involved in producing eggs and in conceiving and carrying babies .
the internal and external reproductive organs in the male .
the internal and external reproductive organs in the female .
a narrow blind tube usually about three or four inches  ( 7 .6 to 10 .2 centimeters )  long that extends from the cecum in the lower right - hand part of the abdomen ,  has much lymphoid wall tissue ,  normally communicates with the cavity of the cecum ,  and represents an atrophied terminal part of the cecum .
the flattened thickened tip of a hyphal branch by which some parasitic fungi are attached to their host .
the system of heart and blood vessels .
1: the fluid that circulates in the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries ,  and veins of a vertebrate animal carrying nourishment and oxygen to and bringing away waste products from all parts of the body .
any of a class  ( ascidiacea )  of solitary or colonial sessile tunicates that have an oral and an atrial siphon .
accumulation of serous fluid in the spaces between tissues and organs in the cavity of the abdomen .
any of a genus  ( trypanosoma )  of parasitic flagellate protozoans that infest the blood of various vertebrates including humans ,  are usually transmitted by the bite of an insect ,  and include some that cause serious disease  ( as sleeping sickness )  .
human breast adenocarcinoma ,  established from the pleural effusion of a 69 - year - old caucasian woman with metastatic mammary carcinoma  ( after radio -  and hormone therapy )  in 1970 .
mouse embryonal carcinoma ,  initiated from a testicular teratocarcinoma of a strain 129 mouse .
any of the spores contained in an ascus .
an embryonic astrocyte .
a star - shaped cell ,  especially a neuroglial cell of nervous tissue .
a tumor cell composed of astrocytes ;  it is the most common type of primary brain tumor and is also found throughout the central nervous system .
a semisolid gelatinous mass of coagulated blood that consists of red blood cells ,  white blood cells ,  and platelets entrapped in a fibrin network .
murine cancer cell line .
lymphoma means any neoplastic disorder of the lymphoid tissue .
the epidermal layer directed towards the axis .
marmoset monkey lymphocytes ,  established from peripheral blood lymphocytes of a marmoset monkey  ( saguinus oedipus )  ;  cells were described to release high titers of epstein - barr virus  ( ebv )  providing a source for transformation of b cells and establishment of continuous cell lines ;  this cell line has been assigned by the zkbs  ( german central commission for biological safety )  to risk group 2 .
pseudostratified epithelium lining the olfactory region of the nasal cavity ,  and containing the receptors for the sense of smell .
an irregularly shaped bacterium  ( as a rhizobium )  found especially in root nodules of legumes .
derived from a 14 - 17 day old balb / c mouse embryo .
the phloem conducting cell in nonangiosperms ;  they are long and tapered with small sieve areas over much of their surfaces .
any of three sympathetic ganglia on each side of the neck .
the large fruiting body characteristic of the majority of fungi of the subphylum basidiomycotina ;  it is composed of masses of intertwined hyphal elements and produces basidia .
mouse brain tumor cell line .
a thin surface layer of tissue in higher plants formed by growth of a primary meristem .
a simple fruit  ( as a currant ,  grape ,  tomato ,  or banana )  with a pulpy or fleshy pericarp .
syrian hamster kidney bhk - 21 is a subclone  ( clone 13 )  of the parental line established from the kidneys of five unsexed ,  one - day - old hamsters in 1961 ;  cells can be used for virus replication studies .
a fluid secreted by the liver and poured into the small intestine via the bile ducts .
any of the ducts that convey bile in and from the liver .
a membranous sac in animals that serves as the receptacle of a liquid or contains gas .
haploid cells produced by meiosis in the anthers of angiosperms ;  four microspores are produced from a single microsporocyte .
in the monophyletic theory ,  the least differentiated ,  totipotential blood cell without commitment as to its particular series ,  from which all blood cells are derived ,  preceding a stem cell .
the mass of cells produced by cleavage of a fertilized ovum ,  forming the hollow sphere of the blastula ,  or the cellular cap above a floor of segmented yolk in the discoblastula of telolecithal eggs .
a fungal spore produced by budding .
the usually spherical structure produced by cleavage of a zygote ,  consisting of a single layer of cells  ( blastoderm )  surrounding a fluid - filled cavity  ( blastocoele )  .
mammalian granulocyte with large heterochromatic basophilic granules that contain histamine bound to a protein and heparin - like mucopolysaccharide matrix .
a granulocyte that is the chief phagocytic white blood cell of the blood .
the fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
a minute ,  nonnucleated ,  disklike cytoplasmic body found in the blood plasma of mammals that is derived from a megakaryocyte and functions to promote blood clotting .
the cell - free portion of the blood from which the fibrinogen has been separated in the process of clotting .
when living in the mammalian bloodstream t . brucei has neither a functional krebs cycle nor oxidative phosphorylation nor does it store any carbohydrates .
the great arterial trunk that carries blood from the heart to be distributed by branch arteries through the body .
system pertaining to a bronchus and alveoli .
the middle of the three primary divisions of the developing vertebrate brain or the corresponding part of the adult brain .
the portion of an animal body that consists of ectoderm and mesoderm ,  forms the external body surface ,  and encloses the body cavity .
the hard form of connective tissue that constitutes the majority of the skeleton of most vertebrates ;  it consists of an organic component  ( the cells and matrix )  and an inorganic ,  or mineral ,  component ;  the matrix contains a framework of collagenous fibers and is impregnated with the mineral component ,  chiefly calcium phosphate  ( 85 per cent )  and calcium carbonate  ( 10 per cent )  ,  which imparts the quality of rigidity to bone .
the soft ,  fatty ,  vascular tissue that fills most bone cavities and is the source of red blood cells and many white blood cells .
1: the portion of the vertebrate central nervous system that constitutes the organ of thought and neural coordination ,  includes all the higher nervous centers receiving stimuli from the sense organs and interpreting and correlating them to formulate the motor impulses ,  is made up of neurons and supporting and nutritive structures ,  is enclosed within the skull ,  and is continuous with the spinal cord through the foramen magnum .
the substantia nigra is located in the mesencephalon  ( mid brain )  region of the brain .
any of the three membranes that envelop the brain and spinal cord .
the part of the brain composed of the mesencephalon ,  pons ,  and medulla oblongata and connecting the spinal cord with the forebrain and cerebrum .
a plant body or cell lineage ,  formed by vegetative growth of the microspore ,  that produces the male gametes of a heterosporous plant .
a natural subdivision of a plant stem ;  especially: a secondary shoot or stem  ( as a bough )  arising from a main axis  ( as of a tree )  .
the fore or ventral part of the body between the neck and the abdomen .
breast cancer is an uncontrolled growth of malignant breast tissue .
a muscle that ,  upon contraction ,  tends to straighten a limb .
a cell of a transplantable carcinoma of the rat that originally appeared spontaneously in the mammary gland of a pregnant albino rat ,  and which now resembles a carcinoma in young transplants and a sarcoma in older transplants .
rat liver cell line .established from the buffalo strain of rattus norvegicus .
a technique by which cells and fluid from bronchioles and lung alveoli are removed for diagnosis of disease or evaluation of treatment .
a mammalian heat - producing tissue occurring especially in human newborns and in hibernators .
thoracic part of aorta: the proximal portion of the descending aorta ,  which proceeds from the arch of the aorta and gives rise to the bronchial ,  esophageal ,  pericardiac ,  and mediastinal branches ,  and the superior phrenic ,  posterior intercostal iii to xi ,  and subcostal arteries ;  it is continuous through the diaphragm with the abdominal aorta .
a small lateral or terminal protuberance on the stem of a plant that may develop into a flower ,  leaf ,  or shoot .
a resting stage of a plant  ( as the lily ,  onion ,  hyacinth ,  or tulip )  that is usually formed underground and consists of a short stem base bearing one or more buds enclosed in overlapping membranous or fleshy leaves .
sheath of parenchyma or sclerenchyma cells surrounding the vascular bundles in leaves .
collective term for the petals of a flower .
malignant tumour cell of lymphoblasts derived from b - lymphocytes .
this is a subclone of the mouse myoblast cell line .
the first part of the large intestine ,  forming a dilated pouch into which open the ileum ,  colon ,  and appendix vermiformis .
a key artery located in the front of the neck that carries blood from the heart to the brain .
the usually green outer whorl of a flower consisting of sepals .
a thin formative layer between the xylem and phloem of most vascular plants that gives rise to new cells and is responsible for secondary growth ;  a lateral meristem in vascular plants ,  including the vascular cambium and cork cambium ,  that forms parallel rows of cells resulting in secondary tissues .
the h226br cell line is a variant of the nci - h226 cell line derived from a brain metastasis in a nu / nu mouse .
the convex ,  concave ,  or flattened spore - bearing structure of some basidiomycetes that is attached superiorly to the stem and typically is expanded with gills or pores on the underside .
a simple fruit that develops from a compound ovary with two or more carpels ;  capsules dehisce in many ways ,  example: cotton .
an anatomical structure that exists only before the organism is fully formed .
the caudal part of the roof and the adjoining lateral walls of the third ventricle of the diencephalon ,  comprising the habenular nuclei and their commissure ,  pineal body ,  and commissure of the epithalamus .
a cell of malignant new growth made up of epithelial cells tending to infiltrate the surrounding tissues and give rise to metastases .
ovarian adenocarcinoma cell line .
a benign epithelial tumor cell in which the cells form recognizable glandular structures or in which the cells are clearly derived from glandular epithelium .
human caucasian colon adenocarcinoma cell line .
a cancer cell of the uterine cervix  ( the neck of the uterus )  .
a carcinoma discovered by dr . margaret r . lewis of the wistar institute in 1951 .
human colon adenocarcinoma ,  established from the primary tumor of a 44 - year - old caucasian woman with colon adenocarcinoma in 1964 ;  described to be heterotransplantable forming well - differentiated grade i tumors .
a cell ot a type of thyroid gland carcinoma that contains amyloid deposits and parafollicular cells and secretes calcitonin .
a cell of a rare type of breast cancer that often can be treated successfully .
a cell of an infiltrating  ( invasive )  breast cancer ,  relatively uncommon ,  accounting for only 5% - 10% of breast tumours in most series .
a large mononuclear nongranular bone - marrow cell ;  especially: one that is a precursor of a myelocyte .
a cell of a common ,  highly malignant form of bronchogenic carcinoma in the wall of a major bronchus ,  occurring mainly in middle - aged individuals with a history of tobacco smoking ;  it is radiosensitive and has small oval undifferentiated cells that are intensely hematoxyphilic .
a ehrlich tumor carcinoma is a transplantable ,  poorly differentiated malignant tumour which appeared originally as a spontaneous breast carcinoma in a mouse .
a cell of a carcinoma composed mainly of epithelial elements with little or no stroma .
a cell of a disease in which cancer  ( malignant )  cells are found in the tissues of the nasopharynx .
cancer cell of the rectum .
ovarian carcinoma cell which resembles typical carcinoma of the endometrium and may be seen with a synchronous endometrial carcinoma .
human colon adenocarcinoma cell line ,  established from the primary colon tumor  ( adenocarcinoma )  of a 72 - year - old caucasian man in 1974 .
cancer cell of the thyroid gland .
a cell of a malignant tumor that is a mixture of carcinoma  ( cancer of epithelial tissue ,  which is skin and tissue that lines or covers the internal organs )  and sarcoma  ( cancer of connective tissue ,  such as bone ,  cartilage ,  and fat )  .
the opening of the esophagus into the stomach ;  also: the part of the stomach adjoining this opening .
the principal muscle tissue of the vertebrate heart made up of striated fibers that appear to be separated from each other under the electron microscope but that function in long - term rhythmic contraction as if in protoplasmic continuity .
a bodily structure that receives a stimulus  ( as heat or sound waves )  and is affected in such a manner as to initiate a wave of excitation in associated sensory nerve fibers which convey specific impulses to the central nervous system where they are interpreted as corresponding sensations: receptor .
a system of organs subserving the function of respiration and in air - breathing vertebrates consisting typically of the lungs and their nervous and circulatory supply and the channels by which these are continuous with the outer air .
a small cluster of chemoreceptive and supporting cells located near the bifurcation of the internal carotid artery .
a plexus made up of intermingled nerve fibers .
a specialized ,  fibrous connective tissue ,  forming most of the temporary skeleton of the embryo ,  providing a model in which most of the bones develop ,  and constituting an important part of the growth mechanism of the organism .
cartilage pertaining to the tibia .
simple ,  dry ,  indehiscent fruit with a single seed that is fused to the ovary wall ,  example: wheat .
the body of the epididymis .
the tail of the epididymis .
one of the centrally - located portions of the brain affected by huntington's disease .
a centrally - located portion of the brain affected by huntington's disease .
cells taken from a living organism and grown under controlled conditions  ( in culture )  .
rat hepatoma ,  established from the liver tumor of a buffalo rat ;  tumor cells were propagated in the hind leg .
the balb / 3t3 clone a31 is one of several cell lines  ( see balb / 3t12 )  developed in 1968 from disaggregated 14 -  to 17 - day - old balb / c mouse embryos .
the ventral part of the shell of a turtle or tortoise .
rat hepatoma ,  a clonal strain of epithelial cells was derived from a transplantable morris hepatoma  ( #7795 ,  buffalo strain )  in 1967 ;  cells were described to synthesize and to secrete serum albumin and serum complement component c9 .
particles floating in  ( not necessarily on )  a liquid medium ,  or the mix of particles and liquid itself .
an embryonic cell that becomes a cell of muscle fiber .
a malignant tumor cell of the testis composed of teratoma and embryonal carcinoma .
cem is a camptothecin  ( cpt )  resistant derivative of the human t cell leukemia cell line ccrf - cem .
a microglial cell that is globular and swollen after having phagocytized debris from cells destroyed pathologically in the central nervous system .
the central nervous system is that part of the nervous system that consists of the brain and spinal cord .
mouse neuroblastoma cell line .
the white matter of the cerebral hemispheres which underlies the cerebral cortex and which ,  in horizontal sections superior to the corpus callosum ,  has a semioval shape ;  it contains projection ,  commissural ,  and association fibers .
the space between the arachnoidea mater and the pia mater ,  containing cerebrospinal fluid and bridged by delicate trabeculae .
either of the two hollow convoluted lateral halves of the cerebrum .
a large dorsally projecting part of the brain concerned especially with the coordination of muscles and the maintenance of bodily equilibrium ,  situated between the brain stem and the back of the cerebrum  ,  and formed in humans of two lateral lobes and a median lobe .
the surface layer of gray matter of the cerebrum that functions chiefly in coordination of sensory and motor information .
any of the tubular branching vessels that carry blood from the capillaries toward the heart .
any of four deeply placed masses of gray matter  ( as the amygdala )  in each cerebral hemisphere .
whitish nerve tissue ,  especially of the brain and spinal cord ,  consisting chiefly of myelinated nerve fibers .
the serumlike fluid that circulates through the ventricles of the brain ,  the cavity of the spinal cord ,  and the subarachnoid space ,  functioning in shock absorption .
endothelial cell of or involving the cerebrum and the blood vessels supplying it .
an enlarged anterior or upper part of the brain ;  especially: the expanded anterior portion of the brain that in higher mammals overlies the rest of the brain ,  consists of cerebral hemispheres and connecting structures ,  and is considered to be the seat of conscious mental processes .
an inconstant ganglion formed in place of the usual cervicothoracic ganglion by fusion of the lower two cervical ganglia in instances where the first thoracic ganglion remains separate .
a substance produced by the cervix and endocervical glands .
a canal in a female mammal that leads from the uterus to the external orifice of the genital canal .
chinese hamster ovary cell line ,  that was initiated from an ovary biopsy of an adult chinese hamster in 1957 .
the terminal bud  ( 0 .1  -  1 .0 mm )  of a plant ,  which consists of the apical meristem  ( 0 .05  -  0 .1 mm )  and the immediate surrounding leaf primordia and developing leaves and adjacent stem tissue .
a giant cell of the class that is believed associated with the absorption of cartilage .
cartilage cells .they make the structural components of cartilage .
chondrosarcoma is a malignant tumor derived from cartilage cells or their precursors ,  but lacking direct osteoid formation ;  it occurs predominantly in the pelvis ,  femur ,  and shoulder girdle in middle - aged to older adults .
a vascular fetal membrane composed of the fused chorion and adjacent wall of the allantois that in the hen's egg is used as a living culture medium for viruses and for tissues .
the outer membrane of the two membranes enclosing the embryo in reptiles ,  birds ,  and mammals .
human lung carcinoma ;  established from the supraclavicular tumor cells - containing lymph node of a 71 - year - old man with poorly differentiated carcinoma of the lung .
the choroid plexus is tissue located in the spaces inside the brain called ventricles .
a type of amine precursor uptake and decarboxylation cells that stain readily with chromium salts ,  their cytoplasmic granules taking on a characteristic brown color ;  they are found especially in cells of the adrenal medulla and in paraganglia of the coccygeal gland and carotid gland ,  along the sympathetic nerves ,  and in various organs .
tissue that includes the group of muscles that act on the eye lens to produce accommodation and the arterial circle of the iris .
one of the small bulbs  ( as in garlic )  developed in the axils of the scales of a large bulb .
mouse monocytes - macrophages ,  established from the ascites of a dba / 2 mouse with a lymphoid neoplasm induced by methylcholanthrene and subsequently enriched for adherent  ( monocyte - macrophage )  cells by selection  ( yielding this il1 - producing subclone )  ;  reported to produce il - 1 after stimulation with lps or pma ,  to phagocytize latex articles and to synthesize lysozyme .
the central axis / core of the ear  ( distal end of the lateral branch / ear shoot )  upon which the kernels  ( caryopses )  are borne .
a division of the bony labyrinth of the inner ear of higher vertebrates that is usually coiled like a snail shell and is the seat of the hearing organ .
the first leaf of a monocotyledon forming a protective sheath about the plumule .
the part of the large intestine that extends from the cecum to the rectum .
the portion of the colon between the cecum and the right colic flexure .
the portion of the colon that runs transversely across the upper part of the abdomen ,  from the right to the left colic flexure .
the ink gland and ink sac are specializations of the rectal gland .
the uppermost bud on a stem .
an epithelial cell of the colon .
milk secreted for a few days after parturition and characterized by high protein and antibody content .
the muscle of the central column or axis of a spiral univalve shell .
cancer that forms in tissues of the testis .
a mass of ovule - bearing or pollen - bearing scales or bracts in trees of the pine family or in cycads that are arranged usually on a somewhat elongated axis .
a specialized fungal hypha that produces conidia .
the upper or anterior division of the animal body that contains the brain ,  the chief sense organs ,  and the mouth .
an asexual spore produced on a conidiophore .
a rounded thick modified underground stem base bearing membranous or scaly leaves and buds and acting as a vegetative reproductive structure .
the transparent part of the coat of the eyeball that covers the iris and pupil and admits light to the interior .
posterior epithelium of cornea: the mesothelial layer covering the posterior surface of the posterior limiting lamina of the cornea ;  it was once believed to extend to the anterior surface of the stroma of the iris .
an appendage or series of united appendages on the inner side of the corolla in some flowers  ( as the daffodil ,  jonquil ,  or milkweed )  .
subset of t - lymphocytes  ( mostly cd8 +  )  responsible for lysing target cells and for killing virus - infected cells .
either of two arteries that arise one from the left and one from the right side of the aorta immediately above the semilunar valves and supply the tissues of the heart itself .
one of a pair of separate or fused bodies in many insects that are sometimes closely associated with the corpora cardiaca and that secrete hormones  ( as juvenile hormone )  .
a yellowish mass of progesterone - secreting endocrine tissue that forms immediately after ovulation from the ruptured graafian follicle in the mammalian ovary .
this lobe is located at the back of the head and is involved in vision and reading .
the sensitive vascular inner mesodermic layer of the skin .
mouse ,  balb / c ,  monocyte ,  monocytic leukemia cell line .
brain astrocytoma cell line .the sw 1088 cell line was initiated by a . leibovitz at the scott and white clinic ,  temple ,  texas in 1975 from an astrocytoma taken from a 72 year old male caucasian .
african green monkey kidney derived from cv - 1 ,  a simian cell line  ( cercopithecus aethiops )  ,  by transformation with an origin - defective mutant of sv - 40 ;  cells were described to support the growth of sv - 40 viruses .
each seed of a cotton plant is surrounded with downy fiber ,  white or creamy in color and easily spun .
a seed leaf ;  the first leaf formed in a seed .
a pouched enlargement of the gullet of many birds that serves as a receptacle for food and for its preliminary maceration ;  also: an enlargement of the gullet of another animal  ( as an insect )  .
hormonal cells involved in the production and release of ecdysone and juvenile hormone .
a disease that affects many species of plants and is caused by a bacterium  ( agrobacterium tumefaciens )  which forms tumorous enlargements just below the ground on the stem .
human ,  caucasian ,  pancreas ,  carcinoma cell line .
a crypt is a deep pit that protrudes down into the connective tissue surrounding the small intestine .
the crystalline style ,  a gelatinous rod ,  projects into the stomach and stirs the contents as well as produces digestive enzymes to aid digestion .
cells surrounding the vascular bundle in c4 plants .
the first - formed phloem that develops from procambium ,  consists of narrow thin - walled cells capable of a limited amount of stretching ,  and is usually associated with a region of rapid growth .
a neuron with a motor function ;  an efferent neuron conveying motor impulses .
the outer cellular layer of the body of invertebrates which secretes the cuticular exoskeleton .
1: simple columnar epithelium made up of cells specialized to serve as sensory cells for the reception of external stimuli ,  as the sensory cells of the cochlea ,  vestibule ,  nasal mucosa ,  and tongue .
the outer of the three germ layers of the embryo  ( the other two being mesoderm and endoderm )  .
a substance ,  either solid or liquid ,  used for the cultivation ,  isolation ,  identification ,  or storage of microorganisms .
the secondary ,  bud - generating part of the filamentous moss protonema ,  typically reddish - brown ,  having few chloroplasts and consisting of long cells with oblique end walls .
normal kidney cell line .the cv - 1 cell line was derived from the kidney of a male adult african green monkey by f .c .
a body resembling a cyst: as a 1: capsule formed about a minute organism going into a resting or spore stage ;  also: this capsule with its contents .
a thin continuous fatty or waxy film on the external surface of many higher plants that consists chiefly of cutin .
the cellular  ( inner )  layer of the trophoblast .
mouse connective tissue fibroblast ,  established from the normal subcutaneous areolar and adipose tissue of a male c3h / an mouse ;  used as target in tnf detection assays .
a mass of arterial capillaries enveloped in a capsule and attached to a tubule in the kidney .
the part of the decidua in the pregnant human female lining the uterus .
1: a cell of a mass of tissue formed in the uterus following pregnancy that contains remnants of chorionic or decidual tissue .
the head of the epididymis .
the structure within the developing alveolar bone of the jaws enclosing the tooth germ .
a soft ,  thin film of food debris ,  mucin ,  and dead epithelial cells deposited on the teeth ,  providing the medium for the growth of various bacteria .
the soft sensitive tissue that fills the central cavity of a tooth .
the thin muscle below the lungs and heart that separates the chest from the abdomen .
the posterior subdivision of the forebrain .
one of the minute ,  reabsorptive ,  secretory ,  and collecting canals ,  made up of basement membrane lined with epithelium ,  that form the substance of the kidneys .
the horny outer layer of the epidermis ,  consisting mainly of dead or peeling cells .
a gland ,  such as the liver or pancreas ,  that secretes into the alimentary canal substances necessary for digestion .
the second compartment of the stomach of a ruminant in which folds of the mucous membrane form hexagonal cells .
the third division of the stomach of a ruminant animal ,  located between the abomasum and the reticulum .
the central part of the flower head of a typical composite made up of closely packed tubular flowers .
lung cell line ,  established from a 8 - months - old male of cricetulus griseus  ( hamster ,  chinese )  .
an undeveloped growth bud .
a plant gland that secretes nectar .
liver ,  hepatoma ;  morris hepatoma 7777 cell line ,  established from a rattus norvegicus female .
a variable ganglion ,  often fused with the vertebral ganglion ,  on the sympathetic trunk at about the level of the cricoid cartilage ;  its postganglionic fibers are distributed mainly to the heart ,  cervical region ,  and upper limb .
the sensory division of each spinal nerve ,  attached centrally to the spinal cord and joining peripherally with the anterior  ( motor )  root to form the nerve before it emerges through the intervertebral foramen: each posterior root bears a spinal ganglion and conveys sensory fibers to the spinal cord .
a layer of granular cells lying immediately above the stratum germinativum in most parts of the epidermis .
cancer cell of the organ responsible for temporarily holding urine after it leaves the kidneys .
a thin somewhat translucent layer of cells lying superficial to the stratum granulosum and under the stratum corneum especially in thickened parts of the epidermis .
the first part of the small intestine extending from the pylorus to the jejunum .
the duodenal mucosa  ( and that of the rest of the intestines )  is classified as simple columnar .
the organ of hearing .
the hard - shelled reproductive body produced by a bird and especially by the common domestic chicken ;  also: its contents used as food .
eggs are composed of 56 to 61% egg white and 27 to 32% egg yolk .
the yellow spheroidal mass of stored food that forms the inner portion of the egg of a bird or reptile and is surrounded by the white .
cancer cell of the skeleton .
mouse cancer cell .
a specialized tract of tissue ,  as in the electric eel ,  in which electricity is generated .
the infectious form of chlamydiaceae .
one of the anterior wings in beetles and some other insects that serve to protect the posterior pair of functional wings .
an animal in the early stages of growth and differentiation that are characterized by cleavage ,  the laying down of fundamental tissues ,  and the formation of primitive organs and organ systems ;  especially: the developing human individual from the time of implantation to the end of the eighth week after conception .
the main root or shoot body of a seedling .
drosophila embryo cell line .
the white milky pulp or extract of bitter almonds .
a thin serous membrane lining the cavities of the heart .
the innermost tissue of the cortex in many roots and stems .
a liquid - filled cavity in a mammalian ovary containing a mature egg before ovulation .
a triploid nutritive tissue resulting from the fusion of a haploid sperm nucleus with the two haploid polar nuclei in the ovule of angiosperms .
human colon adenocarcinoma established from a colorectal adenocarcinoma .
a terminally differentiated cell of the b lymphocyte lineage that produces antibodies ;  plasma cells are oval or round with extensive rough endoplasmic reticulum ,  a well - developed golgi apparatus ,  and a round nucleus having a characteristic cartwheel heterochromatin pattern .
an epithelium of mesodermal origin composed of a single layer of thin flattened cells that lines internal body cavities .
simple squamous epithelium which lines the lumen side of the blood vessel .
any cell of the walls of the pulmonary alveoli ;  the term is often limited to alveolar epithelial cells  ( type i and type ii alveolar cells )  and alveolar macrophages .
somatic cell hybrid cell line .
1: one of the hard bony appendages that are borne on the jaws or in many of the lower vertebrates on other bones in the walls of the mouth or pharynx and serve especially for the prehension and mastication of food and as weapons of offense and defense .
cell of the intestinal epithelium .
a white blood cell or other granulocyte with cytoplasmic inclusions readily stained by eosin .
ependymal epithelium lining the ventricular cavities and canals of the cns is simple ,  columnar or cuboidal .
portion of the shoot of an angiosperm embryo or seedling above the cotyledons .
the outer epithelial layer of the external integument of the animal body that is derived from the embryonic epiblast ;  specifically: the outer nonsensitive and nonvascular layer of the skin of a vertebrate that overlies the dermis .
a male organ of copulation that in male mammals including humans usually functions as the channel by which urine leaves the body .
human hodgkin's lymphoma ,  established from the pleural effusion of a 37 - year - old woman with hodgkin's lymphoma  ( stage ivb ,  nodular sclerosis ,  refractory ,  terminal )  in 1978 .
cell line of a malignant neoplasm of the bone - forming tissues .
a system of ductules emerging posteriorly from the testis that holds sperm during maturation and that forms a tangled mass before uniting into a single coiled duct which is continuous with the vas deferens .
any of the bodies representing the morphologic  ( crithidial )  stage in the life cycle of certain trypanosomatid protozoa resembling the typical adult form of members of the genus crithidia ,  in which the kinetoplast and basal body are located anterior to the central vesicular nucleus of the slender elongate cell and the flagellum is attached to the body up to the anterior end by a short undulating membrane before becoming free - flowing .
primary ovarian follicles: immature ovarian follicles ,  each comprising an immature ovum and the specialized epithelial cells  ( follicle cells )  that surround it .
lining of the head of the uterus  ( cervix )  ;  contains large branched glands ;  does not undergo sloughing .
the disk or plate of cartilage interposed between the epiphysis and the shaft of the bone during the period of growth ;  by its growth the bone increases in length .
a part or process of a bone that ossifies separately and later becomes ankylosed to the main part of the bone ;  especially: an end of a long bone .
cell that cover the surface of the body and line its cavities .
a neoplasm cell of epithelial origin ,  ranging from benign  ( adenoma and papilloma )  to malignant  ( carcinoma )  .
a membranous cellular tissue that covers a free surface or lines a tube or cavity of an animal body and serves especially to enclose and protect the other parts of the body ,  to produce secretions and excretions ,  and to function in assimilation .
the irregularly shaped proliferating bile ducts are lined by normal cuboidal epithelium .
the neostriatum is a compound structure comprised of the putamen and caudate nucleus .
epithelium of the respiratory portion of the bronchial tree .
the part of an animal that connects the head with the body .
the tissue which binds together and is the support of the various structures of the body .
vaginal epithelium is stratified squamous epithelium having a thickness of 15 - 200 microns .
pertaining to muscles associated with the humeral epichondyle .
any of the hemoglobin - containing cells that carry oxygen to the tissues and are responsible for the red color of vertebrate blood .
merozoites from the liver infect red blood cells and replicate asexually through schizogony .
cancer cell of the blood - forming tissues in which large numbers of immature ,  abnormal red blood cells are found in the blood and bone marrow .
multidrug - resistant cell line ,  variant of h69 .
human embryonic epithelial cell line .
a gland that discharges its secretion through a duct opening on an internal or external surface of the body ,  as a lacrimal gland .
a pair of neurohemal organs located on the walls of the aorta just behind the brain .
that part of the pancreas that acts as an exocrine gland ,  consisting of the pancreatic acini ,  which produce pancreatic juice and secrete it into the duodenum to aid in protein digestion .
the layers of prickle cells over the layer of the stratum germinativum capable of undergoing mitosis .
a pennate muscle on the lateral part of the front of the leg that extends the four small toes and dorsally flexes and pronates .
the innermost layer of the epidermis consisting of a single row of columnar or cuboidal epithelial cells that continually divide and replace the rest of the epidermis as it wears away .
an organ of sight ;  especially: a nearly spherical hollow organ that is lined with a sensitive retina ,  is lodged in a bony orbit in the skull ,  is the vertebrate organ of sight ,  and is normally paired .
waste matter discharged from the body ;  especially: waste  ( as feces )  discharged from the alimentary canal .
a fatty tissue especially of nearly mature insect larvae that serves as a food reserve .
one of the fat - laden cells making up adipose tissue .
an accumulation of adipose tissue  ( fat cells )  enclosed in fibrous tissue .
the well defined areas of the cerebral cortex ,  demarcated by fissures ,  sulci ,  and arbitrary lines ,  including the frontal ,  temporal ,  parietal ,  and occipital lobes .
mouse bone marrow cell line ,  established from the long - term bone marrow cultures of bdf1 mice ;  cells are mil - 3 - dependent  ( fdcp means factor dependent cell - paterson after the paterson institute ,  manchester ,  uk )  ;  it is described that cells can be maintained in a primitive state or induced to differentiate .
any of the light horny epidermal outgrowths that form the external covering of the body of birds and that consist of a shaft bearing on each side a series of barbs which bear barbules which in turn bear barbicels commonly ending in hooked hamuli and interlocking with the barbules of an adjacent barb to link the barbs into a continuous vane .
an unborn or unhatched vertebrate especially after attaining the basic structural plan of its kind ;  specifically: a developing human from usually three months after conception to birth .
an elongated tapering thick - walled plant cell void at maturity that imparts elasticity ,  flexibility ,  and tensile strength .
insect flight muscle responsible for indirect flight .
a connective - tissue cell of mesenchymal origin that secretes proteins and especially molecular collagen from which the extracellular fibrillar matrix of connective tissue forms .
the 3t6 cell line is a collagen and hyaluronic acid secreting line established by g . todaro and h . green in 1963 from disaggregated swiss mouse embryos .
rat hepatoma ,  established in 1963 from the ascites of a rat with hepatoma induced with 4 - dimethylaminoazobenzene .
chinese hamster ovary cells ,  subclone from parental cho cell line that was initiated from an ovary biopsy of an adult chinese hamster in 1957 .
human embryonic lung fibroblast cell line .
fibrosarcoma is a malignant tumour derived from connective tissue fibroblast .
mouse swiss albino fibrosarcoma cell line .
the coiled young frond of any of various ferns ,  some of which are considered a delicacy when cooked .
part of the stamen in a flower that supports the anther .
a flagellate protozoan or alga .
oil exists in the yellow layer of the peel of the lemon which is known as the flavedo .
a muscle of the tibial side of the leg that flexes the terminal phalanx of each of the four small toes .
1 .a small or reduced flower ,  especially one of the grasses and composite plants ,  such as a daisy .
the reproductive structure of the anthophyta or angiosperms .
a bud that will develop into a flower .
mouse mammary carcinoma cell line .
any membrane that functions for the protection or nourishment of respiration or excretion of a developing fetus .
a vascular fetal membrane of reptiles ,  birds ,  and mammals that is formed as a pouch from the hindgut and that in placental mammals is intimately associated with the chorion in formation of the placenta .
a vesicle in the mammalian ovary that contains a developing egg surrounded by a covering of cells .
1: the terminal part of the vertebrate leg upon which an individual stands .
the anterior of the three primary divisions of the developing vertebrate brain or the corresponding part of the adult brain that includes especially the cerebral hemispheres ,  the thalamus ,  and the hypothalamus and that especially in higher vertebrates is the main control center for sensory and associative information processing ,  visceral functions ,  and voluntary motor functions .
a muscle of a limb  ( as an arm ,  wing ,  fin ,  or leg )  that is situated anteriorly .
any of the first three stomachs of a ruminant ,  i .e . ,  the rumen ,  reticulum ,  or omasum .
a distal ,  convoluted part of the ascending limb of the renal tubule ,  extending from the distal straight tubule to the junctional  ( connecting )  tubule .
a large leaf  ( especially of a palm or fern )  usually with many divisions .
front part of the brain ,  involved in planning ,  organizing ,  problem solving ,  selective attention ,  personality and a variety of higher cognitive functions including behavior and emotions .
the mature ovary or ovaries of a seed - bearing plant ,  together with accessory parts ,  containing the seeds and occurring in a wide variety of forms .
any specialized structure which bears or contains sexually or asexually derived spores .
the epidermal layer directed away or outwards from the axis .
the matter ,  such as urine or sweat ,  that is excreted from the blood ,  tissues ,  or organs .
furth murine mastocytoma cell line .
a small ,  pear - shaped muscular sac ,  located under the right lobe of the liver ,  in which bile secreted by the liver is stored until needed by the body for digestion .
a flattish area in a blastocyst in which the first traces of the embryo are seen ,  visible early in the second week in human development .
the individual or generation of a plant exhibiting alternation of generations that bears sex organs .
the portion of the cerebellum lying in front of the primary fissure ,  comprising the lingula ,  central lobule ,  culmen ,  alae of central lobules ,  and quadrangular lobules .
a group of nerve cell bodies located outside the central nervous system .
gastric cancer is a cancer of the stomach .
epithelium of the stomach .
a thin watery acid digestive fluid secreted by glands in the mucous membrane of the stomach .
that part of the stomach to the left and above the level of the entrance of the esophagus .
any of various glands in the walls of the stomach that secrete gastric juice .
the liquid secretion of the exocrine pancreas ,  which is discharged into the duodenum .
that part of the stomach between the fundus and the pyloric part .
the largest and most superficial muscle of the calf of the leg arising by two heads from the condyles of the femur and attaching to a tendon that becomes part of the achilles tendon .
1: the anterior part of the embryonic alimentary canal of a vertebrate from which the pharynx ,  lungs ,  esophagus ,  stomach ,  liver ,  pancreas ,  and duodenum develop .
the tissue lining the gut cavity of an invertebrate ,  which is responsible for digestion and absorption .
the caudal portion of the embryonic alimentary canal in vertebrates .
the gastrointestinal tract includes both stomach and intestine .
the immature reproductive cell prior to fertilization ;  it is derived from an oogonium ,  and is called a primary oocyte prior to completion of the first maturation division ,  and a secondary oocyte between the first and second maturation division .
a small mass of living substance capable of developing into an organism or one of its parts .
a specialized absorbing structure of a parasitic plant ,  such as the rootlike outgrowth of the dodder ,  that obtains food from a host plant .
a red blood cell that has lost its hemoglobin .
a paired respiratory organ in fishes consisting of gill filaments on the gill arch in the posterior portion of the head and usually providing the primary exchange of gases between the blood and the surrounding water .
the tissue that surrounds the necks of teeth and covers the alveolar parts of the jaws ;  broadly: the alveolar portion of a jaw with its enveloping soft tissues .
1: the muscular enlargement of the alimentary canal of birds that has usually thick muscular walls and a tough horny lining for grinding the food and when the crop is present follows it and the proventriculus .
a cell ,  group of cells ,  or organ of endothelial origin that selectively removes materials from the blood ,  concentrates or alters them ,  and secretes them for further use in the body or for elimination from the body .
the fleshy ,  spore - bearing inner mass of a puffball .
the delicate network of branched cells and fibers that supports the tissue of the central nervous system .
human melanoma cell line .
a tumor cell originating in the neuroglia of the brain or spinal cord .
glioblastoma is a general term for malignant forms of astrocytoma .
rat hepatoma ,  established from the transplantable rat ascites hepatoma ah - 601 induced by feeding with aminoazotoluene ;  the hepatoma was passaged by intraperitoneal transplantation though jar - 2 rats .
the glial cell strain ,  c6 ,  was cloned from a rat glial tumor induced by n - nitrosomethylurea by benda et al after a series of alternate culture and animal passages .
globular tufts of capillaries ,  one projecting into the expanded end or capsule of each of the uriniferous tubules ,  which together with its surrounding capsule  ( glomerular capsule )  constitute the renal corpuscle .
any one of three large skeletal muscles that form the buttock and move the thigh .
a mixed gland that produces the gametes  ( sex cells )  and sex hormones of an organism .
1 .a gamete  ( as an egg or sperm cell )  or one of its antecedent cells .
the gracilis is the most superficial muscle on the medial side of the thigh .
a sweet liquid that is secreted by the nectaries of a plant and is the chief raw material of honey .
pleomorphic cells of the pulmonary alveolar epithelium that secrete surfactant and are distinguished by abundant cytoplasm containing numerous lipid - rich multilamellar bodies .
a polymorphonuclear white blood cell with granule - containingcytoplasm .
a diploid plant cell that forms four microspores by meiosis ;  the microspores give rise to pollen grains in seed plants .
one of the estrogen - secreting cells of the epithelial lining of a graafian follicle or its follicular precursor .
the part of a primary apical meristem remaining after differentiation of protoderm and procambium .
one of the two crescent - shaped epidermal cells that border and open and close a plant stoma .
1: the alimentary canal or a portion thereof ,  especially the intestine or stomach .
the prostate consists of a median lobe and two lateral lobes .
1 .one of the posterior plates of the plastron of a turtle .
cancer cell of the major organ of respiration the lung .
hacat is a spontaneously immortalized human keratinocyte cell line .
blood circulating throughout the body .
the tubular epithelial sheath that surrounds the lower part of the hair shaft and encloses at the bottom a vascular papilla supplying the growing basal part of the hair with nourishment .
the enlarged basal part of a hair within the skin .
a layer of cells produced during the process of gastrulation during the early development of the animal embryo ,  which is distinct from other such layers of cells ,  as an early step of cell differentiation .
an accessory lacrimal gland on the inner side of the orbit in reptiles and birds but usually degenerate in mammals .
a transversely oriented set of cells located deep to the enveloping layer on the pericardial membrane ,  especially prominent during pharyngula period because of the brightly refractile cytoplasmic granules  ( containing hatching enzymes )  of the principal cells of the gland ;  the fish hatching gland is a unicellular holocrine gland .
when the tip of the infection hypha contacts a host cell wall ,  a haustorial mother cell  ( hm )  is formed from which the haustorium  ( h )  invades the host cell .
the portion of the cerebellum separated from the anterior lobe by the primary fissure and from the flocculonodular lobe by the dorsolateral fissure ;  it comprises the declive ,  folium vermis ,  tuber vermis ,  pyramid ,  uvula ,  simple lobule ,  inferior and superior semilunar lobules ,  and tonsils .
1: a hollow muscular organ of vertebrate animals that by its rhythmic contraction acts as a force pump maintaining the circulation of the blood .
a structure especially in a vein or lymphatic that closes temporarily a passage or orifice or permits movement of fluid in one direction only .
human erythroleukemia ,  established from the peripheral blood of a 30 - year - old man with erythroleukemia  ( aml m6 )  in relapse  ( after treatment for hodgkin's disease )  in 1980 ;  cells were described to be capable of spontaneous and induced globin synthesis .
human cervix carcinoma established from the epitheloid cervix carcinoma of a 31 - year - old black woman in 1951 .
human cervix carcinoma cell line is a subclone of its parent hela derived in 1955 .
the spozoites move to the liver ,  enter liver cells and replicate asexually through schizogony .
the tissues concerned in production of the blood ,  including the bone marrow ,  liver ,  lymph nodes ,  spleen ,  and thymus .
a blood cell especially of an invertebrate animal .
the circulatory fluid of various invertebrate animals that is functionally comparable to the blood and lymph of vertebrates .
any of the tubular branching muscular -  and elastic - walled vessels that carry blood from the heart through the body .
a blood cell .
the major cell type of the liver .
mouse melanoma tumor cell line .
rat morris hepatoma 3924a cell .
hepatoma is a cancer originating in the liver ,  in liver cells .
a cell of a cancerous growth in any part of the eye .
the major forms of blood cancer are lymphoma ,  leukemia and multiple myeloma .
mouse b lymphocyte ;  plasmacytoma ;  myeloma .
pancreatic cancer is a disease in which malignant  ( cancer )  cells are found in the tissues of the pancreas .
cancer cell of the part of the eye called the uvea ,  which is composed of the iris  ( the colored part of the eye )  ,  the ciliary body  ( a muscle in the eye )  ,  and the choroid  ( a layer of tissue in the back of the eye )  .
a malignant tumour arising from the inner wall of the large intestine .
mouse ,  c57bl / 6 ,  lewis lung carcinoma cell line .
mouse c57bl lewis lung carcinoma cell line .
meristem  ( as procambium )  derived from the apical meristem .
alzheimer is a disease marked by the loss of cognitive ability ,  generally over a period of 10 to 15 years ,  and associated with the development of abnormal tissues and protein deposits in the cerebral cortex .
the n1 - s1 cell line was established from a novikoff hepatoma induced by feeding 4 - dimethylaminoazobenzene to a male rat .
adrenal gland cancers are rare cancers occuring in the endocrine tissue of the adrenals .
undifferentiated ,  fast growing rat ascites hepatoma cell line .
malignant  ( cancer )  cells are found in the tissues of the liver .
mouse bone marrow cell line ,  established from the long - term bone marrow culture of b6d2f1 mice ;  cells are il - 3 - dependent ;  their differentiation is blocked ;  this subclone is responsive to g - csf .
mouse embryonal carcinoma cell line ,  established from the teratocarcinoma induced in a c3h / he strain mouse .
digestive gland of crustaceans with functions approximately analogous to liver and pancreas of vertebrates  -  enzyme secretion ,  food absorption and storage .
human mammary epithelial cell line .
human hepatocellular carcinoma ,  established from the tumor tissue of a 15 - year - old argentine boy with hepatocellular carcinoma in 1975 .
a large transparent thick - walled cell that is found in the filaments of some blue - green algae and is the site of nitrogen fixation .
a curved elongated ridge that extends over the floor of the descending horn of each lateral ventricle of the brain and consists of gray matter covered on the ventricular surface with white matter ;  the hippocampus is a part of the temporal lobe ,  which has a well established role in learning ,  memory and emotion .
a nonmotile macrophage of extravascular tissues and especially connective tissue .
a cell of a cancer that begins in cells that line certain internal organs and that have glandular  ( secretory )  properties .
a sweet viscid material elaborated out of the nectar of flowers in the honey sac of various bees .
pre - b - cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
rat hepatoma cell line .derived from a rat ascites tumour ,  which in turn was derived from a solid hepatoma induced in male buffalo rats by feeding them 0 .04% n , n' - 2 , 7fluorenyle - bis - 2 , 2 , 2 - trifluoroacetamide for 12 .4 months .
primary carcinoma of the liver cells .
a usually dry or membranous outer covering  ( as a pod or hull or one composed of bracts )  of various seeds and fruits .
a cell hybrid in which a tumour cell forms one of the original source cells .
1: one of the filaments or threads composing the mycelium of a fungus .
the part of the axis of a plant embryo or seedling below the cotyledon .
the ventral part of the diencephalon that forms the floor and part of the lateral wall of the third ventricle .
the great band of commissural fibers uniting the cerebral hemispheres of higher mammals including humans .
an abnormal fibroblast containing a large number of dark inclusions that fill the central part of the cytoplasm except for the juxtanuclear zone ;  seen in mucolipidosis ii .
ileal lavage is the process of washing out the ileum for therapeutic purposes .
the last division of the small intestine extending between the jejunum and large intestine .
two muscles that lie together low down in the rear of the abdomen ;  a compound muscle ,  consisting of the iliacus musculus and psoas major musculus .
pancreatic beta cell line .
a flower cluster with a definite arrangement .
the black protective secretion of a cephalopod ;  the ink is composed mostly of melanin and has been used as the artists pigment ,  sepia .
the essential organ of hearing and equilibrium that is located in the temporal bone ,  is innervated by the auditory nerve ,  and includes the vestibule ,  the semicircular canals ,  and the cochlea .
a cell of a usually benign tumor of the insulin - secreting cells of the pancreas .
human caucasian embryonic intestine ,  hela characteristics .
something that covers or encloses ;  especially: an enveloping layer  ( as a skin ,  membrane ,  or husk )  of an organism or one of its parts .
ordinary bone marrow of the kind in which the fat cells predominate .
region on a stem between nodes .
the interphotoreceptor matrix is a mucopolysaccharide matrix surrounding the outer segments of the photoreceptors .
interrenal cells in elasmobranchs and bony fishes represent the equivalent of the mammalian adrenal cortex .
the short intersegmental muscle is located between the prothorax and the mesothorax .
any of the tubular glands of the intestinal mucous membrane .
the portion of the colon between the left colic flexure and the sigmoid colon at the pelvic brim ;  the portion of the descending colon lying in the left iliac fossa is sometimes called the iliac colon .
the surface lining of the intestines where the cells absorb nutrients .
a fluid that is secreted in small quantity in the small intestine ,  is highly variable in constitution ,  and contains especially various enzymes  ( as erepsin ,  lipase ,  lactase ,  enterokinase ,  and amylase )  and mucus .
the s - shaped part of the colon which lies in the pelvis ,  extending from the pelvic brim to the third segment of the sacrum ,  and continuous above with the descending  ( or iliac )  colon and below with the rectum .
the distal portion of the colon ;  it develops embryonically from the hindgut and functions in the storage and elimination of waste .
the tubular part of the alimentary canal that extends from the stomach to the anus .
the proximal portion of the colon ,  extending from the ileocecal valve usually to a point proximal to the left colic flexure ;  it develops embryonically from the terminal portion of the midgut and functions in absorption .
that part of the pancreas that acts as an endocrine gland ,  consisting of the islets of langerhans ,  which secrete insulin ,  glucagon ,  somatostatin ,  and sometimes pancreatic polypeptide directly into the bloodstream .
the part of the intestine that lies between the stomach and colon ,  consists of duodenum ,  jejunum ,  and ileum ,  secretes digestive enzymes ,  and is the chief site of the absorption of digested nutrients .
the circular pigmented membrane behind the cornea ,  perforated by the pupil ;  the most anterior portion of the vascular tunic of the eye ,  it is made up of a flat bar of circular muscular fibers surrounding the pupil ,  a thin layer of smooth muscle fibers by which the pupil is dilated ,  thus regulating the amount of light entering the eye ,  and posteriorly two layers of pigmented epithelial cells .
one of the muscles that relax the zonules to enable the lens to change shape for focusing .
circular fibers of the iris ,  innervated by the ciliary nerves  ( parasympathetic )  ,  and acting to contract the pupil .
the section of the small intestine that comprises the first two fifths beyond the duodenum and that is larger ,  thicker - walled ,  and more vascular and has more circular folds than the ileum .
the most common form of endometrial carcinoma ,  containing tumor cells differentiated into glandular tissue with little or no stroma .
the extractable fluid contents of cells or tissues .
multihyphal linear aggregate ;  linearly extending ,  loose agglomeration of hyphae ;  generally not hardened or melanized .
human t cell leukemia ,  established from the peripheral blood of a 14 - year - old boy with acute lymphoblastic leukemia  ( all )  at first relapse in 1976 ;  often this cell line is called jm  ( jurkat and jm are derived from the same patient and are sister clones )  ,  occasionally jm may be a subclone with somewhat divergent features .
the upper part of the throat behind the nose .
a rare benign tumor cell of renal juxtaglomerular cells in young men ,  causing hyperreninemia .
human chronic myeloid leukemia in blast crisis established from the pleural effusion of a 53 - year - old woman with chronic myeloid leukemia  ( cml )  in blast crisis in 1970 .
human cervix carcinoma  ( derivative of hela )  originally described as epidermoid carcinoma established from the mouth of a caucasian man in 1954 ;  however ,  as shown by dsmz dna fingerprinting this cell line must be considered an hela subclone .
human colon adenocarcinoma cell line ,  established from the metastatic nodule resected from a 56 - year - old caucasian man with colon adenocarcinoma in 1972 .
skin cell ,  of the keratinized layer of epidermis: its characteristic intermediate filament protein is cytokeratin .
the inner softer part of a seed ,  fruit stone ,  or nut .
human acute myeloid leukemia ,  established from the bone marrow of a 59 - year - old man with erythroleukemia that developped into acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml )  at relapse in 1977 ;  cells were described to form colonies in soft - agar in response to colony - stimulating factor .
1: one of a pair of vertebrate organs situated in the body cavity near the spinal column that excrete waste products of metabolism ,  in humans are bean - shaped organs about 4 1 / 2 inches  ( 11 1 / 2 centimeters )  long lying behind the peritoneum in a mass of fatty tissue ,  and consist chiefly of nephrons by which urine is secreted ,  collected ,  and discharged into a main cavity whence it is conveyed by the ureter to the bladder .
the posterior of the three primary divisions of the developing vertebrate brain or the corresponding part of the adult brain that includes the cerebellum ,  the medulla oblongata ,  and in mammals the pons and that controls autonomic functions and equilibrium .
the anterior segment of the developing vertebrate hindbrain or the corresponding part of the adult brain composed of the cerebellum and pons .
baby hamster kidney cell line .
human ,  caucasian ,  colon ,  adenocarcinoma cell line ,  established from the tissue of a 51 - year - old caucasian male .
a cell of adenoma containing fibrous tissue .
human caucasian renal leiomyoblastoma cell line ,  derived from a tumour of a 9 - month - old female caucasian .
lymph exuded from the blood vessels and not derived from the fluid in the tissue spaces .
a cell of a group of cancers that starts in the kidney .
human pre - b lymphocytic leukemia cell line .
solid - state culture of fungus  ( e .g .
large star - shaped or pyramidal cells with a large oval nucleus and a small prominent nucleolus .
cells found in the blood and organs of guinea pigs that contain large secretory granules but are of unknown function .
mouse lymphocytic leukemia established from the methylcholanthrene - induced tumor in a dba strain mouse  ( subline 212 ,  8 - month - old female )  in 1949 ;  the cells were propagated by heterotransplantation into dba / 2 mice ;  an in - vitro suspension culture was first reported in 1966 ;  cells are used for cytotoxicity studies .
any of various durable natural varnishes ;  especially: a varnish obtained from an asian sumac  ( rhus verniciflua )  .
stellate dendritic cells ,  derived from precursors in the bone marrow ,  that appear clear on light microscopy and have a dark - staining ,  indented nucleus and characteristic inclusions  ( birbeck granules )  in the cytoplasm ,  they lack tonofilaments ,  desmosomes ,  and melanosomes .
the more terminal division of the vertebrate intestine that is wider and shorter than the small intestine ,  typically divided into cecum ,  colon ,  and rectum ,  and concerned especially with the resorption of water and the formation of feces .
1: the immature ,  wingless ,  and often wormlike feeding form that hatches from the egg of many insects ,  alters chiefly in size while passing through several molts ,  and is finally transformed into a pupa or chrysalis from which the adult emerges .
one of the two cells into which a primary spermatocyte divides ,  and which in turn gives origin to spermatids ;  called also prespermatid .
a milky usually white fluid that is produced by cells of various seed plants  ( as of the milkweed ,  spurge ,  and poppy families )  and is the source of rubber ,  gutta - percha ,  chicle ,  and balata .
a glioma is a type of tumor that starts in the glial cells of the brain or the spine .
a plant cell or vessel that contains latex .
a lateral outgrowth from a plant stem that is typically a flattened expanded variably shaped greenish organ ,  constitutes a unit of the foliage ,  and functions primarily in food manufacture by photosynthesis .
the angle between a leaf and the axis from which it arises .
the youngest tissue at the base of the leaf .
1: the conical sac of serous membrane that encloses the heart and the roots of the great blood vessels of vertebrates .
the blade consists of an upper and a lower layer of closely fitted epidermal cells ,  including specialized paired guard cells that control the size of tiny pores ,  or stomata ,  for gaseous exchange and the release of water vapor  ( see transpiration )  .
the blade or flat part of a leaf .
a limb of an animal used especially for supporting the body and for walking .
a highly transparent biconvex lens - shaped or nearly spherical body in the eye that focuses light rays  ( as upon the retina )  .
a blood cell progenitor or mother cell representing a slightly later stage than the blast cell ;  it has the capacity for both replication and differentiation ,  and has pluripotentiality ,  giving rise to precursors of various different blood cell lines ,  such as the proerythrocyte and myeloblast ,  which cannot self - replicate and must differentiate into more mature daughter cells .
human multiple myeloma cell line ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 61 - year - old man with multiple myeloma  ( igg lambda - type )  at diagnosis in 1966 ;  described to produce and secrete only lambda light chains  ( but not heavy chains )  .
brown - pearce epithelioma in rabbit eyes  ( brown and pearce developed this eye cancer of a rabbit )  .
a cell of a benign or malignant tumor arising especially from the mucosa of the gastrointestinal tract .
the inner layer of the pericarp of a fruit  ( as an apple or orange )  when it consists of two or more layers of different texture or consistency .
lymphocytic leukemia cell that is marked by an abnormal increase in the number of lymphoblasts ,  that is characterized by rapid onset and progression of symptoms which include fever ,  anemia ,  pallor ,  fatigue ,  appetite loss ,  bleeding ,  thrombocytopenia ,  granulocytopenia ,  bone and joint pain ,  and enlargement of the lymph nodes ,  liver ,  and spleen ,  and that occurs chiefly during childhood .
human chronic myeloid leukemia in myeloid blast crisis ,  established from the peripheral blood of a 38 - year - old man with chronic myeloid leukemia  ( cml )  in myeloid blast crisis ;  described to express basophilic features .
the outermost layer of the pericarp of a fruit .
a bone - marrow cell: especially: a motile cell with cytoplasmic granules that gives rise to the blood granulocytes and occurs abnormally in the circulating blood  ( as in myelogenous leukemia )  .
the individual or generation of a plant exhibiting alternation of generations that bears asexual spores .
peripheral blood ,  t lymphoblast ,  acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
human acute myeloid leukemia established from the peripheral blood of a 35 - year - old woman with acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml fab m2 )  in 1976 .
lymphocytic leukemia cell line characterized by an abnormal increase in the number of lymphoblasts .
a cell line of leukemia characterized by proliferation of myeloid tissue  ( as of the bone marrow and spleen )  and an abnormal increase in the number of granulocytes ,  myelocytes ,  and myeloblasts in the circulating blood .
the portion of an embryonic somite from which skeletal musculature is produced .
leukemia cell of either of two types marked by an abnormal increase in the number of white blood cells  ( as lymphocytes )  which accumulate in bone marrow ,  lymphoid tissue  ( as of the lymph nodes and spleen )  ,  and circulating blood .
a cell of a carcinoma discovered by dr . margaret r . lewis of the wistar institute in 1951 .
a spore that develops within a sporangium .
an experimental lymphocytic leukemia originally induced in dba / 2 mice by painting with methylcholanthrene .
any of a large class  ( sporozoa )  of strictly parasitic protozoans that have a complicated life cycle usually involving both asexual and sexual generations often in different hosts and include important pathogens  ( as malaria parasites and babesias )  .
the enlarged rounded usually basal portion of the pistil or gynoecium of an angiospermous plant that bears the ovules and consists of one or more carpels .
any of the blood cells that are colorless ,  lack hemoglobin ,  contain a nucleus ,  and include the lymphocytes ,  monocytes ,  neutrophils ,  eosinophils ,  and basophils .
a vessel that contains or conveys lymph ,  that originates as an interfibrillar or intercellular cleft or space in a tissue or organ ,  and that if small has no distinct walls or walls composed only of endothelial cells and if large resembles a vein in structure .
tissue that is particularly rich in lymphocytes  ( and accessory cells such as macrophages and reticular cells )  ,  particularly the lymph nodes ,  spleen ,  thymus ,  peyer's patches ,  pharyngeal tonsils ,  adenoids ,  and  ( in birds )  the bursa of fabricius .
hyaline eosinophilic concentrically - laminated inclusions found in the substantia nigra and locus ceruleus of patients with parkinsonism and lewy body dementia .
interstitial cells of the testis ,  which secrete testosterone .
multinucleate mass of protoplasm bounded only by a plasma membrane ;  the main vegetative form of acellular slime moulds .
the posterior part of the developing vertebrate hindbrain or the corresponding part of the adult brain composed of the medulla oblongata .
1: a large very vascular glandular organ of vertebrates that secretes bile and causes important changes in many of the substances contained in the blood  ( as by converting sugars into glycogen which it stores up until required and by forming urea )  .
pig normal kidney cell line ,  established from a 3 -  to 4 - week - old male of sus scrofa .
the arcuate renal tubule ,  straight collecting tubule ,  and papillary duct considered together .
one of the usually paired compound saccular thoracic organs that constitute the basic respiratory organ of air - breathing vertebrates .
an externally secreting gland ,  such as a salivary gland or sweat gland that releases its secretions directly or through a duct .
nodes that lie at the root of the mesentery ,  receiving lymph from parts of the small intestine ,  cecum ,  appendix ,  and large intestine ;  they comprise three groups: the juxtaintestinal ,  central superior ,  and inferior mesenteric lymph nodes .
the hollow conical process of gray matter by which the pituitary gland is continuous with the brain .
the three to six nodes alongside the submandibular gland ,  through which lymph drains from the adjacent skin and mucous membrane .
neuroglia consisting of cells similar to but smaller than astrocytes ,  found in the central nervous system and associated with the formation of myelin .
neuroglial cells of ectodermal origin ,  i .e . ,  the astrocytes and oligodendrocytes considered together .
often referred to as a blast cell .
human cell line from tissue infected with epstein - barr virus ,  resembling a lymphoblast .
a cell of any of several diseases of lymph nodes marked by the formation of tumorous masses composed of mature or immature lymphocytes .
any of the colorless weakly motile cells originating from stem cells and differentiating in lymphoid tissue  ( as of the thymus or bone marrow )  that are the typical cellular elements of lymph ,  include the cellular mediators of immunity ,  and constitute 20 to 30 percent of the white blood cells of normal human blood .
any of the lymphocytes that have antibody molecules on the surface and comprise the antibody - secreting plasma cells when mature .
an enlarged mass of lymphoid tissue at the back of the pharynx characteristically obstructing breathing .
an artery that conveys venous blood from the heart to the lungs .
either of two arteries arising from the aorta and passing between the two layers of the mesentery to the intestine .
the flattened cells of the alveolar epithelium ,  distinguished by their greatly attenuated cytoplasm and paucity of organelles .
the endodermally - derived epithelium of the intestine varies considerably ,  but the absorptive epithelium of small intestine is usually implied .
any of several lymphocytes  ( as a helper t cell )  that differentiate in the thymus ,  possess highly specific cell - surface antigen receptors ,  and include some that control the initiation or suppression of cell - mediated and humoral immunity  ( as by the regulation of t and b cell maturation and proliferation )  and others that lyse antigen - bearing cells .
one of the cells that compose the bulk of the islets of langerhans and secrete insulin .
any of the rounded masses of lymphoid tissue that are surrounded by a capsule of connective tissue ,  are distributed along the lymphatic vessels ,  and contain numerous lymphocytes which filter the flow of lymph .
a tumor cell of lymphoid tissue .
mouse ,   ( c57bl / 6xdba / 2 ) f1 ,  blood ,  leukemia ,  pre - b cell line .
human burkitt's lymphoma ,  established from the ascites fluid of a patient with american - type burkitt's lymphoma .
mouse akr / j thymic lymphoma cell line .
human neuroblastoma clonal subline of the neuroepithelioma cell line sk - n - sh that had been established in 1970 from the bone marrow biopsy of a 4 - year - old girl with metastatic neuroblastoma .
mouse t cell lymphoma ,  established from an 8 - month - old female dba / 2 mouse with t cell lymphoma in 1985 .
mouse t - lymphoma cell line .
human placenta choriocarcinoma cell line .
a malignant lymphoma cell that tends to metastasize freely especially along the regional lymphatic drainage .
a germ layer lying remote from the surface of the embryo that gives rise to internal tissues such as gut .
relatively long - lived phagocytic cell of mammalian tissues ,  derived from blood monocyte .
macrophage found in lung and that can be obtained by lung lavage .
a type of cell in the pancreatic islets that secretes somatostatin .
mouse monocytes - macrophages ,  established from a tumor in a female balb / c mouse in 1968 ;  cells were described to synthesize lysozyme and interleukin - 1 and to have receptors for immunoglobulin and complement .
cells in the pancreatic islets ,  exocrine pancreas ,  and intestine that secrete pancreatic polypeptide .
mouse peritoneal macrophage ,  sv40 transformed .
structures in fishes homologous to the cortical tissue of the mammalian adrenal gland ;  they are in close proximity to or imbedded in the kidney .
any of a group of long blind vessels opening into the posterior part of the alimentary canal in most insects and some other arthropods and functioning primarily as excretory organs .
human caucasian ovary adenocarcinoma cell line ;  established from a 60 years old caucasian female .
marsupial  -  potoroo ,  kidney cell line .
human ovarian adenocarcinoma cell line ,  established from a 54 - year - old caucasian female .
human caucasian ,  breast adenocarcinoma cell line ;  established from a 51 - years - old caucasian female ;  tissue: breast ;  tumor: adenocarcinoma ;  derived from: pleural effusion .
the specialized accessory gland of the skin of female mammals that secretes milk .
the series of articulated vertebrae ,  separated by intervertebral disks and held together by muscles and tendons ,  that extends from the cranium to the coccyx or the end of the tail ,  encasing the spinal cord and forming the supporting axis of the body ;  the spine .
mouse mammary gland cell line .
the protuberance of a mammary gland upon which in the female the lactiferous ducts open and from which milk is drawn .
brownish - gray nerve tissue ,  especially of the brain and spinal cord ,  composed of nerve cell bodies and their dendrites and some supportive tissue .
a fold or lobe or pair of lobes of the body wall of a mollusk or brachiopod that in shell - bearing forms lines the shell and bears shell - secreting glands .
within the shell is a fleshy layer of tissue called the mantle ;  there is a cavity  ( the mantle cavity )  between the mantle and the body wall proper .
1: the part of the neck in front of the spinal column .
1: a soft highly vascular modified connective tissue that occupies the cavities and cancellous part of most bones .
a large cell that occurs especially in connective tissue and has basophilic granules containing substances  ( as histamine and heparin )  which mediate allergic reactions .
a nodule of mast cells .
rat basophilic leukemia  ( rbl )  cell line ,  obtained by eccleston et al .
human ,  caucasian female ,  pharynx ,  carcinoma cell line .
the mdbk cell line was derived from a kidney of an apparently normal adult steer ,  february 18 ,  1957 ,  by s .h .
the mdck cell line was derived from a kidney of an apparently normal adult female cocker spaniel ,  september ,  1958 ,  by s .h .
a dark greenish mass that accumulates in the bowel during fetal life and is discharged shortly after birth .
middle of the three germ layers ,  gives rise to the musculoskeletal ,  blood ,  vascular and urinogenital systems ,  to connective tissue  ( including that of dermis )  and contributes to some glands .
1a: the part of the face that bears the nostrils and covers the anterior part of the nasal cavity ;  broadly: this part together with the nasal cavity .
either of a pair of arteries that arise from the hypogastric arteries of the mammalian fetus and pass through the umbilical cord to the placenta to which they carry the deoxygenated blood from the fetus .
the female gametophyte produced by a megaspore .
a large cell that has a lobulated nucleus ,  is found especially in the bone marrow ,  and is the source of blood platelets .
a cell that undergoes meiosis: the cellular process that results in the number of chromosomes in gamete - producing cells being reduced to one half and that involves a reduction division in which one of each pair of homologous chromosomes passes to each daughter cell and a mitotic division .
an epidermal cell that produces melanin .
a cell of a form of skin cancer that arises in melanocytes ,  the cells that produce pigment .
a cell of unpigmented malignant melanoma .
a formative plant tissue usually made up of small cells capable of dividing indefinitely and giving rise to similar cells or to cells that differentiate to produce the definitive tissues and organs .
cell found within the glomerular lobules of mammalian kidney ,  where they serve as structural supports ,  may regulate blood flow ,  are phagocytic ,  and may act as accessory cells ,  presenting antigen in immune responses .
diploid cell resulting from the fusion of male and female gametes at fertilization .
a clear ,  watery ,  sometimes faintly yellowish fluid derived from body tissues that contains white blood cells and circulates throughout the lymphatic system ,  returning to the venous bloodstream through the thoracic duct .
the middle layer of a pericarp .
the photosynthetic parenchyma between the epidermal layers of a foliage leaf .
the larval  ( metacestode )  stage of the tapeworm echinococcus multilocularis .
multidrug resistant chinese hamster ovary cell line .
a chamber of the heart which receives blood from a corresponding atrium and from which blood is forced into the arteries .
the middle part of an alimentary canal .
either of two muscles of the calf of the leg .
the motor division of each spinal nerve ,  attached centrally to the spinal cord and joining peripherally with the corresponding posterior  ( sensory )  root to form the nerve before it emerges through the intervertebral foramen .
a deeply situated muscle that arises from the tibia and fibula ,  interosseous membrane ,  and intermuscular septa ,  that is inserted by a tendon passing under the medial malleolus into the navicular and first cuneiform bones ,  and that flexes the foot in the direction of the sole and tends to invert it .
a fluid secreted by the mammary glands of females for the nourishment of their young ;  especially: cow's milk used as a food by humans .
the suspension in milk which tends to separate out as cream .
any of the paired nerves which leave the spinal cord of a craniate vertebrate ,  supply muscles of the trunk and limbs ,  and connect with the nerves of the sympathetic nervous system ,  which arise by a short motor ventral root and a short sensory dorsal root ,  and of which there are 31 pairs in humans classified according to the part of the spinal cord from which they arise into 8 cervical pairs ,  12 thoracic pairs ,  5 lumbar pairs ,  5 sacral pairs ,  and one coccygeal pair .
mouse ,  balb / cd ,  kidney ,  adenocarcinoma cell line .
human t cell leukemia established from the peripheral blood of a 19 - year - old man with acute lymphoblastic leukemia  ( all )  in relapse in 1971 ;  sister cell line of molt - 3 .
either of a pair of endocrine glands located in the prothorax of certain insects and regulating molting .
oligodendrocytic cell line .
a mononuclear phagocytic leukocyte ,  13 to 25 mm in diameter ,  with an ovoid or kidney - shaped nucleus ,  containing lacy ,  linear chromatin and abundant gray - blue cytoplasm filled with fine reddish and azurophilic granules .
a cell having only one nucleus ,  especially: monocyte .
an internal cavity in each cerebral hemisphere that consists of a central body and three cornua including an anterior one curving forward and outward ,  a posterior one curving backward ,  and an inferior one curving downward .
morris hepatoma 7777 is obtained from a male buffalo strain rat ,  induced with n - 2 fluorenylphthalamic acid .
the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves .
arthropods  ( e .g . ,  insects and crustaceans )  must molt their exoskeletons periodically in order to grow ;  in this process the inner layers of the old cuticle are digested by a molting fluid secreted by the epidermal cells ,  the animal emerges from the old covering ,  and the new cuticle hardens .
a membrane lining all body passages that communicate with the air ,  such as the respiratory and alimentary tracts ,  and having cells and associated glands that secrete mucus .
a body tissue consisting of long cells that contract when stimulated and produce motion .
an elongated contractile cell that forms the muscles of the body .
mass of hyphae ,  usually in wood or bark ;  visible with the naked eye .
human embryonal carcinoma  ( teratocarcinoma )  .
the fungal component of the lichen partnership ,  absorbing nutrients and providing structural support for the plant .
the symbiotic association of the mycelium of a fungus with the roots of a seed plant .
a soft white somewhat fatty material that forms a thick myelin sheath about the protoplasmic core of a myelinated nerve fiber .
the multilamellar myelin membrane is a specialised lipid - rich domain of the glial cell plasma membrane .
cluster of electrically coupled neurons in the abdominal ganglion of aplysia that are homogeneous ,  easily dissected out and release peptides that stimulate egg laying .
a primary tumor cell of the bone marrow .
the cylindrical covering on the axons of some neurons ;  it consists of concentric layers of myelin ,  formed in the peripheral nervous system by the plasma membrane of schwann cells ,  and in the central nervous system by oligodendrocytes .
the middle and thickest layer of the heart wall ,  composed of cardiac muscle .
one of the tubular conductive vessels in the xylem of vascular plants .
in the heart ,  the atrium is an upper chamber found on both sides of the heart .
the smooth muscle coat of the uterus ,  which forms the main mass of the organ .
cell containing glucosinolates  ( mustard oil glucosides )  and myrosinases ,  enzymes hydrolyzing the glucosinolates .
a spore in the fruiting body of a slime mold .
the mucosa ,  or mucous membrane ,  is a type of tissue that lines the nasal cavity .
focal accumulations of edema fluid in the mucosa of the nose ,  with hyperplasia of the associated submucosal connective tissue .
a large granular lymphocyte capable of killing a tumor or microbial cell without prior exposure to the target cell and without having it presented with or marked by a histocompatibility antigen .
a crustacean larva in usually the first stage after leaving the egg and with three pairs of appendages ,  a median eye ,  and little or no segmentation .
human lymphoblastoid cell line .
a needle - shaped leaf  ( as of a conifer )  .
one of the stinging organelles of coelenterates used in catching prey .
human thyroid carcinoma cell line ,  established from the primary tumor of a 67 - year - old woman with primary thyroid undifferentiated carcinoma .
the newer ,  six - layered portion of the cerebral cortex ,  showing stratification and organization characteristic of the most highly evolved type of cerebral tissue .
human tongue squamous cell carcinoma established from the poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue removed from a 56 - year - old man before treatment in 1982 .
a tubular glandular excretory organ characteristic of various invertebrates .
a single excretory unit of the vertebrate kidney .
any of the filamentous bands of nervous tissue that connect parts of the nervous system with the other organs ,  conduct nervous impulses ,  and are made up of axons and dendrites together with protective and supportive structures .
the one of the three major branches or divisions of the trigeminal nerve that supply sensory fibers to the lacrimal gland ,  eyelids ,  ciliary muscle ,  nose ,  forehead ,  and adjoining parts .
the main stem of a nerve ,  consisting of a bundle of nerve fibers bound together by a tough sheet of connective tissue .
a group of subcortical structures  ( as the hypothalamus ,  the hippocampus ,  and the amygdala )  of the brain that are concerned especially with emotion and motivation .
layer of nerve cells in the retina ,  embryologically part of the brain .
any embryonic cell which develops into a nerve cell or neuron ;  an immature nerve cell .
malignant tumour cell derived from primitive ganglion cells .
mouse neuroblastoma 6 - thioguanine resistant mutant of cell line n18 that was established from a mouse of strain a / jax with neuroblastoma c1300 ;  cells were described to form camp in response to prostaglandin e1 and to be aneuploid  ( modal chromosome number of 81 )  .
human neuroblastoma ,  established from an abdominal mass  ( diagnosed as neuroblastoma )  of a 1 - year - old caucasian boy in 1967 .
human neuroblastoma cell line .
intracellular knot or clump of neurofibrils seen in the cerebral cortex in alzheimer's disease .
the portion of the pituitary gland that is composed of the infundibulum and posterior lobe and is concerned with the secretion of various hormones .
a grayish or reddish granular cell with specialized processes that is the fundamental functional unit of nervous tissue .
one of the innermost cells of the deeper epidermis of the skin .
the membranous and fluid - filled cell in a plant .
human tongue squamous cell carcinoma established from the surgically removed fragment of a tongue lesion from a 69 - year - old man with moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue in 1983  ( prior to therapy )  .
neuroblastoma glioma hybrid cell line .
very widely used mouse fibroblast cell line ;  3t3 cells have been derived from different mouse strains and it is therefore important to define the particular cell line .
human breast carcinoma established from the pleural effusion metastasis of a 45 - year - old woman with progressive breast adenocarcinoma  ( after radio -  ,  chemotherapy and surgery )  in 1985 ;  rare example of tumor cell line with normal karyotype .
testis ;  metastatic site: lung malignant pluripotent embryonal carcinoma cell line .
human ovary ;  metastatic site: ascites adenocarcinoma cell line ;  established from a 64 - year - old caucasian female .
novikoff hepatoma has been induced by feeding 4 - dimethylaminoazobenzene to a male rat .
normal kidney cell line from rattus norvegicus .
a broad ,  fibrous ,  roughly triangular sagittal septum in the back of the neck ,  separating the right and left sides .
cells accessory to egg and / or sperm formation in a wide variety of organisms .
any of various immature insects ;  especially: a larva of an insect  ( as a grasshopper ,  true bug ,  or mayfly )  with incomplete metamorphosis that differs from the imago especially in size and in its incompletely developed wings and genitalia .
the back of the neck .
an undifferentiated germ cell of a male ,  originating in a seminiferous tubule and dividing into two primary spermatocytes .
a muscular tube that in humans is about nine inches  ( 23 centimeters )  long and passes from the pharynx down the neck between the trachea and the spinal column and behind the left bronchus where it pierces the diaphragm slightly to the left of the middle line and joins the cardiac end of the stomach .
human acute myeloid leukemia established from the bone marrow of a 64 - year - old man with acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml m7 )  at diagnosis in 1988 ;  cells are constitutively cytokine - dependent and responsive to various cytokines .
a bulbous anterior projection of the olfactory lobe that is the place of termination of the olfactory nerves and is especially well developed in lower vertebrates  ( as fishes )  .
one of the cells comprising the oligodendroglia .
a rare ,  slow - growing tumor cell that begins in the oligodendrocytes  ( brain cells that provide support and nourishment for nerve cells )  .
the immature reproductive cell prior to fertilization ;  it is derived from an oogonium ,  and is called a primary oocyte prior to completion of the first maturation division ,  and a secondary oocyte between the first and second maturation division .
either of two prominences of the midbrain concerned with vision .
the optic nerve is the nerve that connects the eye to the brain and carries the impulses formed by the retina to the visual cortex of the brain .
a large multinucleate cell found in growing bone that resorbs bony tissue ,  as in the formation of canals and cavities .
an osteolytic tumor cell affecting the metaphyses and epiphyses of long bones ,  composed of a stroma of spindle cells containing dispersed multinucleate giant cells ,  and usually being benign but sometimes malignant .
a cell of a sarcoma derived from bone or containing bone tissue .
human osteogenic sarcoma ,  established from the primary osteogenic sarcoma of an 11 - year - old caucasian woman in 1973 .
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line ,  established from the tumor tissue of an 8 - year - old black boy in 1976 .
the mucous membrane lining the respiratory tract .
one of the typically paired essential female reproductive organs that produce eggs and in vertebrates female sex hormones .
this line was originally thought to be derived from an epidermoid carcinoma of the larynx ,  but was subsequently found to have been established via hela cell contamination .
human acute megakaryocytic leukemia ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 10 - month - old boy with down's syndrome and acute megakaryocytic leukemia  ( aml m7 )  at relapse in 1985 .
human pancreas carcinoma cell line .
either of a pair of slender ducts through which ova pass from the ovaries to the uterus in the female reproductive system of humans and higher mammals .
a hermaphrodite gonad  ( as in some scale insects )  .
lymphoma cell line ,  established from mus musculus dba / 2 .
mouse mastocytoma ,  established from the mastocytoma tumor of a dba / 2 mouse treated with methylcolanthrene ;  used as target cells for cytotoxic t cell assays ;  as reported cells exhibit no effector activity in an antibody - dependent cell mediated cytotoxic system .
a cell in the third stage of prophase i of meiosis ,  during which the homologous chromosomes are closely paired and crossing - over takes place .
a layer of columnar cells rich in chloroplasts found beneath the upper epidermis of foliage leaves .
a large lobulated gland of vertebrates that secretes digestive enzymes and the hormones insulin and glucagon .
an end organ mediating the sensation of taste and lying chiefly in the epithelium of the tongue .
one of the cells in the periphery of the pancreatic islets that secrete somatostatin  ( alpha1 cells )  and glucagon  ( alpha2 cells )  .
irregular microscopic structures scattered throughout the pancreas and comprising its endocrine part  ( the endocrine pancreas )  .
coarsely granular secretory cells found in the basal regions of crypts in the small intestine .
rat basophilic leukemia ;  this rat basophilic leukemia  ( rbl )  cell line was established from chlorethylamine - treated rats .
myeloblast: a large mononuclear nongranular bone - marrow cell ;  especially: one that is a precursor of a myelocyte .
a cell from which gametes develop by meiotic division ,  especially a spermatocyte or an oocyte .
any of usually four small endocrine glands that are adjacent to or embedded in the thyroid gland and produce parathyroid hormone .
layer of cells at phloem between spongy and palisade parenchyma .
a tissue of higher plants that consists of thin - walled living photosynthetic or storage cells capable of division even when mature and that makes up much of the substance of leaves and roots ,  the pulp of fruits ,  and parts of stems and supporting structures .
acute megakaryocytic leukemia is a rare subtype of acute myeloid leukemia evolving from primitive megakaryoblasts .
the upper central lobe of the cerebral hemisphere ,  separated from the temporal lobe below by the lateral sulcus ,  but continuous at the posterior end of that sulcus ,  and separated from the frontal lobe by the central sulcus .
a multinucleate sporozoan  ( as a malaria parasite )  that reproduces by schizogony .
either of a pair of large serous salivary glands situated below and in front of the ear .
a form of stem cells extracted from the lining of the inner membrane of the placenta .
the inferior portion of the trunk of the body ,  bounded anteriorly and laterally by the two hip bones and posteriorly by the sacrum and coccyx .
human caucasian gastric adenocarcinoma cell line .
rat adrenal pheochromocytoma established from a transplantable rat adrenal pheochromocytoma in 1976 ;  cells were described to synthesize catecholamines  ( dopamine ,  norepinephrine )  ;  in response to nerve growth factor  ( ngf )  a neuronal phenotype could be induced reversibly .
undifferentiated tissue that develops on or around an injured or cut plant surface or in tissue culture .
large neurons in the cerebellar cortex that have piriform cell bodies in the purkinje layer  ( the stratum purkinjense cerebelli )  and large branching dendrite trees going through the outer  ( molecular )  layer towards the surface .
the pedal ganglia mainly are necessary for coordination of locomotion of a snail .
the foot retractor or protractor muscle of a shell .
human hairy cell leukemia t - lymphocyte cell line .
a fluid found in small amounts in the potential space between the parietal and visceral laminae of the serous pericardium .
the ripened and variously modified walls of a plant ovary .
the fibrous connective tissue that surrounds the root of a tooth ,  separating it from and attaching it to the alveolar bone .
the tissues that invest or help to invest and support the teeth ,  including the periodontal ligament ,  gingivae ,  cementum ,  and alveolar and supporting bone .
the dense fibrous membrane covering the surface of bones except at the joints and serving as an attachment for muscles and tendons .
a malignant tumor cell of the ovary .
major photoreceptor cell of vertebrate retina .
a mixture of monocytes and lymphocytes ;  blood leucocytes from which granulocytes have been separated and removed .
any fully developed granular leukocyte whose nucleus contains multiple lobes joined by filamentous connections ,  especially a neutrophil .
the peripheral nerves include the 12 cranial nerves ,  the spinal nerves and roots ,  and what are called the autonomic nerves that are concerned specifically with the regulation of the heart muscle ,  the muscles in blood vessel walls ,  and glands .
the peripheral nervous system  ( pns )  connects the central nervous system  ( cns )  to sensory organs  ( such as the eye and ear )  ,  other organs of the body ,  muscles ,  blood vessels and glands .
the nutritive tissue that is derived from the nucleus and surrounds the embryo of the seed .
mouse ,  balb / c ,  blood ,  not defined tumor cell line .
a liquid that is made in the abdominal cavity to lubricate the surface of the tissue that lines the abdominal wall and pelvic cavity and covers most of the organs in the abdomen .
cells of the purkinje fibers of the heart ;  they are large ,  clear ,  tightly packed cells with many gap junctions between them and thus conduct impulses rapidly .
macrophage found in peritoneum and that can be obtained by lavage .
the other light - sensitive cell type of the retina ,  that ,  unlike retinal rods ,  is differentially sensitive to particular wavelengths of light ,  and is important for colour vision .
1: a peripheral nerve cell ,  as an olfactory cell ,  located at a sensory receiving surface and being the primary receptor of a sensory impulse .
a delicate ,  cylindrical sheath of chitin continuously secreted from the posterior edge of the foregut of insects and millipedes that ingest solid food ,  which surrounds the food as it passes through the midgut .
seminiferous tubules are made up of sertoli cells and germ cells and they are surrounded by peritubular and myoid cells .
the often showy flower component attached just inside the sepals ;  petals are usually colorful to attract pollinators .
a slender stem that supports the blade of a foliage leaf .
the one of the four basal ganglia in each cerebral hemisphere that is part of the limbic system and consists of an almond - shaped mass of gray matter in the anterior extremity of the temporal lobe .
fully developed and mature: grown - up .
a cell ,  as a white blood cell ,  that engulfs and consumes foreign material ,  as microorganisms ,  and debris .
pupa of an insect ,  having its new cuticle formed beneath its present cuticle ,  and thus ready for its next moult .
the muscular coat of the pharynx ,  consisting of the three constrictor muscles and the stylopharyngeal ,  salpingopharyngeal ,  and palatopharyngeal muscles .
the part of the vertebrate alimentary canal between the cavity of the mouth and the esophagus .
prostate carcinoma cell line .
pheochromocytoma is a rare tumor that arises from tissue in the adrenal gland .
a malignant neoplasm of blood - forming tissues ;  marked by proliferation of myelocytes and their presence in the blood .
a dorsal tubular structure in the vertebrate embryo formed by longitudinal folding of the neural plate and differentiating into the brain and spinal cord .
a complex tissue in the vascular system of higher plants that consists mainly of sieve tubes and elongated parenchyma cells usually with fibers and that functions in translocation and in support and storage .
a specialized cell type in a multicellular organism that is sensitive to light .
human prostate carcinoma cell line ;  established from the bone marrow metastasis isolated post - mortem from a 62 - year - old caucasian man with grade iv prostate cancer ,  poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma ,  after androgen suppression therapy ;  described to form tumors in nude mice ,  to grow in soft agar ,  and to be unresponsive to androgen treatment .
human prostate cancer cell line .
a general motor and sensory nerve on each side of the body that arises chiefly from the fourth cervical nerve ,  passes down through the thorax to the diaphragm ,  and supplies or gives off branches supplying especially the pericardium ,  pleura ,  and diaphragm .
phycobionts are usually green algae ,  chlorophyceae ,  yellow - green algae xanthophyceae ,  and some other groups of algae .
human prostate epithelial carcinoma cell line .
a well - defined double layer of pyramidal cells in the hippocampus ;  their dendrites extend from the stratum oriens to the stratum moleculare .
a small ,  cone - shaped organ in the brain of most vertebrates that secretes the hormone melatonin .
the parenchymatous epithelioid cell of the pineal gland that has prominent nucleoli and long processes ending in bulbous expansions .
a modified leaf of a pitcher plant in which the hollowed petiole and base of the blade form an elongated receptacle .
a usually continuous central strand of spongy tissue in the stems of most vascular plants that probably functions chiefly in storage .
either of the fifth pair of cranial nerves ,  having sensory and motor functions in the face ,  teeth ,  mouth ,  and nasal cavity .
a small oval endocrine organ that is attached to the infundibulum of the brain ,  consists of an epithelial anterior lobe joined by an intermediate part to a posterior lobe of nervous origin ,  and produces various internal secretions directly or indirectly impinging on most basic body functions .
one of the nuclei of the trigeminal nerve ,  consisting of a slender column of cells in the lateral central gray matter of the superior part of the fourth ventral and cerebral aqueduct .
a benign tumor of the pituitary ,  the master gland that controls other glands and influences numerous body functions including growth .
mouse pituitary tumor cell line .
the vascular organ in mammals except monotremes and marsupials that unites the fetus to the maternal uterus and mediates its metabolic exchanges through a more or less intimate association of uterine mucosal with chorionic and usually allantoic tissues ;  also: an analogous organ in another animal .
a thin layer of ectoderm that forms the wall of many mammalian blastulas and functions in the nutrition and implantation of the embryo .
human t cell leukemia cell line ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 19 - year - old man with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia ,  all ,  in relapse in 1971 ;  sister cell line of molt - 4 .
mouse mammary carcinoma cell line .
mouse hepatoma cell line .
a small or young plant .
the vessels of the body ,  especially the blood vessels .
totipotent cell cultured from early embryo .
cancer cell of the plasma cells  - white blood cells that produce antibodies -  that may turn into multiple myeloma .
tissue: mouse balb / c b - lymphocyte ,  plasmacytoma ,  myeloma .
the natural opening through which food passes into the body of an animal and which in vertebrates is typically bounded externally by the lips and internally by the pharynx and encloses the tongue ,  gums ,  and teeth .
a situation in which only one species is present .
human stomach carcinoma cell line ,  established from a 55 years old mongoloid male .
mouse ,  balb / cxnzb f1 ,  lymphoblastic lymphoma cell line .
the most common subtype ,  consisting of small uniform lymphoblasts that do not synthesize complete functional immunoglobulins .
a dry dehiscent pericarp or fruit that is composed of one or more carpels ;  especially: legume .
any of the cells responsible for the production of immunity mediated by cells or antibodies and including lymphocytes ,  lymphoblasts ,  and plasma cells .
the structure into which a haploid microspore develops ;  contains a halpoid tube nucleus and two haploid sperm nuclei at maturity .
fruiting body formed by some cellular slime moulds ;  has both stalk and spore - mass .
the modified blastula of a placental mammal .
a rare subtype consisting of lymphoblasts that express surface immunoglobulins and have a chromosomal translocation similar to that of burkitt's lymphoma .
a broad mass of chiefly transverse nerve fibers conspicuous on the ventral surface of the brain of man and lower mammals at the anterior end of the medulla oblongata .
any of the vessels through which blood circulates in the body .
a usually voluntary muscle made up of elongated ,  multinucleated ,  transversely striated muscle fibers ,  having principally bony attachments .
any of several nerves that arise in pairs from the brainstem and reach the periphery through openings in the skull .
the insula is a portion of the cerebral cortex that is not visible until the margins of the lateral sulcus are opened up ,  or ,  as in this case ,  removed .
a type of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia ,  all ,  a cancer of the lymphocyte - forming cells called lymphoblasts .
a precursor to an adipocyte .
human colon colorectal carcinoma cell line from a male organism .
1: an inactive stage just before the pupa in the development of certain insects .
any of the small glands at the base of the glans penis that secrete smegma .
a fold of skin that covers the glans of the penis .
one of the first pair of leaves to emerge above the cotyledon during the development of a seedling ;  it is often morphologically distinct from subsequent leaves .
a cell derived from a spermatogonium and dividing into two secondary spermatocytes ;  called also spermiocyte .
immediately next to the growing inflorescence tip is the floral primordium ,  which is a bump of cells representing the very youngest stage of a flower .
1: the trunk of an elephant ;  also: any long flexible snout .
mouse balb / c plasmacytoma b lymphocyte myeloma cell line .
the part of the primary meristem of a plant that forms cambium and primary vascular tissues .
of ,  having ,  or growing on a stem .
african trypanosomes have a digenetic life cycle ,  which includes growth in the bloodstream and tissue spaces of a mammalian host and several distinct developmental stages ,  including the procyclic form ,  in an insect host ,  glossina spp . ,  tsetse fly .
any of the bodies representing the morphological leptomonad stage in the life cycle of certain trypanosomatid protozoa resembling the typical adult form of members of the genus leptomonas ,  in which the elongate or pear - shaped cell has a central nucleus and at the anterior end a kinetoplast and a basal body from which arises a single long ,  slender flagellum .
freshly isolated cultures from mammalian tissues are known as primary cultures until sub - cultured .
prostasomes are submicron ,  membrane - surrounded organelles produced by the epithelial cells of the human prostate gland and are present in appreciable amounts in normal human semen .
a firm partly muscular partly glandular body that is situated about the base of the mammalian male urethra and secretes an alkaline viscid fluid which is a major constituent of the ejaculatory fluid .
a malignant tumour cell of glandular origin in the prostate .
baby hamster kidney cell line .
the primary usually filamentous thalloid stage of the gametophyte in mosses and in some liverworts comparable to the prothallium in ferns .
the first - formed xylem developing from procambium and consisting of narrow cells with annular ,  spiral ,  or scalariform wall thickenings .
1: the glandular or true stomach of a bird that is situated between the crop and gizzard .
an organized embryonic structure morphologically similar to a zygotic embryo but initiated from somatic non - zygotic cells .
a multinucleate plasmodium - like body formed by aggregation of myxamoebae without fusion of their protoplasm .
either of two muscles of the loin that rotate the hip joint and flex the spine .
the soft ,  succulent part of a fruit usually composed of mesocarp .
an intermediate usually quiescent stage of a metamorphic insect as a bee ,  moth ,  or beetle that occurs between the larva and the imago ,  is usually enclosed in a cocoon or protective covering ,  and undergoes internal changes by which larval structures are replaced by those typical of the imago .
the primary photosynthetic part of the moss protonema ,  typically green ,  having numerous chloroplasts and consisting of short cells with perpendicular end walls .
pylorus: the opening from the vertebrate stomach into the intestine .
human acute lymphoblastoid leukemia cell line from peripheral blood .
the greater extensor muscle of the front of the thigh that is divided into four parts: rectus femoris ,  vastus intermedius ,  vastus lateralis ,  and vastus medialis .
human acute t lymphoblastic leukemia from peripheral blood .
the lower part of the axis of a plant embryo or seedling .
human burkitt's lymphoma cell line ,  established from the left maxilla of a 12 - year - old african boy with burkitt's lymphoma in 1963 ;  first continuous human hematopoietic cell line ;  classified as risk category 1 according to the german central commission for biological safety zkbs .
a primary tissue composed of medullary ray: radiating bands of parenchyma cells extending between the vascular bundles of herbaceous dicotyledonous stems and connecting the pith with the cortex .
the point on a stem at which leaves and buds are attached .
an evagination of the terminal portion of the intestine of elasmobranchii .
the terminal part of the intestine from the sigmoid flexure to the anus .
marrow of developing bone ,  of the ribs ,  vertebrae ,  and many of the smaller bones ;  it is the site of production of erythrocytes and granular leukocytes .
one of the minute vascular projections of the fetal chorion that combines with maternal uterine tissue to form the placenta .
a gland whose discharged secretion contains part of the secreting cells .
human b cell precursor leukemia established from the peripheral blood of a 15 - year - old north african girl with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia ,  all at first relapse ,  in 1973 .
the earliest cytologically identifiable precursor in the thrombocytic series ,  a large cell that matures to form a promegakaryocyte .
a branch of the abdominal aorta which supplies the kidneys ,  adrenal glands and ureters .
cortex of kidney .
the inner section of the kidney .
1: the inner lining of the fourth stomach of calves and other young ruminants .
preadipocyte cell line .
a cell that is not actively in the process of dividing .
a primitive usually unicellular often environmentally resistant dormant or reproductive body produced by plants and some microorganisms and capable of development into a new individual either directly or after fusion with another spore .
the noninfectious intracellular form of chlamydia ,  consisting of fibrillar nuclear material and more ribosomes that occur in elementary bodies ,  surrounded by a thin trilaminar wall .
an immature red blood cell that appears especially during regeneration of lost blood and has a fine basophilic reticulum formed of ribosomal remains .
a diffuse system of cells of varying lineage that include especially the macrophages and the phagocytic endothelial cells lining blood sinuses and that were originally grouped together because of their supposed phagocytic properties based on their ability to take up the vital dye trypan blue .
the sensory membrane that lines the eye ,  is composed of several layers including one containing the rods and cones ,  and functions as the immediate instrument of vision by receiving the image formed by the lens and converting it into chemical and nervous signals which reach the brain by way of the optic nerve .
the main type of cell found in the inside lining of blood vessels ,  lymph vessels ,  and the heart .
the pigment cell layer that nourishes the retinal cells ,  located just outside the retina and attached to the choroid .
a malignant congenital blastoma ,  occurring in both hereditary and sporadic forms ,  composed of tumor cells arising from the retinoblasts ,  appearing in one or both eyes in children under 5 years of age ,  and usually diagnosed initially by a bright white or yellow pupillary reflex  - leukokoria .
a leafless stem that produces roots .
a plant cell committed to develop into a cell type that differs from the surrounding tissue .
a somewhat elongate usually horizontal subterranean plant stem that is often thickened by deposits of reserve food material ,  produces shoots above and roots below ,  and is distinguished from a true root in possessing buds ,  nodes ,  and usually scalelike leaves .
the main root of a plant is called the primary root ;  others are called secondary roots .
the main root of a plant is called the primary root ;  others are called secondary roots .
a tough outer covering such as bark or the skin of some fruits .
insulin secreting pancreatic beta cell line .
the end of the flower stalk upon which the floral organs are borne .
the eggs of a fish especially when still enclosed in the ovarian membrane .
the usually underground part of a seed plant body that originates usually from the hypocotyl ,  functions as an organ of absorption ,  aeration ,  and food storage or as a means of anchorage and support ,  and differs from a stem especially in lacking nodes ,  buds ,  and leaves .
rat hepatoma cell line .
gall - like structures on the roots of legumes that contain symbiotic nitrogen - fixing bacteria .
the root tip is the tip of the root and contains the root cap and the apical meristem  - the actively growing region .
a small root .
murine mammary tumor line from a female mus musculus .
the large first compartment of the stomach of a ruminant in which cellulose is broken down by the action of symbiotic microorganisms .
the rumen epithelium is the tissue which lines the largest of the four fore stomachs in the ruminant animal  - cows and sheep .
insect  -  fall armyworm ,  spodoptera frugiperda ,  cell line .
mouse sarcoma cell line ,  from an adult mus musculus ;  highly malignant mouse sarcoma cells ,  often passaged in ascites form .
the atrial gland is an exocrine organ that secretes into the oviduct of aplysia californica and expresses three homologous genes belonging to the egg - laying hormone gene family .
embryonic bovine ,  tracheal cell line ;  established from a male cow  ( bos taurus )  embryo .
a cluster of leaves in crowded circles or spirals arising basally from a crown ,  as in the dandelion ,  or apically from an axis with greatly shortened internodes ,  as in many tropical palms .
a slightly alkaline secretion of water ,  mucin ,  protein ,  salts ,  and often a starch - splitting enzyme ,  as ptyalin ,  that is secreted into the mouth by salivary glands ,  lubricates ingested food ,  and often begins the breakdown of starches .
the glands of the oral cavity whose combined secretion constitutes the saliva .
a specialized gland in marine animals that excretes the excess salt taken into the body .
rat ,  nervous system ,  immature ,  schwann cell derived cell line .
the fleshy part of a stone fruit ,  situated between the skin ,  or epicarp ,  and the stone ,  or endocarp ,  as in a peach .
a malignant neoplasm cell arising in tissue of mesodermal origin ,  as connective tissue ,  bone ,  cartilage ,  or striated muscle .
the modified upper part of the trachea of air - breathing vertebrates that in humans ,  most other mammals ,  and a few lower forms contains the vocal cords .
rat galliera sarcoma cell line from a 2 months old rat galliera ;  tumor: sarcoma viruses: contains sg - ralv  ( retrovirus type c )  .
a cell type of avian sarcoma transmitted by a retrovirus ;  it metastasizes freely and is sometimes highly lethal .
a muscle that crosses the front of the thigh obliquely ,  assists in rotating the leg to the cross - legged position in which the knees are spread wide apart ,  and in humans is the longest muscle .
a peduncle arising at or beneath the surface of the ground in an acaulescent plant  ( as the tulip )  ;  broadly: a flower stalk .
either of a pair of large triangular bones lying one in each dorsal lateral scapula: part of the thorax ,  being the principal bone of the corresponding half of the shoulder girdle ,  and articulating with the corresponding clavicle or coracoid .
mouse melanoma cell line .
named after the german physiologist theodor schwann .
the largest nerve of the body: origin ,  sacral plexus - l4 - s3 ;  it leaves the pelvis through the greater sciatic foramen ;  branches ,  divides into the tibial and common peroneal nerves ,  usually in lower third of thigh ;  distribution - see individual branches ,  in this table ;  modality ,  general sensory and motor .
a protective or supporting tissue in higher plants composed of cells with walls thickened and often lignified .
the single cotyledon in monocotyledon seeds such as grass seeds .
instar: a stage in the life of an arthropod  ( as an insect )  between two successive molts .
human gastric adenocarcinoma ,  established from the poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the stomach  ( medullary type )  of a 62 - year - old woman .
a matured ovule containing an embryo and food supply and covered by a seed coat .
the outer layer of a seed that is developed from the integuments of the ovule .
the embryonic product of the germination of a seed .
normal lung fibroblast cell line from a human female .
a viscid whitish fluid of the male reproductive tract consisting of spermatozoa suspended in secretions of accessory glands .
a ganglion on the sensory root of the fifth cranial nerve ,  situated in a cleft within the dura mater  ( trigeminal cave )  on the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ,  and giving off the ophthalmic and maxillary and part of the mandibular nerve ;  it contains the cells of origin of most of the sensory fibers of the trigeminal nerve .
the fluid portion of the semen ,  in which the spermatozoa are suspended .
the early developmental stage that ,  through embryological development ,  ultimately becomes an adult individual .
either of a pair of glandular pouches that lie one on either side of the male reproductive tract and in the human male secrete a sugar -  and protein - containing fluid into the ejaculatory duct .
one of two or three twisted ,  curved tubules in each lobule of the testis in which spermatozoa develop .
a fusiform muscle of the posterior and inner part of the thigh that arises from the ischial tuberosity along with the biceps femoris ,  that is inserted by a long round tendon which forms part of the inner hamstring into the inner surface of the upper part of the shaft of the tibia ,  and that acts to flex the leg and rotate it medially and to extend the thigh .
a simple epithelial sense organ of an invertebrate  ( as an insect )  usually in the form of a spine ,  plate ,  rod ,  cone ,  or peg that is composed of one or a few cells with a nerve connection .
any of the elongated ,  striated cells of the seminiferous tubules of the testis ,  to which spermatids attach for nourishment during spermatogenesis .
1: the watery portion of an animal fluid remaining after coagulation: a  ( 1 ) : blood serum  ( 2 ) : antiserum b: whey c: a normal or pathological serous fluid  ( as in a blister )  .
insect  -  fall armyworm  ( spodoptera frugiperda )  cell line ,  cloned from the parent cell line ,  iplb - sf - 21 - ae ,  derived from pupal ovarian tissue of the fall armyworm  ( species spodoptera frugiperda ,  family sciaridae ,  order lepidoptera )  ;  cells are susceptible to infection with mnpv and other baculoviruses ;  cells can be used with baculovirus expression vectors .
1: a glandular organ in which the rudimentary shell is formed in embryonic mollusks .
a sending out of new growth or the growth sent out: as a stem or branch with its leaves and appendages especially when not yet mature .
the organs of the body that produce and discharge urine .
a deep muscle of the ulnar side of the forearm that flexes especially the terminal phalanges of the four fingers .
found in phloem tissue ,  sieve tubes lack a nucleus ,  and are thought to be responsible for the translocation of material across the phloem tissue .
human ductal breast carcinoma ductal cell line .
a narrow elongated two - valved usually many - seeded capsule that is characteristic of the mustard family ,  opens by sutures at either margin ,  and has two parietal placentas .
any of the glands in silk - spinning insects and spiders that secrete a protein liquid that hardens into silk on exposure to air .
liver sinusoidal endothelial cells  ( lsec )  constitute the sinusoidal wall ,  also called the endothelium ,  or endothelial lining .
the shin bone: the inner and larger bone of the leg below the knee ;  it articulates with the femur and head of the fibula above and with the talus below .
the integument of an animal  ( as a fur - bearing mammal or a bird )  separated from the body usually with its hair or feathers .
the fluid excreted from the sweat glands of the skin .
one of the aggregations of cell bodies of primarily cholinergic neurons of the parasympathetic nervous system ,  located near to or within the wall of the organs being innervated .
a muscle that when contracted acts to bend a joint or limb in the body .
muscle tissue that lacks cross striations ,  that is made up of elongated spindle - shaped cells having a central nucleus ,  and that is found in vertebrate visceral structures  ( as the stomach and bladder )  as thin sheets performing functions not subject to conscious control by the mind and in all or most of the musculature of invertebrates other than arthropods .
muscles forming the wall of the abdomen including rectus abdominis ,  external and internal oblique muscles ,  transversus abdominis ,  and quadratus abdominis .
in 1957 charlotte friend described a novel retroviral disease in mice characterized by splenic enlargement ,  erythroleukemia ,  and death .
a ganglion on the dorsal root of each spinal nerve that is one of a series of ganglia lodging cell bodies of sensory neurons .
a broad flat muscle of the calf of the leg lying immediately below the gastrocnemius .
silkworm ,  bombyx mori ,  cell line derived from ovary .
one of the cells of the body that compose the tissues ,  organs ,  and parts of that individual other than the germ cells .
a floral spike with a fleshy or succulent axis usually enclosed in a spathe .
a usually young blade ,  shoot ,  or sprout  ( as of grass )  .
a cancer cell of the white blood cells .
the posterior ,  filiform part of spermatozoa ,  which provides sperm motility .
a sac for sperm storage in the female reproductive tract of various lower animals and especially insects .
one of the haploid cells that are formed by division of the secondary spermatocytes and that differentiate into spermatozoa .
a cell giving rise to sperm cells ;  especially: a cell that is derived from a spermatogonium and ultimately gives rise to four haploid spermatids .
the slender tube formed by the pollen grain that penetrates an ovule and releases the male gametes .
a motile male gamete of an animal usually with rounded or elongate head and a long posterior flagellum .
an elongated inflorescence similar to a raceme but having the flowers sessile on the main axis .
the cord of nervous tissue that extends from the brain lengthwise along the back in the vertebral canal ,  gives off the pairs of spinal nerves ,  carries impulses to and from the brain ,  and serves as a center for initiating and coordinating many reflex acts .
silkworm ,  bombyx mori ,  cell line derived from ovary .
a highly vascular ductless organ that is located in the left abdominal region near the stomach or intestine of most vertebrates and is concerned with final destruction of red blood cells ,  filtration and storage of blood ,  and production of lymphocytes .
human fibrosarcoma cell line ;  established from the biopsy from a fibrosarcoma of a 35 - year - old caucasian man in 1972 ;  patient did not receive any chemo -  or radiotherapy .
mitral cells are the principal relay neurons in the olfactory bulb .
the bone that extends from the pelvis to the knee ,  being the longest and largest bone in the body ;  its head articulates with the acetabulum of the hip bone ,  and distally ,  the femur ,  along with the patella and tibia ,  forms the knee joint .
a stalk or similar structure bearing sporangia in plants and fungi .
the two most common forms of skin cancer are basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma .
a structure in which spores are produced .
adductor arising from the inferior ramus of the pubis and inserted into the iliopectineal line and the upper part of the linea aspera .
carcinoma developed from squamous epithelium ,  having cuboid cells and characterized by keratinization and often by preservation of intercellular bridges .
a structure  ( as in red algae ,  fungi ,  or mosses )  in or on which spores are produced .
the spore - producing organ of a fungus or slime mold .
a usually motile infective form of some sporozoans that is a product of sporogony and initiates an asexual cycle in the new host .
a sporozoan zygote undergoing sporogenous development .
1: the skull of a vertebrate .
a young shoot  ( as from a seed or root )  .
matter ejected from the lungs ,  bronchi ,  and trachea ,  through the mouth .
basal cell carcinoma is the most common form of skin cancer and accounts for more than 90 percent of all skin cancer in the u .s .
the usually cylindrical central vascular portion of the axis of a vascular plant .
the main trunk of a plant ;  specifically: a primary plant axis that develops buds and shoots instead of roots .
the tough exterior covering of a woody root or stem ;  specifically: the tissues outside the cambium that include an inner layer especially of secondary phloem and an outer layer of periderm .
a compound ventral bone or cartilage of most vertebrates other than fishes that connects the ribs or the shoulder girdle or both and in humans consists of the manubrium ,  gladiolus ,  and xiphoid process .
the usually apical part of the pistil of a flower which receives the pollen grains and on which they germinate .
a usually short plant stalk: as a: the stem supporting the cap of a fungus b: a part that is similar to a stipe and connects the holdfast and blade of a frondose alga c: the petiole of a fern frond d: a prolongation of the receptacle beneath the ovary of a seed plant .
either of a pair of appendages borne at the base of the leaf in many plants .
a horizontal branch from the base of a plant that produces new plants from buds at its tip or nodes  ( as in the strawberry )  .
a dilatation of the alimentary canal of a vertebrate communicating anteriorly with the esophagus and posteriorly with the duodenum .
the mucous coat of the stomach .
a thick fleshy storage root like a tuber but lacking buds or scale leaves .
either of a pair of masses of nervous tissue within the brain that contain two large nuclei of gray matter separated by sheets of white matter .
adductor arising from the inferior ramus of the pubis and the ischium and inserted behind the first two into the linea aspera .
a filiform prolongation of a plant ovary bearing a stigma at its apex .
the deeper part of the dermis .
gland situated or administered under the tongue ;  the smallest of the three salivary glands ,  occurring in pairs ,  predominantly mucous in type ,  and draining into the oral cavity through 10 to 30 sublingual ducts .
one of the three chief ,  paired salivary glands ,  predominantly serous ,  lying partly above and partly below the posterior half of the base of the mandible .
the glomerular layer is the most superficial layer ,  consisting of mitral cell dendritic arborizations  ( glomeruli )  ,  olfactory nerve fibers ,  and periglomerular cells .
a parasympathetic ganglion located superior to the deep part of the submandibular gland ,  on the lateral surface of the hyoglossus muscle ;  its preganglionic fibers are derived from the facial nerve by way of the chorda tympani and lingual nerve ,  and its postganglionic fibers supply the submandibular and sublingual glands ;  sensory and postganglionic sympathetic fibers pass through the ganglion .
the external plexiform layer contains the passing dendrites of mitral cells and a few tufted cells ,  which are similar in size to mitral cells .
human prostate carcinoma ,  established from the left supraclavicular lymph node metastasis from a 50 - year - old man with prostate carcinoma in 1977 ;  cells were described to be androgen - sensitive .
human benign prostate hyperplasia ;  prostate epithelial cells from a 68 - year - old man with benign prostate hyperplasia ;  cells were immortalized with sv - 40 large t - antigen ;  cells were described to express cytokeratins 8 ,  18 ,  and 19  ( but not 14 )  and to metabolize prostatic androgens .
the uppermost ganglion on the sympathetic trunk ,  lying behind the internal carotid artery and in front of the second and third cervical vertebrae ;  it gives rise to postganglionic fibers to the heart via cervical cardiac nerves ,  to the pharyngeal plexus and thence to the larynx and pharynx ,  and to the head via the external and internal carotid plexuses .
an adenocarcinoma arising from the epithelium of the intrahepatic bile ducts ,  composed of eosinophilic cuboidal or columnar epithelial cells arranged in tubules or acini with abundant fibrous stroma ;  mucus may be secreted but not bile .
the granule cell layer contains multiple small round neurons that lack axons .
an incomplete skull:especially: the portion of a skull including the braincase and excluding the lower jaw or lower jaw and facial portion .
a tumor cell that secretes gastrin ;  most are islet cell tumors of non - beta cells in the pancreas ,  but some are found at sites such as the antrum of the stomach ,  the hilus of the spleen ,  or regional lymph nodes .
a simple tubular gland of the skin that secretes perspiration ,  is widely distributed in nearly all parts of the human skin ,  and consists typically of an epithelial tube extending spirally from a minute pore on the surface of the skin into the dermis or subcutaneous tissues where it ends in a convoluted tuft .
human prostate carcinoma ,  established from the tumor tissue removed from the metastatic central nervous system lesion of a 69 - year - old man with prostate carcinoma in 1975 .
any of the aggregations of cell bodies of primarily adrenergic neurons of the sympathetic nervous system ,  including the ganglia of the sympathetic trunks ,  the intermediate ganglia ,  the prevertebral ganglia ,  and some ganglionic cells in the autonomic plexuses .
a cell of small benign epithelial tumor ,  such as a wart ,  consisting of an overgrowth of cells on a core of smooth connective tissue .
syncytial layer that forms the outermost fetal layer in the placenta and is thus the interface with maternal tissue .
a muscle on the dorsum of the foot that extends the toes .
synovial tissue can be found in tendons  ( tissues that connect muscle to bone )  ,  bursae  ( fluid - filled ,  cushioning sacs found in spaces between tendons ,  ligaments ,  and bones )  ,  and the cavity  ( hollow enclosed area )  that separates the bones of a freely movable joint ,  such as the knee or elbow .
a transparent viscid lubricating fluid secreted by a membrane of an articulation ,  bursa ,  or tendon sheath .
either of the two primary divisions of the trachea that lead respectively into the right and the left lung .
mouse lymphoblastic t - lymphoma cell line .
human t lymphocyte ,  acute t cell leukemia cell line .
a muscle on the back of the forearm that extends the fingers and wrist .
a cell of a malignancy of mature t lymphocytes with onset in adulthood ,  believed to be caused by human t - lymphotropic virus 1 and characterized by circulating pleomorphic malignant lymphocytes ,  skin lesions ,  lymphadenopathy ,  hepatosplenomegaly ,  hypercalcemia ,  and lytic bone lesions ;  its course may be subacute or chronic .
human urinary bladder carcinoma ,  established from the primary tumor of an 81 - year - old caucasian woman with urinary bladder carcinoma  ( transitional cell carcinoma ,  grade iii )  in 1970 ;  described to produce a variety of cytokines  ( e .g .
oval ,  quickly multiplying trophozoite of toxoplasma gondii ,  found in all tissues except non - nucleated erythrocytes during the acute stage of toxoplasmosis .
a larval amphibian ;  specifically: a frog or toad larva that has a rounded body with a long tail bordered by fins and external gills soon replaced by internal gills and that undergoes a metamorphosis to the adult .
the rear end or a process or prolongation of the rear end of the body of an animal .
non - tumorigenic rat prostatic epithelial line .
a layer of nutritive cells that invests the sporogenous tissue in the sporangium of higher plants .
a nerve that exists in the human fetus but disappears before birth ,  that originates in the olfactory epithelial cells of jacobson's organ ,  and that passes through the submucous tissue of the nasal septum and the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone to the olfactory bulb .
rat prostate carcinoma cell line .
the terminal segment of the body of an arthropod or segmented worm ;  especially: that of a crustacean forming the middle lobe of the tail .
one of the two parietal lobes of the brain located behind the frontal lobe at the top of the brain .
a tough cord or band of dense white fibrous connective tissue that unites a muscle with some other part  ( as a bone )  and transmits the force which the muscle exerts .
any of various elongate flexible usually tactile or prehensile processes borne by animals and especially invertebrates chiefly on the head or about the mouth .
1: the part of the mucous membrane lining the uterus that in higher placental mammals undergoes special modifications in preparation for and during pregnancy and is cast off at parturition .
mouse c57bl / 1crf rectum carcinoma .
an anterior projection of each cerebral hemisphere that is continuous anteriorly with the olfactory nerve ;  a term applied to the olfactory apparatus on the lower surface of the frontal lobe of the brain .
a typically paired male reproductive gland that produces sperm and that in most mammals is contained within the scrotum at sexual maturity .
the largest subdivision of the diencephalon that consists chiefly of an ovoid mass of nuclei in each lateral wall of the third ventricle and functions in the integration of sensory information .
a plant or plantlike body ,  as of an alga ,  fungus ,  or moss ,  that lacks differentiation into distinct members ,  as stem ,  leaves ,  and roots ,  and does not grow from an apical point .
1: the part of the mammalian body between the neck and the abdomen ;  also: its cavity in which the heart and lungs lie .
human acute monocytic leukemia established from the peripheral blood of a 1 - year - old boy with acute monocytic leukemia  ( aml )  at relapse in 1978 ;  the cells can be used for induction of differentiation studies ;  the cells were described to produce lysozyme and to be phagocytic .
a name given fibers extending radially from the sphincter pupillae to the ciliary margin ;  innervation ,  sympathetic ;  action ,  dilates iris .
lymphocyte within the thymus ;  term usually applied to an immature lymphocyte .
a glandular structure of largely lymphoid tissue that functions especially in the development of the body's immune system ,  is present in the young of most vertebrates typically in the upper anterior chest or at the base of the neck ,  and tends to atrophy in the adult .
one of three terminal divisions of the trigeminal nerve ,  passing through the foramen ovale to the infratemporal fossa .
1: the proximal segment of the vertebrate hind limb extending from the hip to the knee and supported by a single large bone .
one of the three terminal divisions of the trigeminal nerve ,  passing through the foramen rotundum ,  and entering the pterygopalatine fossa .
a two - lobed endocrine gland found in all vertebrates ,  located in front of and on either side of the trachea in humans ,  and producing various hormones ,  such as triiodothyronine and calcitonin .
one or more vertebrate membranes that consist of a double fold of the peritoneum and invest the intestines and their appendages and connect them with the dorsal wall of the abdominal cavity .
chondrocyte pertaining to the tibia .
a muscle arising chiefly from the lateral condyle and part of the shaft of the tibia ,  inserting by a long tendon into the first cuneiform and first metatarsal bones ,  and acting to flex the foot dorsally and to invert it .
the thin layer of bone making up the bony processes of the maxilla and mandible ,  and surrounding and containing the teeth ;  it is pierced by many small openings through which blood vessels ,  lymphatics ,  and nerve fibers pass .
growing plant or animal tissues outside of the body ,  as in a nutrient medium in a laboratory ;  similar to cell culture ,  but cells are maintained in their structured ,  tissue form .
a fleshy movable process of the floor of the mouths of most vertebrates that bears sensory end organs and small glands and functions especially in taking and swallowing food and in humans as a speech organ .
the human palatine tonsils and the nasopharyngeal tonsil are lymphoepithelial tissues located in strategic areas of the oropharynx and nasopharynx ,  although most commonly ,  the term tonsils refers to the palatine tonsils that can be seen in the back of the throat .
1: the cartilaginous and membranous tube descending from the larynx and branching into the right and left main bronchi .
the tracheal mucosa is columnar and ciliated .
the part of the embryonic mesoderm ,  consisting of loosely packed ,  unspecialized cells set in a gelatinous ground substance ,  from which connective tissue ,  bone ,  cartilage ,  and the circulatory and lymphatic systems develop .
a filamentous outgrowth ;  especially: an epidermal hair structure on a plant .
various chemolithotrophs have been found to live in symbiotic association with animals of the thermal vents .
a protozoan ,  especially of the class sporozoa ,  in the active stage of its life cycle .
any of the bodies representing the morphologic  ( trypanosomal )  stage in the life cycle of certain trypanosomatid protozoa ,  resembling the typical adult form of members of the genus trypanosoma ,  in which the slender elongate cell has a kinetoplast and basal body located at the posterior end and a flagellum running anteriorly along an undulating membrane to become a free - flowing structure .
tay - sachs disease is a lysosomal disease  ( lipidosis )  in which hexosaminidase a ,  an enzyme that degrades ganglioside gm2 ,  is absent .
a short fleshy usually underground stem bearing minute scale leaves each of which bears a bud in its axil and is potentially able to produce a new plant .
a pair of dorsolateral mesodermal ridges in the vertebrate embryo out of which the urogenital organs are developed .
an early metazoan embryo in which the ectoderm ,  mesoderm ,  and endoderm are established either by invagination of the blastula  ( as in fish and amphibians )  to form a multilayered cellular cup with a blastopore opening into the archenteron or by differentiation of the blastodisc  ( as in reptiles ,  birds ,  and mammals )  and inward cellular migration .
homo sapiens  ( human )  ,  morphology: fibroblast ,  tissue: metastatic site: subcutaneous tissue malignant melanoma ,  established from a 29 - year - old caucasian men .
a cell of any of a diverse group of tumors containing neurosecretory cells that cause endocrine dysfunction ,  most are carcinoids or carcinomas .
the tube that carries urine from the kidney to the bladder .
rat pituitary tumor ,  derived in 1965 from a pituitary tumor induced in a female wistar / furth rat ollowing repeated transplantation with the mtt / w5 tumor  ( originally induced in a female f / fu rat by cranial x - irradiation )  .
a small shoot or branch usually without its leaves .
human histiocytic lymphoma established from the pleural effusion of a 37 - year - old man with generalized diffuse histiocytic lymphoma in 1974 .
a cell taken directly from a living organism ,  which is not immortalized .
a cord arising from the navel that connects the fetus with the placenta .
one of the thin - walled spores that are produced by the uredinial hyphae of rust fungi and spread the fungus vegetatively .
a membranous sac in many vertebrates that serves for the temporary retention of urine and discharges by the urethra .
waste material that is secreted by the kidney in vertebrates ,  is rich in end products of protein metabolism together with salts and pigments ,  and forms a clear amber and usually slightly acid fluid in mammals but is semisolid in birds and reptiles .
a large gland at the base of a bird's tail that secretes an oil used in preening .
a constricted portion of an organ or part ;  especially: the narrow outer end of the uterus .
the mucous membrane lining the uterus .
a uterine lavage is a aseptic procedure whereby a sterile solution ,  usually physiologic saline is infused into the uterus and then allowed to flow out via a sterile catheter placed through the mare's cervix .
an organ of the female mammal for containing and usually for nourishing the young during development previous to birth .
chinese hamster lung fibroblast cell line ,  established from the lung tissue of a chinese hamster in 1958 .
the tube through which urine leaves the body .
a spermatic duct especially of a higher vertebrate that in the human male is a thick - walled tube about two feet  ( 0 .61 meters )  long that begins at and is continuous with the tail of the epididymis and eventually joins the duct of the seminal vesicle to form the ejaculatory duct .
a strand of primary conductive plant tissue consisting essentially of xylem and phloem .
the human breast epithelium is a branching ductal system composed of an inner layer of polarized luminal epithelial cells and an outer layer of myoepithelial cells that terminate in distally located terminal duct lobular units  ( tdlus )  .
the supportive and conductive tissue in plants ,  consisting of xylem and phloem .
any cell of the monocyte - macrophage lineage ,  including macrophages ,  monocytes ,  and their precursors in the monocytic series .
1: growing or having the power of growing .
a human upper limb ;  especially: the part between the shoulder and the wrist .
1: the vegetative part of a fungus ,  consisting of a mass of branching ,  threadlike hyphae .
any of the large veins by which in air - breathing vertebrates the blood is returned to the right atrium of the heart .
poisonous matter normally secreted by some animals  ( as snakes ,  scorpions ,  or bees )  and transmitted to prey or an enemy chiefly by biting or stinging ;  broadly: material that is poisonous .
the venom gland of snakes is in actual fact a modified salivary gland and is linked to the groove in the fangs by a duct ;  a bee has a poison gland in her abdomen .
any of the immature blood cells that develop in the bone marrow ,  such as those involved in hematopoiesis .
any of the system of communicating cavities in the brain that are continuous with the central canal of the spinal cord .
the vero cell line was initiated from the kidney of a normal adult african green monkey on march 27 ,  1962 ,  by y . yasumura and y . kawakita at the chiba university in chiba ,  japan .
the rapidly proliferating mass of cells at the caudal extremity of the embryo ;  remnant of the primitive node .
that portion of the cerebral cortex that ,  with the palaeocortex ,  develops in association with the olfactory system ,  and which is phylogenetically older than the neocortex and lacks its layered structure .
the part of the arm between the elbow and the wrist ;  also: the corresponding part in other vertebrates .
mollusks have three distinct divisions of their body .
the cytoplasmic ,  noncellular membrane surrounding the eggs of various animals ,  especially the membrane enveloping the yolk of telolecithal eggs .
the clear colorless transparent jelly that fills the eyeball posterior to the lens .
a branch of the ophthalmic nerve distributed in part to the ciliary ganglion and in part to the mucous membrane and skin of the nose .
the outer largely longitudinally arranged musculature of the bladder wall .
thymoma is a disease in which cancer  ( malignant )  cells are found in the tissues of the thymus .
thymic carcinoma is a disease in which cancer  ( malignant )  cells are found in the tissues of the thymus .
the adipose tissue comprising the bulk of the body fat .
the laterally projecting region of each side of the lower or posterior part of the mammalian trunk formed by the lateral parts of the pelvis and upper part of the femur together with the fleshy parts covering them .
a type of large ,  branched ,  specialized sudoriferous gland  ( glandula sudorifera )  that empties into the upper portion of a hair follicle instead of directly onto the skin surface ;  found only on certain areas of the body ,  such as around the anus and in the axilla ;  after puberty they produce a viscous secretion that is acted on by bacteria to produce a characteristic acrid odor .
in drosophila metamorphosis there is a 15 minute period after puparium formation ,  during which the cuticle is white .
the main part of a plant .
1: one of the movable feathered or membranous paired appendages by means of which a bird ,  bat ,  or insect is able to fly ;  also: such an appendage even though rudimentary if possessed by an animal belonging to a group characterized by the power of flight .
the entire dorsal mesothoracic disc  ( wing ,  notal ,  and pleural parts )  ,  in the larval stage of drosophila .
a thin layer of parenchymatous or sclerenchymatous cells that surrounds the stele in most vascular plants .
human ,  caucasian ,  breast ,  carcinoma cell line .
the internode between the scutellar node and coleoptile in the embryo and seedling of poaceae .
a complex tissue in the vascular system of higher plants that consists of vessels ,  tracheids ,  or both usually together with wood fibers and parenchyma cells ,  functions chiefly in conduction of water and dissolved minerals but also in support and food storage ,  and typically constitutes the woody element .
cell of epidermis in animals .
a membranous sac that is attached to an embryo and encloses food yolk ,  that is continuous in most forms through the yolk stalk with the intestinal cavity of the embryo ,  that being abundantly supplied with blood vessels is throughout embryonic life and in some forms later the chief organ of nutrition ,  and that in placental mammals is nearly vestigial and functions chiefly prior to the elaboration of the placenta .
the smooth transparent serous membrane that lines the cavity of the abdomen of a mammal and is folded inward over the abdominal and pelvic viscera .
a cell produced during cleavage of a fertilized egg .
an independently motile spore ;  especially: a motile usually naked and flagellated asexual spore especially of an alga or lower fungus .
a cell that undergoes mitosis: a process that takes place in the nucleus of a dividing cell ,  involves typically a series of steps consisting of prophase ,  metaphase ,  anaphase ,  and telophase ,  and results in the formation of two new nuclei each having the same number of chromosomes as the parent nucleus .
a light - emitting organ ;  especially: one of the luminous spots on various marine mostly deep - sea fishes .
a cell in the stage of meiotic prophase which immediately follows the leptotene and during which synapsis of homologous chromosomes occurs .
a group of neurons in the basal forebrain that has wide projections to the neocortex and is rich in acetylcholine and choline acetyltransferase .
any of a kingdom  ( plantae )  of living things typically lacking locomotive movement or obvious nervous or sensory organs and possessing cellulose cell walls .
mouse ,  c57bl / 6 ,  t - lymphocyte cell line .
human ,  colon ,  adenocarcinoma cell line .
the nervous system is essentially a biological information highway ,  and is responsible for controlling all the biological processes and movement in the body ,  and can also receive information and interpret it via electrical signals which are used in this nervous system .
the bodily system that is composed of skeletal ,  smooth ,  and cardiac muscle tissue and functions in movement of the body or of materials through the body ,  maintenance of posture ,  and heat production .
the bodily system that consists of the bones ,  their associated cartilages ,  and the joints ,  and supports and protects the body ,  produces blood cells ,  and stores minerals .
connective tissue in which fat is stored and which has the cells distended by droplets of fat .
any of various glands producing hormonal secretions that pass directly into the bloodstream .
the main part of an animal body especially as distinguished from limbs and head .
other sources of an enzyme as cell culture or commercial preparation ,  not related to a specific tissue .
an internal organ of the body ;  especially: one  ( as the heart ,  liver ,  or intestine )  located in the great cavity of the trunk proper .
1 .one of the projecting paired appendages  ( as wings )  of an animal body used especially for movement and grasping but sometimes modified into sensory or sexual organs .
1: the human or animal body apart from the head and appendages .
any of a major group  ( fungi )  of saprophytic and parasitic spore - producing organisms including molds ,  rusts ,  mildews ,  smuts ,  mushrooms ,  and yeasts .
the primary bud of a plant embryo usually situated at the apex of the hypocotyl and consisting of leaves and an epicotyl .
astrocyte located around the blood vessels .
rat normal small intestine cell line .
the convoluted portion of the vertebrate nephron that lies between bowman's capsule and the loop of henle and functions especially in the resorption of sugar ,  sodium and chloride ions ,  and water from the glomerular filtrate .
a drop of clear saline fluid secreted by the lacrimal gland and diffused between the eye and eyelids to moisten the parts and facilitate their motion .
a leaf ,  stipule ,  or stem modified into a slender spirally coiling sensitive organ serving to attach a climbing plant to its support .
1: a slender threadlike outgrowth of the epidermis of an animal ;  especially: one of the usually pigmented filaments that form the characteristic coat of a mammal .
the articulation between the femur and the innominate bone .
the arthropod leg is a form of jointed appendage of arthropods ,  usually used for walking .
the embryo - forming portion of an egg with discoidal cleavage usually appearing as a small disc on the upper surface of the yolk mass .
the part of a human being or quadruped on each side of the spinal column between the hipbone and the false ribs .
a flexible tonguelike organ in certain mollusks ,  having rows of horny teeth on the surface .
the combined tendinous insertion on the medial aspect of the tuberosity of the tibia of the sartorius ,  gracilis ,  and semitendinosus muscles .
a globular solid mass of blastomeres formed by cleavage of a zygote that typically precedes the blastula .
a vein that passes through the umbilical cord to the fetus and returns the oxygenated and nutrient blood from the placenta to the fetus .
a budlike thickening of the dental lamina that is the primordium of a tooth ,  and in which the enamel knot develops ;  the collective structures from which a tooth is formed ,  including the dental follicle ,  enamel organ ,  and dental papilla .
an insect in its sexually mature adult stage after metamorphosis .
epithelium of the gallbladder and the intrahepatic and extrahepatic bile ducts .
the inner ,  or visceral ,  layer of the renal glomerular capsule ,  overlying the capillaries ,  composed of podocytes ,  and separated from the outer ,  or parietal ,  layer by the capsular ,  bowman , s space .
mouse pro b cell line .
rat ,  liver ,  hepatoma ,  h - 35 reuber cell line .
lymphoblastoid b - cell line .
spleen ;  b lymphocyte ;  hereditary spherocytosis cell line ,  established from a caucasion 5 year old male .
spleen ;  b lymphoblast ;  hereditary spherocytosis cell line ,  established from a 5 year old caucasian male .
rabbit renal medulla cell line .
cercopithecus aethiops  ( african green monkey )  epithelial kidney cell line .
cell line of a malignant rapidly growing astrocytoma of the central nervous system and usually of a cerebral hemisphere .
human colon adenocarcinoma ,  established from the colon tumor of a 81 - year - old caucasian woman with colon adenocarcinoma .
human colon ;  colorectal adenocarcinoma cell line .
human colon ;  colorectal adenocarcinoma cell line .
african green monkey kidney cell line ;  established from cv - 1 simian cells  ( cercopithecus aethiops )  which were transformed by an origin - defective mutant of sv - 40 ;  cells are host cells for the propagation of pure populations of recombinant sv virus .
the tissue characteristic of an organ ,  as distinguished from associated connective or supporting tissues .
a unicellular mucous gland found in the epithelium of various mucous membranes ,  especially that of the respiratory passages and intestines .
1 .the primordial kidney ;  a vestigial excretory structure or its rudiments developing in the embryo at four weeks ,  before the mesonephros .
the excretory organ of the embryo ,  arising caudal to the pronephros or pronephric rudiments and using its duct ;  it consists of a long tube in the lower part of the body cavity ,  running parallel with the vertebral axis and joined at right angles by a row of twisting tubes .
the primordium of the permanent kidney ,  which develops later than and caudal to the mesonephros ,  from the mesonephric duct and nephrogenic cord ;  either member of the final and most caudal pair of the three successive pairs of vertebrate renal organs that functions as a permanent adult kidney in reptiles ,  birds ,  and mammals but is not present at all in lower forms .
neoplasia of myeloid stem cells ,  commonest in middle - aged or elderly people ,  characterized by excessive numbers of circulating leucocytes ,  most commonly neutrophils  ( or precursors )  ,  but occasionally eosinophils or basophils .
adult acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml )  is a disease in which cancer  ( malignant )  cells are found in the blood and bone marrow .
cell of a neoplastic disease of middle or old age ,  characterized by excessive numbers of circulating lymphocytes of normal ,  mature appearance ,  usually b - lymphocytes ;  presumably a neoplastic transformation of lymphoid stem cells .
one of the modified leaves comprising a calyx .
1 .one of the small tubular mucous and serous glands lying beneath the mucous membrane of the lips .
human megakaryocytic cell line .
yoshida rat ascites hepatoma cell line .
human caucasian colon adenocarcinoma cell line .
retinal cell culture of murine 661w photoreceptor - derived cells .
a trophoblast cell line derived from a rat choriocarcinoma .
human glioblastoma cell line .
a segmental mass of mesoderm in the vertebrate embryo ,  occurring in pairs along the notochord and developing into muscles and vertebrae .
the floral organ that produces pollen ;  consisting of an anther and filament .
human burkitt's lymphoma cell line ;  established from the burkitt's lymphoma  ( left orbital biopsy )  of a 16 - year - old african boy in 1967 ;  cells were described to be ebv - positive and to express mrna for proto - oncogene bcl - 2 .
hyphal elements growing above the agar surface .
the division of the quadriceps muscle that covers the outer anterior aspect of the femur ,  arises chiefly from the femur ,  and inserts into the outer border of the patella by a flat tendon which blends with that of the other divisions of the muscle and sends an expansion to the capsule of the knee .
a division of the quadriceps muscle lying in the anterior middle region of the thigh ,  arising from the ilium by two heads ,  inserted into the tuberosity of the tibia by a narrow flattened tendon ,  and acting to flex the thigh at the hip and with the rest of the quadriceps to extend the leg at the knee .
a colon carcinoma cell line .
a colon carcinoma cell line .
human breast cancer cell line that expresses high levels of seprase as do the carcinoma cells in tumors of human breast cancer patients .
human breast cancer cell line that expresses high levels of seprase as do the carcinoma cells in tumors of human breast cancer patients .
human mammary gland adenocarcinoma cell line ;  established from a 40 - year - old caucasian female .
human mammary gland adenocarcinoma cell line .
any of the nucleated cells normally found only in bone marrow that develop into erythrocytes .
a thin layer of cartilage ,  usually hyaline ,  on the articular surface of bones in synovial joints .
cancer cell of the central information processing center of the body .
a cell of an epithelial malignancy of trophoblastic cells ,  formed by the abnormal proliferation of cuboidal and syncytial cells of the placental epithelium ,  without the production of chorionic villi .
tumor cell or cancer cell of the esophagus .
any of six small voluntary muscles that pass between the eyeball and the orbit and control the movement of the eyeball in relation to the orbit .
either of the paired ducts in the human male that are formed by the junction of the duct from the seminal vesicle with the vas deferens ,  pass through the prostate ,  and open into or close to the prostatic utricle .
mus musculus pluripotent embryonic stem cell line .
human brain glioblastoma multiforme cell line ,  established from a 61 years old caucasian male .
homo sapiens  ( human )  ;  skin ;  malignant melanoma cell line ;  established from a 31 year old caucasian male .
human choriocarcinomacell line ;  established from the trophoblastic tumor of the placenta of a 24 - year - old caucasian woman .
human melanoma ;  established from the primary tumor of a woman with melanoma in 1976 ;  cells express mrna of the oncogene c - myc .
human melanoma ,  established from the primary tumor of a 58 - year - old woman with melanoma in 1977 .
mus musculus  ( mouse )  ; lung ;  squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
homo sapiens  ( human )  lung ;  fibroblast ;  normal cell line .
human ovary ascites teratocarcinoma cell line .
a fibrous cartilage within a joint especially of the knee .
a cell from which bone develops ;  a bone - forming cell .
human multiple myeloma cell line ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 53 - year - old man with ige - secreting myeloma  ( refractory ,  terminal )  in 1968 .
homo sapiens  ( human )  skin melanoma cell line .
homo sapiens  ( human )  bone ,  osteosarcoma cell line ;  established from a 14 year old caucasian male .
a young tree ;  specifically: one not over four inches in diameter at breast height .
a macrophage of the spleen .
homo sapiens  ( human )  colon ;  colorectal adenocarcinoma cell line ;  established from a 73 year old caucasian male organism .
a layer of more or less solid substance which covers the free surface of an epithelial cell .
an outermost waxy layer of the insect exoskeleton .
the outer layer of the procuticle of certain crustaceans and arthropods ,  which contains cuticulin ,  chitin ,  and phenolic substances that are oxidized to produce the dark pigment of the cuticle ;  the hard and usually darkened layer of the cuticle lying between the endocuticle and epicuticle .
the inner layer of the procuticle in certain crustaceans and arthropods ,  which is almost entirely composed of protein and chitin .
one of the movable peduncles bearing an eye at the tip in a decapod crustacean .
a trabeculum of loose fibers found at the iridocorneal angle between the anterior chamber of the eye and the venous sinus of the sclera ;  the aqueous humor filters through the spaces between the fibers into the sinus and passes into the bloodstream .
the tough white outer coat of the eyeball ,  covering approximately the posterior five - sixths of its surface ,  and continuous anteriorly with the cornea and posteriorly with the external sheath of the optic nerve .
the air bladder of a fish .
the hollow basal portion of a feather below the vane .
human ,  caucasian ,  colon ,  adenocarcinoma ,  colorectal ,  cell line .
cell line derived from anaplastic thyroid carcinoma .
the colon and rectum considered as a unit .
human histiocytic lymphoma cell line .
a subclonal line of c3h mouse mammary carcinoma fm3a cells in culture .
human ,  caucasian ,  bone marrow ,  neuroblastoma cell line .
a cell of a tumor arising from fibroblasts ,  divided into fibromas and fibrosarcomas .
a cell of a tumor composed mainly of fibrous or fully developed connective tissue .
the main artery of the thigh ,  supplying blood to the groin and lower extremity .
cancer or tumor cell of the larynx or any of its parts: the glottis ,  epiglottis ,  laryngeal cartilages ,  laryngeal muscles ,  and vocal cords .
the intrinsic muscles of the larynx are the aryepiglottic ( us )  ,  arytenoid ( eus )  ,  cricoarytenoid ( eus )  ,  cricothyroid ( eus )  ,  thyroarytenoid ( eus )  ,  thyroepiglottic ( us )  and vocal ( is )  .
the middle part of the larynx ;  the area where the vocal cords are located .
thin leaf - shaped cartilage ,  covered with mucous membrane ,  at the root of the tongue ,  which folds back over the entrance to the larynx ,  covering it ,  during the act of swallowing .
the ventricles are the two lower chambers of the heart .
the lower right chamber of the heart that receives deoxygenated blood from the right atrium and pumps it under low pressure into the lungs via the pulmonary artery .
a malignant tumor cell of smooth muscle origin .
the portion of the crystalline lens surrounding the nucleus and bound anteriorly by the epithelium and posteriorly by the capsule .
the core of the crystalline lens ,  surrounded by the cortex .
the pia mater and the arachnoid considered together as investing the brain and spinal cord .
the fine vascular membrane that closely envelops the brain and spinal cord under the arachnoid and the dura mater .
a delicate membrane that encloses the spinal cord and brain and lies between the pia mater and dura mater .
the tough fibrous membrane covering the brain and the spinal cord and lining the inner surface of the skull .
a group of cells that give rise to a new individual ,  in asexual reproduction ,  or to an organ or part ,  in either normal development or in regeneration .
any small part of the embryo or adult metazoon more or less resembling the bud of a plant and presumed to have potential for growth and differentiation .
a swelling on the trunk of the embryo that becomes a limb .
an outgrowth from the stem bronchus giving rise to the air passages of its respective pulmonary lobe .
a diverticulum from the foregut that gives rise to the liver and its ducts .
an outgrowth from the foregut that gives rise to the trachea ,  bronchi ,  and all the branchings that form a tracheobronchial tree .
an outgrowth of an existing vessel from which a new blood vessel arises .
a swelling on the trunk of an avian embryo that gives rise to a wing .
an outgrowth of the mesonephric duct that gives rise to all but the nephrons of the permanent kidney .
either of two fleshy folds that surround the mouth in humans and many other vertebrates and are the organs of human speech .
the intermediate division of the sacrospinalis muscle that consists of the longissimus capitis ,  longissimus cervicis ,  and longissimus thoracis :also: any of these three muscles .
a long slender muscle between the longissimus cervicis and the semispinalis capitis that arises by tendons from the upper thoracic and lower cervical vertebrae ,  is inserted into the posterior margin of the mastoid process ,  and extends the head and bends and rotates it to one side .
a slender muscle medial to the longissimus thoracis that arises by long thin tendons from the transverse processes of the upper four or five thoracic vertebrae ,  is inserted by similar tendons into the transverse processes of the second to sixth cervical vertebrae ,  and extends the spinal column and bends it to one side .
a muscle that arises as the middle and largest division of the sacrospinalis muscle ,  that is attached by some of its fibers to the lumbar vertebrae ,  that is inserted into all the thoracic vertebrae and the lower 9 or 10 ribs ,  and that depresses the ribs and with the longissimus cervicis extends the spinal column and bends it to one side .
a muscle that extends the length of the back and neck ,  that arises from the iliac crest ,  the sacrum ,  and the lumbar and two lower thoracic vertebrae ,  and that splits in the upper lumbar region into three divisions of which the lateral is made up of the three iliocostalis muscles ,  the intermediate is made up of the three longissimus muscles ,  and the medial is made up of the three spinalis muscles .
in conifers ,  the reproductive parts are housed within the cones .
in conifers ,  the reproductive parts are housed within the cones .
1 .the pair of closely united ventral longitudinal nerves with their segmental ganglia that is characteristic of many elongate invertebrates  ( as earthworms )  .
the region at the base of a leaf ,  flower ,  fruit ,  or other plant part ,  where the formation of a cork layer results in the separation of that part from the plant body .
existing or growing in the air rather than in the ground or in water .
an aerial root is a plant's root that is produced above the ground .
a paired organ in the genito - urinary apparatus of raja  ( and probably other skates and rays )  whose cavity is fluid filled .
the fluid contained in the allantois .
a cylindrical epithelial cell in the innermost layer of the enamel organ which takes part in the elaboration of the enamel prism .
hepatoblastoma is an uncommon malignant liver cancer occurring in infants and children and composed of tissue resembling fetal liver cells ,  mature liver cells ,  or bile duct cells .
human hepatoblastoma - derived cell line that produces hbv .
a malignant intrahepatic tumor occurring in infants and young children and consisting chiefly of embryonic hepatic tissue .
human melanoma cell line .
human mast cell line .
human hepatoblastoma cell line .
human bladder tumor  ( transitional cell carcinoma )  cell line .
cell line from a melanoma primary tumor .
melanoma cell line derived from metastases of primary tumors .
melanoma cell line derived from metastases of primary tumors .
melanoma cell line derived from a primary tumor .
a cell line which originated from a pheochromocytoma in rat adrenal medulla .
insect  -  fruitfly  ( drosophila melanogaster )  cell line ,  established from the late embryo of a drosophila melanogaster  ( fruitfly )  in 1972 ;  originally the cells were diploid with 5 - 10% xy ,  currently the cell line has only xx cells that are now 60 - 80% tetraploid .
subset of helper - inducer t - lymphocytes which synthesize and secrete interleukin - 2 ,  gamma - interferon ,  and interleukin - 12 .
subset of helper - inducer t - lymphocytes which synthesize and secrete the interleukins il - 4 ,  il - 5 ,  il - 6 ,  and il - 10 .
the posterior opening of the alimentary canal .
in carnivores ,  either of two sacs found between the internal and external anal sphincters ,  lined with sebaceous glands and in some species with apocrine glands .
a mass of strong ,  silky filaments by which certain bivalve mollusks ,  such as mussels ,  attach themselves to rocks and other fixed surfaces .
one of the paired deciduous solid bone processes that arise from the frontal bone on the head of an animal of the deer family ;  also : a branch of an antler .
the point of contact between elements of an animal skeleton with the parts that surround and support it .
asynchronous muscle is that type of muscle which ,  when turned on by neural input and resulting muscle action potentials ,  can contract in an oscillatory manner if attached to an appropriate ,  resonant load such as is offered in life by an insects wings and thorax .
the sensory ganglion located within the spiral canal of the modiolus .
the axillary bud is a bud that develops in the axil of a plant .
a cell of a group of heterogeneous lymphoid tumors generally expressing one or more b - cell antigens or representing malignant transformations of b - lymphocytes .
the organ ,  resting on the basilar membrane in the cochlear duct ,  that contains the special sensory receptors for hearing ;  it consists of neuroepithelial hair cells and several types of supporting cells ,  including the inner and outer pillar cells ,  inner and outer phalangeal cells ,  border cells ,  and hensen's cells .
a spirally arranged membranous tube in the bony canal of the cochlea along its outer wall ,  lying between the scala tympani below and the scala vestibuli above .
the central pillar or columella of the cochlea .
during gastrulation cells on the surface of the embryo move into the interior to form the mesoderm and endoderm .
the cavity of a gastrula forming a primitive gut .
the secretion of this serous glands traps and dissolves odor - producing particles in the nasal cavity to allow for new smells to be detected .
either of two small racemose glands that are located below the prostate and discharge a component of the seminal fluid into the urethra .
a lymphoid organ that opens into the cloaca of birds and functions in b - cell production .
bone substance made up of thin intersecting lamellae ,  usually found internal to compact bone .
a bony or chitinous case or shield covering the back or part of the back of an animal  ( as a turtle or crab )  .
the left atrium receives oxygenated blood back from the lungs and pumps it down into the left ventricle for relatively high - pressure delivery to the body .
the right atrium receives deoxygenated blood from the body through the vena cava and pumps it into the right ventricle which then sends it to the lungs .
striated muscle innervated by a single motoneuron and having an electrically excitable membrane that exhibits an all or none response ;  in mammals almost all skeletal muscles are twitch muscles .
the largest papilla of the tongue ,  8 to 12 in number ,  arranged in the form of a v anterior to the sulcus terminalis of the tongue .
a cell in the epidermis of coelenterates in which a nematocyst is developed .
the cavity within the body of all animals higher than the coelenterates and certain primitive worms ,  formed by the splitting of the embryonic mesoderm into two layers .
coelomic fluid probably aids in oxygen transport and may contain some cells with hemoglobin .
two pairs of colliculi on the dorsal surface of the midbrain composed of white matter externally and gray matter within ,  the superior pair containing correlation centers for optic reflexes and the inferior pair containing correlation centers for auditory reflexes .
a pigment cell that contains melanin ,  especially as found in the skin of amphibians and reptiles .
the margin of the fold of blastula wall that delineates the dorsal limit of the blastopore ,  constitutes the primary organizer ,  and forms the point of origin of chordamesoderm .
the back ;  especially : the entire dorsal surface of an animal .
malignant neoplasms of the duodenum account for only 0 .3 - 0 .4% of tumors of the gastrointestinal tract .
the thickened trophoblast of the blastocyst in rodents that becomes the fetal portion of the placenta .
the hard exterior covering of an egg .
silkworm ,  bombyx mori ,  cell line derived from ovary .
embryoid bodies are structures resembling embryos ,  occurring in several types of germ cell tumors .
1 .a sharp ,  curved ,  horny structure at the end of a toe of a mammal ,  reptile ,  or bird .
the unpaired ventral longitudinal zone of the neural tube ,  forming the floor of that tube .
a bar of hyaline cartilage by which the ventral extremity of a rib is attached to the sternum in the case of the true ribs ,  or to the superiorly adjacent ribs in the case of the upper false ribs .
a circumscribed knoblike mass of ectodermal cells arising from the dental lamina ;  it produces the enamel cap from which the dental enamel develops .
in the developing tooth ,  the inner or internal layer of cells  ( ameloblasts )  of the enamel organ that deposit the organic matrix of enamel ,  plus the outer or external layer of cuboidal cells .
an ependymal cell ,  the cells of the ependyma .
a meristem that gives rise to a flower .
the relatively undifferentiated ,  dividing plant tissue that gives rise to the inflorescence .
the floral structure comprised of the calyx and corolla especially when the two whorls are fused .
a division of the perianth of a flower having a virtually indistinguishable calyx and corolla ,  as in tulips and lilies .
a limb as an arm ,  wing ,  fin ,  or leg that is situated anteriorly .
the middle layer of the coat of a seed .
a type of islet cell tumor cell of the alpha cells that secretes glucagon ;  some are malignant .
the dilated portion of the pyloric part of the stomach ,  between the body of the stomach and the pyloric canal .
the female reproductive organs of a flower ;  the pistil or pistils considered as a group .
one of the specialized cardiac muscle fibers ,  part of the impulse - conducting network of the heart ,  that rapidly transmit impulses from the atrioventricular node to the ventricles .
a true neoplasm of vascular origin ,  characterized by proliferation of endothelial cells in and about the vascular lumen ;  it is usually considered to be intermediate in grade between hemangioma and hemangiosarcoma but sometimes is used to denote the latter .
the most common aggressive form of non - hodgkin lymphoma .
a thin plate of cells that is an extension of the adenohypophysis on the ventral or anterior aspect of the infundibulum .
the portion of the pharynx that lies below the upper edge of the epiglottis and opens into the larynx and esophagus .
a tooth adapted for cutting or gnawing ,  located at the front of the mouth along the apex of the dental arch .
any of several large veins of the neck that drain blood from the head .
the inner part of the substance of the kidney ,  composed chiefly of collecting tubule elements ,  loops of henle ,  and vasa recta ,  organized grossly into pyramids .
a segmented usually tactile or gustatory process on an arthropod mouthpart .
1: the lower jaw of a vertebrate animal .
1: either of two bony or cartilaginous structures that in most vertebrates form the framework of the mouth and hold the teeth .
the posterior process on the ramus of the mandible composed of two parts: a superior part ,  the articular portion ,  and an inferior part ,  the condylar neck .
a bony process extending like a branch from a larger bone ,  especially the ascending part of the lower jaw that makes a joint at the temple .
any of various mouth organs of invertebrates used for seizing and biting food ,  especially either of a pair of such organs in insects and other arthropods .
the fleshy part of either side of the face below the eye and between the nose and ear .
a thick muscle in the cheek that closes the jaws during chewing .
a cell of a slow - growing tumor of the meninges ,  occurring most often in adults .
a cell of a malignant ,  highly radiosensitive cerebellar tumor composed of undifferentiated neuroglial cells .
a small simple eye ,  found in many invertebrates ,  usually consisting of a few sensory cells and a single lens .
a tooth with a rounded or flattened surface adapted for grinding ;  specifically: one of the cheek teeth in mammals behind the incisors and canines .
a developmental stage of a muscle fiber composed of a syncytium formed by fusion of myoblasts .
the anterior part of the nasal cavity situated just inferior to the nares and limited posteriorly by the limen nasi .
a newborn child ;  especially: a child less than a month old .
one of the cartilaginous structures surrounding the embryonic spinal cord ,  formed by the dorsal growth of the dorsolateral arcualia ;  it is the primordium of the vertebral arch .
the part of the ectoderm in a vertebrate embryo that lies on either side of the neural tube and develops into the cranial ,  spinal ,  and autonomic ganglia .
the thickened dorsal plate of ectoderm that differentiates into the neural tube and neural crest ;  ectoderm on the dorsal surface of the early vertebrate embryo that gives rise to the cells  ( neurons and glia )  of the nervous system .
an embryo at an early stage of development in which neurulation begins .
a type of neuron ,  or nerve cell ,  whose function is to translate neural signals into chemical stimuli .
1: a flexible rodlike structure that forms the main support of the body in the lowest chordates ,  such as the lancelet ;  a primitive backbone .
any of the elongated radially arranged cells on the surface of the dental pulp that secrete dentin .
the ciliary epithelium produces the aqueous humor of the eye .
endometrial carcinoma cell line .
the specialized structures subserving the function of the sense of smell ,  including the olfactory region of the nasal mucosa containing the bipolar cells of origin of the olfactory nerves ,  together with the olfactory glands .
zygote ,  specifically a sporozoan zygote undergoing sporogenous development .
cancer within the mouth .
the epithelial covering of the oral mucosa .
a minute structure in seed plants ,  containing the embryo sac and surrounded by the nucellus ,  that develops into a seed after fertilization .
the central and chief part of a plant ovule that encloses the female gametophyte .
the pollen sac of a seed plant in which pollen is produced .
the roof of the mouth separating the mouth from the nasal cavity .
cells of the gastric glands which secrete hydrochloric acid and intrinsic factor .
the potential space of capillary thinness between the parietal and the visceral peritoneum ,  which is normally empty except for a thin serous fluid that keeps the surfaces moist .
a mass of large thin - walled cells surrounding a vascular strand at the base of a petiole or petiolule and functioning in turgor movements of leaves or leaflets .
any of numerous large oval patches of closely aggregated nodules of lymphoid tissue in the walls of the small intestine especially in the ileum that partially or entirely disappear in advanced life and in typhoid fever become the seat of ulcers which may perforate the intestines .
one of a series of bony or cartilaginous arches that develop in the walls of the mouth cavity and pharynx of a vertebrate embryo ,  consist typically of a curved segmented bar or rod on each side meeting the contralateral bar or rod at the ventral end ,  and correspond to the gill arches of fishes and amphibians .
the distal part of adenohypophysis: the part that makes up the main body of the gland .
the intermediate part of adenohypophysis: an ill - defined region between the two lobes of the hypophysis ;  some systems of nomenclature consider it part of the neurohypophysis .
the expanded distal portion of the neurohypophysis .
one of the paired abdominal appendages of certain aquatic crustaceans ,  such as shrimp ,  lobsters ,  and isopods ,  that function primarily for carrying the eggs in females and are usually adapted for swimming .
the delicate serous membrane that lines each half of the thorax of mammals and is folded back over the surface of the lung of the same side .
a vein that conducts blood from the digestive organs ,  spleen ,  pancreas ,  and gallbladder to the liver .
the dorsal part of the midbrain including the corpora quadrigemina .
the most anterior part of the hypothalamus ,  lying adjacent to the lamina terminalis and superior to the optic chiasm ,  and comprising the lateral and medial preoptic nuclei ,  the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei ;  and the anterior hypothalamic nucleus .
a cell of a type of acute myeloid leukemia ,  a quickly progressing disease in which too many immature blood - forming cells are found in the blood and bone marrow .
a small ,  flat ,  delicate structure produced by a germinating spore and bearing sex organs .
a vein that carries oxygenated blood from the lungs to the left atrium of the heart .
cells of the innermost nuclear layer of the retina ,  the ganglion cell layer ,  which project axons through the optic nerve to the brain .
malignant tumour  ( sarcoma )  derived from striated muscle .
corpora allata with corpora cardiaca form the retrocerebral complex ,  a neurosecretory organ .
a filamentous extension of an epidermal cell near the tip of a rootlet that functions in absorption of water and minerals ;  specialized unicellular trichome found in roots .
the smaller of two membranous sacs in the vestibule of the inner ear .
the visceral mass consists of the gonad ,  digestive gland ,  heart ,  and excretory organs .
the part of the membranous labyrinth of the inner ear into which the semicircular canals open .
either of two main superficial veins of the leg ,  one larger than the other ,  that begin at the foot .
the part of the integument of the human head usually covered with hair in both sexes or the part of an animal  ( as a wolf or fox )  corresponding to the human scalp .
a compact mass of hardened mycelium stored with reserve food material that in some higher fungi becomes detached and remains dormant until a favorable opportunity for growth occurs .
specialised epithelium lining the seminiferous tubules containing developing and mature spermatozoa and sertoli cells .
small dark muscle fibers rich in mitochondria ,  myoglobin ,  and sarcoplasm and with only faint cross - striping ;  designed for slow but repetitive contractions over long periods of time .
paler - colored muscle fibers of larger diameter than slow twitch fibers ,  and having less sarcoplasm and more prominent cross - striping ;  used for forceful and rapid contractions over short periods of time .
the outer end of a leaf ;  the end that is opposite the petiole .
a composite ganglion formed by fusion of the inferior cervical ganglion and the first thoracic ganglion of the sympathetic chain of a vertebrate animal .
rhizobia interact symbiotically with leguminous plants by inducing nitrogen - fixing nodules on the roots .
the upper part of the spiral ligament of the scala media that contains numerous small blood vessels ;  a layer of vascular tissue consisting of epithelial cells ,  mesothelial cells ,  and probably some neuroectoderm ;  it covers the outer wall of the cochlear duct and is thought to secrete the endolymph .
an ependymal derivative located at the junction of the third ventricle and the cerebral aqueduct ,  secreting somatostatin .
nerve centre at the junction of the circumoesophageal connectives and the ventral nerve cord .
a small group of neurons situated immediately dorsal to the optic chiasma in the anterior hypothalamus .
the dense connective - tissue membrane that secretes synovial fluid and that lines the ligamentous surfaces of articular capsules ,  tendon sheaths where free movement is necessary ,  and bursae .
a cell of a malignant neoplasm arising in the synovial membrane of the joints and also in synovial cells of tendons and bursae .
a disease in which certain cells of the lymph system  ( called t - lymphocytes )  become cancerous .
a fin at the posterior part of the body of a fish ,  crustacean ,  whale ,  or other aquatic animal .
a layer in the choroid chiefly of nocturnal mammals that reflects light causing the eyes to glow when light strikes them at night and that is made up of several layers of flattened cells covered by a zone of doubly refracting crystals .
the dark - brown vascular coat of the eye between the sclera and the retina .
the terminal male inflorescence of some plants and especially indian corn .
any of the ganglia of the sympathetic chain in the thoracic region that occur in 12 or fewer pairs .
one of the two divisions of the vertebrate autonomic nervous system  ( the other being the parasympathetic nervous system )  .
one of the two divisions of the vertebrate autonomic nervous sytem .
either of the pair of ganglionated longitudinal cords of the sympathetic nervous system of which one is situated on each side of the spinal column .
any of a group of sympathetic ganglia which form two chains extending from the base of the skull to the coccyx along the sides of the spinal column .
an exocrine gland that produces a watery ,  protein rich secretion ,  as opposed to a carbohydrate rich mucous secretion .
a knoblike tooth primordium developing into an enamel organ surrounded by a dental sac and encasing the dental papilla .
a small mass of condensed mesenchymal tissue in the enamel organ ,  which differentiates into the dentin and dental pulp .
trophoblast: esp : the outer layer of the mammalian blastocyst after differentiation of the ectoderm ,  mesoderm ,  and endoderm when the outer layer is continuous with the ectoderm of the embryo .
the lateral ganglia of a snail nervous system are called parietal ganglia .
the pallial cavity's nerve knots are called pleural ganglia .
the cerebral ganglia are primarily sensual centres ,  that compute information from the eyes as well as from the tactile and position sensors  ( statocystes )  .
the hard ,  calcareous substance covering the exposed portion of a tooth .
the mucous lining of the bronchial tubes .
this is a neurosecretory organ found on the ventral aspect of the distal end of the spinal cord in fishes .
vaginal portion of cervix: the part of the cervix uteri that protrudes into the vagina and is lined with stratified squamous epithelium .
supravaginal portion of cervix: the part of the cervix uteri that does not protrude into the vagina .
the innermost lining of a blood vessel .
one of the paired ,  internal tubes leading from the venom glands to the paired openings near the tip of the aculeus .
the part of the membranous labyrinth that includes the utricle and saccule lodged within the vestibule and the semicircular ducts lodged eccentrically in the corresponding canals .
the area of the occipital lobe of the cerebral cortex concerned with vision ;  it consists of the first visual area or striate cortex  ( brodmann's area 17 )  and two other areas ,  the second visual area or parastriate area  ( brodmann's area 18 )  and the third visual area or peristriate area  ( brodmann's area 19 )  .
any of the conical extensions of the collagen fibers ,  the capillary blood vessels ,  and sometimes the nerves of the dermis into corresponding spaces among the downward -  or inward - projecting rete ridges on the under surface of the epidermis .
a horny projection on the skin usually of the extremities produced by proliferation of the skin papillae and caused by a papillomavirus .
malignant germ cell tumour commonly found in the ovary .
human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell line ,  established from a 61 year old human female .
a nucleus forming the floor of the caudal part of the anterior prolongation of the lateral ventricle of the brain .
a worm's body wall has two kinds of muscles that it uses to crawl .
human caucasian pancreas adenocarcinoma cell line ,  established from a 62 years old caucasian female .
pig kidney cell line .original line: pk - 2a ;  contains type c viruses .
mouse fibroblast cell line .
the most posterior promontory of each cerebral hemisphere ;  the apex of the occipital lobe .
a small area of gray matter behind the olfactory trigone that is noted for receiving dopaminergic neurons from the substantia nigra and the reticular formation which have been implicated in schizoaffective disorders .
human ovary carcinoma cell line .
the synganglion constitutes the entire central nervous of the tick .
immortal murine lens epithelial cell line .
cuboidal epithelium covering the lens .
rat thyroid gland cell line ,  derived from frtl cell line .
a powerful flexor of the thigh at the hip joint .
a weak flexor of the trunk and lumbar spinal column .
rat db1x heart myoblast cell line .
human t cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 16 - year - old woman with acute lymphoblastic leukemia  ( all )  in 1972 .
human ,  ovary ,  adenocarcinoma cell line .
human acute myeloblastic leukaemia cell line from human peripheral blood .
human acute myelomonocytic leukemia cell line ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 26 - year - old man with acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml m4 )  at diagnosis of aml  ( following t - non - hodgkin lymphoma and t - all )  in 1978 ;  sister cell lines are ml - 1 and ml - 3 .
the rudiment or commencement of a part or organ .
human thyroid carcinoma cell line ;  obtained from a lymph node metastasis of a follicular thyroid carcinoma from a 42 - year - old male .
human colon carcinoma cell line .
the rko - e6 cell line was generated from the colon carcinoma rko cell line by transfection with pcmv - e6 using lipofectin .
the rko - as45 - 1 cell line was generated from the colon carcinoma rko cell line by transfection with the open reading frame portions of human cdnas for gadd45 cloned into the expression vector pcmv .
the early trophozoite in the erythrocytic stage of the life cycle of hemosporian protozoa ,  which after romanovsky staining has blue cytoplasm surrounding a clear zone with a red nucleus at one side ,  giving the cell the appearance of a signet ring .
chinese hamster embryonic fibroblast cell line .
cells found throughout the lining of the gastrointestinal tract that contain regulatory peptide hormones and / or biogenic amines .
sv40 - transformed human fibroblast cell line .
drosophila melanogaster haemocyte cell line .
a cell culture at the plateau of the growth curve after log growth in a culture ,  during which cell number remains constant .
the characteristic periods in the growth of a bacterial culture ,  as indicated by the shape of a graph of viable cell number versus time .
a cell culture at the final growth phase in a culture ,  during which nutrients have been depleted and cell number decreases .
the culture at the initial growth phase ,  during which cell number remains relatively constant prior to rapid growth .
a cell culture at the steepest slope of the growth curve of a culture -  -  at the phase of vigorous growth during which cell number doubles every 20 - 30 minutes .
homo sapiens  ( human )  pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell line .
a muscle of the tail .
the united head and thorax of an arachnid or higher crustacean .
mouse myeloma cell line .
human breast carcinoma cell line ;  established from an effusion of a 48 - year - old woman with breast carcinoma in 1976 .
mus musculus  ( mouse )  brain ;  neuroblast ;  neuroblastoma cell line .
homo sapiens lung papillary adenocarcinoma cell line .
mouse ,  c57bl / 6 ,  sarcoma ,  reticulum cell line .
colonic cancer cell line .
colonic cancer cell line .
colon carcinoma cell line .
one of the numerous external ,  fluid - filled muscular tubes of echinoderms ,  such as the starfish or sea urchin ,  serving as organs of locomotion ,  food handling ,  and respiration .
ehrlich - lettre ascites strain e mouse ,  carcinoma cell line .
an eye  ( as of an insect )  made up of many separate visual units .
one of the elements corresponding to a small simple eye that make up the compound eye of an arthropod .
within the mouth of a sea urchin is an elaborate five - sided jaw structure called aristotles lantern that can be partially extruded from the mouth .
lumbar muscle that extends and rotates the vertebral column .
human hybridoma cell line .
rattus norvegicus  ( rat )  ,  tumor cell line of exocrine pancreas .
clonal mouse embryonic cell line .
murine b - lymphoma cell line .
the malignant human b - cell - line bjab is a ebv - negative burkitt - like lymphoma cell line .
human breast ductal carcinoma cell line ;  established from a solid ,  invasive ductal carcinoma of the breast ;  obtained from a 60 - year - old woman ;  cells were reportedly tumorigenic in athymic mice and were found to be susceptible to mouse mammary tumor virus .
buffalo rat liver cell line .
malignant burkitt lymphoma cell line bl 60 .
this line is a clone of the bw5147 cell line which was established from a spontaneous akr / j thymoma .
human b - lymphoblastoid cell line .
neonatal liver cell line from newborn rats .
human osteosarcoma cell line .
human mammary epithelial cell line .
rat morris hepatoma 7316a cell .
the remains of a keratinocyte ;  it is shed by the stratum corneum .
human acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
human ,  peripheral blood ,  cutaneous ,  t cell lymphoma cell line .
an atypical fibroblast combining the ultrastructural features of a fibroblast and a smooth muscle cell ;  it has a highly irregular nucleus ,  a large amount of rough endoplasmic reticulum ,  and a dense collection of myofilaments .
human ,  rectum - anus ,  adenocarcinoma cell line .
human ,  blood ,  leukemia ,  t cell line ,  clone e6 .1 .
a convenient source of human endothelial cells are those that line the large vein in the umbilical cord which is usually discarded together with the placenta after childbirth .
human hepatoma cell line .
human ,  caucasian ,  bone ,  osteosarcoma cell line ;  established from a 13 - years old caucasian female .
human t cell leukemia cell line ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 14 - year - old japanese boy with all and thymoma at diagnosis in 1973 .
modified ependymal cell of the median eminence ,  having a body that lies near the third ventricle and sending out processes that extend to the capillary plexus of the portal circulation .
1 .a raised area in the floor of the third ventricle of the brain produced by the infundibulum of the hypothalamus .
rat embryo fibroblast cell line .
myoblast cell line ;  established from stage 57 tadpole tails of xenopus laevis .
mouse embryo / fetus calvaria fibroblasts ;  established from the calvaria of an embryo / fetus c57bl / 6 mouse ;  described to differentiate to osteoblasts and to produce collagen .
human t cell leukemia ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 4 - year - old girl with t cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia  ( t - all )  in second relapse in 1977 ;  cell lines be - 13  ( dsm acc 396 )  and peer show identical dna fingerprints and hence share common origin ,  presumably due to cross - ontamination ;  however ,  their diploid and tetraploid karyotypes indicative of earlier and later passage numbers ,  respectively ,  suggest that be - 13 is derived from peer ,  rather than vice - versa .
human mammary microvessel endothelial cell .
human breast carcinoma ;  established from the pleural effusion of a post - menopausal breast cancer patient without any prior treatment  ( tumor: widespread ductal mammary carcinoma t4 n2 m1 with histological grade iii )  ;  cells were described to express androgen ,  estrogen and progesterone receptors .
human caucasian aorta ,  normal smooth muscle cell line ;  established from the normal aorta of an 11 month old child .
a dead body .
cervical cancer cell line .
human b cell precursor leukemia ;  established from the bone marrow of a 12 - year - old boy with acute lymphoblastic leukemia  ( call )  at relapse in 1979 .
homo sapiens  ( human )  lung ;  small cell lung cancer cell line ,  extrapulmonary origin ;  established from a 63 years adult caucasian male .
by - 2 is a cell line of tobacco induced from a pith of nicotiana tabacum l . cv .
vascular endothelial cell line from human placenta .
mus musculus  ( mouse )  brain neuroblastoma cell line .
oc cell line ;  derived from the indica variety c5924 of oryza sativa .
the terminal portion of the alimentary canal ,  extending from the rectum to the anus .
a gland that secretes a slimy ,  chemically inert material .
any of various glands in the dermis of the skin that open into a hair follicle and produce and secrete sebum .
fatty lubricant matter secreted by sebaceous glands of the skin .
culture using an apparatus in which the environment is so controlled that bacterial populations are maintained in a steady state of continuous cell division in a constant environment .
epithelial cell of the stomach ,  either columnar or cuboidal ,  that line the lower portions of the gastric glands and secrete pepsin .
a benign neoplasm derived from muscle .
a small branch of an artery  ( a vessel that carries blood high in oxygen away from the heart to the body )  leading to a capillary .
human bowes melanoma cell line of the skin .
tartrate - resistant acid phosphatase  ( trap )  and alkaline phosphatase  ( alp )  double - positive cell lines  ( ccp - 2 ,  ccp - 7 ,  ccp - 8 )  from hamster bone marrow .
tartrate - resistant acid phosphatase  ( trap )  and alkaline phosphatase  ( alp )  double - positive cell lines  ( ccp - 2 ,  ccp - 7 ,  ccp - 8 )  from hamster bone marrow .
tartrate - resistant acid phosphatase  ( trap )  and alkaline phosphatase  ( alp )  double - positive cell lines  ( ccp - 2 ,  ccp - 7 ,  ccp - 8 )  from hamster bone marrow .
human bone chondrosarcoma cell line .
human brain ,  right frontal parieto - occipital cortex ,  glioblastoma cell line ;  established from a 60 years old white female .
human brain ,  cerebrum ;  right temporal lobe ,  glioblastoma ;  glioma ;  grade iv cell line ;  established from a 65 years old white male .
human prostate cancer cell line .
during development of the cellular slime mold dictyostelium discoideum ,  amoebae exhibit different types of cell - cell interactions .
an antigen - presenting cell is a cell that displays foreign antigen complex with major histocompatibility complex on its surface .
the wall of an artery consists typically of an outer coat  ( tunica externa )  ,  a middle coat  ( tunica media )  ,  and an inner coat  ( tunica intima )  .
external coat of vessels: the outer ,  fibroelastic coat of the blood vessels .
the middle coat of the blood vessels ,  made up of transverse elastic and muscle fibers .
the inner coat of the blood vessels ,  made up of endothelial cells surrounded by longitudinal elastic fibers and connective tissue .
rat hepatoma cell line ;  established from the hepatoma of a 16 - month - old sd - female rat in 1988 .
mouse skin melanoma cell line from mouse strain c57bl / 6 .
human prostate carcinoma  ( derivative of du - 145 )  cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
any of the systems ,  sexual or asexual ,  by which plants reproduce .
a column of erectile tissue on either side  ( right and left )  ,  the two fusing to form the body of the clitoris .
one of the columns of erectile tissue forming the dorsum and sides of the penis .
a small erectile organ at the anterior or ventral part of the vulva homologous to the penis .
cultured human bronchial epithelial cell line .
human oral squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human oral squamous cell carcinoma  ( oscc )  cell line .
human ,  caucasian ,  peripheral blood ,  subacute leukemia cell line .
a cell of a benign tumor made up of muscular elements .
rat natural killer cell line .
human colon carcinoma .morphology: epithelial - like ;  species: human 72 years old ;  tissue: colon ;  tumor: carcinoma ;  derived from: metastasis to lung .
human ovary adenocarcinoma cell line ;  established from the solid omental metastasis of a mucinous papillary adenocarcinoma of the ovary of a 36 - year - old woman in 1979 .
human leiomyosarcoma cell line ;  established from a 75 - years old caucasian female with mesodermal tumor  ( mixed )  grade iii in the uterus .
human glioma cell line .morphology: glial ;  species: human ;  tumor: glioma .
human ,  caucasian ,  brain ,  glioblastoma - astrocytoma cell line morphology: epithelial - like ;  species: human ,  caucasian female 44 years old ;  tissue: brain ;  tumor: glioblastoma - astrocytoma .
mouse myeloid leukemia cell line .
a cell that is characteristic of adult bone and is isolated in a lacuna of the bone substance .
human embryonic fibroblast cell line ;  established from a 9 - weeks - old embryo of homo sapiens .
human embryonic fibroblast cell line ;  established from a 9 - weeks - old embryo of homo sapiens .
human embryonic fibroblast cell line ;  established from a 9 - weeks - old embryo of homo sapiens .
a special type of cell that is a key regulator of the immune system ,  acting as a professional antigen - presenting cell ,  apc ,  capable of activating naive t cells and stimulating the growth and differentiation of b cells .
human urinary bladder carcinoma  ( derivative of t - 24 )  ;  described as being spontaneously immortalized from the umbilical cord vein of a new - born japanese boy in 1984 ;  cells were described to have a high proliferative potential in the absence of any growth factors ;  however ,  dna fingerprinting at dsmz showed clearly that this cell line is in reality a derivative of human urinary bladder carcinoma cell line t - 24 .
the outer end of the frond .
a capillary tube ;  especially: any of the smallest blood vessels connecting arterioles with venules and forming networks throughout the body .
a male reproductive cell produced in an antheridium ,  as in algae ,  fungi ,  and nonflowering plants .
human colorectal cancer cell line .
the multicellular stage of the cellular slime mold dictyostelium discoideum .
human normal hepatic cell line with epithelial - like morphology .
one of the cell's in the inner layer of the periosteum that forms osseous tissue .
a mesenchymal cell that differentiates into an osteoblast .
the alkaline seminal vesicle fluid contributes 70% of semen volume and provides additional components ,  including the enzymes for coagulum formation .
murine osteosarcoma cell line .
tobacco  ( nicotiana tabacum l . var .
any of various tubular organs in animals and especially mollusks or arthropods that are used for drawing in or ejecting fluids .
a type of bronchogenic carcinoma made up of cuboidal or columnar cells in a discrete mass ,  usually at the periphery of the lungs .
a general term comprising all lung carcinomas except small cell carcinoma ,  and including adenocarcinoma of the lung ,  large cell carcinoma ,  and squamous cell carcinoma .
a group of lung cancers in which the cells are large and look abnormal .
a variant type of adenocarcinoma of the lung ,  with columnar to cuboidal epithelial cells lining the alveolar septa and projecting into alveolar spaces in branching papillary formations .
any of a large group of carcinomas of the lung ,  so called because they arise from the epithelium of the bronchial tree .
human b - lymphoblastoid cell line  ( from patient with adenocarcinoma )  ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 73 - year - old woman with metastatic adenocarcinoma in 1988 .
connective tissue cells of an organ found in the loose connective tissue .
the traumagenic device  ( spine ,  tooth ,  etc .
bee venom is synthesized in the venom glands of worker and queen bees and stored in their venom sacs .
a sharp organ  ( as of a bee ,  scorpion ,  or stingray )  that is usually connected with a poison gland or otherwise adapted to wound by piercing and injecting a poison .
a specialized apocrine gland found in many mammals that produces a strong - smelling substance .
any gland which secretes a wax product in a scale ,  string or powder .
the tumorigenic ks imm cell line derives from kaposi's sarcoma  ( ks )  ,  a highly angiogenic tumor .
a multicentric ,  malignant neoplastic vascular proliferation characterized by bluish - red cutaneous nodules ,  usually on the legs ,  toes ,  or feet ,  that slowly increase in size and number and spread to more proximal sites .
epithelium composed of flattened platelike cells .
squamous epithelium composed of a single layer of cells .
epithelium in which the cells are arranged in several layers .
the epithelium which lines the subdural and subarachnoid spaces ,  the perilymphatic spaces in the inner ear ,  and the chamber of the eye .
osteomalacia is a disease occurring mostly in adult women that results from a deficiency in vitamin d or calcium and is characterized by a softening of the bones with accompanying pain and weakness .
a cell of osteomalacia occurring in association with usually benign mesenchymal neoplasms .
osteomalacia as a complication of cholestatic liver disease ,  which may lead to severe bone pain and multiple fractures .
a cell of osteomalacia occurring as a consequence of exhaustion of skeletal stores of calcium and phosphorus by repeated pregnancies and lactation .
a cell of osteomalacia occurring as a consequence of acidosis and hypercalciuria ,  resulting from inability to produce an acid urine or ammonia because of deficient activity of the renal tubules .
senile osteomalacia is the softening of bones in old age due to vitamin d deficiency .
a narrow fluid - containing space ,  often only a potential space ,  between the dura mater and the arachnoid .
the fluid - filled space separating the membranous from the osseous labyrinth .
that portion of the aqueous - containing space between the cornea and the lens which is bounded in front by the cornea and part of the sclera ,  and behind by the iris ,  part of the ciliary body ,  and that part of the lens which presents through the pupil .
one of he various spaces in the eyeball .
that portion of the aqueous - containing space between the cornea and the lens which is bounded in front by the iris ,  and behind by the lens and ciliary zonule .
the space in the eyeball enclosing the vitreous humor ,  bounded anteriorly by the lens and ciliary body and posteriorly by the posterior wall of the eyeball .
a neoplasm composed of differentiated ependymal cells ;  most ependymomas are slow growing and benign ,  but malignant varieties occur .
human osteosarcoma cell line ,  established from a chemotherapy - resistant tumor sample obtained from the left knee of a 10 - year - old boy with anaplastic osteoblastic sarcoma  ( rosen grade iib )  in 1989 .
a retinoblastoma that begins in the inner layers of the retina and spreads toward the center of the globe .
a retinoblastoma that begins in the outer layers of the retina and spreads away from the center of the globe .
a ganglioneuroma in the central nervous system .
a benign neoplasm composed of nerve fibers and mature ganglion cells ;  regarded by many as a fully differentiated neuroblastoma .
a ganglioneuroma outside of the central nervous system .
a tumor - like mass composed of ectopic neural tissue in the nasal cavity .
the portion of the passages of the respiratory system extending from the nares to the pharynx .
the space enclosed by the walls of the pharynx .
the major portion of the middle ear  ( auris media )  ,  consisting of a narrow air - filled cavity in the temporal bone that contains the auditory ossicles .
the cavity in the temporal bone comprising the cavitas tympani ,  adnexa mastoidea ,  and tuba auditiva .
the portion of the auditory organ comprising the auricle and the external acoustic meatus .
a malignant proliferation of plasma cells in bone marrow causing numerous tumors and characterized by the presence of abnormal proteins in the blood .
murine plasmacytoma cell line .
murine plasmacytoma cell line ;  also described as mouse myeloma tumor .
human caucasian neuroblastoma cell line .
in the perisympathetic organs of insects there is a neurohemal structure acting as neurohormonal release sites .
a system of neurons that has the specialized function to produce and secrete hormones ,  and that constitutes ,  in whole or in part ,  an endocrine organ or system .
the layer of areolar tissue situated beneath the mucous membrane .
the layer of tissue underlying the tunica mucosa of the bronchi .
the layer of tissue underlying the tunica mucosa of the esophagus .
the tissue underlying the tunica mucosa of the stomach .
the layer of tissue underlying the tunica mucosa of the large intestine .
the submucous layer of the wall of the small intestine .
the tissue underlying the tunica mucosa of the pharynx .
 the submucous layer of the wall of the rectum .
the tissue underlying the tunica mucosa of the trachea .
the submucous layer of the wall of the uterine tube .
the submucous layer of the wall of the urinary bladder .
a small or secondary spike ,  specifically one of the small few - flowered bracted spikes that make up the compound inflorescence of a grass or sedge .
the pyloric ceca  ( or digestive glands )  and the cardiac stomach produce digestive enzymes in starfishes .
the pyloric ceca  ( or digestive glands )  and the cardiac stomach produce digestive enzymes in starfishes .
in starfishes the cardiac stomach is connected to a pyloric stomach which is located above it .
the primitive endoderm is the lower layer of the blastocyst that gives rise to fetal membranes .
the constant contraction of ampulla  ( to extend and retract the tube feet )  helps to move a starfish .
the water vascular system is a hydraulic system used by echinoderms for locomotion ,  food and waste transportation ,  and respiration .
human caucasian glioblastoma / astrocytoma cell line ;  established from a 61 - years - old caucasian male .
human glioblastoma cell line ;  established from a 47 years old human male .
multiform glioblastoma cell line .
human melanoma ;  established from the lymph node metastasis  ( thoracic duct )  of a 29 - year - old caucasian man with primary melanoma in 1966 .
human metastatic melanoma cell line .
human skin melanoma cell line ;  established from a 51 - years old human male .
human melanoma established from the lymph node metastasis of a malignant melanoma from a 42 - year - old caucasian woman .
human melanoma derived from tumor tissue  ( subcutis metastasis )  of a 67 - year - old caucasian man with malignant melanoma in 1975 .
human caucasian skin melanoma cell line ;  established from a 24 year old caucasian female .
pancreatic beta  - cell line of rat origin .
human acute promyelocytic leukemia cell line ;  established from the bone marrow of a 23 - year - old woman with acute promyelocytic leukemia  ( apl = aml fab m3 )  in second relapse in 1989 .
human pancreatic cancer cell line .
human pancreatic carcinoma cell line .
human brain glioma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human colon adenocarcinoma cell line .
insulin secreting beta cell line .
acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line ,  resistant to vincristine .
lymphocytic leukemia cell line that is marked by an abnormal increase in the number of lymphoblasts ,  that is characterized by rapid onset and progression of symptoms which include fever ,  anemia ,  pallor ,  fatigue ,  appetite loss ,  bleeding ,  thrombocytopenia ,  granulocytopenia ,  bone and joint pain ,  and enlargement of the lymph nodes ,  liver ,  and spleen ,  and that occurs chiefly during childhood .
human thyroid anaplastic carcinoma cell line ,  established from the thyroid gland  ( right lobe )  of a 70 - year - old woman with thyroid anaplastic carcinoma in 1988 ;  described as being tumorigenic in heterotransplanted nude mice .
metaplasia is the change in the type of adult cells in a tissue to another form of adult cells that are not normal for that tissue .
a thin membranous ,  sometimes alveolated sac in the dorsal portion of the abdominal cavity .
one of a series of variously shaped bony or cartilaginous projections on the inner side of the branchial arch .
the thread - like ,  soft ,  red respiratory and excretory structure projecting outward from the gill arch .
the set of gill rakers on the gill arches acting as a filter or sieve .
the endochondral skeletal support of the gill which bears the gill filaments and the gill rakers .
the deep ,  endochondral bone at the top of the gill arch .
a deep cartilage bone on the upper part of the gill arch below the uppermost element ,  the pharyngobranchial .
a long ,  deep ,  endochondral bone in the middle portion of the gill arches between the epibranchials and the hypobranchials .
one of a series of deep ,  paired endochondral bones on the lower part of the gill arch between the ceratobranchials and the basibranchials .
refers to skeletal elements which are formed in cartilage and which later ossify .
a cell having a thickened cell wall and a small lumen .
the fruiting body  ( ascocarp )  produced by certain ascomycetes ,  in which there is no pore for the escape of ascospores ,  the spores being released by rupture or decay of the body .
an open or expanded fruiting body seen in lichens and actinomycetous fungi ,  having asci contained on its exposed surface .
the fruiting body of an ascomycetous fungus ,  including the asci and ascospores .
the sporangium or spore case of certain lichens and fungi ,  consisting of a single terminal cell .
a type of fruiting body  ( ascocarp )  composed of a loose network of mycelia through which ascospores filter and are released at maturity ;  its reproductive organs are in the form of naked asci .
the flask - shaped fruiting body of certain molds and ascomycetous fungi having a pore for the escape of spores .
the clublike organ of the fungal class basidiomycotina which ,  following karyogamy and meiosis ,  bears the basidiospore .
a type of sexual spore that forms on a basidium .
the fruiting body  ( basidiocarp )  of any of a variety of basidiomycetous fleshy fungi of the order agaricales ,  especially one that is edible .
physiologically immature or undeveloped stage .
a bundle of myelinated nerve fibers passing transversely through the lamina terminalis and connecting symmetrical parts of the two cerebral hemispheres ;  it consists of a smaller anterior part  ( pars anterior commissurae anterioris )  and a larger posterior part  ( pars posterior commissurae anterioris )  .
human amelanotic malignant melanoma cell line .
mouse mast cell line .
the adult male dorsal surface of schistosoma is covered in small bosses called tubercles that provide purchase against the blood vessel wall when the worm is crawling up the mesenteric veins carrying the female in its ventral groove .
any cell that is a functional element of an organ ,  such as a hepatocyte .
new zealand white rabbit kidney cell line .
cricetulus griseus  ( chinese hamster )  ovary cell line from a female .
osteosarcoma cell line .
human mammary epithelial cells  ( hmepc )  are derived from normal adult mammary glands .
the 184a1n4 and 184b5 cell lines are nontumorigenic cell lines derived from primary cultures of hmecs that were immortalized with benzo ( a ) pyrene .
human mammary gland ,  breast epithelium cell line ;  established from normal mammary tissue obtained from a normal reduction mammoplasty .
a highly transformed human renal epithelial line expressing two viral oncogenes ,  adenovirus e1a and sv40 large t antigen .
high metastatic human giant - cell lung carcinoma cell line .
low metastatic human giant - cell lung carcinoma cell line .
a bundle of nerve fibers  ( axons )  having a common origin ,  termination ,  and function .
squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
normal human keratinocyte cell line .
vascular smooth muscle cell line derived from rat thoracic aorta .
gamma - glutamyl transpeptidase - positive ,  tumorigenic rat liver oval cell line ,  tumorigenic counterpart of oc / cde22 cell line .
gamma - glutamyl transpeptidase  ( ggt )  - negative ,  non - tumorigenic rat liver oval cell line .
human colon adenocarcinoma cell line ;  established from dukes' type c colorectal adenocarcinoma .
the small cone - shaped process suspended in the mouth from the middle of the posterior border of the soft palate .
mouse / human hybrid myeloma cell line .
human lung adenosquamous carcinoma cell line ;  derived in 1983 from a tumor mass in the chest wall of a patient with adenosquamous carcinoma of the lung .
hpv16 cervical cancer cell line .
anaplastic astrocytoma cell line .
human glioblastoma cell line .
the clear fluid above a sediment or precipitate of a cell culture .
a cell of the region of an ovule that is opposite the micropyle ,  where the integuments and nucellus are joined .
a malignant adrenal cortical tumor that can cause endocrine disorders such as cushing's syndrome or adrenogenital syndrome .
prostate cancer cell line .
human lens epithelial cell line .
a small modified leaf in a flower cluster .
mouse t - lymphoma cell line .
a pocketlike fold of skin in the cheeks of various animals ,  such as squirrels ,  gophers ,  and monkeys ,  that functions as a means of carrying food .
the liquid culture medium ,  obtained after filtration of the cell culture .
human anaplastic carcinoma cell line ,  probably from lung .
the somatic granulosa cells surrounding the oocyte are termed cumulus cells .
ectomycorrhizae are organs where the fungus hyphae are mostly in the outer tissues of the non - woody root .
endomycorrhizae are organs where the fungus hyphae are mainly throughout the non - wood root .
endectomycorrhiza are organs that are not distinctly one type or the other  ( see endo -  and ectomycorrhiza )  .
a layer of the outer living cortical cells of plants that takes over the functions of the epidermis in roots lacking secondary thickening .
either of the movable folds of skin and muscle that can be closed over the eyeball .
the ringlike ,  cup - shaped ,  or tubular structure of a flower on which the sepals ,  petals ,  and stamens are borne ,  as in the flowers of the rose or cherry .
a slender stalk supporting or connecting another plant part ,  such as a leaf or flower .
the smaller and more medial part of the lentiform nucleus of the brain ,  separated from the putamen by the lateral medullary lamina .
globus pallidus lateral segment: the larger ,  lateral part of the globus pallidus ,  separated from the putamen by the lateral medullary lamina and from the smaller ,  medial part of the globus pallidus by the medial medullary lamina .
globus pallidus medial segment: the smaller ,  medial part of the globus pallidus ,  separated from the larger ,  lateral part by the medial medullary lamina .
in the anatomy of the female reproductive system ,  the canal of the cervix is the spindle - shaped ,  flattened canal of the cervix ,  the neck of the uterus .
the part of the corpus striatum somewhat resembling a biconvex lens ,  divided into an external ,  larger ,  lateral part  ( putamen )  and an internal ,  smaller ,  lighter colored medial part  ( globus pallidus )  ,  which is in turn subdivided into a smaller ,  medial ,  and a larger ,  lateral part by the medial medullary lamina .
a layer of white substance that divides the medial portion of the lentiform nucleus  ( globus pallidus )  into a larger ,  lateral ,  and a smaller ,  medial part .
a biconvex mass of gray matter on the medial side of the junction of the internal capsule and the crus cerebri ;  its chief connections are with the globus pallidus .
human glioblastoma cell line .
any of a number of small ducts that carry semen from the testis to the epididymis .
human colonic cancer cell line .
a heterotrophic organism .
not self - sustaining cell ;  said of a type of nutrition in which organisms derive energy from the oxidation of organic compounds either by consumption or absorption of other organisms .
an autotrophic organism .
self - sustaining cell ;  said of a type of nutrition in which organisms are capable of synthesizing organic molecules as nutritive substances .
hs68 is one of a series of human foreskin fibroblast lines developed at the naval biosciences laboratory  ( nbl )  in oakland ,  ca .
1 .a small stalk or stalklike part bearing a single flower in an inflorescence .
 1 .a hollow digestive organ ,  especially the stomach of certain insects or the gizzard of a bird .
the aggregation stage of physarum polycephalum .
a distension of the esophagus of a bee in which honey is elaborated .
mouse lung cancer cell line .
human choriocarcinoma cell line ;  established from a human gestational choriocarcinoma which was taken at autopsy from a cerebral metastasis ;  serial sister cell line of cell line bewo .
mimosine - resistant cell line .
the mcs - 2 cell line is established by introduction of the human steroid - sulfatase  ( sts )  gene into estrogen - dependent human breast cancer mcf - 7 cells .
a protozoan cell that arises from the schizogony of a parent sporozoan and may enter either the asexual or sexual phase of the life cycle .
the ileum and cecum considered as one organ .
human thyroid carcinoma cell line ;  established from the lymph node metastasis of a 63 - year - old woman with anaplastic papillary thyroid carinoma .
dorsal ,  ventral or lateral longitudinal thickenings of the hypodermis ,  generally internal .
cells are immobilized by embedding them for example in calcium - alginate .
a pituitary cell type that elaborates melanocyte - stimulating hormone and beta - endorphins .
mouse macrophage cell line .
a lignifying cell deposits lignin in its cell wall .
photomixotrophically cultured tobacco cells  ( nicotiana tabacum l . cv .
potorous tridactylis  ( potoroo )  normal kidney cell line .
human large cell lung cancer cell line .
the murine insulinoma min6 cell line derived from in vivo immortalized insulin - secreting pancreatic beta cells .
immortalized cell line of primary granulosa cells ,  isolated from 25 - day - old immature rats and transfected with sv40 dna alone .
immortalized cell line of primary granulosa cells ,  isolated from 25 - day - old immature rats and transfected with sv40 dna and ha - ras oncogene .
immortalized cell line of primary granulosa cells ,  isolated from 25 - day - old immature rats and transfected with sv40 dna ,  ha - ras ,  and lh / cg receptor expression plasmid .
immortalized cell line of primary granulosa cells ,  isolated from 25 - day - old immature rats and transfected with sv40 dna ,  ha - as ,  and fsh receptor expression plasmid .
sp2 / 0 - ag14 is a hybrid between balb / c spleen cells and the myeloma cell line p3x63ag8 .
long ,  slender ,  threadlike ,  whiplike extension of certain cells or unicellular organisms used mainly for movements  ( others for signal transduction )  .
mouse t - lymphoma cell line .
cell culture on a solid material .
a modified epithelial cell of the capsular epithelium of the renal glomerulus ,  having a small perikaryon and a number of primary and secondary footlike radiating processes  ( pedicels )  that interdigitate with those of other podocytes and embrace the basal lamina of glomerular capillaries .
the outer ,  or parietal ,  layer of the renal glomerular capsule ,  composed of simple squamous epithelium ,  and separated from the inner ,  or visceral ,  layer by the capsular space .
the double - walled globular dilatation that forms the beginning of a uriniferous tubule of the kidney and surrounds the glomerulus ;  it consists of an inner ,  or visceral ,  layer  ( capsular epithelium )  and an outer ,  or parietal ,  layer  ( glomerular epithelium )  .
a folded band of gray matter that encloses a white core  ( hilum nuclei olivaris inferioris )  and that produces the elevation called the oliva on the medulla oblongata .
a part of each pyramid of the medulla oblongata ,  between the ventrolateral and dorsolateral sulci ;  it is formed by an irregular mass of gray substance  ( nucleus olivaris caudalis )  located just beneath its surface and is linked by fiber systems to the pons and cerebellum .
the white core of the inferior olivary nucleus of the medulla oblongata ,  most prominent medially .
a cell of a multilocular tumor produced by the epithelial cells of the ovary and having mucin - filled cavities ;  the great majority of these tumors are benign .
origin: abdominal aorta ,  branches ,  left colic ,  sigmoid ,  and superior rectal arteries .
origin: abdominal aorta ;  branches ,  inferior pancreaticoduodenal ,  jejunal ,  ileal ,  ileocolic ,  right colic ,  and middle colic arteries ;  distribution: small intestine ,  proximal half of colon .
the scolex of a larval stage of the hydatid tapeworm .
the anterior organ of a tapeworm used for attachment to host tissues .
human anaplastic thyroid cancer cell line .
1 .any of various unicellular fungi of the genus saccharomyces ,  especially s . cerevisiae ,  reproducing by budding and from ascospores and capable of fermenting carbohydrates .
a specialized type of epithelium that has contractile qualities .
modified smooth muscle cells ,  contractile in nature ,  believed to be of ectodermal origin ,  located around the secretory units of certain glands  ( salivary ,  mammary ,  sweat ,  and lacrimal glands )  between the gland cells and basement membrane ,  having long dendritic interweaving cytoplasmic processes ,  and containing myofilaments .
the human breast epithelium is a branching ductal system composed of an inner layer of polarized luminal epithelial cells and an outer layer of myoepithelial cells that terminate in distally located terminal duct lobular units  ( tdlus )  .
having reached full natural growth or development: a mature cell .
not fully grown or developed .
1 .glial cells that cluster about a neuron .
cells that serve to provide support and protection and perhaps contribute to the nutrition of principal or other cells of certain organs ;  such cells are found in the labyrinth of the inner ear ,  organ of corti ,  olfactory epithelium ,  taste buds ,  and seminiferous tubules  ( sertoli's cells )  .
any cell having a star - shaped appearance produced by numerous processes that extend in different directions ,  such as the kupffer cells in the liver ,  astrocytes ,  and granule cells in the granular layers of the cerebral and cerebellar cortices .
the darker - colored muscle tissue of some mammals ,  composed of slow twitch muscle fibers .
the paler - colored muscle tissue of some mammals ,  composed of fast twitch muscle fibers .
skeletal muscle fibers are cylindrical multinucleate cells containing contracting myofibrils ,  across which run transverse striations ,  enclosed in a sarcolemma .
cardiac muscle fibers contain one or sometimes two nuclei and myofibrils and are separated from one another by an intercalated disk ;  although striated ,  cardiac muscle fibers branch to form an interlacing network .
muscle fibers having characteristics intermediate between red and white muscle fibers .
an ordinary ,  or simple ,  sweat gland ;  they are of the merocrine type ,  unbranched ,  coiled ,  tubular glands that are distributed over almost all of the body surface ,  and promote cooling by evaporation of their secretion .
one in which the secretory cells maintain their integrity throughout the secretory cycle .
a gland whose discharged secretion contains entire secreting cells .
a rare breast malignancy with a ductal or acinar growth pattern and apocrine secretions .
the outermost rows of cells in a cross section of the stem .
the pair of closely united ventral longitudinal nerves with their segmental ganglia that is characteristic of many elongate invertebrates  ( as earthworms )  .
the dorsal tubular cord of nervous tissue above the notochord of a chordate that comprises or develops into the central nervous system .
a highly vascular layer of connective tissue under the basement membrane lining a layer of epithelium .
poeciliopsis lucida hepatoma cell line ,  a fish cell line .
human acute monocytic leukemia cell line ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 64 - year - old man with relapsed acute monocytic leukemia  ( aml fab m5 )  in 1985 following myeloid metaplasia .
arpe - 19 is a spontaneously arising retinal pigment epithelia  ( rpe )  cell line derived in 1986 by amy aotaki - keen from the normal eyes of a 19 - year - old male who died from head trauma in a motor vehicle accident .
the neck or line of junction between the root of a plant and its stem .
a thin band of intercalary meristematic tissue at the junction of the leaf blade  ( lamina )  and the leaf sheath found in grasses .
a small ,  comma - shaped form of toxoplasma gondii ,  found in clusters enclosed by an irregular wall  ( pseudocyst )  in the tissues ,  chiefly muscles and the brain ,  in chronic  ( latent )  toxoplasmosis ;  considered to be the slow - growing form .
any of the seven bones of the tarsus .
a modified striated muscle cell that does not contract ,  but produces electric signals ;  the component of the electric organ in some fish .
either of two extremities of four - footed non - primate land animals .
the outer and smaller of the two bones of the leg ,  which articulates proximally with the tibia and distally is joined to the tibia in a syndesmosis .
any of the five bones extending from the tarsus to the phalanges of the toes ,  being numbered in the same sequence from the most medial to the most lateral .
1 .any of the five digits of the foot .
the first digit of the foot .
the second digit of the foot .
the third digit of the foot .
the fourth digit of the foot .
the fifth ,  and smallest ,  digit of the foot .
the highest of the tarsal bones and the one that articulates with the tibia and fibula to form the ankle joint .
the irregular quadrangular bone at the back of the tarsus .
the ovoid - shaped tarsal bone that is situated between the talus and the three cuneiform bones .
the cuboid bone .
the most lateral of the three wedge - shaped tarsal bones located medial to the cuboid and between the navicular and the first three metatarsal bones .
the intermediate and smallest of the three wedge - shaped tarsal bones located medial to the cuboid and between the navicular and the first three metatarsal bones ;  called also o . cuneiforme secundum .
the medial and largest of the three wedge - shaped tarsal bones located medial to the cuboid and between the navicular and the first three metatarsal bones .
a benign tumor consisting of projecting adult bone capped by cartilage projecting from the lateral contours of endochondral bones .
the main excretory duct of the pancreas ,  which usually unites with the common bile duct before entering the duodenum at the major duodenal papilla .
carcinoma that arises from the pancreatic ducts .
any of he numerous pits in the gastric mucosa marking the openings of the gastric glands .
any cell of a usually benign tumor derived from immature cartilage cells ,  occurring primarily in the epiphyses of adolescents ;  it is characterized by fine ,  matrix - like calcifications arranged hexagonally ,  often resembling chicken wire ,  around closely packed cells .
the outermost layer of trophoblast ,  produced by cytotrophoblast where there is direct contact with maternal decidua rather than blood .
polygonal ,  mononucleate cells resembling the cells of the cytotrophoblast ,  having prominent nucleoli and clear ,  eosinophilic or cyanophilous cytoplasm ;  one of the two cell types that compose a choriocarcinoma .
rat fischer cell line ;  established from a female rat embryo  / whole fetus .
3y1 cell line ,  transformed with v - ha - ras oncogene .
a gland in female insects that secretes a cement by which the eggs are glued together or attached to an external object .
the vegetative stage  ( macroplasmodium )  of physarum polycephalum is a large ,  single cell containing multiple dipoid nuclei that divide precisely at the same time .
a rare type of neuroepithelial tumor ,  usually found in the brain or retina ,  composed of primitive neuroepithelial cells lining the tubular spaces .
a type of tumor that forms from glial  ( supportive )  tissue in the brain .
moderately malignant astrocytomas ,  including most anaplastic astrocytomas and sometimes including the less malignant of the glioblastoma multiforme group .
a minute thin - walled branch of a bronchus .
any of the compound racemose glands in the submucous layer of the duodenum that secrete alkaline mucus and a potent proteolytic enzyme .
3y1 cell line transformed by rous sarcoma virus .
an astrocytoma resembling the fibrillary type but with its fibrils arranged in parallel rows ;  its grade of malignancy is low .
a pilocytic astrocytoma found in the cerebellum in children ,  one of the most common juvenile brain tumors ;  it grows slowly and has a low grade of malignancy .
well differentiated human gastric adenocarcinoma cell line .
well differentiated human gastric adenocarcinoma cell line .
well differentiated human gastric adenocarcinoma cell line .
human gastric adenosquamous carcinoma cell line .
human small cell lung cancer  ( sclc )  cell line .
subline of human small cell lung cancer  ( sclc )  cell line  ( glc4 )  with in vitro acquired resistance to adriamycin  ( glc4 / adr )  .
subline of human small cell lung cancer  ( sclc )  cell line  ( glc4 )  with in vitro acquired resistance to mitoxantrone  ( glc4 / mito )  .
a subline of human small cell lung cancer  ( sclc )  cell line  ( glc4 )  with in vitro acquired resistance to cisplatin  ( glc4 / cddp )  .
small cell carcinoma of the lung  ( scc )  .
small cell carcinoma of the lung  ( scc )  .
doxorubicin - resistant cell line ,  u - 1285dox ,  derived from human small cell carcinoma of the lung .
human gastric cancer cell line .
n27 is an immortalized dopaminergic neuronal cell line isolated from fetal rat mesencephalic cultures .
chinese hamster lung fibroblast cell line .
the mdr cell line dc - 3f / adx was originally selected from spontaneously transformed chinese hamster lung fibroblasts dc - 3f .
the nih - 3t3 - g185 cell line ,  which contains the gene product of human mdr1 ,  was licensed from the national institutes of health  ( nih )  .
normal prostatic epithelium is composed of basal and luminal cells .
human normal prostate epithelium cell line immortalized with sv40 .
the permanent oligodendrocyte cell line oln - 93 ,  derived from spontaneously transformed cells in primary rat brain glia cultures .
the central shaft of the feather to which the vanes are attached .
there are two types of cells within the simple columnar epithelium of the fallopian tube .
human renal cell carcinoma  ( rcc )  cell line .
human breast cancer cell line ;  established from a 55 year - old human female .
human eosinophilic leukaemia cell line .
a form of granulocytic leukemia cell line characterized by abnormal numbers of or a predomination of eosinophilic granulocytes in the tissues and blood .
an organ or a gland in which male gametes are formed ,  especially in invertebrate animals .
rat kidney epithelial - like cells .cell line was cloned from a mixed culture of normal rat kidney cells as was nrk - 49f the two cell lines were described to be distinct in growth properties and in transforming abilities ;  nrk - 52e is supposed to be much more stable .
rat kidney fibroblast cell line .
a poorly differentiated ,  highly malignant ,  epithelial neoplasm containing numerous very large ,  multinucleated tumor cells ,  such as occurs in the lungs .
metastatic human lung giant cell carcinoma  ( pg )  cell line .
cloned pg cell subline .
cloned pg cell subline .
cloned pg cell subline .
human multiple myeloma cell line ;  established from the pleural effusion of a 62 - year - old white woman with myeloma  ( igakappa )  at relapse .
a t - cell that participates in an immune response by recognizing a foreign antigen and secreting lymphokines to activate t cell and b cell proliferation ,  that usually carries cd4 molecular markers on its cell surface ,  and that is reduced to 20 percent or less of normal numbers in aids .
mucoepidermoid human lung carcinoma cell line ;  established from a 32 years old black female ;  morphology: epithelial .
human breast adenocarcinoma cell line ;  established from a caucasian female 43 years old .
a cell of leukemia characterized by the proliferation of monocytes and monoblasts in the blood .
a form of granulocytic leukemia cell line characterized by abnormal numbers of or a predomination of eosinophilic granulocytes in the tissues and blood .
the layer of flat cells ,  derived from the mesoderm ,  that line the coelom or body cavity of the embryo .
a cell from a tumor derived from mesothelial tissue  ( peritoneum ,  pleura ,  pericardium )  ;  both benign and malignant varieties exist .
human mesothelioma cell line ;  established from the pleural effusion of a 62 - year - old caucasian man with mesothelioma  ( malignant biphasic )  who did not have any prior therapy .
chinese hamster ovary cells expressing polyoma lt antigen .
human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma cell line ;  established from the poorly differentiated esophageal squamous cell carcinoma resected from upper  ( cervical )  esophagus of a 49 - year - old japanese woman after receiving radiotherapy .
the ha22t / vgh cell line was established from a surgical specimen of hepatocellular carcinoma obtained from a 56 - year - old chinese male .
lec15 .1 chinese hamster ovary cells are deficient in dpm synthase activity .
human osteosarcoma cell line .osteoblastic cell line .
cell in the rear portion of the migrating slug  ( grex )  of a cellular slime mould ,  which will later differentiate into spore cells .
a large raphe nucleus extending from the anterior part of the pons through the mesencephalon ;  its neurons are serotoninergic .
that part of the enteric plexus within the tunica muscularis .
a plexus of autonomic nerve fibers within the wall of the digestive tube ,  and made up of the submucosal ,  myenteric ,  and subserosal plexuses ;  it contains visceral afferent fibers ,  sympathetic postganglionic fibers ,  parasympathetic preganglionic and postganglionic fibers ,  and parasympathetic postganglionic cell bodies .
a type of lamellated corpuscle found in the genital mucous membranes and in the skin around the nipples .
human colon adenocarcinoma cell line ;  established from the tumor tissue of a 44 - year - old woman with well - differentiated colon adenocarcinoma in 1984 ;  cell line is a subclone of cell line ht - 29 .
one of the peculiar elongated cells with the power of contraction ,  found wrapped about the outside of precapillary arterioles ,  postcapillary venules ,  and capillaries .
a group of four cells ,  as of spores or pollen grains ,  formed by division of one mother cell .
a group of four cells ,  as of spores or pollen grains ,  formed by division of one mother cell .
the basal forebrain is a term for a group of structures that lie near the bottom of the front of the brain ,  including the nucleus basalis ,  diagonal band ,  medial septum and substantia innominata .
a band of nerve fibers that forms the caudal zone of the anterior perforated substance where it adjoins the optic tract ,  which is continuous caudolaterally with the periamygdaloid area and rostromedially passes above the optic chiasm to blend with the paraterminal gyrus .
a nucleus in the septal area ,  coextensive with the diagonal band of broca ;  it has afferent and cholinergic efferent connections with a variety of forebrain and brain stem areas including the hippocampus ,  the lateral hypothalamus ,  the tegmentum ,  and the amygdaloid bodies .
nerve tissue immediately inferior to the anterior perforated substance ,  and anterior to the globus pallidus and ansa lenticularis .
the region of the telencephalon lying deep in the cerebral hemispheres .
a nucleus of nerve cells in the anterior hypothalamic region .
a nerve cell nucleus situated in the dorsal portion of the intermediate hypothalamic region .
the largest of the medial nuclei of the thalamus ,  having a rostral magnocellular part and a caudolateral parvocellular part ,  both of which make extensive intrathalamic connections with most of the other thalamic nuclei .
small groups of nonspecific nerve cells scattered in the periventricular gray substance ,  separating the medial part of the thalamus from the ependyma of the third ventricle ,  and partly forming the interthalamic adhesion ;  included in the group are the anterior and posterior paraventricular nuclei ,  nucleus parataenialis ,  nucleus commissuralis rhomboidalis ,  and nucleus reuniens .
the anterior of the two nuclei paraventriculares thalami .
the posterior of the two nuclei paraventriculares thalami .
one of the median nuclei of the thalamus ,  situated ventral and medial to the stria medullaris .
one of the median nuclei of the thalamus ,  bordering the third ventricle and ventral to the central medial nucleus .
one of the median nuclei of the thalamus ;  it is situated near the interthalamic adhesion ,  bordering the third ventricle ,  ventral to the central medial nucleus .
the nucleus paraventricularis anterior thalami and nuclues paraventricularis posterior thalami ,  two of the nuclei mediani thalami ;  they are situated on the dorsomedial wall of the thalamus ,  juxtaposed to the third ventricle .
a nucleus of nerve cells in the posterior hypothalamic region ,  above the lateral and medial nuclei of the mammillary body ;  it has major brain stem connections via periventricular fibers and the dorsal longitudinal fasciculus .
groups of nerve cells anterior to the pulvinar ,  forming an ill - defined complex that receives afferents from the spinothalamic tract and superior and inferior colliculi .
nuclei ventrolaterally located within the ventral thalamic nuclei ,  subdivided into anterior and posterior nuclei .
the nuclei that form the posterior ventral part of the ventral nuclei of the thalamus ,  comprising a posterolateral nucleus and a posteromedial nucleus .
the more lateral of the two posterior ventral nuclei of the thalamus ;  it is the terminus of the spinothalamic tract and the medial lemniscus and it projects to the postcentral gyrus .
the more medial of the two posterior ventral nuclei of the thalamus ;  it is the secondary trigeminal tract and sends axons to the somesthetic area of the postcentral gyrus for the face .
a large group of nuclei lying between the internal medullary lamina and the internal capsule ;  it includes ventral anterior ,  ventral intermediate ,  ventral lateral ,  ventral medial ,  ventrobasal and other nuclei ,  which relay impulses to various specific areas of the cerebral cortex .
a nucleus anteriorly located within the ventral nuclei of the thalamus ,  posterior to the reticular nucleus ,  anterior to the ventral lateral nucleus ,  and lateral and medial to the internal and external medullary laminae ,  respectively ;  it is subdivided into magnocellular and principal divisions .
a nucleus medially located within the ventral nuclei of the thalamus .
a group of nuclei located in the medial portion of the ventral thalamic nuclei .
a group of nerve cell bodies found in the ventral portion of the intermediate hypothalamic region ;  it is involved in diverse functions ,  for example ,  food intake and sexual behavior .
a nucleus of nerve cells in the posterior hypothalamic region ,  extending into the median eminence and almost entirely surrounding the base of the infundibulum .
a group of nerve cell bodies found in the dorsal part of the intermediate hypothalamic region .
a small nucleus in the internal capsule of the hypothalamus adjacent to the medial edge of the globus pallidus .
a sharply defined band of cells in the wall of the third ventricle in the anterior hypothalamic region ;  many of its cells are neurosecretory in function ,  secreting oxytocin ,  which is carried to the neurohypophysis  ( posterior pituitary )  by the fibers of the paraventriculohypophysial tract .
a nucleus of nerve cells in the intermediate hypothalamic area ,  lying in the posterior part of the third ventricle .
organisms as riftia pachyptila end with a deep red fan - like structure  ( plume )  which extends into the water and which absorbs h2s and o2 for the bacteria ,  and also absorbs co2 for use as synthetic raw material .
nerve cell nuclei situated ventrally in the intermediate hypothalamic region ,  mainly in the lateral hypothalamic area .
a basophil of the adenohypophysis whose granules secrete follicle - stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone .
the partition that separates the left ventricle from the right ventricle ,  consisting of a muscular and a membranous part .
an elongated epithelial cell .
the ear - shaped appendage of either atrium of the heart .
gland on unfertilised female inflorescences that produces lupulin .
the parasite  ( leishmania or trypanosoma )  differentiates into its infective ,  but non - replicative ,  metacyclic form .
the vestimentum is a muscle that the tubeworm uses to position itself in the tube .
the ch12 .lx b cell line derived from the murine ch12 b cell lymphoma .
the thin membrane that helps support the capillary loops in a renal glomerulus .
one of the convolutions of the surface of the cerebral hemispheres caused by infolding of the cortex .
a serrated strip of gray matter under the medial border of the hippocampus and in its depths ;  it is an archaeocortex which develops along the edge of the hippocampal fissure and which consists of molecular ,  granular ,  and polymorphic layers .
a posterior and upward extension of the dentate gyrus ,  forming a transitional area between the dentate gyrus and the indusium griseum .
the arachnoid barrier layer is a part of the arachnoid meningeal layer .
a specialized parenchyma cell ,  located in the phloem of flowering plants and closely associated in development and function with a sieve - tube element .
delicate fibrous threads connecting the inner surface of the arachnoid to the pia mater .
in anatomical nomenclature ,  a supporting or anchoring strand of connective tissue ,  such as one extending from a capsule into the substance of the enclosed organ .
pertaining or relating to protozoa of the order kinetoplastida .
any individual of the protozoa .
an aggressive  ( rapidly progressing )  type of non - hodgkins lymphoma that is usually of the t - cell type .
two ganglionated neural plexuses in the gut wall which form one of the three major divisions of the autonomic nervous system .
the enteric ,  parasympathetic ,  and sympathetic nervous systems taken together .
the muscular coat of the intestine .
a small ,  irregularly stellate ,  acidophilic cell of the adenohypophysis ,  having small ,  sparsely distributed secretory granules and secreting corticotropin and beta - endorphin ,  which are cleaved from a large prohormone called pro - opiomelanocortin .
one of the more common types of acute myelogenous leukemia ,  characterized by both malignant monocytes and myeloblasts ;  it usually affects middle aged to older adults .
any of the ultimate leaflets of a bipinnately compound leaf .
one of the segments of a compound leaf or a small leaf or leaflike part .
a malignant primary bone tumour that arises most commonly in the first three decades of life .
immortilized embryonic mouse neuronal brain cortex cell line .
a large multinuclear cell associated with the absorption and removal of bone .
cell line established from the pleural effusion of a patient with follicular small cleaved cell lymphoma .
cell line established from effusion cells of two japanese patients manifesting the transformed histology of follicular lymphoma .
cell line established from effusion cells of two japanese patients manifesting the transformed histology of follicular lymphoma .
diffuse large b - cell lymphoma is a common type of non - hodgkin lymphoma  ( nhl )  accounting for about 2 in 5 of all cases .
an ebv - negative b - cell lymphoma cell line designated as hbl - 1 was established from the pleural effusion of a patient with malignant lymphoma ,  diffuse ,  large cell .
human diffuse large b cell lymphoma cell line .
the qbi - hek 293a cell line is an immortalized line of primary human embryonic kidney cells transformed by sheared human ad5 dna .
the bonelike rigid connective tissue covering the root of a tooth from the cementoenamel junction to the apex and lining the apex of the root canal ,  also assisting in tooth support by serving as attachment structures for the periodontal ligament .
human burkitt's lymphoma cell line ( hbl - 4 was established from a patient with small noncleaved cell lymphoma  ( burkitt's type )  .
human burkitt's lymphoma cell lines hbl - 5 was established from a patient with small noncleaved cell lymphoma  ( burkitt's type )  .
human burkitt's lymphoma cell line ,  negative for epstein - barr virus genome .
human burkitt's lymphoma cell line ,  negative for epstein - barr virus genome .
burkitt lymphoma cell line .
burkitt lymphoma cell line .
burkitt lymphoma cell line .
myeloma cell line .
precursor b acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
a wistar rat cell line .
the flattened part of the feather that is attached on either side of the rachis .
mus musculus balb / c liver cell line ;  established from an embryo .
llc - pk1 renal tubule cell line expressing the rattus norvegicus glucocorticoid receptor gr .
origin: anterior and lateral surfaces of femur ;  insertion: patella ,  common tendon of quadriceps femoris ;  innervation: femoral ;  action ,  extends leg .
the alveolar walls contain capillaries and a very small interstitial space .
human mammary epithelial cell line .
nontumorigenic human mammary epithelial cell line .
leukemic cell line derived from a patient in the blastic phase of chronic myelogenous leukemia .
human t cell leukemia cell line ;  established from a 27 - year - old man with acute lymphoblastic leukemia  ( all )  in 1979 .
human breast ductal carcinoma cell line .
human ovarian carcinoma cell line .
human ovarian carcinoma cell line .
chronically infected t - cell line .human monocytic and t - lymphoid cell line ,  persistently infected with hiv - 1 .
homo sapiens  ( human )  lung carcinoma cell line ,  non - small cell lung cancer ;  derived from metastatic site: lymph node .
multidrug resistant k - 562 cell line .
human ovarian surface epithelial cell line .
human ovarian surface epithelial  ( hose )  cells as a model for ovarian carcinogenesis .
human ovarian surface epithelial  ( hose )  cells as a model for ovarian carcinogenesis .
human non - small - cell lung cancer cell line .
iner - 51 is a nsclc cell line established from pleural effusion of patient diagnosed with primary lung cancer without previous chemotherapy treatment .
human ovarian cancer cell line .
human ovarian cancer cell line .
human ovarian cancer cell line .
human epithelial ovarian cancer cell line .
human epithelial ovarian cancer cell line .
human epithelial ovarian cancer cell line .
human epithelial ovarian cancer cell line .
clone of lung cancer cell line iner - 51 ,  non - expressing p - glycoprotein .
human colonic adenocarcinoma cell line .
immortalized human coronary artery smooth muscle cell line .
caco - 2 / tc7 cell line was established from the parental human enterocyte - like caco - 2 cell line .
mouse embryonic fibroblast cell line .
human embryonal carcinoma  ( teratocarcinoma )  .
human neuronal  ( nt2n )  cells derive from an nt2 human teratocarcinoma cell line .
human ovary carcinoma cell line .
the umr - 106 cell line is a clonal derivative of a transplantable rat osteosarcoma that had been induced by injection of radiophosphorous  ( 32p )  .
the umr - 108 cell line is a clonal derivative of a transplantable rat osteosarcoma that had been induced by injection of radiophosphorous  ( 32p )  .
the numerous branches off the rachis that form the vanes .
rat intestine - derived iec - 6 cells stably expressing cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator  ( cftr )  .
human chronic myeloid leukemia in megakaryocytic blast crisis established from the bone marrow of a 55 - year - old man with chronic myeloid leukemia  ( cml )  in megakaryocytic blast crisis in 1983 .
human lung fibroblast cell line ;  established from a caucasian fetus .
human breast cancer cell line ;  established from a 55 year - old female .
hela cells containing human papilloma viral  ( hpv )  dna sequences .
colorectal adenocarcinoma cell line .
human caucasian kidney cell line .
pluripotent adrenocortical carcinoma cell line .
nci - h295r was adapted from the nci - h295 pluripotent adrenocortical carcinoma cell line established by a .f .
human hepatocarcinoma cell line .
human ovarian carcinoma cell line .
multidrug resistant subline of hl - 60 .
subline of dc - 3f resistant to the olovacine derivative s16020 - 2 ,  named dc - 3f / s16 .
a dc - 3f subline resistant to 9 - hydroxy - ellipticine .
syrian golden hamster  ( mesocricetus auratus )  ductus deferens smooth muscle cell line established from a leiomyosarcoma .
human gastric adenocarcinoma cell line established from a 56 - year - old female .
human gastric adenocarcinoma cell line established from a 72 - year - old male .
rattus norvegicus  ( rat )  mammary gland adenocarcinoma cell line .
rat brain - derived type - 2 astrocyte cell line .
cell line derived from the murine monocyte / macrophage raw264 .7 cell line .
rainbow trout ,  oncorhynchus mykiss ,  hepatoma cell line .
11 - 9 - 1 - 4 cell line was obtained from the meharry tissue procurement facility ,  meharry medical college ,  nashville ,  tn .
human ewing's sarcoma cell line ;  established from the tumor of a 22 - year - old man with metastatic ewing's sarcoma that arose in the humerus ;  cell line was derived in 1981 from a biopsy of recurrent tumor at the primary site .
human rhabdomyosarcoma cell line .in the original publication and in the atcc catalogue this cell line is described as medulloblastoma ;  recent studies and the characterization carried out at the dsmz indicated that te - 671 are muscle cells ,  most likely identical to the rhabdomyosarcoma cell line rd  ( also known as te32 or 130t )  .
as glia they build the delicate network of branched cells and fibers that supports the tissue of the central nervous system .
human vulva leiomyosarcoma cell line ;  established from a 43 - years old caucasian female .
a specialized part of the olfactory system located anteriorly in the nasal cavity within the nasal septum .
neuroglia tissue made up of astrocytes .
a temporary cytoplasmic extrusion by means of which an ameba or other ameboid organism or cell moves about or engulfs food .
a long and slender ,  semipermanent type of locomotor pseudopodium that has a central axial filament composed of a bundle of microtubules .
a slender filamentous pseudopodium with a pointed end ,  branched or unbranched ,  consisting mostly of ectoplasm .
a wide ,  blunt pseudopodium composed of both ectoplasm and endoplasm .
a filamentous pseudopodium with interconnected branches .
the fascia dentata is the earliest stage of the hippocampal circuit .
a thick fleshy young shoot or sucker ,  such as an emerging stem of asparagus .
pathological nodule in the thyroid gland ,  often filled with colloid ;  some are indicative of adenoma or carcinoma .
the ejaculatory duct epithelium is composed of cuboidal to columnar cells between or through which project the terminal parts of the ducts of the unicellular prostate glands .
two dorsal muscles ,  called adductors ,  extend transversely between the valves ,  one at the anterior end and the other at the posterior end .
two dorsal muscles ,  called adductors ,  extend transversely between the valves ,  one at the anterior end and the other at the posterior end .
the medial division of the erector spinae .
origin: spines of upper thoracic and lower cervical vertebrae ;  insertion: occipital bone ;  innervation: spinal nerves ;  action ,  extends head .
origin: spinous processes of seventh cervical and sometimes two upper thoracic vertebrae ;  insertion: spinous processes of axis and sometimes of second to fourth cervical vertebrae ;  innervation: branches of cervical ;  action: extends vertebral column .
origin: spinous processes of two upper lumbar and two lower thoracic ;  insertion: spines of upper thoracic vertebrae ;  innervation: branches of spinal nerves ;  action: extends vertebral column .
an undifferentiated cell found in mesenchyme and capable of differentiating into various specialized connective tissues .
a small vein ,  especially one joining capillaries to larger veins .
human ovarian cancer cell line .
one of the two chaffy basal bracts of a grass spikelet .
anopheles gambiae cell line established from newly hatched larvae via a homogenization technique .
anopheles gambiae cell line established from newly hatched larvae via a homogenization technique .
anopheles gambiae cell line established from newly hatched larvae via a homogenization technique .
1haeo -  cells are sv40 - transformed normal human airway epithelial cells .
human skin pagetoid sarcoma cell line .
mouse neuroblastoma cell line established from a a / jax mouse strain with neuroblastoma c1300 .
this line is a derivative of the cho - k1 cell line .
this line is a derivative of the cho - k1 cell line .
doxorubicin - resistant ovarian - cancer cell line .
the cortical collecting ducts receive filtrate from multiple initial collecting tubules and descend into the renal medulla to form medullary collecting ducts .
human normal lung fibroblast cell line established from a black 71 - years - old human male .
human normal lung fibroblast cell line established from a caucasian 48 - years - old human male .
human normal lung fibroblast cell line established from a caucasian 7 - years - old human male .
human normal lung fibroblast cell line established from a black 23 - weeks - gestation - old human male .
osteosarcoma cell line .
rattus norvegicus  ( rat )  central nervous system  ( cns )  neuroblastoma cell line .
the inferior and posterior parts of the piriform area ,  including the caudal part of the parahippocampal gyrus .
an area in the rhinencephalon ,  pear - shaped in some species but not in humans ;  it includes the lateral olfactory process or gyrus ,  the limen insulae ,  the uncus ,  and part of the parahippocampal gyrus ;  subdivided into the prepiriform area ,  the periamygdaloid area ,  and the entorhinal area .
n2a cells stably expressing the vector pegfp .
axons of certain cells in the dentate gyrus .
the final juvenile stage .it is the only time in a lobster's life that it can swim forward .
an erythrocyte shaped like a sickle or crescent owing to the presence of hemoglobin s ,  seen in sickle cell anemia and other sickle cell diseases .
kidney cortical collecting duct cell line .
the inflorescence stalk is the main stem of the inflorescence that connects to the plant .
the saccular invagination of ectoderm from which the vertebrate inner ear develops .
n2a cells stably expressing human app swedish mutation .
immortilized embryonic brain cortex cell line overexpressing the human tau protein .
a rat neuronal cell line .
adult stem cells are undifferentiated cells that reproduce daily to provide certain specialized cells .
blood from the placenta and umbilical cord that are left over after birth is one source of adult stem cells .
bone marrow stromal stem cells are known to be able to transform into liver ,  nerve ,  muscle and kidney cells .
stem cells found in the peripheral blood rather than the bone marrow ;  their numbers can be artificially increased by exposure to hematopoietic growth factors so that they can be extracted before myeloablative chemotherapy and later infused as an autologous bone marrow transplantation .
the medial geniculate nucleus is a nucleus of the thalamus that acts as a relay for auditory information .
the principal relay nucleus of the medial geniculate nuclei ,  receiving ascending auditory fibers from the inferior colliculus and relaying information on sound intensity and frequency and its binaural properties to the auditory cortex .
the medial of the medial geniculate nuclei ;  it receives afferent projections from both auditory and nonauditory neurons of the brainstem ,  from the fibers of the inferior colliculus and deep layers of the superior colliculus ,  and projects to the auditory cortex and adjacent insular and opercular fields .
the larger ,  dorsal part of the medial geniculate nucleus ,  receiving ascending auditory fibers from the inferior colliculus as well as afferent projections from some nonauditory areas of the brain stem ,  and projecting to the auditory cortex .
the medial group of a pair of prominent cell groups in the posteroinferior aspects of the thalamus ,  serving as the last of a series of processing stations along the auditory conduction pathway to the cerebral cortex .
the drosophila mushroom bodies  ( mbs )  ,  paired brain structures composed of vertical and medial lobes ,  achieve their final organization at metamorphosis .
the drosophila mushroom bodies  ( mbs )  ,  paired brain structures composed of vertical and medial lobes ,  achieve their final organization at metamorphosis .
the drosophila mushroom bodies  ( mbs )  ,  paired brain structures composed of vertical and medial lobes ,  achieve their final organization at metamorphosis .
either of the testicular veins .
a vein that drains the right pampiniform plexus and empties into the inferior vena cava .
a vein that drains the left pampiniform plexus and empties into the left renal vein .
the venous trunk for the lower extremities and for the pelvic and abdominal viscera ;  it begins at the level of the fifth lumbar vertebra by union of the common iliac veins ,  passes upward on the right of the aorta ,  and empties into the right atrium of the heart .
the venous trunk draining blood from the head ,  neck ,  upper extremities ,  and chest ;  it begins by union of the two brachiocephalic veins ,  passes directly downward ,  and empties into the right atrium of the heart .
a small collection of lymphoid tissue found in such organs as the intestines .
mus musculus hemangioendothelioma cell line .
a nucleus in the corticomedial part of the amygdaloid body ,  providing the major relay for projections from the amygdala to the brainstem and also receiving numerous return projections .
the most common nongerminal tumor of the testis ,  derived from the leydig cells of the testis ;  such tumors are rarely malignant .
a cell of the vascular system .
a thin usually resistant layer of microorganisms  ( as bacteria )  that form on and coat various surfaces  ( as of water pipes and catheters )  .
neuroendocrine cells are cells that receive neuronal input  ( neurotransmitters released by nerve cells )  and ,  as a consequence of this input ,  release message molecules  ( hormones )  to the blood .
enterochromaffin - like cells or ecl cells are a type of neuroendocrine cells found in the gastric glands of the gastric mucosa beneath the epithelium ,  particularly in the vicinity of parietal cells .
a benign tumor derived from smooth muscle ,  most commonly of the uterus .
a benign tumor of the smooth muscle fibers of the uterus .
the sk - n - be ( 2 )  neuroblastoma cell line was established in november of 1972 from a bone marrow biopsy taken from child with disseminated neuroblastoma after repeated courses of chemotherapy and radiotherapy .
a sharply defined nucleus of nerve cells in the anterior hypothalamic region ,  immediately above the lateral part of the optic chiasm ;  many of its cells are neurosecretory in function ,  secreting vasopressin ,  which is carried to the neurohypophysis  ( posterior pituitary )  by the fibers of the supraopticohypophysial tract ;  other cells are osmoreceptors ,  which respond to increased osmotic pressure to signal the release of vasopressin by the neurohypophysis .
neural nuclei situated in the septal region .
the more dispersed of the two nerve cell groups situated deep to the habenular trigone ;  it receives fibers from the stria medullaris thalami and projects to the raphe nuclei ,  reticular formation of mesencephalon ,  pars compacta of substantia nigra ,  and hypothalamus and basal forebrain .
a small triangular area on the posteromedial surface of the thalamus at the caudal end of the medullary stria ,  corresponding to the underlying habenula .
central gray matter surrounding the cerebral aqueduct in the mesencephalon .
a nucleus in the corticomedial part of the amygdaloid body .
a nucleus in the corticomedial part of the amygdaloid body .
a nucleus in the basolateral part of the amygdaloid body .
the region of the cerebral hemisphere that stretches as a thin sheet of brain tissue between the fornix bundle and the ventral surface of the corpus callosum ,  forming the medial wall of the lateral ventricle's frontal horn ;  it extends ventrally through the narrow interval between the anterior commissure and the rostrum of corpus collosum as the precommissural septum or subcallosal gyrus ,  which is continuous caudally with the preoptic area and hypothalamus ,  as well as more laterally with the innominate substance ;  its major functional connections are with the hippocampus and hypothalamus .
immortalized female rat hypothalamus gonadotropin - releasing hormone  ( gnrh )  neurons .
head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
human neck squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human larynx squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human neck squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human neck squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human neck squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human neck squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human neck squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human neck squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human neck squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
primary effusion lymphoma  ( pel )  is a peculiar type of b cell non - hodgkin lymphoma  ( nhl )  that has been recently recognized as an individual clinico - pathologic category based on the consistent infection of the tumor clone by human herpesvirus type - 8  ( hhv - 8 )  and the distinctiveness of its clinical and biologic features .
pel cell line carrying the epstain - barr virus  ( ebv )  infection .
pel cell line carrying the epstain - barr virus  ( ebv )  infection .
ebv negative pel cell line .
pel cell line carrying the epstain - barr virus  ( ebv )  infection .
pel cell line carrying the epstain - barr virus  ( ebv )  infection .
ebv negative pel cell line .
pel cell line carrying the epstain - barr virus  ( ebv )  infection .
ebv negative pel cell line .
ebv negative pel cell line .
uterine serous carcinoma is an uncommon form of endometrial cancer that typically arises in postmenopausal women .
cell that will give rise to erythrocytes .
this cell line stably expresses the repressor protein cymr under the control of the cmv5 promoter .
human bronchial epithelial cell line .
human choroidal melanoma ,  the most frequent primary ocular neoplasm in humans .
human choroidal melanoma ,  the most frequent primary ocular neoplasm in humans .
human choroidal melanoma ,  the most frequent primary ocular neoplasm in humans .
typical barnacles ,  common name of the sedentary crustacean marine animals constituting the subclass cirripedia ,  attach to the substrate by means of an exceedingly adhesive cement ,  produced by a cement gland ,  and secrete a shell ,  or carapace ,  of calcareous  ( limestone )  plates ,  around themselves .
the vaco cell lines were established from colon cancers .
inr1g9 cells are glucagon - producing islet cells ,  derived from a hamster glucagonoma .
hepatic stellate cells are pericytes found in the perisinusoidal space  ( a small area between the sinusoids and hepatocytes )  of the liver .
the ventral slot in which the male schistosome carries the female .
the immature form of a parasitic schistosome after it has entered the blood vessels of its host .
human pancreas adenocarcinoma cell line ;  established from the liver metastasis of a pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma in a 40 - year - old caucasian man in 1974 .
human pancreas adenocarcinoma cell line ;  established from the tumor of a 56 - year - old caucasian man with pancreas adenocarcinoma in 1975 .
hamster pancreatic cancer cell line .
hamster pancreatic cancer cell line .
burkitt's lymphoma - derived cell line .
normal fetal human diploid bone marrow fibroblast cell line .
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line ;  established from a 25 - year - old caucasian male .
a subclone of the pc6 cell line .
a subline of pc12 .the cells grow as single isolated cells ,  and have a slow but good morphological response to ngf .
a subclone of the pc6 cell line .
a subclone of the pc6 cell line .
a subclone of the pc6 cell line .
a subclone of the pc6 cell line .
a subclone of the pc6 cell line .
a subclone of the pc6 cell line .
a subclone of the pc6 cell line .
a subclone of the pc6 cell line .
a subclone of the pc6 cell line .
a subclone of the pc6 cell line .
a subclone of the pc6 cell line .
a subclone of the pc6 cell line .
a subclone of the pc6 cell line .
a subclone of the pc6 cell line .
rat pituitary tumor cell line ;  established from a pituitary tumor of a 7 - month - old female wistar / furth rat .
human mammary epithelial cell line .
an enlarged ,  ovoid ,  connective tissue cell in the uterine mucous membrane that enlarges and specializes during pregnancy .
these cells are a specialized type of glial cells found in association with olfactory receptor neurons .
a pincerlike claw of a crustacean or arachnid ,  such as a lobster ,  crab ,  or scorpion .
cancer of the salivary gland is a malignant tumor of the tissues that produce saliva .
a plaque consisting of tangles of amyloid protein in nervous tissue  ( a pathological mark of alzheimer's disease )  .
the ana - 1 immortalized murine macrophage cell line was established by infecting the normal bone marrow of c57bl / 6 mice with the murine recombinant 52 retrovirus  ( expressing the v - raf and v - myc oncogenes )  .
the inflorescence apex produces inflorescence axes in the axils of all ventral bracts of two rows ,  and secondary inflorescences in the axils of the lower dorsal bracts of the other two rows .
a longitudinal sulcus on the anterior surface of the medulla oblongata ,  lateral to the pyramid ,  from which emerge the fibers of the hypoglossal nerve .
a small asexual spore ,  as that formed by some bacteria .
muscle fibers associated chiefly with the hollow viscera and largely of splanchnic mesodermal origin ;  except for the striated fibers in the wall of the heart ,  they are smooth muscle fibers bound together by reticular fibers .
one of the large veins which return blood from the intestines .
the inferior  ( lower )  mesenteric vein empties into the splenic vein .
the superior  ( upper )  mesenteric vein joins the splenic vein to create the portal vein which goes to the liver .
white fibrous tissue that replaces the regressing corpus luteum in the human ovary in the latter half of pregnancy ,  or soon after ovulation when pregnancy does not supervene .
the olfactory region of the brain ,  located in the cerebrum .
adenoma characterized by epithelium - lined cystic masses that contain secreted material ,  usually serous or mucinous ;  it generally occurs in the ovary ,  salivary glands ,  or pancreas .
a rare malignant tumor of the female genital tract ,  resembling a renal cell carcinoma and containing tubules or small cysts with some cells that are hobnail - shaped and others whose cytoplasm is clear ,  containing abundant glycogen and inconspicuous stroma .
an adenocarcinoma that produces mucin in significant amounts .
a condition in which cells that may become cancer form in the thin layer of tissue that covers an ovary .
the human melanoma cell line 1f6 has been established from surgically removed melanoma metastases .
the human melanoma cell line blm has been established from surgically removed melanoma metastases .
the human melanoma cell line mel57 has been established from surgically removed melanoma metastases .
the human melanoma cell line m14 has been established from surgically removed melanoma metastases .
skin malignant melanoma cell line ;  established from a 54 year old human female .
the prefrontal cortex is the anterior part of the frontal lobes of the brain ,  lying in front of the motor and premotor areas .
mouse melanoma cell line ,  derived from b16 - f10 cell ;  highly metastatic murine melanoma overexpressing pkc delta bl6  ( bl6t )  and wild type  ( bl6 )  cell line .
rattus norvegicus skeletal muscle myoblast cell line .
rattus norvegicus skeletal muscle myoblast cell line .
the final leaf to emerge in a cereal plant .
the last leaf to emerge in a determinate plant ,  also referred to as the flag leaf in cereal crops .
the fetal ligament attached to the inferior end of the epididymis and testis and ,  at its other end ,  to the bottom of the scrotum ;  it is present during ,  and is thought to guide ,  the descent of the testis into the scrotum and then atrophies .
a portion of the gubernaculum testis and round ligament that develops in the body wall of the embryo .
cancer that forms in transitional cells in the lining of the bladder ,  ureter ,  or renal pelvis .
cancer that forms in transitional cells in the lining of the bladder .
human esophageal scc cell line .
the area of endometrium between the implanted chorionic vesicle and the myometrium ,  which develops into the maternal part of the placenta .
a rare slow - growing type of brain tumor that begins in cells called oligodendrocytes ,  which provide support and nourishment for cells that transmit nerve impulses .
human oligodendroglioma cell line .
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
pancreatic cancer cell line .
human glioma cell line .
human colorectal tumor cell line .
mouse vascular endothelial cell line .
human ,  bone marrow ,  neuroblastoma cell line .
human dermal microvascular endothelial cell line 1 .
human t cell lymphoma cell line ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 25 - year - old man with t cell non - hodgkin lymphoma in 1986 ;  now classified as cd30 +  anaplastic large cell lymphoma  ( alcl )  .
human melanoma cell line .
androgen - dependent human prostate cancer cell line .
mouse embryonic fibroblast cell line .
human neuroblastoma cell line was established from a previously untreated patient .
human neuroblastoma cell line ,  established from a previously treated patient .
human non - small cell lung cancer cell line ;  established from bronchioalvealoar carcinoma of lung .
metastatic subclone of nci - h460 cell line .
murine endothelial cell line ;  established from hemangioma .
human colorectal tumor cell line .
human t cell leukemia ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 7 - year - old boy with acute lymphoblastic leukemia  ( all )  .
one of the fine terminal elements of the bile duct system ,  leaving the portal canal ,  and pursuing a course at the periphery of a lobule of the liver .
fine tubular canals running between liver cells ,  throughout the parenchyma ,  usually occurring singly between each adjacent pair of cells ,  and forming a three - dimensional network of polyhedral meshes ,  with a single cell in each mesh .
a rare type of hepatocellular carcinoma arising from the cholangioles ,  composed of tumor cells resembling the epithelial cells of the cholangioles arranged in cords consisting of two layers of cells surrounding a minute lumen .
a common benign  ( not malignant )  tumor of the breast .
infiltrating ductal carcinoma is one of several recognized specific patterns of cancer of the breast .
channel conveying the milk secreted by the lobes of the breast to and through the nipples .
a heterogeneous group of malignant lymphomas ,  the only common feature being an absence of the giant reed - sternberg cells characteristic of hodgkin's disease .
a fibroidlike tumor of the ovary containing yellow areas of lipoid material derived from theca cells .
an ovarian tumor predominantly composed of either granulosa cells  ( follicular cells )  or theca cells ,  and often associated with excessive production of estrogen ,  with hyperplasia and carcinoma of the endometrium .
luteinized granulosa - thecacell tumor ,  i .e . ,  having cells resembling those of the corpus luteum .
lutein cell derived from the theca interna .
internal coat of theca folliculi: the inner ,  vascular layer of secretory cells of the theca folliculi .
the outer ,  fibrous layer of the theca folliculi .
an envelope of condensed connective tissue surrounding a vesicular ovarian follicle ,  comprising an internal vascular layer  ( tunica interna )  and an external fibrous layer  ( tunica externa )  .
the styles and stigmas that appear as a silky tuft or tassel at the tip of an ear of corn ,  used as a diuretic in herbal medicine .
a ventral evagination extending anteriorly in the mid - portion of the intestine in amphioxi probably homologous with the liver of other chordates .
1: corpuscles  ( usually amoebocytes )  in the coelomic or pseudocoelomic fluids of invertebrates .
 ( annelida )  free fatty globules ,  yellow or transparent ,  inodorous or evil - smelling ,  in the coelom ;  emitted by the dorsal pores when the worm is irritated .
that part of the brain substance underlying the cerebral cortex .
the mucous coat  ( membrane )  lining the esophagus .
the mucous coat  ( membrane )  lining the oral cavity .
squamous cell carcinoma is the most common type of esophageal cancer ,  accounting for 95% of all esophageal cancers worldwide .
adult human bronchial epithelial primary cell line .
murine endothelial cell line .
human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell line .
human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell line .
human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human urinary bladder transitional cell carcinoma ;  established from a recurrent well - differentiated transitional papillary tumor of the urinary bladder  ( clinical stage t2 ,  histological grade g1 ,  treated with gold grains 2 years earlier and diathermy after recurrence 10 months later )  of a 63 - year - old man in 1968 .
embryonic hippocampal cell line .
this line was derived from the a 5 - bromo - 2' - deoxyuridine resistant strain of the fischer rat fibroblast 3t3 like cell line ,  rat1 .
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
that portion of the chorionic wall in the region of its uterine attachment ,  which gives rise to chorionic villi ;  it consists of the mesoderm that lines the chorionic vesicle and ,  on the maternal side ,  of the trophoblast that lines the intervillous spaces ;  in the last half of gestation ,  the mesodermal connective tissue is largely replaced by fibrinoid material ,  and the amnionic membrane is adherent to the fetal side of the plate .
 ( arthropoda: insecta )  paired ganglion of the stomodeal nervous system at the posterior end of the foregut .
neural stem cells are the multipotent stem cells that generate nerve cells .
mouse bone marrow cell line ;  established from long - term bone marrow cultures of c3h / hej mice infected with the friend murine leukemia virus .
mouse bone marrow cell line .
mouse  ( c57bl / 6xdba / 2 ) f1 leukaemia lymphocyte cell line .
murine friend erythroleukemia cell line .
mouse ,  c3h / an ;  tissue: areolar and adipose ;  derived from nctc clone 929 .
rat medullary thyroid carcinoma cell line .
human colon cancer cell line .
human neural stem cell line .
mouse hepatoma cell line .this is a derivative of the bw7756 mouse hepatoma that arose in a c57 / l mouse .
mouse hepatoma cell line ;  derived from the bw7756 tumor that arose in a c57l mouse .
murine embryonic stem cell line .
human b lymphoblastoid cell line  ( from patient with multiple myeloma )  ;  established from the bone marrow of a woman with multiple myeloma in 1967 .
mouse ,  balb / c ,  blood ,  myeloma cell line .
human retinal pigment epithelial cell line .
murine neural crest - derived cell line generated from infection of mouse neural crest cultures with retroviruses containing the c - myc or the n - myc proto - oncogenes .
murine neural crest - derived cell line generated from infection of mouse neural crest cultures with retroviruses containing the c - myc or the n - myc proto - oncogenes .
b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma cell line .
a subline of the plc / prf / 5 cell line .
nr8383  ( normal rat ,  august 3 ,  1983 )  was established from normal rat alveolar macrophage cells obtained by lung lavage .
human acute myeloid leukemia  ( derivative of hl - 60 )  .
rabbit renal epithlium cell line .
mouse b - lymphocyte myeloma / plasmacytoma cell line .
mouse b - lymphocyte myeloma / plasmacytoma cell line .
human neuroblastoma cell line ;  established from the supraorbital metastasis of a neuroblastoma of a 14 - year - old girl in 1971 ;  although described in the original paper as neuroblastoma ,  sk - n - mc is now widely regarded as having originated from the morphologically similar askin's tumor related to ewing's sarcoma .
large single cells ,  either cylindrical or prismatic in shape ,  that form the basic unit of muscle tissue .
an elongated contractile cell in striated muscle tissue .
human vaginal malignant melanoma cell line .
human retinoblastoma cell line ;  established from the primary tumor  ( right eye )  of a 2 - year - old caucasian girl in 1971 .
high - mucin variant cell line ,  derived from parental cell line ls174t .
a normal cell of the bronchial epithelium .
epithelial cells were isolated from normal human bronchial epithelium obtained from autopsy of non - cancerous individuals .
normal human bronchial epithelial cell line .
epithelium pertaining to the trachea and bronchi .
normal tracheo - bronchial epithelial cell .
a sheet of connective tissue covering or binding together body structures as muscles .
human cholangiocarcinoma cell line .
histologically ,  the thymus can be divided into a central medulla and a peripheral cortex which is surrounded by an outer capsule .
human cholangiocarcinoma cell line .
rat immortilized schwann cell line .
rat nervous tissue oligodendroglioma cell line .
adenocarcinoma from a serous gland producing and containing serous proteinaceous secretions .
human epidermoid lung carcinoma grade iii cell line ,  established from a caucasian male 47 years old .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
metastatic human melanoma ,  obtained from patients with no history of chemotherapy or immunotherapy by surgical removal .
metastatic human melanoma ,  obtained from patients with no history of chemotherapy or immunotherapy by surgical removal .
metastatic human melanoma ,  obtained from patients with no history of chemotherapy or immunotherapy by surgical removal .
metastatic human melanoma ,  obtained from patients with no history of chemotherapy or immunotherapy by surgical removal .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
the melanoma cell line tp17 was obtained from a primary tumor extracted from the eyes of patients with diagnosed uveal melanoma .
this line was isolated in 1968 and associates from a patient with stage ia endometrial cancer .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human cell line established from a metastatic melanoma .
human cell line established from a metastatic melanoma .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human prostate carcinoma cell line .
non papillary human renal carcinoma cell line .
murine lymphoma cell line .
murine lymphoma cell line .
human embryonic kidney cell line ,  expressing ebna .
human skin melanoma cell line ,  established from a 43 years adult caucasian male .
abdominal part of aorta: the distal part of the descending aorta ,  which is the continuation of the thoracic part and gives rise to the inferior phrenic ,  lumbar ,  median sacral ,  superior and inferior mesenteric ,  middle suprarenal ,  renal ,  and testicular or ovarian arteries ,  and celiac trunk .
secretion discharged by an exocrine gland to an external or internal surface of the body .
a hormone ;  a substance secreted by an organ or structure of the endocrine system .
material that is secreted as a result of the activity of a gland ;  this activity may range from separating a specific substance of the blood to the elaboration of a new chemical substance .
glucagon - releasing mouse cell line .
clonal mouse pancreatic alpha - cell line .
there are two types of oligodendroglioma: the well - differentiated tumor ,  which grows relatively slowly and in a defined shape ;  and the anaplastic oligodendroglioma ,  which grows much more rapidly and does not have a well - defined shape .
mucosa pertaining to or affecting the pyloric part of the stomach ,  including its antrum .
a subline of cho - k1 cells .
a neuroblastoma cell line established from a tumour of the left adrenal area of an 18 - month - old male patient .
a peptic ulcer of the gastric mucosa .
epithelium composed of secretory cells .
human plasma cell leukemia cell line ,  established from the peripheral blood of a 33 - year - old woman with igg plasma cell leukemia ;  cell line is widely used as model for multiple myeloma / plasma cell leukemia ,  but cells are clearly ebv +  indicating that arh - 77 might be rather a normal b - lymphoblastoid cell line than a tumor cell line .
murine insulin - secreting pancreatic beta cells from an insulin producing tumour  ( insulinoma )  in the pancreas .
a cyst of the breast due to obstruction of a lactiferous duct .
cricetulus griseus  ( chinese hamster )  lung fibroblast cell line .
any of several small branches of the internal carotid artery that supply the trigeminal ganglion and the walls of the cavernous and petrosal sinuses .
androgen - sensitive prostate cancer cell line .
androgen - insensitive subline of lncap .
human prostate carcinoma cell line ;  derived from a human prostate carcinoma xenograft  ( cwr22r )  that was serially propagated in nude mice after castration - induced regression and relapse of the parental ,  androgen - dependent cwr22 xenograft .
human burkitt lymphoma cell line ;  established from the maxilla tumor lymph node of a 9 - year - old black girl with burkitt lymphoma in 1964 ;  cells were described to be ebv - positive .
human lung squamous cell carcinoma cell line ;  established from a 68 year old male .
1 .the mucous membrane lining the canal of the cervix uteri .
the fluid from the epididymis .
non - small cell lung cancer cell line .
non - small cell lung cancer cell line .
non - small cell lung cancer cell line .
non - small cell lung cancer cell line .
non - small cell lung cancer cell line .
non - small cell lung cancer cell line .
human lung adenocarcinoma non - small cell lung cancer cell line .
non - small cell lung cancer cell line .
non - small cell lung cancer cell line .
non - small cell lung cancer cell line .
non - small cell lung cancer cell line .
an irregular yellowish depression on the retina ,  about 3 degrees wide ,  lateral to and slightly below the optic disk ;  it is the site of absorption of short wavelengths of light ,  and it is thought that its variation in size ,  shape ,  and coloring may be related to variant types of color vision .
non - small cell lung cancer cell line .
non - small cell lung cancer cell line .
non - small cell lung cancer cell line .
small cell lung cancer cell line .
small cell lung cancer cell line .
small cell lung cancer cell line .
human caucasian lung small cell carcinoma cell line .
small cell lung cancer cell line .
small cell lung cancer cell line .
small cell lung cancer cell line .
small cell lung cancer cell line .
small cell lung cancer cell line .
small cell lung cancer cell line .
non - small cell lung cancer cell line .
human t cell lymphotropic virus - i  ( htlv - i )  carrying human t cell line .
hca - 7 cell line was originally derived from human colonic carcinoma .
the 293 - f cell line is derived from the 293 cell line .
293 - h cell line is derived from 293 cell line .
human embryonic lung fibroblast cell line .
human caucasian plasma cell plasmacytoma cell line .
mouse hippocampal cell line .
this is a substrain of hec - 1 - a .
a group of hypodermal cells in worms that lie along the apical midline of the hypodermis ,  at the extreme left and right sides between nose and tail .
the cell line ishikawa was established from an endometrial adenocarcinoma from a 39 - year - old asian woman .
mouse monocyte / macrophage cell line .
human chondrosarcoma cell line .
an ebv - positive lymphoblastoid b cell line .
a tumor growing from a nerve or made up largely of nerve cells and nerve fibers .
a usually benign tumor of peripheral nerves caused by abnormal proliferation of schwann cells .
a tumor of a neurilemma ,  the most common type of neurogenic tumor ,  usually isolated and encapsulated .
the thin membrane spirally enwrapping the myelin layers of certain fibers ,  especially of peripheral nerves ,  or the axons of certain unmyelinated nerve fibers .
a benign ,  locally destructive epithelial tumor closely resembling squamous cell carcinoma clinically and histologically ;  exposure to sunlight is believed to play a role in its etiology .
ma - 10 cells are a clonal strain of mouse leydig tumor cells .
bone marrow derived osteogenic cell line .
metastatic oral cancer cell line .
nci - n87 is a gastric carcinoma cell line derived in 1976 by a . gazdar and associates at the national cancer institute from a liver metastasis of a well differentiated carcinoma of the stomach taken prior to cytotoxic therapy .
ovarian human cancer cell line .
tumorigenic ,  fujinami sarcoma virus transformed ,  r2 rat fibroblast  ( rat - 2 )  cell line .
gout and co - workers  ( 1980 )  established a permanent cell line  ( nb2 )  of a pre - t rat lymphoma ,  derived from a transplantable tumor which arose in the lymph node of a male rat of the noble strain treated with estrogen .
prolactin - independent subline of nb - 2 .
mouse neuroblastoma cell line .
a clonal derivative of the pc12 pheochromocytoma cell line .
a spontaneously immortalized mueller cell line .
mueller cells are astrocyte - like radial glial cells that extend vertically throughout the retina ,  although their nuclei are usually in the middle of the inner nuclear layer .
mueller cells are astrocyte - like radial glial cells that extend vertically throughout the retina ,  although their nuclei are usually in the middle of the inner nuclear layer .
human fibroblast cell line stably transfected with adamts4 .
homo sapiens  ( human )  lung fibroblast ;  sv40 transformed cell line ;  established from 3 months gestation caucasian female .
immortalized human oviductal epithelial cell line .
human prostate normal cell line ,  immortalised with sv40 .
american opossum kidney cell line ;  derived from proximal tubule of a kidney taken from an adult female opossum .
the hybridoma line s2 has been obtained by fusion of the myeloma p3x63 ag6 .653 and spleen cells from  ( c57 bl / 6 x balb / c )  f1 female mice after a single injection of lymphoblastoid cells .
human lens epithelial cell line .
human lens epithelial cell line .
human caucasian thyroid medullary carcinoma ;  established from a thyroid medullary carcinoma of a 77 year old caucasian female .
human melanoma cell line .the wm - 115 cell line was derived from the primary tumor of a 58 years old female .
human caucasian burkitt's lymphoma cell line .
human caucasian burkitt's lymphoma .
human caucasian burkitt's lymphoma cell line .
human caucasian burkitt's lymphoma cell line .
your body produces pleural fluid in small amounts to lubricate the surfaces of the pleura ,  the thin membrane that lines the chest cavity and surrounds the lungs .
the lubrication fluid contains water ,  pyridine ,  squalene ,  urea ,  acetic acid ,  lactic acid ,  complex alcohols and glycols ,  ketones ,  and aldehydes .
in caenorhabditis elegans ,  uterine - vulval connection is established by the activity of a single cell ,  the anchor cell  ( ac )  ,  that lies at the interface between the ectodermal vulva and the mesodermal uterus .
one of multiple leaves borne in a rosette .
the zone of transition between the parahippocampal gyrus and ammon's horn of the hippocampus .
support of the promontory ;  a bony ridge bounding the fossula fenestrae cochleae posteriorly .
promontory of tympanic cavity: the prominence on the medial wall of the tympanic cavity ,  formed by the first turn of the cochlea .
the subventricular zone  ( svz )  is a paired brain structure situated throughout the lateral walls of the lateral ventricles .
the urinary system and genital system considered together .
the organs and passageways concerned with the production and excretion of urine ,  including the kidneys ,  ureters ,  urinary bladder ,  and urethra .
a cardiac fibroblast is a connective tissue cell in the heart which secretes an extracellular matrix rich in collagen and other macromolecules .
the immature reproductive cell prior to fertilization ;  it is derived from an oogonium ,  and is called a primary oocyte prior to completion of the first maturation division ,  and a secondary oocyte between the first and second maturation division .
a nucleated red blood cell ,  the immediate precursor of a normal red blood cell in humans .
the internal organs in the male that are concerned with reproduction ,  including the testis ,  epididymis ,  ductus deferens ,  seminal vesicle ,  ejaculatory duct ,  prostate ,  and bulbourethral gland .
the external genitalia in the male ,  comprising the penis ,  scrotum ,  and urethra .
the pouch that contains the testes and their accessory organs .
the various organs in the female that are concerned with reproduction ,  including the ovaries ,  uterine tubes ,  uterus ,  and vagina .
the external genitalia of the female ,  comprising the pudendum femininum ,  clitoris ,  and urethra .
that portion of the female genitalia comprising the mons pubis ,  labia majora ,  labia minora ,  vestibule of the vagina ,  bulb of the vestibule ,  greater and lesser vestibular glands ,  and vaginal orifice .
a pyramidal cell is a multipolar neuron located in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex .
b cell differentiation and maturation occurs at the progression from pro - b to pre - b and into the mature b cell stages .
human colon carcinoma cell line .
b - lymphoblastoid cell line from the 1987 new york hla workshop .
syncytium formed by the fusion of macrophages in response to an indigestible particle too large to be phagocytosed for example talc ,  silica or asbestos fibres .
human lung bronchus carcinoma cell line ,  derived from a bronchogenic carcinoma of a 45 - year - old male .
human cervical carcinoma cell line ;  established from a 40 years old caucasian female .
hpv18 positive human uterine cervix carcinoma cell line ;  established from stage iib squamous cell cervical carcinoma explants from mexican female at the national university of mexico .
hpv18 positive human uterine cervix carcinoma cell line ;  established from stage iia squamous cell cervical carcinoma explants from mexican female at the national university of mexico .
hpv18 positive human uterine cervix carcinoma cell line ;  established from stage iva squamous cell cervical carcinoma explants from mexican female at the national university of mexico .
hpv18 positive human uterine cervix carcinoma cell line ;  established from stage iva squamous cell cervical carcinoma explants from mexican female at the national university of mexico .
either of two small reddish yellow bodies in the vestibular bulbs ,  one on each side of the vaginal orifice ;  they are homologues of the bulbourethral glands in the male .
small mucous glands opening upon the vestibular mucous membrane between the urethral and the vaginal orifice .
erectile tissue at the end of the clitoris ,  which is continuous with the intermediate part of the vestibulovaginal bulbs .
the cap - shaped expansion of the corpus spongiosum at the end of the penis .
the preputial glands of female animals are sometimes called clitoral glands .
a buildup of cholesterol and fatty material within a blood vessel due to the effects of atherosclerosis .
any of the small ,  slender ,  vascular projections that increase the surface area of a membrane .
human amnion epithelial cell line .
human rectal carcinoma cell line .
any protozoan of the order microsporida .
a thick ,  transparent ,  noncellular layer or envelope of uniform thickness surrounding an oocyte .
human caucasian breast carcinoma cell line ;  derived from a malignant ascitic effusion in a 63 year old female caucasian with infiltrating ductal carcinoma .
human urinary bladder carcinoma cell line ;  established from the primary bladder carcinoma of a 68 - year - old man in 1974 .
head and neck squamous cell carcinoma  ( hnscc )  cell line .
head and neck squamous cell carcinoma  ( hnscc )  cell line .
head and neck squamous cell carcinoma  ( hnscc )  cell line .
a leaf typical of a plant that appears subsequent to the cotyledons .
human myelogenous leukaemia cell line .
growth of distinct cell types in a combined culture .
the space posterior to the glans clitoridis and between the labia minora ,  containing the openings of the vagina ,  urethra ,  and ducts of the greater vestibular glands .
a narrow layer of gray matter extending throughout most of the diencephalon ,  ventral to and separated from the thalamus by the thalamic fasciculus and laterally continuous with the reticular nucleus of the thalamus .
distinct from adult leaves ,  being characterized by particular anatomical traits namely ,  wax and trichome distribution ,  presence or absence of epidermal cell types ,  cell wall shape and biochemistry .
the tissue intervening between two adjacent pulmonary alveoli ;  it consists of a close - meshed capillary network covered on both surfaces by very thin alveolar epithelial cells ,  one of the bony partitions between the tooth sockets .
human pulmonary artery endothelial cell line .
cancer that forms in follicular cells in the thyroid and grows in small finger - like shapes .
the connective - tissue sheath that surrounds a bundle of nerve fibers .
the external connective - tissue sheath of a nerve trunk .
mesothelium: the layer of flat cells ,  derived from the mesoderm ,  that line the coelom or body cavity of the embryo .
mesothelium: the layer of flat cells ,  derived from the mesoderm ,  that line the coelom or body cavity of the embryo .
primary normal human prostate epithelial cells .
normal prostate smooth muscle cell line .
normal prostate stromal cell line .
the prostatic part of the male urethra ,  about 2 .5 cm in length ,  that traverses the prostate ;  it includes the seminal colliculus ,  and the ejaculatory and prostatic ducts open into it .
the epithelial cell that lines the bile ducts ;  biliary epithelial cells or cholangiocytes line a complex tree - like 3 - dimensional network of conduits within the liver that form the biliary tract .
clonal mouse embryo cell line .
human fibroblast osteosarcoma cell line lacking the thymidine kinase  ( tk )  gene .
the larval form of any of the taenia tapeworms .
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line .
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line .
human normal colonic cell line ,  established from a 21 weeks gestation female fetus .
human colon carcinoma cell line .
an endostyle is a longitudinal ciliated groove on the ventral wall of the pharynx which produces mucus to gather food particles .
the outer plexiform layer is a layer of neuronal synapses in the retina of the eye .
the layer of the retina composed of the processes of bipolar cells ,  ganglion cells ,  and amacrine cells ;  a layer containing synaptic contacts .
the layer of the retina composed of the cell bodies of bipolar cells ,  horizontal cells ,  and some of the cell bodies of amacrine cells .
a large muscle of the inner part and back of the thigh that arises by a thick tendon from the back part of the tuberosity of the ischium ,  is inserted into the medial condyle of the tibia ,  and acts to flex the leg and rotate it medially and to extend the thigh .
a muscle having two heads: as a: the large flexor muscle of the front of the upper arm b: the large flexor muscle of the back of the upper leg .
any of three muscles at the back of the thigh that function to flex and rotate the leg and extend the thigh .
a strain of hela cells that proliferates under 80% o2 ,  termed hela - 80 ,  has been derived from wildtype hela cells  ( hela - 20 )  by selection for resistance to stepwise increases of oxygen partial pressure .
glucocorticoid sensitive murine t cell lymphoma cell line .
normal human epidermal keratinocyte cell line .
normal human epidermal melanocyte cell line .
normal human dermal fibroblast cell line .
normal human melanocyte cell line .
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line .
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line .
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line .
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line .
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line .
human renal cancer cell line .
human renal cancer cell line .
human renal cancer cell line .
human renal cancer cell line .
human renal cancer cell line .
human renal cancer cell line .
human renal cancer cell line .
human renal cancer cell line .
human renal cancer cell line .
human renal cancer cell line .
human renal cancer cell line .
human renal cancer cell line ,  established from a 49 - years - old male .
human submaxillary salivary gland cell line ,  established from a 54 - years - old caucasian male .
a variant of a2780 cell line ,  resistant to radiation as well as dna crosslinking agents ,  e .g .
anaplastic thyroid carcinoma is an aggressive form of cancer of the thyroid gland .
cells to a more primitive or undifferentiated form of thyroid cancer .
glucocorticoid sensitive murine t cell lymphoma cell line .
nontransformed cell line from human peripheral lung epithelium .
human prostate cancer cell line .
melan - a cells are an immortal pigmented mouse cell line ,  cultured from epidermal melanoblasts from embryos of inbred c57bl mice .
a precursor cell of a melanocyte or melanophore .
human glioma cell line .
human gastric cancer cell line .
peroxisome - deficient chinese hamster ovary  ( cho )  cell line .
the final branch of a bronchiole ,  communicating directly with the alveolar ducts ,  a subdivision of a terminal bronchiole ,  it has alveolar outcroppings and itself divides into several alveolar ducts .
the end of the nonrespiratory conducting airway ;  the lining is simple columnar or cuboidal epithelium without mucous goblet cells ;  most of the cells are ciliated ,  but a few nonciliated serous secreting cells occur .
a rabbit corneal fibroblastic cell line .
human malignant schwannoma cell line .
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line .
human lung carcinoma cell line .
human non - small cell lung carcinoma cell line .
human non - hodgkin b cell lymphoma cell line .
human glioma cell line .
human glioma cell line .
human squamous cell carcinoma cell line of the hypopharynx .
rat hepatoma cell line .
human lung adenocarcinoma ,  non - small cell lung cancer cell line .
human lung adenocarcinoma ;  non - small cell lung cancer cell line ;  tumor stage 3b ;  derived from metastatic site: lymph node .
human lung adenocarcinoma ;  non - small cell lung cancer cell line ;  derived from metastatic site: pleural effusion .
human lung adenocarcinoma ;  non - small cell lung cancer cell line ;  tumor stage 1 ;  derived from metastatic site: lymph node .
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line ;  tumor stage 4 ;  derived from metastatic site: lymph node .
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line ;  tumor stage 3a ;  derived from metastatic site: lymph node ,  established from a 39 years old black male .
human lung adenocarcinoma ;  non - small cell lung cancer cell line ;  tumor stage 1 ;  derived from metastatic site: pleural effusion ;  established from a 60 years old caucasian male .
bovine aortic endothelial cell line .
colon epithelial cell line .
eker rat uterine leiomyoma - derived cell line .
normal human dermal fibroblast cell line .
normal dictyostelium amoebal cell line .
one of a number of small ovoid or rounded ,  sometimes laminated ,  bodies resembling a grain of starch and found in nervous tissue ,  in the prostate ,  and in pulmonary alveoli ;  of little pathological significance ,  and apparently derived from degenerated cells or proteinaceous secretions .
highly vascularized tissue that replaces the initial fibrin clot in a wound .
human colonic adenocarcinoma cell line .
human colonic adenocarcinoma cell line .
human colonic adenocarcinoma cell line .
a human cortical neuronal cell line ,  established from a 18 months old female patient that suffered from unilateral megalencephaly .
a human cortical neuronal cell line ,  established from a 7 years old female .
a derivative of the commonly used hek293 cell line ,  with improved cell adherence and plaque formation properties from stratagene .
a cardiac muscle cell line from the at - 1 mouse atrial cardiomyocyte tumor lineage ;  established from an adult female jackson laboratory - inbred c57bly6j mouse .
hpaf - ii is a human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell line derived from peritoneal ascitic fluid of a 44 year old caucasian male with primary pancreatic adenocarcinoma and metastases to the liver ,  diaphragm and lymph nodes .
human pancreatic cancer cell line .
human pancreatic cancer cell line .
tiny hooks that interlock to hold the barbules together .
human melanoma cell line .
the great saphenous vein goes from the foot all the way up to the saphenous opening ,  an oval aperture in the broad fascia of the thigh ,  a fibrous membrane through which the vein passes .
the small saphenous vein runs behind the outer malleolus  ( the protuberance on the outside of the ankle joint )  ,  comes up the back of the leg and joins the popliteal vein in the space behind the knee  ( the popliteal space )  .
human saphenous vein endothelial cell line .
human chronic b cell leukemia cell line ; established from the peripheral blood of a 69 - year - old woman with b - cll  ( chronic lymphocytic leukemia )  prior treatment by ebv - transformation in 1988 ;  cell line may represent rather a b - lymphoblastoid cell line than a bona fide b - cll cell line .
mouse epithelial - like hepatoma cell line derived from a primary hepatocyte culture from the livers of 6 week old female balb / c mice .
two cell lines derived from v79 chinese hamster cells were established to express human cyp11b1 and cyp11b2 .
two cell lines derived from v79 chinese hamster cells were established to express human cyp11b1 and cyp11b2 .
a permanently attached or established cell: not free to move about .
a plankton - like cell .that means the passively floating or weakly swimming usually minute animal and plant life of a body of water .
tetracycline - inducible hek - 293 cells stably expressing human inducible no synthase  ( inos )  ;  under the control of a tetracycline - inducible promoter .
the ebv negative scm1 cell line was originally derived from the gastric specimen of a patient with poorly differentiated tubular adenocarcinoma of the stomach .
the ebv negative tmc1 cell line was derived from metastatic tumor cells in the lymph node of a patient with poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the stomach .
human pancreatic cancer cell line ;  established from surgically resected ,  primary carcinoma tissue .
human pancreatic cancer cell line ;  established from surgically resected ,  primary carcinoma tissue .
human natural killer lymphoma cell line ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 50 - year - old man with non - hodgkin lymphoma  ( large granular lymphocytic )  in 1992 ;  cells were described as having azurophilic granula and strong cytotoxic nk activity .
human b cell precursor leukemia cell line ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 19 - year - old man with acute lymphoblastic leukemia  ( all )  in relapse in 1976 .
human burkitt lymphoma cell line ;  established from the tumor mass of an african child with burkitt lymphoma in 1967 .
pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia cell line .
human burkitt's lymphoma cell line .
mouse ascites macrophage cell line ;  established from a tumor induced by abelson murine leukemia virus .
rattus norvegicus connective tissue fibroblast cell line .
the rat1 - r12 cell line was derived from the rat - 1 cell line .
mouse fibroblast bone marrow stromal cell line ,  established from newborn op / op mouse calvaria .
human skin keratinocyte cell line .
a special adult stem cell ,  which is a multipotent stem cell ,  that can be found in bone marrow and can produce all cell types of bone ,  cartilage ,  fat ,  blood ,  and connective tissues .
mouse mammary gland tumor cell line .
mouse mammary gland tumor cell line .
human skin malignant melanoma cell line .
human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell line ;  established from a liver metastasis of a human pancreatic adenocarcinoma .
human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell line .
oral cavity cancer cell line .
the outer branch of the legs in certain crustacea .
rat prostate cancer cell line .
rat myoblast cell line .
multiple myeloma cell line expressing syndecan - 1 .
human cholangiocarcinoma cell line .
human cholangiocarcinoma cell line .
human cholangiocarcinoma cell line .
colorectal carcinoma cell line derived from a primary tumor .
rat hepatoma cell line .
the j .cam1 .6 cell line is a derivative mutant of jurkat .
carcinoma cell line of the human head and neck  ( hnscc )  .
human colorectal cancer cell line .
rat insulinoma cell line ,  derived from parental strain ins - 1 .
subline of ins - 1 rat insulinoma cell line with optimized glucose - sensitive insulin secretion .
murine hepatoma cell line .the hepa - 1 cell line was originally derived from a transplantable tumor carried in c57 leaden / j mice .
human erythroleukemia cell line ;  established from a 30 years old caucasian male .
human corneal epithelial cell line .
hcc2998 is a highly differentiated human colon carcinoma cell line .
a primary ductal breast carcinoma cell line ,  initiated from a primary ductal carcinoma on october 13 ,  1995 .
epithelial - like beta1 - knockout mouse embryonic stem cells .
fetal lamb kidney cell line .
mouse liver cell line .
fl5 .12 cells are a murine pro - b - cell line derived from fetal liver ,  which undergo apoptotic cell death following il - 3 deprivation .
emt6 is a transplantable mouse mammary tumor cell line .
human b - lymphoblastoid cell line transformed by epstein - barr  ( ebv - lcls )  virus .
rat pulmonary artery smooth muscle cell line .
human cerebral microvascular endothelial cell line .
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
the human lung cancer cell line cl1 was established from a 64 - years - old man with a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma .
hek 293 tet - on 3g is a transformed human embryonic kidney - derived cell line that expresses the tetracycline  ( tet )  -  regulated transactivator tet - on 3g .
catharanthus roseus cell line ,  which synthesizes monoterpenoid indole alkaloids in response to auxin depletion from the culture medium .
murine microglial cell line .
bn17 cells are ng108 cells transfected using plasmid pjm16 ,  carrying a copy of the neomycin resistance gene and the cdna encoding human {beta}2 - ar ,  to express the human {beta}2 - ar at about 300 fmol / mg protein .
brain capillary endothelial cell line .
human lung bronchus epithelial cell line .
bos taurus bone marrow normal cell line .
adult retinal pigment epithelial cell line .
in anatomy ,  the area where the upper thigh meets the trunk .
a new or thickened layer of arterial intima formed especially on a prosthesis or in atherosclerosis by migration and proliferation of cells from the media .
the structure outside the embryonic body ;  e .g . ,  those membranes involved with the embryos protection and nutrition which are discarded at birth without being incorporated in its body .
the anterior visceral endoderm  ( ave )  is an extra - embryonic tissue required for specifying anterior pattern in the mouse embryo .
the anterior visceral ectoderm is an extra - embryonic tissue in the early mouse embryo that is involved in inducing anterior regions of the embryo .
fluid containing plasma proteins ,  which is present in increasing amounts in association with gingival inflammation .
after germination ,  the grain of barley is called green malt .
a specialized nucleus within the intermediate archistriatum of songbirds ,  required for and active during the production of learned song .
any water flea ,  especially those in the genus daphnia .
in isoptera ,  a large median gland beneath the integument of the head in certain soldier - termites ,  opening through the fontanelle or frontal pore ,  which produces secretions .
that part of the head ,  especially of man ,  in which the eyes ,  cheeks ,  nose ,  and mouth are situated .
relating to both the face and the cranium .
in women ,  rats and mice ,  the endometrial vessels are coiled and known as spiral arteries .
a structure ,  as in liverworts and mosses ,  on which gametangia are borne .
a structure in which gametes are produced .
an organ in certain organisms that produces male gametes .
the structure on the pteridophyte prothallus that produces the sessile female gametes .
human b cell precursor leukemia cell line ;  established from bone marrow cells taken at relapse of common acute lymphoblastic leukemia  ( call )  ,  seven months after diagnosis ,  from an 8 - year - old girl treated with combination chemotherapy .
a cortical protective layer of many roots and stems that typically consists of phellem ,  phellogen ,  and phelloderm .
the outermost layer of tissue in woody plants that is resistant to the passage of water vapor and gases and that becomes the bark .
meristematic tissue in plants ,  giving rise to cork  ( phellem )  and phelloderm cells .
tissue containing parenchyma like cells ,  in the bark of tree roots and shoots .
the organ of the inner ear containing several three semicircular ducts at right angles to one another ,  helps keep the body balanced .
the parts of the membranous labyrinth comprising the utricle and the saccule and contained in the cavity of the bony labyrinth .
three membranous semicircular tubes contained in the bony labyrinth of the inner ear .
etiolation: growth habit adopted by germinating seedlings in the dark .
the hypoglossal nerve enervates the muscles of the tongue .
any of several groups of nerve cells situated along or near the median plane of the tegmentum of the midbrain .
the ventral part of the midbrain .
the nidopallium ,  meaning nested pallium ,  is the region of the avian brain that is used mostly for some types of executive functions but also other higher cognitive tasks .
hvc is a nucleus in the brain of the songbirds  ( order passeriformes )  necessary for both the learning and the production of bird song .
in neuroscience ,  granule cells refer to tiny neurons  ( a type of cell )  that are around 10 micrometres in diameter .
certain teleost fish have large anatomically discrete islet organs called brockmann bodies  ( bbs )  .
the regions within an embryo that control development and differentiation .
the massive gray matter filling the basilar pons .
tiny extensions from barbs that are held together by barbicels .
the innermost nuclear layer of the retina .
in the anatomy of animals ,  an avian pallium is the dorsal telencephalon of a bird's brain .
birds have a unique pallial structure known as the hyperpallium ,  once called the hyperstriatum .
the subpallium is the ventral telencephalon of a birds brain .
the arcopallium refers to regions of the avian brain which partially overlap regions homologous to the amygdala of mammals .
in rodents ,  the anterior region of the svz produces neuroblasts that migrate in chain toward the olfactory bulb along the so - called rostral migratory stream  ( rms )  .
a cell beeing in the process of forming a cyst or becoming enclosed in a capsule .
human cns glioblastoma cell line .
the mucous membrane that lines the inner surface of the eyelids and is continued over the forepart of the eyeball .
biceps of the femur .
biceps of the arm .
we established a first trimester trophoblast cell line  ( ach - 3p )  by fusion of primary human first trimester trophoblasts  ( week 12 of gestation )  with a human choriocarcinoma cell line  ( ac1 - 1 )  .
immortalized mesencephalic - derived af5 cell line .
b16f10 - nex2 is a subline from b16f10 murine melanoma  ,  isolated at the experimental oncology unit  ( unonex )  .
a small ,  elevated area in the lateral wall of the inferior recess of the fourth ventricle ;  one of the few loci in the brain where the blood - brain barrier is lacking ;  a chemoreceptor area associated with vomiting .
the fourth ventricle is one of the four connected fluid - filled cavities within the human brain .
metaplasia of the lower esophagus that is characterized by replacement of squamous epithelium with columnar epithelium ,  occurs especially as a result of chronic gastroesophageal reflux ,  and is associated with an increased risk for esophageal carcinoma .
mouse insulinoma cell line .
barrett's esophageal adenocarcinoma cell line .
barrett's esophageal adenocarcinoma cell line .
a slowly growing benign skin nodule consisting of poorly demarcated cellular fibrous tissue enclosing collapsed capillaries with scattered haemosiderin - pigmented and lipid macrophages .
mouse t - lymphocyte lymphoma cell line ,  established from a lymphoma induced in a c57bl mouse by 9 , 10 - dimethyl - 1 , 2 - benzanthracene .
the mucous secreting gland associated with the epithelium lining the uterus .
a term ,  in the series used to describe developmental stages of the parasitic flagellates ,  denoting the barleycorn form of the flagellate in the genus crithidia characterised by a collarlike extension surrounding the anterior and through which the single flagellum emerges .
a t - cell that bears receptors for a specific foreign antigen encountered during a prior infection or vaccination .
human rheumatic synovial cell line .
human melanoma cell line ,  derived from lymph node metastasis .
human neuroblastoma cell line .
human pancreatic cancer cell line .
human pancreatic cancer cell line .
human skin normal fibroblast cell line ,  established from a 1 week old caucasian male .
human mammary gland primary ductal carcinoma cell line ,  established from breast tissue from a ductal carcinoma  ( stage ii )  .
human mammary gland primary ductal carcinoma cell line .
cholesterol plaques on the inner wall of the carotid artery can lead to stroke .
a benign condition involving an expanding mass of cholesterol crystals and keratinised skin in the middle ear space of unknown cause .
space enclosed within the laminae of the septum pelludicum ,  the membranous partition that seperates the frontal horns of the ventricle .
the septum pellucidum is made up of two thin sheets of mostly glial - like elements that abut each other in the midline and have a potential space between them .
murine non - transformed normal liver cell line .
chinese hamster ovary cell line .
lipocytes derived from 293 cell line .
the calcified tissue below the enamel ,  enclosing the cavity of the tooth containing the pulp chamber and root canals .
myelocytes are further distinguished according to the type of granules that develop ,  i .e . ,  neutrophilic myelocyte  ( 60% )  ,  eosinophilic myelocyte ,  basophilic myelocyte  ( 3% )  .
myelocytes are further distinguished according to the type of granules that develop ,  i .e . ,  neutrophilic myelocyte  ( 60% )  ,  eosinophilic myelocyte ,  basophilic myelocyte  ( 3% )  .
myelocytes are further distinguished according to the type of granules that develop ,  i .e . ,  neutrophilic myelocyte  ( 60% )  ,  eosinophilic myelocyte ,  basophilic myelocyte  ( 3% )  .
circumscribed mass of ectopic endometrial tissue in endometriosis .
chromophobe renal cell carcinoma  ( chrcc )  is a distinct variant of renal cell carcinoma .
a cell line from african green monkey kidney .
human colon carcinoma cell line .
human urinary bladder carcinoma cell line ;  established from a transurethral resection of invasive ,  moderately pleomorphic  ( grade 3 )  bladder transitional cell carcinoma of a 58 - year - old caucasian woman who had not received chemo -  or radiotherapy .
external enamel epithelium ,  the cuboidal cells of the outer layer of the odontogenic organ of a developing tooth .
inner enamel epithelium ,  the columnar epithelial layer of enamel matrix ,  secreting ameloblasts ,  of the odontogenic organ of a developing tooth .
human prostate cancer cell line .
293 cell line stably expressing il - 1ri .
a 293 cell line stably expressing flag - tagged cd40 .
human melanoma cell line .
human embryonic kidney cells stably overexpressing the flag - tagged b2ar - gfp .
clonal derivative from hct116 colorectal carcinoma cell line ,  that lacks the mutant k - ras allele .
homo sapiens  ( human )  mammary gland breast ductal carcinoma cell line ,  established from a 23 year old caucasian female .
homo sapiens  ( human )  mammary gland breast ductal carcinoma cell line ,  derived from pleural effusion of a 56 years old black female .
either of the 10th pair of cranial nerves that arise from the medulla and supply chiefly the viscera especially with autonomic sensory and motor fibers .
the usual type of mature neutrophil ,  which has a multilobar nucleus .
human melanoma cell line ,  derived from skin metastasis .
human melanoma cell line ,  derived from the primary radial growth phase tumor site .
human melanoma cell line .
human liver adenocarcinoma cell line ;  established from the ascites of a 52 - year - old caucasian man in 1971 .
human gastric cancer cell line .
human gastric cancer cell line .
human bladder cancer cell line ,  established from a transitional cell carcinoma of a 73 - year - old female .
human bladder cancer cell line ,  established from a residual transitional cell carcinoma following mec  ( methotrexate ,  farmorubicin and cisplatin )  chemotherapy in a 64 - year - old female .
human lung fibroblast cell line .
an immortalized human sebaceous gland cell line that shows the morphologic ,  phenotypic and functional characteristics of normal human sebocytes ;  established by transfection of human facial sebaceous gland cells with a pbr - 322 - based plasmid containing the coding region for the simian virus - 40 large t antigen .
rat pulmonary artery endothelial cell line .
rat pulmonary microvascular endothelial cell line .
visceral endoderm ,  a population of extraembyonic endoderm ,  is an extraembryonic tissue that functions in a regulatory capacity but does not contribute directly to the formation of any adult organs .
1 .one of the specialized or tactile hairs which grow about the nostrils ,  or on other parts of the face ,  in many animals ,  as the so - called whiskers of the cat ,  and the hairs of the nostrils of man .
the vestibulocochlear nerve is responsible for the sense of hearing and balance  ( body position sense )  .
human pancreatic cancer cell line .
human malignant liver hepatoma cell line ;  established from a 24 - years - old human male .
human pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma cell line .
peripheral blood cells are the cellular components of blood ,  consisting of red blood cells ,  white blood cells ,  and platelets ,  which are found within the circulating pool of blood and not sequestered within the lymphatic system ,  spleen ,  liver ,  or bone marrow .
poorly differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma  ( pdnec )  .
moderately differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma  ( mdnec )  .
a type of kidney cancer that accounts for 15 to 20% of renal carcinomas .
human ovarian carcinoma cell line from clear cell adenocarcinoma .
human ovarian carcinoma cell line from clear cell adenocarcinoma .
human ovarian carcinoma cell line from clear cell adenocarcinoma .
human ovarian carcinoma cell line from clear cell adenocarcinoma .
human ovarian carcinoma cell line from serous papillary adenocarcinoma .
human ovarian carcinoma cell line from serous papillary adenocarcinoma .
human epithelial ovarian carcinoma cell line .
2 - 5% of all chronic lymphoproliferative disorders in the west ,  and 5 - 6% in the chinese population .
gilt head seabream caudal fin cell line .
human malignant melanoma cell line ;  established from an involved lymph node of an 18 - year - old caucasian woman with malignant melanoma in 1971 .
the head - foot is the part you see most easily in slugs and snails .
rat type ii alveolar epithelial cell line .
epithelia of lung alveoli .the layer of cells covering the lining of the tiny air sacs at the end of the bronchioles .
immortalized human hepatic stellate cell line .
immortalized human hepatic stellate cell line .
immortalized human hepatic stellate cell line .
immortalized human hepatic stellate cell line .
immortalized human hepatic stellate cell line .
immortalized human hepatic stellate cell line .
immortalized rat hepatic stellate cell line .
immortalized rat hepatic stellate cell line .
immortalized rat hepatic stellate cell line .
immortalized rat hepatic stellate cell line .
immortalized rat hepatic stellate cell line .
immortalized rat hepatic stellate cell line .
immortalized rat hepatic stellate cell line .
immortalized rat hepatic stellate cell line .
immortalized murine hepatic stellate cell line .
immortalized murine hepatic stellate cell line .
immortalized murine hepatic stellate cell line .
immortalized murine hepatic stellate cell line .
immortalized murine hepatic stellate cell line .
human cell line derived from pancreatic cancer .
human neuroblastoma cell line .
human neuroblastoma cell line .
human non - small cell lung cancer adenocarcinoma cell line .
glucose - responsive subline of the mouse insulinoma - derived cell line min6 .
glucose - unresponsive subline of the mouse insulinoma - derived cell line min6 .
normal human prostate epithelial cell line .
nonmalignant human prostate cell line .
human caucasian oesophageal carcinoma cell line ,  established from the adenocarcinoma of the lower oesophagus  ( barrett's metaplasia )  of a 73 year old female patient .
the lan - 1 clone ,  a cell line derived from a human neuroblastoma ,  possesses muscarinic receptors .
human liver cell line .
human bladder cancer cell line .
human bladder carcinoma cell line .
human neuroblastoma cell line .
human neuroblastoma cell line .
human neuroblastoma cell line .
human pancreatic cancer cell line ,  obtained from liver metastases of pancreatic tumors .
human pancreatic cancer cell line of primary pancreatic origin .
human pancreatic cancer cell line ,  obtained from liver metastases of pancreatic tumors .
human bladder tumor  ( transitional cell carcinoma )  cell line .
human bladder transitional cell carcinoma cell line .
human bladder tumor  ( transitional cell carcinoma )  cell line .
mbt - 2 is a mouse transitional cell carcinoma cell line induced by the carcinogen n -  [ 4 -  ( 5 - nitro - 2 - furyl )  - 2 - thiazolyl ] _formamide_ ( fanft )  .
murine septal cholinergic neuronal cell line .
a cell line ,  derived from the murine septal cholinergic neuronal cell line sn - 56 ,  which stably expresses obr .
human mantle cell lymphoma  ( b cell non - hodgkin's lymphoma )  cell line .
retinal rat mueller cell line .
cce is a mouse embryonic stem cell line derived from 129 / sv mouse strain and has been provided for research use only .
a cce es cell line .
murine transitional cell carcinoma cell line of the bladder .
human neonatal umbilical artery endothelial cell line .
rat hepatoma cell line .
mouse pituitary tumor cell line .
the permanent human cell line c3842 was established from a secondary chondrosarcoma in a typical case of olliers disease .
normal murine mammary gland cell line .
within chick embryos ,  interactions between the epidermis and dermis of the skin result in the formation of preliminary feather buds .
acute promyelocytic leukemia resistant to mitoxantrone .
acute promyelocytic leukemia resistant to adriamycin .
acute promyelocytic leukemia resistant to daunorubicin .
rat hepatoma cell line .
an immortalized proximal tubule epithelial cell line from normal adult human kidney .
the cells lining the proximal tubule are cuboidal epithelial cells with deep basal membrane invaginations that provide a large basal surface area .
human gingival stroma cell line .
immortalized human glomerular endothelial cell line .
human t cell lymphoma cell line ;  established from the pleural effusion of an 8 - year - old boy with t - lymphoblastic lymphoma in relapse .
murine neuroendocrine tumor cell line .
human large cell immunoblastic lymphoma cell line ,  derived from a pleural effusion of a 11 years old caucasian boy .
cultured hepatoma cells derived from hep - g2 .
a hela - cd4 cell line that expresses ccr5 and that has an integrated copy of the hiv - 1 long terminal repeat  ( ltr )  - driven ? - d - galactosidase reporter gene .
cd4 positive hela cell line that contains an integrated hiv - 1 promoter .
sv40 - transformed fibroblast cell line ,  established at the coriell institute for medical research as a permanently proliferating cell line .
fibroblast cell line developed from a skin biopsy sample of a person with bloom syndrome .
established at the coriell institute ;  derived from a diploid fibroblast cell line developed from a normal adult skin sample .
primary normal human fibroblast cell line .
a merozoite prior to schizogony ,  as in the exoerythrocytic phase of the development of the plasmodium agent after sporozoite invasion of the hepatocyte and before multiple division .
exoerythrocytic schizozoite of plasmodium vivax or plasmodium ovale in the human liver ,  characterised by delayed primary development ;  thought to be responsible for malarial relapse .
1: a joint in the middle part of the human leg that is the articulation between the femur ,  tibia ,  and patella ;  also: the part of the leg that includes this joint .
a rare type of uterine cancer that forms in muscle or other tissues of the uterus .
a rare type of uterine cancer that forms in muscle or other tissues of the uterus .
a rare type of uterine cancer that forms in muscle or other tissues of the uterus .
human lung microvascular endothelial cell ,  primary cell culture .
a unique ,  relatively rare intestinal epithelial cell type specialized for transepithelial transport of macromolecules ,  particles ,  and microorganisms .
the scar on a seed coat at the place where it was attached to its stalk during development .
hela cells expressing a gfp - histone h2b protein .
the functional tissue of the kidney ,  consisting of the nephrons .
human astrocytoma cell line .
airway fluid comprises a number of components including water ,  salts ,  enzymes ,  mucus glycoproteins and other proteins which in the correct proportions confer its protective characteristics .
an immature cartilage - producing cell .
squamous cell lung cancer ,  or squamous cell carcinoma of the lung ,  is one type of non - small cell lung cancer .
modified hek - 293 cell .
the peritoneal dialysis is a technique that uses the patients own body tissues inside of the abdominal cavity to act as a filter .
a term most commonly used to describe the fluid drained from the peritoneal cavity some time after the injection of an irritant solution .
rat microglial cell line .
insect cell line from trichoplusia ni  ( embryo )  egg cells .
bone marrow culture - derived mast cells .
two types of mast cells are now recognised ,  those from connective tissue and a distinct set of mucosal mast cells ,  the activities of the latter are t - cell dependent .
cancer cell relating to the mouth and nose .
any of the tough elastic disks that are interposed between the centra of adjoining vertebrae and that consist of an outer fibrous ring enclosing an inner pulpy nucleus .
an elastic pulpy mass lying in the center of each intervertebral fibrocartilage and regarded as a remnant of the notochord .
a ring of fibrous or fibrocartilaginous tissue  ( as of an intervertebral disk or surrounding an orifice of the heart )  .
one of four fibrous rings that surround atrioventricular and arterial orifices of the heart ,  providing attachment for the valve leaflets and maintaining patency of the orifice .
the ring of fibrocartilage and fibrous tissue forming the circumference of the intervertebral disc ;  surrounds the nucleus pulposus ,  which is prone to herniation when the annulus fibrosus is compromised .
murine colon carcinoma cell line .
c26 - g was derived from the thymidine kinase deficient tumor colon c26 - g ,  which is a gemcitabine resistant variant from colon 26 .
the fluid of the uterine cervix and the vagina .
one of the racemose glands in the walls of the esophagus that in humans are small and serve principally to lubricate the food but in some birds secrete a milky fluid on which the young are fed .
human burkitt lymphoma cell line ;  established from the pleural effusion of a 10 - year - old boy with burkitt's lymphoma  ( refractory ,  terminal )  in 1975 .
ovarian carcinoma cell line .
human urinary bladder cancer cell line .
esophageal adenocarcinoma cell line .
murine hepatocarcinoma cell line .
avian  ( chicken )  macrophage cell line .
a very rare benign renal tumor ;  only 80 well - documented cases have been reported to date .
carcinoma arising in a benign mixed tumour of a salivary gland ,  characterised by rapid enlargement and pain .
a nervelike ,  white band composed primarily of nerve fibres originating from the mitral cells and tufted cells of the olfactory bulb but also containing the scattered cells of the anterior olfactory nucleus .
collective term denoting the numerous olfactory filaments: slender fascicles each composed of the thin ,  unmyelinated axons of 8 to 12 of the bipolar olfactory receptor cells in the olfactory portion of the nasal mucosa ;  the olfactory filaments pass through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone and enter the olfactory bulb ,  where they terminate in synaptic contact with mitral cells ,  tufted cells ,  and granule cells .
a portion of the forebrain of vertebrates .
a fusiform cell ,  such as those in the deeper layers of the cerebral cortex .
fibroblast - like cells that form 1 - 6 epithelioid layers in the synovial membrane of joints ;  believed to contribute proteoglycans and hyaluronate to the synovial fluid .
one of the small globular masses of dense neuropil in the olfactory bulb ,  containing the first synapse in the olfactory pathway .
there are two primary regions that are thought to give rise to neurons that make up the cerebellum .
the largest cartilage of the larynx consisting of two laminae fusing anteriorly at an acute angle in the midline of the neck .
this familiar feature in front of the neck is due to forward protrusion of the largest cartilage of the larynx .
a gland on the dorsal part or plate of a segment of an arthropod .
tergal gland secretion contains phagostimulatory sugars and phospholipids that encourage females of the german cockroach feeding and arrest the female in a position favorable for mating to proceed .
cell specialised for secretion ,  usually epithelial .
the nine cartilages of the larynx ,  including the cricoid ,  thyroid and epiglottic ,  and two each of arytenoid ,  corniculate and cuneiform .
the fish catecholamines originate in two large aggregations of neurons: the nucleus recessus lateralis  ( nrl )  and the nucleus recessus posterioris  ( nrp )  .
the fish catecholamines originate in two large aggregations of neurons: the nucleus recessus lateralis  ( nrl )  and the nucleus recessus posterioris  ( nrp )  .
the nucleus preopticus  ( npo )  of the hypothalamus of common carp ,  is a homolog of the paraventricular nucleus of mammals .
any of approximately 25 , 000 hair cells in the organ of corti ,  specialized as transducers of sound waves into nerve impulses and sensitive to low sound levels ,  easily damaged by loud noise  ( over 85 decibels )  ,  and probably involved in encoding information about the loudness of sounds .
any of approximately 3 , 500 hair cells ,  situated in the organ of corti ,  specialized as transducers of sound waves into nerve impulses and believed to encode information about the frequency of sound .
a bud that develops into a leafy shoot and does not produce flowers .
a tough heaped - up scar that rises quite abruptly above the rest of the skin .
the prelarval stage of filarioidea in the blood and other tissues of mammals and birds .
the area in the center of a lymph node containing aggregations of actively proliferating lymphocytes .
an antigen - presenting cell in the paracortex of lymph nodes ,  interacting with t lymphocytes .
the modified part of a somite of a vertebrate embryo that develops into a segmental excretory tubule of the primitive kidney .
the joint that connects the lower jaw to the skull .
the fibrocartilaginous plate that separates the joint into upper and lower cavities .
lymphocytic leukemia characterized by an abnormal increase in the number of lymphoblasts .
the part of the chorion where the villi persist ,  forming the foetal part of the placenta .
human mammary gland carcinoma cell line ,  established from a 46 years old female .
human caucasian peripheral blood hairy cell leukaemia b - lymphoblast cell line .
a form of chronic leukemia marked by splenomegaly and the large ,  mononuclear ,  villus - covered cells called hairy cells in the bone marrow ,  spleen ,  liver ,  and peripheral blood .
a form of chronic leukemia marked by splenomegaly and the large ,  mononuclear ,  villus - covered cells called hairy cells in the bone marrow ,  spleen ,  liver ,  and peripheral blood .
jurkat t - derivative cell line .
a component of the epithalamus ,  being the small eminence on the dorsomedial surface of the thalamus ,  just in front of the dorsal commissure on the lateral edge of the habenular trigone .
the gray matter of the habenula ,  composed of a small - celled medial and a larger - celled lateral habenular nucleus ;  both nuclei receive fibres from basal forebrain regions  ( septum ,  basal nucleus ,  lateral preoptic nucleus )  ;  the lateral habenular nucleus receives an additional projection from the medial segment of the globus pallidus .
a cell ,  especially of the salivary gland ,  that secretes a watery or thin albuminous fluid ,  as opposed to a mucous cell .
a cell secreting mucus ,  e .g .
a rare type of tumor that is a mixture of carcinoma and sarcoma cells .
a premalignant change arising in the prostatic epithelium ,  regarded as the most important and most likely precursor of prostatic adenocarcinoma .
a cns catecholaminergic cell line .
human osteosarcoma - derived u2os cell line .
the hla - a , b negative mutant cell line c1r is widely used as a transfection recipient in functional studies of class i mhc genes .
human c1r cell line ,  that stably expresses the hla - b27 molecule .
brainstem tract formed by the central processes of first - order ,  trigeminal ganglion neurons that extends from the caudal medulla to the midpons .
chronic inflammatory disease in which there is destruction of joints .
fibroblast - like synoviocyte  ( fls )  cultured from rheumatoid arthritis  ( ra )  synovial tissues .
human brain neuroglioma h4 cell line ,  established from a 37 years old caucasian male .
one of the two interlocking gyri composing the hippocampus ,  the other being the dentate gyrus .
human lymphoblastoid cell line .
human lymphoblastoid cell line .
myofibroblast stromal cell line ;  derived from stromal cells from the same peripheral zone of the histologically normal adult prostate ,  as that used for epithelial rwpe - 1 cells .
epithelial cells derived from the peripheral zone of a histologically normal adult human prostate were transfected with a single copy of the human papilloma virus 18 to establish the cell line .
human metastatic melanoma cell line .
primary human melanoma cell line ;  derived from vertical growth phase primary melanoma from a patient who also had a subsequent metastatic lesion .
primary human melanoma cell line ;  derived from a vertical growth phase primary melanoma and the patient had a recurrence of melanoma during 5 - year clinical follow - up .
primary human melanoma cell line ;  derived from a vertical growth phase primary melanoma in a patient who did not have a recurrence during 10 - year clinical follow - up .
human renal carcinoma cell line .
human renal carcinoma cell line .
scrapie - infected mouse neuroblastoma n2a cell line .
the vesicular gland is part of the male reproductive system .
the blood vessels or arrangement of blood vessels in an organ or part .
lung cell line ;  derived from the lung tissue of a male chinese hamster ;  clone of v79 cell line .
oral squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
oral squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
oral squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human urinary bladder transitional cell carcinoma cell line .
human urinary bladder transitional cell carcinoma established from the transitional cell carcinoma histological grade g2 excised from a female patient with untreated primary urinary bladder carcinoma in 1973 .
human leiomyosarcoma cell line ;  established from the endometrium of a 75 - years old caucasian female with mesodermal tumor  ( mixed )  grade iii in the uterus .
small cell lung cancer cell line ;  established in 1977 ;  derived from a non - encapsulated primary lung tumor from the apical portion of the upper lobe of the left lung .
non - small - cell lung cancer cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human renal cell carcinoma cell line .
human renal cell carcinoma cell line .
human renal cell carcinoma  ( rcc )  cell line .
human renal cell carcinoma  ( rcc )  cell line ,  obtained by primary culturing of a clear cell carcinoma .
human renal cell carcinoma  ( rcc )  cell line ,  obtained by primary culturing of a clear cell carcinoma .
human renal cell carcinoma  ( rcc )  cell line ,  obtained by primary culturing of a clear cell carcinoma .
human renal cell carcinoma  ( rcc )  cell line ,  obtained by primary culturing of a spindle cell carcinoma .
an epithelial cell lining the thyroid follicle .
the embryonic stage when neurulation is completed and tail formation begins ,  visible by an emerging tail primordium .
a thin layer of gray matter on the dorsal surface of the corpus callosum .
human t cell leukemia cell line from acute lymphoblastic leukemia ,  established from the bone marrow of a 28 - year - old man who developed the terminal leukemic phase of lymphosarcoma in 1976 .
human leukemic cytotoxic t cell line .
human breast carcinoma cell line .
located in the synovial membrane ,  there are two types .
the sw 872 cell line was initiated in 1974 surgical specimen of a fibrosarcoma removed from a 36 year old male caucasian .
cell line of a malignant tumor that arises in fat cells in deep soft tissue ,  such as that inside the thigh .
a malignant tumor that arises in fat cells in deep soft tissue ,  such as that inside the thigh .
human colorectal cancer cell line .
in human anatomy ,  the superficial temporal artery is a major artery of the head .
the superficial temporal vein is a vein of the side of the head .
the large dorsal part of gray matter of the substantia nigra that is next to the tegmentum .
the ventral part of gray matter of the substantia nigra continuous with the globus pallidus .
gland of the lamina epithelialis mucosae which perforate the lamina muscularis ,  with their adenomeres located in the submucosal connective tissue .
the layer of epithelial cells on the surface of the mucosa .
cell groups within the internal medullary lamina of the thalamus .
skin fibroblast cell line deficient in tap1 ,  a transporter associated with antigen processing .
skin fibroblast cell line deficient in tap2 ,  a transporter associated with antigen processing .
human malignant mesothelioma cell line with a fibroblast like phenotype .
human malignant mesothelioma cell line with a fibroblast like phenotype .
human malignant mesothelioma cell line with epithelial differentiation .
the cell line was established from an eye with retinoblastoma ,  which was enucleated from a 3 - year - old korean child .
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line .
human glioblastoma cell line ;  established from the surgical resection of a left parieto - occipital glioblastoma from a 47 - year - old man in 1980 .
human prostate epithelial cell line ;  derived from epithelial cells cultured from normal tissue from the peripheral zone of the prostate .
human fibrosarcoma cell line .
human fibrosarcoma cell line .
human fibrous histiocytoma cell line ,  established from a 29 years old male .
human rhabdomyosarcoma cell line ;  established from a 1 year old female .
human rhabdomyosarcoma cell line ;  established from a 15 years old female .
human kidney carcinoma cell line ;  established from the kidney carcinoma of a 52 - year - old man in 1973 .
human lung carcinoma cell line ;  established from the lung carcinoma of a 52 - year - old caucasian man .
human - human somatic cell hybrid cell line ,  established by peg - mediated fusion of the b - lymphoblastoid cell line lcl 721 .174 with an 8 - azaguanine and ouabain - resistant variant of the t - lcl cem .
human malignant cns glioma cell line .
human squamous cell carcinoma cell line ;  established from the biopsy of a squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue of a 70 - year - old man .
human squamous cell carcinoma cell line ;  established from the squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue from a 55 - year - old man after radio -  and chemotherapy in 1980 .
human urinary bladder squamous cell carcinoma cell line ;  established from a 58 years old black men .
human osteosarcoma cell line ,  overexpressing the alpha2 integrin subunit .
rat raphe - nuclei derived neuronal cell line .
mouse prostate cancer cell line .
human renal cell adenocarcinoma cell line ,  established from a 58 years old caucasian male .
rat renal cortical collecting duct cell line .
small flower with a flat strap - shaped corolla usually occupying the peripheral rings of a composite flower .
the posterior ,  vertical limb of the intraparietal sulcus .
a horizontal sulcus extending back from the postcentral sulcus over some distance ,  then dividing perpendicularly into two branches so as to form ,  with the postcentral sulcus ,  a figure h . it divides the parietal lobe into superior and inferior parietal lobules .
the band of cortex on the medial surface of the cerebral hemisphere that passes around the splenium of the corpus callosum ,  narrowing anteriorly and finally blending with the indusium griseum .
human melanoma cell line ,  deficient of mismatch repair genes mmr .
human melanoma cell line ,  deficient of mismatch repair genes mmr .
stomach found in horses ;  includes cardiac ,  proper gastric and pyloric glandular zones .
this cell line was established from a patient with serous cystadenocarcinoma of the ovary .
one of the pigmented more or less fusiform cells of the stalk and posterior lobe of the pituitary gland that are usually considered to be derived from glial cells .
chlorophyll - containing parenchyma of plants .
a small nucleus at the base of the hypothalamus ,  adjacent to the arcuate nucleus .
the glomerular layer is the most superficial layer ,  consisting of mitral cell dendritic arborizations  ( glomeruli )  ,  olfactory nerve fibers ,  and periglomerular cells .
trichome that consists of one cell .
trichome that consists of several cells .
trichome that secretes a substance .
normal rat thyroid cell line .
a female gamete .
the larger and usually female gamete of a heterogamous organism .
a large ,  heavily myelinated neuron found in the brainstem and spinal cord ,  responsible for the contraction of skeletal muscles .
a smaller neuron whose cell body is found in the ventral horn of the spinal cord that innervates intrafusal fibers .
human normal foreskin fibroblast cell line .
human normal colon cell line from a 13 weeks gestation .
the upper layer of earth that may be dug or plowed and in which plants grow .
an enrichment culture is a medium with specific and known qualities that favors the growth of a particular microorganism .
a neuron that conveys impulses from one neuron to another .
neural crest cells are a temporary group of cells unique to vertebrates that arise from the embryonic ectoderm cell layer ,  and in turn give rise to a diverse cell lineage ,  including melanocytes craniofacial cartilage and bone ,  smooth muscle ,  peripheral and enteric neurons and glia .
the inner lining of the cheeks and lips .
a fertilized egg ,  embryo ,  or fetus .
four accumulations of gray substance embedded in the white substance of the cerebellum ,  comprising the nucleus dentatus ,  nucleus emboliformis ,  nucleus globosus ,  and nucleus fastigii .
system pertaining to blood vessels in the brain .
the culture of excised organs in a suitable aseptic medium .
human skin normal fibroblast cell line ,  established from a 13 years old caucasian male .
vitis vinifera cv .gamay freaux var .
the inferior olivary nucleus is the largest nucleus situated in the olivary body ,  part of the medulla oblongata .
human ovarian carcinoma cell line that is resistant to cisplatin .
human renal cell carcinoma cell line .
human renal cell carcinoma cell line .
a type of cancer that most often develops in the salivary glands of the head and neck .
a type of cancer that contains two types of cells: squamous cells  ( thin ,  flat cells that line certain organs )  and gland - like cells .
human primary prostate tumor cell line .
a subset of llc - pk1 porcine renal epithelial cell line that stably expresses opossum receptors for parathyroid hormone .
neuroglia tissue made up of astrocytes .
mouse skin melanoma cell line ,  established from c57bl / 6j mouse strain .
human burkitt lymphoma cell line ;  established from the tumor tissue of an 8 - year - old caucasian boy with burkitt lymphoma .
human burkitt lymphoma cell line ;  established from the tumor tissue at relapse of a 16 - year - old caucasian boy with burkitt lymphoma .
human pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor cell line .
immortalized human chondrocyte cell line .
human chondrocyte cell line .
a cell  ( neutrophil ,  macrophage ,  monocyte ,  eosinophil ,  basophil )  participating in the inflammatory response to a foreign substance .
human normal lung fibroblast cell line ;  established from a 20 - years - old caucasian female .
human brain grade iv astrocytoma cell line ;  established from a 68 - years - old caucasian female .
mouse rectum polyploid carcinoma cell line from a 19 - months old female mus musculus strain c57bl / icrf .
a group of apud cells found scattered along the walls of the gastrointestinal tract ;  their secretions affect motility ,  secretion of pancreatic enzymes and bile ,  and growth of the gastrointestinal tract epithelium ,  and are regulators of other endocrine substances in the intestines .
a group of apparently unrelated cells that secrete most of the body's hormones ,  with the exception of steroids .
the median lobes of the brain of an insect .
the anterior part of the arthropod brain .
the third set of fused ganglia composing the insect brain .
the respiratory system of insects that consists of internal airfilled tubes .
more than 95% of uterine cancers arise in the endometrium .
a swollen vacuolated phagocytic cell filled with lipid inclusions that often accummulates along arterial walls and is characteristic of some conditions of disturbed lipid metabolism .
adenoma of the thyroid in which the cells are arranged in the form of follicles .
human thyroid cancer neck lymph node metastasis cell line .
the stalk attaching an ovule to the ovary wall in a flower or fruit .
human osteosarcoma cell line .
human gastric cancer cell line .
human brain glioblastoma multiform cell line .
human malignant astrocytoma cell line .
human oral squamous cell carcinoma cell line ;  established from a 69 - years - old man .
an undifferentiated embryonic cell .
non - tumorigenic immortalized human breast epithelial cell line ,  derived from a fibrocystic breast lesion .
human breast cancer cell line ;  established from a 74 - years - old caucasian female with infiltrating ductal carcinoma .
human breast epithelial cell line from normal breast tissue of an 74 years - old caucasian female peripheral to an infiltrating ductal carcinoma which was the source for hs 578t cell line .
human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma  ( hnscc )  cell line .
human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma  ( hnscc )  cell line .
human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma  ( hnscc )  cell line .
human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma  ( hnscc )  cell line .
human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma  ( hnscc )  cell line .
mouse mammary epithelial cell line .
mammary epithelial cell line ;  derived by the immortalization of highly - purified preparations of normal human mammary luminal epithelium .
mouse skin squamous carcinoma cell line .
mouse skin carcinoma cell line .
having to do with the liver ,  bile ducts ,  and / or gallbladder .
gt1 cells belong to an immortalized line of mouse hypothalamic gnrh secreting neurons that exhibit a pulsatile secretion of gnrh .
immortalized gnrh secreting mouse neuronal cell line .
normal breast epithelial cell line .
murine erythroleukemia cell line .
mouse erythroleukemia cell line transformed by friend virus .
oryctolagus cuniculus synoviocyte cell line derived from the intrarticular soft tissue from the knee joint of a 6 - months - old female rabbit .
homo sapiens bone osteosarcoma cell line ;  established from a 13 - years - old caucasian female .
human prostate epithelium normal cell line .
the epithelium of the urinary tract .
human uroepithelial cell line .
the stellate reticulum is a group of cells located in the center of the enamel organ of a developing tooth .
human liver bile duct carcinoma cell line .
renal inner medullary collecting duct  ( imcd )  cell line .
mouse renal inner medullary collecting duct  ( imcd )  cell line ;  sv40 transformed from an adult mouse .
pleomorphic cells having an oval nucleus and long ,  branching cytoplasmic processes that interlace with processes of adjacent cells ,  interspersed between the circular and longitudinal muscle layers of the gastrointestinal tract and in the smooth muscle of the esophagus ;  they are thought to act as pacemakers .
a relatively new type of plant culture ,  which consists of highly branched roots of a plant ,  covered with a mass of tiny root hairs .
human cervix carcinoma cell line resistant to vinblastine ;  a multidrug - resistant  ( mdr )  subclone derived from kb - 3 - 1 .
human cervix carcinoma cell line from the parental continuous cell line hela ,  used in multiple drug resistance studies giving raise to drug - resistant mutants ,  e .g .
human cervix carcinoma cell line resistant to colchicine ;  a multidrug - resistant  ( mdr )  subclone derived from kb - 3 - 1 .
drosophila melanogaster embryonic cell line .
human osteosarcoma cell line .
human osteosarcoma cell line ;  derived from hos by transformation using kirsten murine sarcoma virus .
human osteosarcoma cell line ;  this line is a revertant of khos / np  ( r - 970 - 5 )  cell line that no longer has a rescuable kirsten murine sarcoma virus genome .
human osteosarcoma cell line ;  this line is a revertant of khos / np  ( r - 970 - 5 )  cell line that no longer has a rescuable kirsten murine sarcoma virus genome .
the apex of a renal pyramid which projects into the lumen of a calyx of the kidney and through which collecting tubules discharge urine .
one of a number of pyramidal masses seen on longitudinal section of the kidney ;  collectively ,  they constitute the renal medulla ,  and contain part of the secreting tubules and the collecting tubules .
a tailless encysted late larva of a trematode parasite that is usually the form which is infective for the definitive host .
human acute monocytic leukemia cell line ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 64 - year - old man with relapsed acute monocytic leukemia  ( aml fab m5 )  in 1985 following myeloid metaplasia .
multiple myeloma cell line .
multiple myeloma cell line .
multiple myeloma cell line .
multiple myeloma cell line .
human b lymphoblast multiple myeloma cell line .
human cholangiocarcinoma cell line .
ecdysteroid receptor deficient drosophila melanogaster cell line ;  derived from the kc - 167 cell line .
the lateral septal area ;  largest nuclear mass in this region ,  plays a pivotal role in various physiological processes ,  such as aggression ,  emotion ,  thermoregulation ,  water and food intake and sexual behaviour .
the whole surface of a leaf .
a cell of the corpus luteum of the ovary .
a closely packed group of densely staining cells in the distal tubular epithelium of a nephron ,  in direct apposition to the juxtaglomerular cells ;  they may function as either chemoreceptors or as baroreceptors feeding information to the juxtaglomerular cells .
this cell line was originally described as a spindle shaped variant of the parental mda - mb - 435 strain isolated from the pleural effusion of a 31 year old female with metastatic ,  ductal adenocarcinoma of the breast .
ovarian cancer cell line .
ovarian cancer cell line .
spontaneously immortalized mouse melanocyte cell line .
the mn9d murine dopaminergic cell line was generated by fusion of rostral mesencephalic neurons from embryonic c57bl / 6j  ( embryonic day 14 )  mice with n18tg2 neuroblastoma cells .
mouse macula densa - derived cell line .
murine renal proximal  ( mpct - g )  tubular epithelial cell line .
murine distal tubular epithelial cell line .
a pair of crossed fiber tracts ,  one on each side of the brainstem .
fibroblast - like cells that can be isolated from a variety of tissues ,  such as bone marrow ,  periosteum ,  trabecular bone ,  adipose tissue ,  synovium ,  skeletal muscle ,  dental pulp .
an embryonic blastomere or cell layer not yet differentiated into mesoderm and endoderm but destined to give rise to both .
the system of nerve cells that uses dopamine as its neurotransmitter .
murine microglial cell line .
tcap - 1 - responsive mouse hypothalamic cell line .
murine microglial cell line .
luciferase expressing neuro2a cell line .
normal human oral keratinocyte cell line .
human nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line .
human nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line .
gray matter located in the dorsomedial part of the medulla oblongata associated with the solitary tract .
human oral squamous cell carcinoma cell line ;  excised from a taiwanese patient and cultured into a cell line .
rat osteosarcoma cell line .
normal human lung cell line from lung cancer patient .
it surrounds the hair follicle like a sleeve all the way to the bulb .
the inner - most layer of the outer root sheath ,  and is more prominent in some follicles  ( especially of the beard )  compared with others .
the cells of the inner root sheath are interlocked with those of the cuticle of the hair ,  firmly anchoring the hair in the follicle .
a benign neoplasm of alveolar pneumocytes or ontogenetically primitive counterparts thereof .
a part of the brain situated in the medial aspect of the cortex .
cingulate gyrus  ( belt ridge in english )  is a gyrus in the medial part of the brain .
the retrosplenial region is a brain area and part of the cingulate cortex .
a cytoarchitecturally defined portion of the retrosplenial region of the cerebral cortex .
in the human this area is called ectosplenial area 26 .
extravillous trophoblast cell line .
human tongue squamous carcinoma cell line .
retinal progenitor cell .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
generally excised root is cultured in liquid medium .
human melanoma cell line .
human epithelial ovarian cancer cell line .
murine b lymphoma cell line .
human pleural mesothelioma cell line .
dynamin - like protein 1 - defective cho - k1 cell line .
a hoofed foot especially of a horse .
the laminae on the inside of the hoof which interdigitate with the sensitive laminae attached to the hoof corium .
the laminae which interdigitate with the horny laminae of the hoof and which are made up of laminar corium plus a coat of not yet cornified epidermis .
the tissues which attach the third phalanx to the hoof wall .
human ovary cancer cell line .
human mesothelioma cell line .
human mesothelioma cell line .
human mesothelioma cell line .
primary human epidermal melanocytes isolated from neonatal foreskin .
human oral squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
murine lewis lung carcinoma cell line .
3t3 t proadipocyte cell line ;  derived from the clone a31 balb / 3t3 cell line .
human oral squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
porcine aortic endothelial cell line .
a component of the mammillary body .
a component of the mammillary body .
this murine t - helper cell - derived cd35 (  +  )  cell line of balb / c origin does not express cd4 or cd8 .
primitive neuronal human cns neuroectodermal tumor cell line 2 .
rat osteosarcoma cell line .
poorly differentiated murine colon adenocarcinoma cell line .
human mammary epithelial cell line over - expressing a xanthine oxidoreductase cdna .
a nucleus situated in the brainstem ,  spanning the midbrain tegmentum and the pontine tegmentum .
human floor of the mouth squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human tongue squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human larynx squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human larynx squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human larynx squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human supraglottic larynx squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
it gives rise to the secondary neural tube by cavitation in human embryos .
some invertebrate muscles ,  such as in crab claws ,  have much longer sarcomeres than vertebrates ,  resulting in many more sites for actin and myosin to bind and thus much greater force per square centimeter .
mouse mammary tumor cell line .
a highly metastatic ,  macrophage - melanoma experimental fusion hybrid cell line .
high metastatic macrophage fusion hybrid cell line ;  established from a preparation of mouse peritoneal macrophages from syngenic dba / 2j mice ,  and fusion with the g418 - resistant cloudman s91 cell line ,  ps1 -  hgprt - 1  ( also referred to as 6neo )  .
high metastatic macrophage fusion hybrid cell line ;  established from a preparation of mouse peritoneal macrophages from syngenic dba / 2j mice ,  and fusion with the g418 - resistant cloudman s91 cell line ,  ps1 -  hgprt - 1  ( also referred to as 6neo )  .
low metastatic macrophage fusion hybrid cell line ;  established from a preparation of mouse peritoneal macrophages from syngenic dba / 2j mice ,  and fusion with the g418 - resistant cloudman s91 cell line ,  ps1 -  hgprt - 1  ( also referred to as 6neo )  .
low metastatic macrophage fusion hybrid cell line ;  established from a preparation of mouse peritoneal macrophages from syngenic dba / 2j mice ,  and fusion with the g418 - resistant cloudman s91 cell line ,  ps1 -  hgprt - 1  ( also referred to as 6neo )  .
a dopaminergic neuron is a neuron that releases dopamine from its synapses .
neuron activated by or secreting catecholamines .
human gynecologic ovarian cancer cell line .
human gynecologic ovarian cancer cell line .
human gynecologic ovarian cancer cell line .
human gynecologic ovarian cancer cell line .
an abnormal growth of tissue in animals or plants .
human gynecologic ovarian cancer cell line .
human gynecologic ovarian cancer cell line .
adipose tissue located inside the peritoneal cavity ,  packed in between internal organs and torso .
adipose tissue which is found underneath the skin .
adipose tissue which is located throughout skeletal muscle and is responsible for the marbling seen in certain cuts of beef .
an unipolar nerve cell found in the retina ,  in the olfactory bulb ,  and in close connection with the purkinje cells of the cerebellum .
an air pouch is produced by subcutaneous injection of sterile air into the back of a mouse or rat .
the mucous membrane apical to the attached gingiva .
hook - like structure which develops at the apical part of the hypocotyl in dark - grown seedlings in dicots .
an exterior covering or appendage of some seeds  ( as of the yew )  that develops after fertilization as an outgrowth from the ovule stalk .
human liver cancer cell line .
a type of neuron which has two extensions .
bone marrow stem cells are the most primitive cells in the marrow .
blood from the umbilical cord of a newborn baby .
the blood from the umbilical cord of a newborn baby contains high concentrations of stem cells  ( cells from which all blood cells develop )  .
a cell line derived from the african green monkey and used for transfection and cloning .
juice produced by squeezing or crushing fruit .
mouse embryonic mesenchymal stem cell line .
human normal colon fibroblast cell line established from a black 2 .5 - months - old human female .
human synoviocytes  ( hs )  ,  the predominant cell type of healthy synovial tissue ,  are fibroblast - like cells .
human skin melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line  ( bowes )  .
yellowish - brown or greenish cells that surround the intestine of annelids that function in intermediary metabolism ,  similar to the role of the liver in vertebrates .
a chloragogen cell .
a mutant of cho cells resistant to the drug ,  methylglyoxal bis ( guanylhydrazone )   ( mgbg )  .
chinese hamster ovary xrs6 mutant cell line .
murine colon carcinoma cell line ,  a clone derived from colon 26 .
the colon cancer cell line c26 - a was derived from the undifferentiated murine colon carcinoma tumor line colon 26 .
c26 - g was derived from the thymidine kinase deficient tumor colon c26 - g ,  which is a gemcitabine resistant variant from colon 26 .
a mixture that consists largely of decayed organic matter and is used for fertilizing and conditioning land .
squamous cell carcinoma of the middle ear  ( mescc )  is an uncommon tumor and is associated with a history of long - term chronic otitis media  ( com )  in most cases .
squamous cell carcinoma of the middle ear  ( mescc )  is an uncommon tumor and is associated with a history of long - term chronic otitis media  ( com )  in most cases .
immortalized rat neuronal cell line .
the insect equivalent of a blood platelet .
hek 293 cells that stably express d1 dopamine receptors .
diffuse large b cell lymphoma cell line .
non - small cell lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
non - small cell lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
non - small cell lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
non - small cell lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
non - small cell lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
non - small cell lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
rat foreleg skeletal muscle .
non - small cell lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
the tube through which urine leaves the body .
the tube through which urine leaves the body .
neural stem cells are the multipotent stem cells that generate nerve cells .
circulating endogenous progenitor cells are isolated from human peripheral blood and are capable of vascular repair .
a controversial and hypothetical population of rare cells believed to circulate in the blood with the ability to differentiate into endothelial cells ,  the cells that make up the lining of blood vessels .
cancer that occurs in the cells on the surface of the ovary .
immortalized epithelial ovarian nontumoral normal cell line .
cell with empty - appearing cytoplasm ;  seen normally in the sweat glands ,  the parathyroid glands ,  the collecting tubules of the kidneys ,  and the epididymis ;  they also appear in some types of cancer .
cell with empty - appearing cytoplasm ;  seen normally in the sweat glands ,  the parathyroid glands ,  the collecting tubules of the kidneys ,  and the epididymis ;  they also appear in some types of cancer .
cell with empty - appearing cytoplasm ;  seen normally in the sweat glands ,  the parathyroid glands ,  the collecting tubules of the kidneys ,  and the epididymis ;  they also appear in some types of cancer .
cell with empty - appearing cytoplasm ;  seen normally in the sweat glands ,  the parathyroid glands ,  the collecting tubules of the kidneys ,  and the epididymis ;  they also appear in some types of cancer .
a bundle of thin leaves of pines .
one of the nerve cells that make up the cortex of the brain .
the first stage of leaf development ;  a small lateral protuburance formed by an apical shoot meristem that will expand to form a leaf .
a mouthpart of insects .
the fpmi - cf - 203 cell line ,  was developed from spruce budworm midgut tissues .
malacosoma disstria hemocyte line .
pyloric gland mucosa of the stomach .
endocrine cells found in the pyloric gland mucosa  ( antral mucosa )  of the stomach and responsible for the secretion of gastrin .
the gastric mucosa is the mucous membrane layer of the stomach ,  which contains the glands and the gastric pits .
a type of tumor that usually begins in cells in the wall of the gastrointestinal tract .
human gallbladder carcinoma cell line .
lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
human adrenocortical carcinoma cell line .
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line with high expression of cd44 ,  a molecule important for cell migration .
human fetal kidney primary culture .
maturation - competent human vascular smooth muscle cell line ,  generated from the human internal thoracic artery .
promyelocytic leukemia cell line .
horizontal cells are the laterally interconnecting neurons in the outer plexiform layer of the retina of mammalian eyes .
a pancreatic adenocarcinoma epithelial cell line derived in 1985 from a nude mouse xenograft of a primary tumor removed from the head of the pancreas of a woman with moderate to well differentiated pancreatic adenocarcinoma of ductal origin .
human bone marrow stromal cell line .
human urinary bladder carcinoma cell line ,  established from a 44 years old caucasian male .
human placental trophoblast cell line ,  derived by transfecting the cells that grew out of chorinic villi explants of human first - trimester placenta with the gene encoding for simian virus 40 large t antigen .
human hepatoma cell line .
normal human breast cell line .
nontumorigenic immortalized ovarian surface epithelial cell line .
immortalized not tumorigenic human ovarian surface epithelial cell line .
immortalized not tumorigenic human ovarian surface epithelial cell line .
immortalized not tumorigenic human ovarian surface epithelial cell line .
immortalized not tumorigenic human ovarian surface epithelial cell line .
immortalized not tumorigenic human ovarian surface epithelial cell line .
human acute myelocytic leukemia cell line ;  derived from the peripheral blood of a 7 - year - old japanese boy with acute myelocytic leukemia in relapse after bone marrow transplantation .
a philadelphia chromosome - positive cell line established from peripheral blood of a patient with chronic myelogenous leukemia in blast crisis .
a formative cell that moderates wound healing and healing after treatment .
growth factor - dependent human mast cell line .
an irregularly shaped ,  spongy bone that provides the floor of the front part of the skull and the roof of the nose .
the horizontal plate of the ethmoid bone perforated with numerous foramina for the passage of the olfactory nerve filaments from the nasal cavity .
human hepatoma cell line ;  established from a well - differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma tissue .
colorectal cancer cell line .
colorectal cancer cell line .
colorectal cancer cell line .
colorectal cancer cell line .
that portion of the spine comprising the lumbar vertebrae .
that portion of the spine comprising the cervical vertebrae .
a bony process projecting backward and medialward from the posterior border of the ischium .
that part of the spine comprising the thoracic vertebrae .
human skin melanoma cell line ,  established from a 58 years old men with non -  epithelial melanotic melanoma .
human melanoma cell line .
non - small cell lung cancer cell line ;  established from tissue or pleural effusion of japanese patients with advanced nsclc .
non - small cell lung cancer cell line ;  established from tissue or pleural effusion of japanese patients with advanced nsclc .
non - small cell lung cancer cell line ;  established from tissue or pleural effusion of japanese patients with advanced nsclc .
non - small cell lung cancer cell line ;  established from tissue or pleural effusion of japanese patients with advanced nsclc .
non - small cell lung cancer cell line ;  established from tissue or pleural effusion of japanese patients with advanced nsclc .
non - small cell lung cancer cell line ;  established from tissue or pleural effusion of japanese patients with advanced nsclc .
non - small cell lung cancer cell line ;  established from tissue or pleural effusion of japanese patients with advanced nsclc .
non - small cell lung cancer cell line .
human skin normal fibroblast cell line .
human malignant melanoma cell line derived from lung tisse of a 43 years old caucasian male .
murine highly tumorigenic colon adenocarcinoma cell line .
mda - mb - 435 transfected with hepatocyte growth factor  ( hgf )  .
one of the long sebaceous glands of the eyelids that discharge a fatty secretion which lubricates the eyelids .
the main type of cell found in the inside lining of lymph vessels .
hepatocellular carcinoma cell line .
clone of mhcc97 with high metastatic potential .
clone of mhcc97 with low metastatic potential .
human t cell leukemia cell line ;  established from the bone marrow of a 2 - year - old girl with t - all  ( t cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia ,  fab l2 )  at relapse in 1983 .
human t cell leukemia cell line ;  established from the bone marrow of a 2 - year - old girl with t - all  ( t cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia ,  fab l2 )  at relapse in 1983 .
human t cell leukemia cell line ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 5 - year - old girl with t cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia  ( t - all )  at relapse in 1984 .
human t cell leukemia cell line ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 5 - year - old girl with t cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia  ( t - all )  at relapse in 1984 .
human acute myeloid leukemia cell line ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 20 - year - old man with acute myeloid leukemia aml fab m5a at relapse in 1995 after initial myelodysplastic syndromes .
human acute myeloid leukemia cell line ;  established in 1999 from the peripheral blood of a 77 - year - old japanese woman at relapse of acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml m0 )  after failed chemotherapy .
human chronic myeloid leukemia in blast crisis cell line ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 44 - year - old man with philadelphia chromosome - positive chronic myeloid leukemia  ( cml )  in blast crisis in 1992 .
a normal stem or progenitor cell undergoes a mutation ,  giving rise to an entity that is functionally defined as a leukemic stem cell .
human breast carcinoma cell line ;  established in vitro from the primary infiltrating duct carcinoma of a 40 year - old caucasian female .
human pluripotent embryonal carcinoma ,  teratocarcinoma cell line ;  established in 1985 from a mediastinal mixed germ cell tumor of an adult japanese male .
multidrug - resistant derivative of ovcar - 8 .the recent study shows that nci / adr - res cells are derived from ovcar - 8 ovarian adenocarcinoma cells .
human non - small cell lung cancer cell line .
normal mouse mammary epithelial cell line .
human adult t - cell leukemia  ( atl )  cell line .
neurons in the olfactory epithelium with proteins that bind ,  and thus detect ,  odorants .
androgen - insensitive human prostate cancer cell line .
normal rat kidney cell line .
immortalized huvec cell line .
multidrug - resistant derivative of ovcar - 8 .
a group of cells or a body part  ( as the sinus node of the heart )  that serves to establish and maintain a rhythmic activity .
a subculture cell line of pc - 3 .
perineuronal nets are fine matrices that surround all nervous tissue and presumably act in a supporting role .
the covering of the pharyngeal process against which the pharyngeal teeth grind food .
a large posterior expansion of the basioccipital above the pharyngeal tooth plates of the fifth certaobranchilas in cyprinidae and related fishes .
an outpocketing of the gill cavity in certain teleosts .
the membrane separating the fetal from the maternal blood in the placenta ;  sometimes inappropriately called the placental barrier .
a terminal part of the labium or labrum of various insects .
the first body segment in annelids worms .
rcsn - 3 cells are a cloned cell line derived from the substantia nigra of an adult rat .
a malignant primary bone tumour that arises most commonly in the first three decades of life .
human ewing's sarcoma cell line ;  established from a primary osseous ewing's sarcoma of the humerus of a 19 - years - old caucasian male .
rat intestinal epithelial cell line .
human nasal septum squamous cell carinoma cell line ;  established from the pleural effusion of a 52 - year - old man with anaplastic squamous cell carcinoma of the nasal septum in 1962 .
human b lymphoid cell line ,  established from the peripheral blood of a 51 - year - old american woman with chronic myelogenous leukemia in may 1966 .
renal cancer cell line .
human ovarian cancer cell line ;  derived from an ascitic fluid sample obtained from an ovarian cancer patient with stage iiib serous adenocarcinoma .
the ripened and variously modified walls of a plant ovary .
a type of cancer of the testicles .
a sense organ bearing an elongate seta ,  articulated with the body wall by a membranous socket so that it is free to move ;  a mechanoreceptor or less often as a chemoreceptor .
a hair - like unicellular external process of the body wall or any derivative of the latter ,  a hair ,  a bristle .
human glioblastoma cell line .
human glial tumor cell line ;  originated from grade iv human glioblastoma biopsy specimens .
human glial tumor cell line ;  originated from grade iv human glioblastoma biopsy specimens .
human osteosarcoma cell line ;  established in 1982 from the primary tumor of a patient diagnosed with primitive multipotential sarcoma of the femur .
neuroblastoma cell line derived in 1978 from a bone marrow metastasis from a 2 years old caucasian female child with poorly differentiated embryonal neuroblastoma .
neuroblastoma cell line ;  derived in 1979 from a bone marrow metastasis from a 11 year old caucasian male with poorly differentiated embryonal neuroblastoma .
rat submandibular gland cell line .
human renal cell carcinoma cell line .
human glioblastoma cell line .
the embryonic anterior ectodermal part of the alimentary canal or tract .
tgfalpha - transfected mouse hepatocyte cell line .
human ewing's sarcoma cell line .
mouse testicular sertoli cell line .
mouse normal kidney cell line ;  sv - 40 transfomed .
a transformed human kidney 293 cell line stably expressing an sv40 temperature - sensitive t antigen .
human melanoma cell line .
human renal cancer cell line .
the portion of the uterus to which the intramural section of the uterine tube enters on either the right or left .
a sub - clone of y1 mouse adrenocortical cells .
the cells of the connective tissue of the ovary and testis  ( leydig cells )  ,  which furnish the internal secretion of those structures .
each ovariole consists of a germarium and a series of ovarial follicles .
one of the tubes of which the ovaries of most insects are composed ;  each of the two ovaries consists of a number of ovarioles .
the female system is unusual in that it is separated into two structures: the ovaries and the vitellaria ,  often known as the vitelline glands or yolk glands .
trypanosoma brucei cell line ;  stably expressing the tetracycline repressor .
nih - 3t3 cell line stably transfected with insulin receptor cdna .
human ovarian carcinoma cell line .
human ovarian carcinoma cell line .
kidney cell line of xenopus laevis .
that portion of the cingulate cortex which is located within the frontal lobe  ( the remainder being in the parietal lobe )  .
brain region involved with memory storage and retrieval .
aryl hydrocarbon receptor  ( ahr )  - deficient hepa - 1c1c7 cell line .
aryl hydrocarbon receptor  ( ahr )  nuclear translocator - deficient hepa - 1c1c7 cell line .
the new vegetative growth of pinus taeda plants in the center surrounded by young male cones .
cancer stem cells are cancer cells  ( found within tumors or hematological cancers )  that possess characteristics associated with normal stem cells ,  specifically the ability to give rise to all cell types found in a particular cancer sample .
the ewing's family of tumors includes ewing's tumor of bone ,  extraosseus ewing's sarcoma ,  primitive neuroectodermal tumors ,  and askin's tumor .
in limbs of vertebrate animals .
tumor growing outside of the bone .
one of a remarkable group of tumors that originate in cells from the primitive neural crest and share the same reciprocal translocation between chromosomes 11 and 22 and the same patterns of biochemical and oncogene expression .
peripheral neuroepithelioma of the chest wall .
one of a remarkable group of tumors that originate in cells from the primitive neural crest and share the same reciprocal translocation between chromosomes 11 and 22 and the same patterns of biochemical and oncogene expression .
a pair of symmetrical ,  giant ,  serotonin - containing neurones have been found in the cerebral ganglia of the pulmonate molluscs limax ,  ariolimax ,  helix ,  planorbis and helisoma and the opisthobranch molluscs aplysia ,  tritonia and pleurobranchaea and in the snail lymnaea stagnalis .
a differentiating cell line ,  established from the mouse myoblastic cell line c2c12 .
a non - differentiating cell line ,  established from the mouse myoblastic cell line c2c12 .
human urinary bladder cancer cell line .
immortalized neonatal rat cardiomyocytes .
a cell of the immune system found in lymph follicles .
hepatic progenitor cells can be isolated from fetal liver and extrahepatic tissues .
a cell occurring in the peripheral part of the vitreous body that may be responsible for production of hyaluronic acid and possibly of collagen .
porcine hyalocyte cell line .
human hepatoblastoma cell line .
murine thymic lymphoma cell line ;  established from p53 deleted knockout mice .
murine thymic lymphoma cell line ;  established from p53 deleted knockout mice .
the perforated part of the sclera through which pass the axons of the retinal ganglion cells .
granule cells found within the granular layer of the cerebellum .
granule cells found within the layer 4 of cerebral cortex .
organs opening into the buccal cavity of pharynx  ( supposedly modified nephridia )  of invertebrates .
htlv - 1 - infected human t - cell line ;  established from patients with t - cell leukemia .
tsa is an aggressive and poorly immunogenic cell line established from a moderately differentiated mammary adenocarcinoma that arose spontaneously in a multiparous balb / c mouse .
tk - 10 was derived from a specimen of primary rcc obtained following a left radical nephrectomy in a 43 - year - old male on august 21 ,  1980 .
cell line tk - 164 was derived from a primary rcc obtained following a right radical nephrectomy in a 69 - year - old male on may 28 ,  1982 .
the thin - walled ,  almost muscle - free ,  midregion of the uterine tube ;  its mucosa is greatly plicated .
a rare type of leukemia in which basophils predominate ;  both acute and chronic varieties have been observed .
the one of the four basal ganglia in each cerebral hemisphere that consists of a thin lamina of gray matter between the lentiform nucleus and the insula .
the endothelium ,  the layer of flat cells lining the closed spaces of the body such as the heart .
the endothelium ,  the layer of flat cells lining the closed spaces of the body such as the heart .
a usually thin layer of parenchyma that lines a cavity or tube of a plant .
the cellular debris and fluid produced by lysis .
a phase of crown gall  ( especially in apples )  during which there is abnormal development of fine fibrous roots .
nonmalignant human colonic epithelial cell line .
an artery that distributes blood to the liver ,  pancreas and gallbladder as well as to the stomach and duodenal portion of the small intestine .
mouse embryonic stem cell line .
a murine breast adenocarcinoma cell line .
mouse breast adenocarcinoma cell line .
mouse breast adenocarcinoma cell line .
human breast carcinoma cell line ;  established from the pleural effusion of a 62 - year - old woman with ductal breast cancer  ( grade 3 invasive ,  t2n1m0 )  after postoperative radiation in 2003 .
dna ligase i - deficient human primary fibroblast cell line .
dna ligase iv - deficient human primary fibroblast cell line .
adenine phosphoribosyltransferase  ( aprt )   - deficient human fibrosarcoma cell line .
rat wistar urinary bladder cancer cell line .
hematopoietic stem cell .
non - tumorigenic rat liver epithelial cell line .
tumorigenic liver epithelial cell line ,  originally derived from the wb - f344 line .
1682a cell line was established from a primary hepatocellular carcinoma isolated from a male aci rat treated with ethionine in a choline - deficient diet .
primary skin fibroblast cell line .
a sv40 - transformed but not immortalized derivative of the 2bn cell line .
derivative of the 2bn cell line ;  derived by stable expression of the catalytic subunit of human telomerase .
murine osteoblast cell line .
human continuous glioblastoma cell line .
a human lymphoblastoid b - cell line expressing the cell surface marker cd43  ( leukocyte sialoglycoprotein sialophorin )  .
human medulloblastoma cell line .
human medulloblastoma cell line .
human medulloblastoma cell line .
human medulloblastoma cell line .
human medulloblastoma cell line .
t cell hybridoma cell line that specifically expresses high levels of hdac7 ,  a class iia histone deacetylase .
eppstein - barr virus  ( ebv )  - transformed peripheral blood lymphocyte  ( pbl )  cell line .
rapamycin - resistant rat hepatic cell line .
rapamycin - resistant rat hepatic cell line .
rapamycin - resistant rat hepatic cell line .
rapamycin - sensitive rat hepatic cell line .
derived from the mouse hypothalamic cell line gt1 ,  infected with mouse scrapie prions .
the concentration of copper is above 1 mikromol of cu per mg of cell protein .
the insular cortex has regions of variable cell structure or cytoarchitecture ,  changing from granular in the posterior portion to agranular in the anterior portion .
the insular cortex has regions of variable cell structure or cytoarchitecture ,  changing from granular in the posterior portion to agranular in the anterior portion .
the region of the cerebral cortex that receives auditory data from the medial geniculate body .
a cortical region in the medial prefrontal cortex which is important in tonic inhibition of subcortical structures and emotional responses ,  such as fear .
the entorhinal cortex  ( ec )  is an important memory center in the brain .
the entorhinal cortex  ( ec )  is an important memory center in the brain .
the entorhinal cortex  ( ec )  is an important memory center in the brain .
the region of the cerebral cortex influencing movements of the face ,  neck and trunk ,  and arm and leg .
a narrow strip of cell groups on the dorsomedial surface of the thalamus .
a narrow strip of cell groups on the dorsomedial surface of the thalamus .
a narrow strip of cell groups on the dorsomedial surface of the thalamus .
large mass of nuclei forming the most caudal portion of the thalamus and overhanging the geniculate bodies and the dorsolateral surface of the midbrain .
area of the parietal lobe concerned with receiving general sensations .
a gyrus of the parietal lobe located just posterior to the central sulcus ,  lying parallel to the precentral gyrus of the temporal lobe ,  and comprising the somatosensory cortex .
perirhinal cortex is a cortical region in the medial temporal lobe that is made up of brodmann areas 35 and 36 .
this area is known as perirhinal area 35 .
ectorhinal area 36 is a subdivision of the cytoarchitecturally defined temporal region of cerebral cortex .
a small mass of tissue that is embedded in the musculature of the right atrium of higher vertebrates and that originates the impulses stimulating the heartbeat .
the foot of a quadruped ,  as a lion or dog ,  that has claws .
a benign tumor containing vascular ,  adipose ,  and muscle elements .
the callus culture is a technique of tissue culture ,  it is usually carried out on solidified gel medium in the presence of growth regulators and initiated by inoculation of small explants or sections from established organ or other cultures  ( the inocula )  .
adenocarcinoma ,  pertaining to both the stomach and the esophagus ,  as in the gastroesophageal junction ,  the place where the esophagus connects to the stomach .
the junction between the stomach and the esophagus ;  the place where the esophagus connects to the stomach .
the lateral geniculate nucleus is the primary processing center for visual information received from the retina of the eye .
the lateral one of a pair of small oval masses that protrude slightly from the posteroinferior aspects of the thalamus ;  its main  ( dorsal )  subdivision serves as a processing station in the major pathway from the retina to the cerebral cortex ,  receiving fibres from the optic tract and giving rise to the geniculocalcarine radiation to the visual cortex in the occipital lobe .
any of four nuclei in the medulla oblongata on each side of the floor of the fourth ventricle of the brain in which fibers of the vestibular nerve terminate .
the one of the four vestibular nuclei on each side of the medulla oblongata that is situated between the medial vestibular nucleus and the inferior cerebellar peduncle and that sends fibers down both sides of the spinal cord to synapse with motor neurons of the ventral roots .
the one of the four vestibular nuclei on each side of the medulla oblongata that is situated on the inner side of the inferior cerebellar peduncle beneath the floor of the fourth ventricle and that sends fibers down the same side of the spinal cord through the vestibulospinal tract .
the one of the four vestibular nuclei on each side of the medulla oblongata that sends ascending fibers to the oculomotor and trochlear nuclei in the cerebrum on the opposite side of the brain and sends descending fibers down both sides of the spinal cord to synapse with motor neurons of the ventral roots .
the one of the four vestibular nuclei on each side of the medulla oblongata that is situated dorsal to the lateral vestibular nucleus at the junction of the floor and lateral wall of the fourth ventricle and that sends ascending fibers to the oculomotor and trochlear nuclei in the cerebrum on the same side of the brain .
the region traditionally described as the ventroposterior nucleus  ( vp )  is a composite of vp proper and parts of the ventroposterior inferior nucleus .
those parts of the globus pallidus located inferior to the anterior commissure ,  includes portions of the substantia innominata ,  along with the ventral striatum is believed to function in motor activities with strong motivational or emotional constructs .
one of the young of various animals ;  as a seal or rat or a dog .
it is located in the limbic lobe .
a long convolution on the medial surface of the temporal lobe ,  forming the lower part of the fornicate gyrus ,  extending from behind the splenium corporis callosi forward along the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus from which it is demarcated by the hippocampal fissure .
an area of frontal cortex of the rat ,  located on the medial wall .
follicular fluid is a liquid which fills the follicular antrum and surrounds the ovum in an ovarian follicle .
any of four longitudinal veins of the vertebrate embryo running anteriorly and posteriorly along each side of the spinal column with the pair on each side meeting at and discharging blood to the heart through the corresponding duct of cuvier .
any of the major drainage channels from the caudal part of an embryo .
any of the major drainage channels from the cephalic region of most vertebrate embryos .
either of a pair of large transverse venous sinuses that conduct blood from the cardinal veins to the sinus venosus of the vertebrate embryo .
the sv7tert cell line was derived by introduction of telomerase into spaml / sv7 cells .
spaml / sv7 cells were established from human renal angiomyolipoma cells by immortalization with sv40 large t antigen .
a flower bud .
human bronchial epithelial cell line .
a blood vessel as a capillary ,  arteriole ,  or venule of the microcirculatory system .
one of the two primary bendings of a typical leg ,  pertains to the femur and the tibia .
rat neuroblastoma cell line .
human benign meningioma cell line ;  established in 2003 from the meningothelial meningioma grade i attached to the parietal falx of a 68 - year - old woman after surgical tumor resection ;  cells were immortalized by retroviral transduction with human telomerase reverse transcriptase .
bovine pulmonary artery endothelial cell line .
smooth muscle that is present continuously around the bronchi .
bovine lymphoblastoid cell line .
human b - cell line .
human ovarian cancer cell line ;  established from ascitic fluid obtained from a patient with papillary adenocarcinoma of the ovary prior to drug treatment .
epstein - barr virus immortalized b - lymphoblastoid cell line .
cells expressing cd34 are normally found in the umbilical cord and bone marrow as hematopoietic cells ,  a subset of mesenchymal stem cells ,  endothelial progenitor cells ,  endothelial cells of blood vessels but not lymphatics ,  except pleural lymphatics ,  mast cells ,  a sub - population dendritic cells in the interstitium and around the adnexa of dermis of skin ,  as well as cells in soft tissue tumors .
cd68 is used to identify macrophages and giant cells .
the cd8 co - receptor is predominantly expressed on the surface of cytotoxic t cells ,  but can also be found on natural killer cells and dendritic cells .
oral lesions accompanying cutaneous lichen planus or often occurring alone .
murine embryonic stem cell line .
murine embryonic stem cell line .
human melanoma cell line highly metastatic in nude mice .
spontaneous t cell lymphoma .
dermal fibroblasts are the major cell type in dermis and are commonly accepted as terminally differentiated cells .
three cell types are present in tubules of the digestive gland of the marine prosobranch maoricrypta monoxyla .
the space enclosed by the pleura ,  which is a thin layer of tissue that covers the lungs and lines the interior wall of the chest cavity .
the presence of pus in a body cavity ,  especially the pleural cavity .
human clear cell ovarian carcinoma cell line .
the deepest of the three layers of the cortex ;  it contains large numbers of granule cells ,  the dendrites of which synapse with incoming mossy fibres in cerebellar glomeruli .
human non - small cell lung cancer cell line .
human small cell lung cancer cell line .
rat hepatoma cell line .
highly invasive lewis lung carcinoma subline .
the cell line was originally taken from a transitional meningioma grade i localized at the optic canal .
human coronary artery endothelial cell line .
human esophageal cell line ;  derived in 1986 from human esophageal autopsy tissue by transfection with plasmid prsv - t consisting of the rsv - ltr promoter and the sequence encoding the simian virus 40 large t - antigen .
human normal mammary epithelial cell line .
human ovarian surface epithelial cell line ,  expressing hpv 16 e6e7 ,  donor age 49 years .
immortalized non - cancer human ovarian surface epithelial cell line .
normal human ovarian surface epithelial cell line .
human squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human umbilical vein endothelial cell line .
immortalized cell line created in 1992 from a primary culture of bronchial epithelial cells isolated from a patient with cystic fibrosis .
the s9 cell line and the c38 cell line were derived from the ib3 - 1 cell line .
the s9 cell line and the c38 cell line were derived from the ib3 - 1 cell line .
human glioblastoma cell line .
human glioblastoma cell line .
human glioblastoma cell line .
human glioblastoma cell line .
human glioblastoma cell line .
human glioblastoma cell line .
human glioblastoma cell line .
human glioblastoma cell line .
human glioblastoma cell line .
human glioblastoma cell line .
human glioblastoma cell line .
human glioblastoma cell line .
farber disease dermal fibroblast cell line .
well differentiated human suamous cell carcinoma from esophageal cancer .
imatinib resistant subline of k562 .
ileostomy is the artificial opening made by the surgical formation of an artificial anus by connecting the ileum to an opening in the abdominal wall .
malignant meningioma cell line .
human chronic myeloid leukemia in blast crisis ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 29 - year - old woman with chronic myeloid leukemia .
human chronic myeloid leukemia in blast crisis ,  derivative of lama - 84 ;  subclone lama - 87 was obtained after subcutaneous transplantation of lama - 84 cells into estrone - treated nude mice .
murine pituitary gonadotrope cell line .
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line .
hepatocellular carcinoma cell line .
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line .
mantle cell lymphoma is one of the rarest of the non - hodgkin's lymphomas ,  comprising about 6% of nhl cases .
calvarial osteoblastic cell line .
human breast cancer cell line .
murine erythroleukemia cell line .
the mes 23 .5 cells were derived from somatic cell fusion of rat embryonic mesencephalic cells with murine n18tg2 neuroblastoma cells .
the medial temporal lobes are near the sagittal plane that divides left and right cerebral hemispheres and are thought to be involved in episodic ,  declarative memory .
mucosal melanoma is a rare cutaneous condition characterized by a melanoma of the mucous membranes .
human acute myelocytic leukemia cell line .
the nasopharynx is lined by stratified squamous epithelium and respiratory type epithelium .
human ovarian cell line .
human ovarian cell line .
human ovarian cancer cell line .
nsc - 34 is a hybrid cell line ,  produced by fusion of motor neuron enriched ,  embryonic mouse spinal cord cells with mouse neuroblastoma .
esophageal cancer cell line .
rat fetal lung fibroblast cell line .
human endometrial cell line ,  derived from a grade 2 moderately differentiated adenosquamous carcinoma of the endometrium .
normal rat gastric epithelial cell line .
rabbit corneal fibroblast cell line .
precursors of an osteoclast .
human b - lymphoblastoid cell line .
telomerase - immortalized human corneal epithelial cell line .
prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia  ( pin )  is a microscopic lesion in the prostate which is thought to be a precursor to prostate cancer .
mouse embryonic stem cell line ;  established from a 3 .5 day blastocyst produced by crossing two 129 substrains ,  129s1 / svimj and 129x1 / svj .
plant vascular cells originate from procambial cells ,  which are vascular stem cells .
cambium that produces secondary phloem on its outer side and secondary xylem on its inner side .
a method for growing pure cultures of aerobic bacteria in which microorganisms are incubated in a liquid medium subjected to continuous ,  vigorous agitation .
human b cell precursor leukemia cell line ;  established from the bone marrow of a 32 - year - old woman with acute lymphoblastic leukemia  ( all l2 )  in first relapse .
rat glioblastoma cell line .
murine vascular endothelial cell line .
a tumor developing from endothelial tissue .
a malignant neoplasm derived from glandular epithelium ,  in which cystic accumulations of retained secretions are formed .
cystadenocarcinomas develop frequently in the ovaries ,  where pseudomucinous and serous types are recognised .
cystadenocarcinomas develop frequently in the ovaries ,  where pseudomucinous and serous types are recognised .
rat sertoli cell line .
human meningioma cell line .
human meningioma cell line .
human meningioma cell line .
simple or branched ,  tubular gland extending into the lamina propria - submucosa ,  secreting mucus ,  lipids ,  glycogen ,  protein .
regulatory t cells are a specialized subpopulation of t cells that act to suppress activation of the immune system and thereby maintain immune system homeostasis and tolerance to self - antigens .
normal fibroblast cell line derived from japanese fetal lung .
mouse leydig cell line .
epithelium covering the embryonic genital ridges and the gonads that develop from them .
the layer of loose connective tissue directly under the skin .
ulcerative colitis is a disease that causes inflammation and sores ,  called ulcers ,  in the lining of the rectum and colon .
at the time of oestrus the rat uterus accumulates intraluminal fluid .
specialized area of vascular endothelium found in lymphoid organs ,  which express a variety of cell - adhesion molecules and is involved in lymphocyte extravasation .
rat rhabdomyosarcoma cell line .
human malignant meningioma cell line .
to flower or produce seeds prematurely or develop a flowering stem from a rosette .
a line of murine alveolar type ii lung epithelial cells .
cystic fibrosis affects the exocrine glands and is characterized by the production of abnormal secretions ,  leading to mucous build - up .
medullary collecting ducts are divided into outer and inner segments ,  the latter reaching more deeply into the medulla .
medullary collecting ducts are divided into outer and inner segments ,  the latter reaching more deeply into the medulla .
the cortical collecting ducts receive filtrate from multiple initial collecting tubules and descend into the renal medulla to form medullary collecting ducts .
the initial collecting tubule is a segment with a constitution similar as the collecting duct ,  but before the convergence with other tubules .
with respect to the renal corpuscle ,  the connecting tubule is the most proximal part of the collecting duct system .
the terminal portions of the medullary collecting ducts are the papillary ducts ,  which end at the renal papilla and empty into a minor calyx .
for the connecting tubules ,  the specific cell type is the connecting tubule cell .
for the collecting ducts ,  the specific cell type is the principal cell .
for the inner medullary collecting duct ,  the specific cell type is the inner medullary collecting duct cell .
mouse collecting duct cell line ;  established from normal renal tissue taken from a mouse transgenic for the sv40 early region .
one of several small inconstant lymph nodes ,  proximal ,  intermediate and distal deep to the fascia lata and medial to the femoral vein ;  they receive lymph from the deep structures of the lower limb ,  from the glans penis and from superficial inguinal nodes ;  efferents pass to the external iliac nodes .
a group of 12 - 20 lymph nodes that lie in the subcutaneous tissue below the inguinal ligament and along the terminal part of the great saphenous vein ;  they drain the skin and subcutaneous tissue of the lower abdominal wall ,  perineum ,  buttocks ,  external genitalia ,  and lower limbs .
one of the deep inguinal lymph nodes located in or adjacent to the femoral canal ;  sometimes mistaken for a femoral hernia when enlarged .
human b - lymphoblastoid cell line .
primary rat hippocampal cells are live neurons isolated from micro surgically dissected regions of day 18 embryonic sprague / dawley rat brain .
the excretory duct of the parotid glands .
the duct of the submandibular salivary gland ;  it opens at the sublingual papilla near the frenulum of the tongue .
the duct associated with sublingual salivary gland .
histologically ,  the thymus can be divided into a central medulla and a peripheral cortex which is surrounded by an outer capsule .
cells in the thymus can be divided into thymic stromal cells and cells of hematopoietic origin .
thymic stromal cells include thymic cortical epithelial cells ,  thymic medullary epithelial cells ,  and dendritic cells .
thymic stromal cells include thymic cortical epithelial cells ,  thymic medullary epithelial cells ,  and dendritic cells .
thymic stromal cells include thymic cortical epithelial cells ,  thymic medullary epithelial cells ,  and dendritic cells .
a smooth muscle cell line derived from rabbit aorta .
in gastroenterology ,  a sessile serrated adenoma is a premalignant flat or sessile lesions of the colon .
classified as supportive connective tissue are bone ,  osseous tissue ,  that makes up virtually the entire skeleton in adult vertebrates and cartilage makes up virtually the entire skeleton in chondrichthyes .
the ovarian fluid surrounds eggs from female fish .
a lesion of the skin or of a mucous membrane ,  such as the one lining the stomach or duodenum ,  that is accompanied by formation of pus and necrosis of surrounding tissue ,  usually resulting from inflammation or ischemia .
human pancreatic cancer cell line .
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line ;  derived from hep - g2 .
human embryonic kidney cell line .
a cancerous tumour of the kidney in children .
muscle tissue that lacks cross striations ,  that is made up of elongated spindle - shaped cells having a central nucleus ,  and that is found in vertebrate visceral structures  ( as the stomach and bladder )  as thin sheets performing functions not subject to conscious control by the mind and in all or most of the musculature of invertebrates other than arthropods .
vascular smooth muscle refers to the particular type of smooth muscle found within ,  and composing the majority of the wall of blood vessels .
the basic cellular tissue comprising the thyroid gland ,  organized as follicles .
mouse pheochromocytoma cell line .
mouse pheochromocytoma cell line .
mouse embryonic fibroblast cell line .
human kidney adenocarcinoma cell line ,  established from a 78 years old male .
acute leukemia distinguished from acute lymphocytic leukemia  ( all )  by the morphology of the marrow and blood leukemic cells .
a subtype of acute myelogenous leukemia  ( aml )  ,  a cancer of the blood and bone marrow .
a young fish ;  especially: a newly hatched salmon when still attached to the yolk sac .
rat prostate carcinoma cell line .
oral squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
oral squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human normal nasal epithelial cell line .
the intercellular substance of bone tissue consisting of collagen fibers ,  ground substance ,  and inorganic bone salts .
the upper layer of the bilaminar embryonic disc present during the second week of a blastula that gives rise to the ectoderm after gastrulation .
androgen - dependent human prostate cancer cell line .
human retinal pigment epithelial cell line .
the garland cell of drosophila is a nephrocyte which takes up waste products from the haemolymph .
in most arthropoda ,  one of the large phagocytic cells that accumulate waste products .
human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human aortic endothelial cell line .
human bronchial epithelial cell line .
a nontransformed rat small intestine cell line .
human neuronal glioblastoma  ( grade iii )  cell line .
cell line was derived by cloning the parental cell line mdck .
cell line was derived by cloning the parental cell line mdck .
the long u - shaped part of the renal tubule ,  extending through the medulla from the end of the proximal convoluted tubule .
cultures of rabbit immortalized thick ascending limb of henles loop .
human lung squamous cell carcinoma grade iv .
the wm793b line was established from skin taken from the primary melanoma of a vertical growth phase lesion taken from the sternum of a patient .
these cells form sebaceous glands .
normal human ovarian surface epithelial cell line .
a bundle of nerve fibers that passes from the amygdala along the demarcation between the thalamus and caudate nucleus mostly to the anterior part of the hypothalamus with a few fibers crossing the anterior commissure to the amygdala on the opposite side .
a gelatinous substance of various plants  ( as legumes or seaweeds )  that contains protein and polysaccharides and is similar to plant gums  .
human melanoma cell line .
human acute myeloid leukemia cell line ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 65 - year - old man with acute myeloid leukemia .
human acute myeloid leukemia cell line ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 57 - year - old man with acute myeloid leukemia .
human acute myeloid leukemia cell line ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 77 - year - old man with acute myeloid leukemia .
human acute myeloid leukemia cell line ;  established from erythroleukemia blasts ,  aml m6 ,  of a 62 - year - old patient following a 7 - year chlorambucil treatment for chronic lymphocytic leukemia .
human acute myelocytic leukemia cell line ;  established in 1984 from the leukemic cells of a 56 - year - old patient with erythroleukemia ,  aml - m6 ,  representing the end stage of a previously identified myelodysplastic syndrome .
human erythroleukemia cell line .
the plasmacytoid dendritic cell ,  pdc ,  is a type of white blood cell .
one of the four valves in the heart ,  this valve is situated at exit of the left ventricle of the heart where the aorta begins .
the primary phloem that forms after differentiation of the protophloem .
the glomerular endothelium sits on a very thick glomerular basement membrane .
procyclic trypanosome cell line of trypanosoma brucei .
there are serous cells in the peribronchial gland of the lung .
murine embryonic stem cell line ;  established from an f1 embryo between a c57bl / 6 female and a cba male .
farber disease dermal fibroblast cell line .
any muscle used to pull a body part away from the midline of the body .
an external membranous process of an aquatic animal as a fish used in propelling or guiding the body .
the unpaired fin located on the back of both bony fish and sharks .
one of the pair of fins positioned on the under - side of the body of a fish .
the unpaired fin located on the ventral side of the body of a fish ,  posterior to the anus .
in fish ,  one of the pair of fins that are situated one on each side of the fish just behind the gills .
human neuroblastoma cell line .
human cholangiocarcinoma cell line .
an immature monocyte not normally present in the blood .
a group of undifferentiated cells in an insect larva that develops into a specific adult structure .
exoskeleton or shell ,  including those of mollusks ,  turtles ,  insects and crustaceans .
human arterial endothelial cells ,  haecs ,  are isolated from adult human iliac arteries of transplant donors by mechanically removing the endothelial layer and are cultured .
either of the large arteries supplying blood to the lower trunk and hind limbs and arising by bifurcation of the aorta which in humans occurs at the level of the fourth lumbar vertebra to form one vessel for each side of the body .
the outer branch of the common iliac artery on either side of the body that passes beneath the inguinal ligament to become the femoral artery .
the inner branch of the common iliac artery on either side of the body that soon breaks into several branches and supplies blood chiefly to the pelvic and gluteal areas .
1 .the terminal part of the vertebrate forelimb when modified ,  as in humans ,  as a grasping organ .
any of the five terminating members of the hand ,  a digit of the forelimb .
the area of the hand or foot lying between adjacent digits .
the medulla is the inner most layer of the hair shaft .
the non - growing portion of a hair which protrudes from the skin ,  i .e . ,  from the follicle .
the artery in vertebrate embryos that transports blood from the aortic arches to the trunk and limbs .
the artery in vertebrate embryos that carries blood from the ventricle of the heart to the aortic arches .
the surface region of the head corresponding to the outlines of the occipital bone .
either of two large bundles of nerve fibers passing from the pons forward and outward to form the main connection between the cerebral hemispheres and the spinal cord .
the large bundle of nerve fiber tracts forming the anterior part of the cerebral peduncles ,  which consists of corticospinal ,  corticonuclear ,  corticopontine ,  parietotemporopontine ,  and frontopontine fibers descending from the cerebral cortex and terminating in the pons and spinal cord .
the surface region of the head corresponding to the outlines of the frontal bone .
a cell with several slender processes that embraces the capillary wall in amphibia .
the deepest layer ,  as of the epidermis or the endometrium .
a thin fan or bell - shaped expansion of the cuticle of the tail of many male nematode worms that functions as a copulatory structure .
a common chamber receiving openings of male ,  female ,  and accessory organs .
a copulatory invagination .in females ,  sometimes forms a tubular vagina that is often developed to form a bursa copulatrix .
a small opening on the side of the head in some gastropods through which the penis is protruded .
the bony part of the internal ear .
the part of the membranous labyrinth that includes the perilymphatic space and the cochlear duct .
the bony socket of the eye .
the region about the orbit .
external gills are the gills of an animal ,  most typically an amphibian ,  that are exposed to the environment ,  rather than set inside the pharynx and covered by gill slits ,  as they are in most fishes .
the arterial system is the higher - pressure portion of the circulatory system .
the lower of two elevations on the medial wall of the posterior horn of the lateral ventricle of the brain ,  caused by the depth of the calcarine sulcus .
a system of interconnected blood vessels that returns blood to the heart from the tissue and capillary bed through progressively larger vessels .
the surface region of the head corresponding to the outlines of the underlying parietal bone .
the enlarged anterior part of the rectum ,  sometimes produced into a large rectal caecum .
the part of the aorta attached to the atrioventricular fibrous rings and myocardium .
in human anatomy ,  the external carotid artery is a major artery of the head and neck .
in human anatomy ,  the internal carotid artery is a major artery of the head and neck that helps supply blood to the brain .
the region of the face including the lips and mouth .
those portions of the caudate nucleus and especially the putamen located generally superior to a plane representing the anterior commissure ;  also called the dorsal basal ganglia ;  may function in motor activities with cognitive origins .
those portions of the striatum located generally inferior to a plane representing the anterior commissure ;  includes the nucleus accumbens and some nuclei of the olfactory tubercle ;  may function in motor activities with emotional or motivational origins .
the term visual cortex refers to the primary visual cortex and extrastriate visual cortical areas such as v2 ,  v3 ,  v4 ,  and v5 .
the term visual cortex refers to the primary visual cortex and extrastriate visual cortical areas such as v2 ,  v3 ,  v4 ,  and v5 .
a bridge of mesoderm connecting the caudal end of the young embryo with the trophoblastic tissues ;  the precursor of the umbilical cord .
a hinge joint formed by the articulating of the tibia and the fibula with the talus below .
a joint that allows motion around an axis .
discrete ,  cystlike units of the thyroid gland that are lined with cuboidal epithelium and are filled with a colloid substance ,  about 30 to each lobule .
in embryology ,  organ or tissue in its earliest recognizable stage of development .
the third and deepest of the three layers of the eyeball ,  composed of the retina ,  intraocular part of the optic nerve ,  and the retinal blood vessels .
the insect's head is sometimes referred to as the head - capsule ,  and is the insect's feeding and sensory centre .
parathyroid hormone is secreted from cells of the parathyroid glands and finds its major target cells in bone and kidney .
abdominal neuromere of the larva .
palatine tonsils are the tonsils that can be seen on the left and right sides at the back of the throat .
the human palatine tonsils and the nasopharyngeal tonsil are lymphoepithelial tissues located in strategic areas of the oropharynx and nasopharynx .
a null cell is a large granular lymphocyte without surface markers or membrane - associated proteins from b lymphocytes or t lymphocytes .
a type of white blood cell that contains granules with enzymes that can kill tumor cells or microbial cells .
the 15 to 20 separate portions of the mammary gland that radiate from the central area deep to the nipple like wheel spokes and comprise the body of the mammary gland ;  each is drained by a single lactiferous duct .
the h - shaped excretory cell is the largest cell in caenorabditis elegans .
a nonendothelial cell enclosed within the basement membrane of retinal capillaries .
the most common division of dendritic cells is myeloid versus plasmacytoid .
these cells constitute a population of medium - sized mononuclear cells with plasmacytoid features in the t - cell zones of human lymphoid tissues ,  and in the thymus and lymph nodes of patients with various inflammatory and neoplastic diseases .
dendritic cells that develop from lymphoid precursors .
in xenopus embryos the animal cap ,  which is the area around the animal pole of the blastula ,  is destined to form the ectoderm during normal development .
peripheral blood lymphocytes are mature lymphocytes that circulate in the blood ,  rather than localising to organs ,  such as the spleen or lymph nodes .
one of the two stem cells derived from hematopoietic stem cells ,  the other being the lymphoid progenitor cell .
one of the two stem cells derived from hematopoietic stem cells ,  the other being the myeloid progenitor cell .
bone marrow - derived macrophages  ( bmm )  are primary macrophage cells ,  derived from bone marrow cells in vitro in the presence of growth factors .
containing a developing embryo ,  fetus ,  or unborn offspring within the body .
human mammary gland breast carcinoma cell line ,  established from a 27 years old caucasian female .
this primary brain tumour occurs in the pons or the medulla .
human papillary thyroid carcinoma derived cell line .
the au565 cell line was derived from a pleural effusion of a patient with breast adenocarcinoma .
this line was derived from a pancreatic duct adenocarcinoma  ( liver metastasis )  from a patient with cystic fibrosis .
papillary thyroid cancer cell line .
follicular thyroid cancer cell line .
follicular thyroid cancer cell line .
human colon cancer cell line .
human colon carcinoma cell line .
hair cells are the sensory receptors of both the auditory system and the vestibular system in all vertebrates .
a human myeloma cell line established from patient with igg - kappa plasma cell leukemia  .
a cell line derived from a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the caecum .
a sterile cell below the phialides of some aspergillus and penicillium species .
a specialized conidiogenous cell that produces conidia in basipetal succession without increasing in length .
the pluristem 129s6 murine es cell line is derived from the widely used 129 / s6 / svev strain of mice .
lexicon es cell line 1c9 from parental mouse strain 129 / svevbrd .
adipose - derived stromal cells have been shown to have multiple lineage differentiation properties and to be suitable for tissues regeneration in many degenerative processes .
sv40 - transformed polymerase -  eta - deficient xp30ro fibroblasts were derived from an xeroderma pigmentosum variant  ( xp - v )  patient .
monkey  ( cercopithecus aethiops )  kidney endothelial cell line .
this line is a clone of vero 76 .
human bone marrow erythroleukemia cell line .
we used tf - 1 bcr / abl cells ,  by introducing the bcr / abl gene into the tf - 1 leukemia cell line .
murine neocortical neuronal cell line .
human somatic proximal cecum colonic cancer cell line ,  established from a caucasian male .
human somatic proximal colonic cancer cell line ,  established from a caucasian male .
acute myeloid leukemia cell line .
acute myeloid leukemia cell line .
acute myeloid leukemia cell line .
acute myeloid leukemia cell line .
in lepidoptera pieridae ,  unicellular forms resulting from the embryonic membranes of parasitic braconidae .
immortalized normal thyroid cell line .
papillary thyroid tumor cell line .
follicular thyroid tumor cell line .
tanaka et al have reported that a culture of mouse blastocysts or early postimplantation trophoblasts in the presence of fgf - 4 permits the isolation of permanent trophoblast stem cell lines .
tanaka et al have reported that a culture of mouse blastocysts or early postimplantation trophoblasts in the presence of fgf - 4 permits the isolation of permanent trophoblast stem cell lines .
human anaplastic large cell lymphoma  ( alcl )  cell line ;  derived from the cerebrospinal fluid of a 5 - year - old girl with refractory malignant histiocytosis .
neuron projecting from the corpus striatum to the substantia nigra .
spontaneously immortalized rat schwann cell line ,  derived from long - term culture of rat primary schwann cells .
a special type of inhibitory cells representing approximately 90% of the neurons within the corpus striatum of the basal ganglia .
a malignant tumor that begins in the muscle ,  fat ,  fibrous tissue ,  blood vessels ,  or other  \ "soft \ " supporting tissues of the body .
human renal cell carcinoma cell line .
human neuroblastoma cell line .
the seax cell line is derived from peripheral blood of a patient with sezary syndrome ,  a common type of cutaneous t - cell lymphoma .
human normal foreskin fibroblast cell line ;  pooled from two male newborn individuals .
ewing sarcoma family of tumors  ( esft )  belong to the group of neoplasms commonly referred to as small ,  round ,  blue - cell tumors of childhood .
ewing's sarcoma family tumor cell line .
ewing's sarcoma family tumor cell line .
ewing's sarcoma family tumor cell line .
the htert - immortalized retinal pigment epithelial cell line ,  htert rpe - 1 ,  was derived by transfecting the rpe - 340 cell line with the pgrn145 htert - expressing plasmid .
different primordial types like the leaf and flower primordia arise from the shoot lateral meristem .
the human epidermal keratinocyte line ,  designated rhek - 1 ,  was used at passage 23 for these transformation studies .
immunized t - lymphocytes which can directly destroy appropriate target cells .
immunized t - lymphocytes which can directly destroy appropriate target cells .
the tumor cell line was derived from primary lung epithelial cells of c57bl / 6 mice .
human bladder transitional cell carcinoma cell line .
the accessory olfactory bulb ,  which resides on the dorsal - posterior region of the main olfactory bulb ,  forms a parallel pathway independent from the main olfactory bulb .
male accessory glands in humans are the seminal vesicles ,  prostate gland ,  and the bulbourethral glands .
androgen - independent lncap cell line .a prostate cancer cell line ,  that proliferates under androgen - depleted conditions after emerging from long - term ,  androgen -  depleted culture of the androgen - sensitive prostate cancer cell line lncap .
the amnioserosa is an extraembryonic ,  epithelial tissue that covers the dorsal side of the drosophila embryo .
cell line from drosophila larval central nervous system .
human ovarian carcinoma line .
a cell line from undifferentiated nasopharyngeal carcinoma  ( npc )  .
cho - k1 cells were stably transfected with one or more plasmids for expression of gp91phox ,  p47phox ,  and p67phox .
cho - k1 cells were stably transfected with one or more plasmids for expression of gp91phox ,  p22phox ,  p47phox ,  and p67phox .
cho - k1 cells were stably transfected with one or more plasmids for expression of gp91phox and p22phox .
cho - k1 cells were stably transfected with one or more plasmids for expression of gp91phox .
cho - k1 cells were stably transfected with one or more plasmids for expression of p22phox .
clara cells are specialized non - ciliated epithelial cells in the terminal bronchioles of mammals and in the upper airways of some species such as mice .
a key cell type of the resident skin immune system is the dendritic cell ,  which in normal skin is located in two distinct microanatomical compartments: langerhans cells  ( lc )  mainly in the epidermis and dermal dendritic cells  ( ddc )  in the dermis .
the line was established from cells from a mediastinal biopsy of a patient with small cell carcinoma of the lung .
chicken b cell line ;  established in 1985 from a bursal lymphoma ,  which was induced by infection of a 1 day old chicken with rous - associated virus type 1  ( rav - 1 )  ,  an avian leukosis retrovirus carrying no cell - derived oncogene .
the er - 1 weakly malignant clonal cell line was derived from a mammary adenocarcinoma that developed spontaneously in a female shr rat .
er - 1 cells converted into highly tumorigenic and metastatic cells ,  erpp ,  by subcutaneous co - inoculation with plastic plates .
extraradical hypha ,  of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi ,  are formed outside roots and absorbing nutrients from the soil and binding its grains into aggregates .
human primary melanocyte cell line .
human primary melanocyte cell line .
human primary melanocyte cell line .
human primary melanocyte cell line .
a germ tube is an outgrowth produced by certain species of spore - releasing fungi  ( sporangia )  during germination .
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line from a pleural effusion stage 4 .
human non - small cell lung cancer cell line .
human variant small cell lung cancer cell line ;  derived from lymph node metastasis from a 63 years old caucasian male .
human foreskin fibroblasts immortalized by human telomerase reverse - transcriptase .
immortalized human fetal osteoblastic cell line .
this human gastric carcinoma cell line was established by culture of the metastatic lymph node from a gastric cancer patient diagnosed histological as undifferentiated carcinoma .
normal human hipbone osteoblast cell line .
mouse epidermal cell line .
a human tumor xenograft  ( l56br - x1 )  was established from a breast cancer axillary lymph node metastasis of a 53 - year - old woman with a brca1 germ - line nonsense mutation  ( 1806c > t ;  q563x )  ,  and a cell line  ( l56br - c1 )  was subsequently derived from the xenograft .
large - cell neuroendocrine carcinoma is now recognized as an histologically high - grade non - small cell carcinoma showing histopathological features of neuroendocrine differentiation as well as immunohistochemical neuroendocrine markers .
it makes up about one - third of the frontal lobe of the human brain .
a gyrus of the frontal lobe of the human brain .
it makes up about one - third of the frontal lobe of the human brain .
this cell line is derived by simian virus 40 transformation of mrc5 fibroblasts .
an outer layer of smooth muscle surrounding a hollow or tubular organ as the bladder ,  esophagus ,  large intestine ,  small intestine ,  stomach ,  ureter ,  uterus ,  and vagina that often consists of an inner layer of circular fibers serving to narrow the lumen of the organ and an outer layer of longitudinal fibers serving to shorten its length .
the thin layer of smooth muscle found in most parts of the gastrointestinal tract ,  located outside the lamina propria mucosae and separating it from the submucosa .
human ovarian cancer line .
the ucp - 3 cell line is a low metastatic human lung carcinoma cell line .
cutaneous t - cell lymphoma  ( ctcl )  cell line from skin .
cutaneous t - cell lymphoma  ( ctcl )  cell line from skin .
a significantly large population of glial cells in the mammalian central nervous system  ( cns )  that can be identified by the expression of the ng2 proteoglycan .
normal female human osteoblast cell line .
anaplastic thyroid cancer cell line .
oxyphilic papillary thyroid carcinoma cell line .
human pancreatic cancer cell line .
racemose mucous glands beneath the mucous membrane of the pharynx .
the soft ,  fatty ,  vascular tissue that fills most bone cavities and is the source of red blood cells and many white blood cells .
the most common type of breast cancer in women .
human ovary malignant papillary serous adenocarcinoma cell line ;  derived from metastatic site: ascites .
a subclone of the atcc pc - 3 cell line .
human cell line stablished from liver metastases of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas .
human cell line stablished from liver metastases of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas .
a motile zygote in various protozoans  ( as the malaria parasite )  .
human anaplastic thyroid carcinoma cell line .
human thyroid follicular epithelial cell line .
human glioblastoma cell line .
house ear institute - organ of corti 1 cell line .
one of 29 hela cell clone  ( hlcc )  lines .
human mesangial cell line .
normal human breast cell line .
human colon cancer cell line .
human anaplastic large cell lymphoma  ( alcl )  cell line ,  a subclone of sup - m2 .
an aggressive  ( rapidly progressing )  type of non - hodgkins lymphoma that is usually of the t - cell type .
t cell lymphoblastoid line .
a model cell line for acute lymphoblastic leukemia .
human neuroblastoma cell line .
cell line derived from ewing's sarcoma  ( es )  .
human squamous carcinoma cell line .
epidermal cells that are located over a junction between two cortex cells become root hairs  ( h cells )  ,  whereas the other epidermal cells become non - root - hair cells  ( n cells )  .
the labellum is part of an orchid ,  canna or other less known flower that serves to attract insects that pollinate the flower ,  and acts as a landing platform for those insects .
the reproductive tract in the hermaphroditic nematode has two equivalent gonad arms .
a somatic cell with several important functions within the gonad  ( ovary )  ;  it lies at the distal tip of the germline in the hermaphrodite .
muscle cells of the posterior gut and rectum .
human malignant glioma cell line .
human malignant glioma cell line .
cancer of the parotid gland .
human normal liver cell line .
osteosarcoma cell line ;  established from primary osteosarcoma tissue .
human non - small cell lung cancer  ( nsclc )  cell line .
human non - small cell lung cancer  ( nsclc )  cell line .
mouse embryonic stem cell culture .
human colon cancer cell line .
human colonic carcinoma cell line .
human lung squamous carcinoma cell line .
human bladder cancer cell line .
human bladder cancer cell line .
highly metastatic variant from human transitional cell carcinoma .
human nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line .
tert - immortalized human mammary epithelial cell line .
chinese hamster ovary cells strain with defective serine palmitoyltransferase .
hela cell line stably transfected with pml - gb3sp  ( globotriaosylceramide synthase gene )  .
ebv - negative nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line .
the pulmonary venous myocardium represents the extension of atrial myocardium into the vascular wall of the pulmonary vein .
cell pertaining to or composed of nonconducting cells of the nervous system ,  e .g .
nerves which synthesize the neurotransmitter acetylcholine in their terminals ;  they include alpha - motor neurons of the spinal cord ,  cranial nerves innervating skeletal muscle ,  preganglionic sympathetic and postganglionic parasympathetic neurons .
1 .the upper part of a tree ,  which includes the branches and leaves .
the bulge is located in the outer root sheath at the insertion point of the arrector pili muscle .
the putative bulge stem cells can contribute to the epidermis ,  outer root sheath ,  inner root sheath ,  hair shaft and sebaceous gland .
1 .the outer layer of the cortex of the cerebellum and cerebrum consisting of a mass of unmyelinated fibers rich in synapses .
a specialized form of astrocytes in the purkinje cell layer of the cerebellum .
filamentous glia fibers traversing the cerebellar cortex perpendicular to the surface .
the cerebellar cortex is divided into three layers .
a cell of the pigment cell layer that nourishes the retinal cells ;  located just outside the retina and attached to the choroid .
committed ,  erythroid stem cells derived from myeloid stem cells .
one of the four muscles of the quadriceps femoris group ,  situated in the medial part of the thigh .
rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts constitute a quite unique cell type that distinguishes rheumatoid arthritis from other inflammatory conditions of the joints .
human mammary gland ductal carcinoma cell line ;  derived from malignant ascites fluid from a 47 - year - old premenopausal black woman with infiltrating ductal carcinoma .
zr - 78 is a peroxisome - deficient mutant cell line obtained from ethyl methanesulfonate - treated stocks of cho - k1 .
strain zr - 78 .1 is a hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase - deficient and ouabain - resistant subclone of zr - 78 .
zr - 82 is a peroxisome - deficient mutant cell line obtained from ethyl methanesulfonate - treated stocks of cho - k1 .
human non - invasive mammary gland breast cancer cell line .
this line was derived from the human embryonic kidney line 293 ,  transfected with an expression plasmid containing cdna encoding the rat gaba - a receptor alpha 1 ,  beta 2 and gamma 2 subunits .
sus scrofa normal testicular cell line ,  established from a male 80 - 90 days old gestation embryo .
human ovarian carcinoma cell line ,  derived from serous cystadenocarcinoma .
human ovarian carcinoma cell line ;  derived from serous cystadenocarcinoma .
human ovarian carcinoma cell line ;  derived from serous cystadenocarcinoma .
human ovarian carcinoma cell line ;  derived from serous cystadenocarcinoma .
human acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line from two children with null cell type all .
human acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line from two children with null cell type all .
estrogen independent human breast cancer cell line with epithelial origin .
human ovarian mesonephroid adenocarcinoma cell line .
human tumor cell line from ovarian mesonephroid adenocarcinoma .
niemann - pick type a dermal fibroblast cell line .
human renal clear cell carcinoma cell line .
b - precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
b - precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
b - precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
b - precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
b - precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
b - precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
b - precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
b - precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
b - precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
b - precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
b - precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
b - precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
b - precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
b - precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
b - precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
b - precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
b - precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
b - precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
human null cell from acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
human non - small cell lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
human gastric cancer cell line .
the walls of capillaries are composed of only a single layer of cells ,  the endothelium .
human breast cancer cell line .
a cell of the capillary endothelium .
a specialized pore on the leaves of higher plants that functions in the exudation of water .
the yeast genomic dna from the strain f9 was transferred to the established mouse fibroblast cell line l a - 9 by fusion with yeast spheroplasts followed by selection with g418 to select for cells which had taken up yeast dna .
lncap - derivative c4 - 2b prostate cancer cell line .
acute megakaryoblastic leukemia cell line .
acute megakaryoblastic leukemia is a form of leukemia where a majority of the blasts are megakaryoblastic .
acute megakaryocytic leukemia is a rare subtype of acute myeloid leukemia evolving from primitive megakaryoblasts .
acute megakaryoblastic leukemia is a form of leukemia where a majority of the blasts are megakaryoblastic .
human t - all cell line .
human undifferentiated thyroid cancer cell line .
rat - 1 cells expressing a stable v - src protein .
rat - 1 cells expressing a thermosensitive v - src protein .
mouse myeloma cell line .
human ovarian clear cell adenocarcinoma cell line .
human ovarian clear cell adenocarcinoma cell line .
human skin fibroblast cell line .
human hodgkin lymphoma cell line ,  established from the pleural effusion of a 37 - year - old man with hodgkin lymphoma  ( mixed cellularity progressing to lymphocyte depletion ;  stage iv at relapse )  in 1974 .
a disease of the lymph nodes named after the english physician thomas hodgkin .
a disease of the lymph nodes named after the english physician thomas hodgkin .
malignancy of the tongue ,  squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue .
fluid obtained by irrigation or washout of the nasal cavity and nasal mucosa .
carotid branch of glossopharyngeal nerve .
the glossopharyngeal nerve is the ninth  ( ix )  of twelve pairs of cranial nerves .
ocular melanoma consisting of overgrowth of uveal melanocytes .
human b cell lymphoma cell line ;  established from the pleural effusion of a 73 - year - old woman with b cell non - hodgkin lymphoma  ( intraabdominal ,  diffuse large cell lymphoma ,  refractory ,  terminal )  in 1987 .
the primordial germ cell .
widely used continuous monkey kidney cell line .
an alate is a winged reproductive of a social insect  ( especially ants or termites ,  but the term can also be applied to aphids and some thrips )  .
the mesenchymal tissue of the embryo from which the blood cells and blood vessels differentiate .
gastric carcinoma cell line ;  derived in 1987 by j .
gastric carcinoma cell line ;  derived in 1987 by j .
gastric cancer cell line .
a spore formed by certain red algae of the bangioideae as a means of asexual reproduction .
human transitional cell carcinoma cell line of the bladder .
human transitional cell carcinoma of the renal pelvis .
human transitional cell carcinoma cell line of the bladder .
human squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder ;  obtained by transurethral resection of a bladder squamous cell carcinoma found in a female patient .
human melanoma cell line .
the osphradium is the olfactory organ in certain molluscs ,  linked with the respiration organ .
a variety of glial cell that keep myelinated peripheral nerve fibres alive .
a variety of glial cell that keep unmyelinated peripheral nerve fibres alive .
a stratified squamous epithelium consisting of a basal layer ;  it is keratinized or parakeratinized .
the urotsa cell line was isolated from a primary culture of normal human urothelium through immortalization with a construct containing the sv40 large t antigen .
anaplastic large cell lymphoma cell line .
human transitional cell carcinoma cell line ,  poorly tumorigenic and nonmetastatic .
a firm fibrous neoplasm of meninges of the brain and spinal cord characterized by psammona bodies .
a psammoma body is a round collection of calcium ,  seen microscopically .
the stratum intermedium in a developing tooth is a layer of two or three cells between the inner enamel epithelium and the newly forming cells of the stellate reticulum .
the most common type of syncytial meningioma ,  usually benign and lacking papillary whorls and psammoma bodies .
the 1205lu cell line was derived from lung metastases of wm793 after subcutaneous injection into immunodeficient mice .
human skin fibroblast cell line ,  sv40 t antigen transformed ,  derived from 46br ,  a fibroblast from an individual with hypogammaglobulinaemia .
derivative of dna ligase i ,  hligi - deficient human cell line 46br1 .g1 .
b - cell leukemia describes several different types of lymphoid leukemia which affect b cells .
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
hyperplasia or hypergenesis means abnormal cell proliferation of cells .
a focal expansion of the number of cells in a terminal breast duct .
a focal expansion of the number of cells in a terminal breast duct in which a more abnormal pattern of growth is seen ,  and which is associated with an increased risk of developing breast cancer .
normal dictyostelium amoebal cell line .
immortalized normal human cytotrophoblast  ( ct )  cell line .
human mammary gland breast adenocarcinoma cell line ,  derived from metastatic site: pleural effusion .
human brain endothelial cell line cend .
hek - trkb cells are derived from hek - 293 cells ,  engineered to express the brain - derived neurotrophic factor receptor ,  trkb .
an oxaliplatin resistant cell line ,  established from human ht29 crc cells .
b - lymphoblastoid cell line .
b - lymphoblastoid cell line .
the 293ft cell line is a fast - growing ,  highly transfectable clonal isolate derived from human embryonal kidney cells transformed with the sv40 large t antigen .
human epitheloid cervix carcinoma cell line from a black female .
an ebv - positive type iii lymphoblastoid cell line .
human colorectal adenocarcinoma tumor cell line .
highly tumorigenic and metastatic human melanoma cell line .
fanconi's anemia is a disease passed down through families  ( inherited )  that mainly affects the bone marrow .
human schwannoma cell line .
head and neck squamous carcinoma  ( hnscc )  cell line .
head and neck squamous carcinoma  ( hnscc )  cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
mouse orthotopic prostate cancer model with low hepsin - expressing cells .
mouse orthotopic prostate cancer model with hepsin - overexpressing cells .
human myoblast cell line .
cell line established from human primary breast cancer based on differential centrifugation ,  followed by growth in culture for over 70 passages .
cell line established from human primary breast cancer based on differential centrifugation ,  followed by growth in culture for over 70 passages .
cell line ,  established from a metastasis of 63 year old black male with androgen - independent adenocarcinoma of the prostate .
l87 / 4 and l88 / 5 are two permanent sv40 -  transformed human stroma cell lines derived from the bone marrow of a hematologically normal male patient .
l87 / 4 and l88 / 5 are two permanent sv40 -  transformed human stroma cell lines derived from the bone marrow of a hematologically normal male patient .
for example the midgut epithelium of wirenia argentea odhner mollusca ,  solenogastres )  is composed of two cell types: dorsal ciliary cells and digestive cells .
cells in an atheroma derived from macrophages which have engulfed low - density lipoproteins by endocytosis .
one of the many small platelike dermal or epidermal structures that characteristically form the external covering of fishes ,  reptiles ,  and certain mammals .
human hepatocellular carcinoma  ( hcc )  cell line .
human hepatocellular carcinoma  ( hcc )  cell line .
human anaplastic large cell lymphoma cell line ,  established from the pleural effusion of a 10 - year - old boy in 1973 ;  original diagnosis was diffuse histiocytic lymphoma ,  corrected to diffuse large cell lymphoma  ( 1984 )  and malignant histiocytosis  ( 1989 )  ;  according to real / who classification considered to represent an anaplastic large cell lymphoma  ( alcl )  .
tzm - bl cells are hela - cell derivatives that express high levels of cd4 and both co - receptors cxcr4 and ccr5 ,  and are stably transduced carrying a ltr - driven firefly luciferase as well as a ltr - driven beta - galactosidase cassette .
human melanoma cell line .
rat phaeochromocytoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
an immortal line of fibroblast like cells established from whole trypsinised embryos of swiss mice  ( not an inbred stock )  under conditions that favour establishment of cells with low saturation density in culture ;  the 3t3 cell line was established by g . todaro and h . green in 1962 from disaggregated swiss mouse embryos .
human lung fibroblast cell line transformed with simian virus 40 ,  mrc - 5 cells are their untransformed progenitors .
1 .murine cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human intestinal epithelial cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human prostate cancer cell line .
human neuroblastoma tumor cell line .
human neuroblastoma tumor cell line .
mouse macrophage cell line expressing an autoactivating form of pro - matrix - metalloproteinase - 9 .
nt2 human teratocarcinoma rho0 cell line ;  rho cell lines are depleted of endogenous mtdna .
the kg - 1a cell line is derived from the kg - 1 cell line and is almost identical .
human diploid lung fibroblast cell line ,  derived from normal tissue taken at post - mortem from the lung of a 5 year old male .
the underside of the foot .
a cell line derived from a poorly differentiated endometrial carcinoma that is aneuploid with chromosome numbers ranging from 51 to 66 and 6 - 8 marker chromosomes demonstrated by g banding .
rat breast carcinoma cell line ,  established from the walker 256 rat tumor that has been maintained in vivo for over 60 years .
tissue around the urethra .
the epidermal mucus of fish regulates swimming speed by controlling the hydrodynamic resistance of the skin surface .
either of two pairs of folds of mucous membrane projecting into the larynx .
the artery that serves blood to the penis .
the artery that serves blood to the penis .
the common penile artery subdivides into three arteries ,  the bulbourethral artery ,  the dorsal artery of the penis and the cavernosal artery .
the artery that serves blood to the penis .
a dense membrane composed of fibrous connective tissue that closely wraps  ( invests )  all cartilage ,  except the cartilage in joints which is covered by a synovial membrane .
the perichondrium consists of two separate layers: an outer fibrous layer and inner chondrogenic layer .
the perichondrium consists of two separate layers: an outer fibrous layer and inner chondrogenic layer .
each component of the collecting duct system contains two cell types ,  intercalated cells and a segment - specific cell type .
the basal part of a grass leaf that encircles the stem .
h4 neuroglioma cells expressing intracellular amyloid beta precursor protein  ( app )  c99 .
epithelial stem cells in the lining of the digestive tract occur in deep crypts and give rise to several cell types: absorptive cells ,  goblet cells ,  paneth cells ,  and enteroendocrine cells .
skin stem cells occur in the basal layer of the epidermis and at the base of hair follicles .
the epidermal stem cells give rise to keratinocytes ,  which migrate to the surface of the skin and form a protective layer .
the follicular stem cells can give rise to both the hair follicle and to the epidermis .
at the base of the head is a ball - and - socket articulation which serves to attach the neck and the rest of the spermatozoon to the head .
human tongue squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human neuroblastoma cell line .
a tumor of the jaw derived from remnants of the embryonic rudiment of tooth enamel .
the low - grade malignant cell line hacat ii - 4 is derived from the immortalized human keratinocyte cell line hacat  ( 27 )  after transfection with the c - ha - ras oncogene .
this cell line was derived in 1996 from a heterogeneous 32 week primary tumor in the prostate of a pb - tag c57bl / 6  ( tramp )  mouse .
this cell line was derived in 1996 from a heterogeneous 32 week primary tumor in the prostate of a pb - tag c57bl / 6  ( tramp )  mouse .
this cell line was derived in 1996 from a heterogeneous 32 week primary tumor in the prostate of a pb - tag c57bl / 6  ( tramp )  mouse .
an intralobular duct found in salivary glands and involved in the production and transport of their secretions .
murine retinal ganglion cell line .
a cell from a tumor derived from pleural mesothelial tissue .
a neuroectodermal tumor is a tumor of the central or peripheral nervous system .
the pc3b1 cells were isolated from the bone marrow of severe combined immunodeficient  ( scid )  mice that had been injected 6 weeks previously with the pc3 cell line .
ovarian cysts are small fluid - filled sacs that develop in a woman's ovaries .
ovarian cysts are small fluid - filled sacs that develop in a woman's ovaries .
the platysma is a superficial muscle that overlaps the sternocleidomastoid .
in human anatomy is a paired muscle in the superficial layers of the anterior portion of the neck .
androgen - dependent prostate cancer cell line .
ras - transformed human breast epithelial cells .
highly tumorigenic ,  metastatic human prostate cell line .
anthracycline - sensitive human ovarian carcinoma cell line .
anthracycline - resistant human ovarian carcinoma cell line .
small ,  smooth muscle attached to the bulb of the hair which causes erection of the hair and compression of the attending sebaceous gland when it contracts .
human normal skin fibroblast cell line .
the adenomatoid odontogenic tumor is an odontogenic tumor arising from the enamel organ or dental lamina .
human medulloblastoma cell line .
mouse embryonic stem cell line .
rst 307 cells were generated from e14 cells by insertion of a genetrap in exon 9 of  ( p ) rr gene ,  precluding full - length  ( p ) rr synthesis .
a mouse t cell hybridoma cell line that constitutively expresses cd103 .
human epidermoid - carcinoma cell line that expresses urokinase - type plasminogen activator u - pa and u - par .
h1299 cells were transfected with pcmv - p53h273 plasmid .
the term giant cell arteritis is often used because when one looks at biopsies of inflamed temporal arteries under a microscope ,  one often sees large or giant cells .
the inner layer of cells of the enamel organ ,  which forms the enamel prisms of the teeth .
human undifferentiated thyroid cancer cell line .
human undifferentiated thyroid cancer cell line .
human anaplastic thyroid carcinoma cell line .
human anaplastic thyroid carcinoma cell line .
human anaplastic thyroid carcinoma cell line .
human anaplastic thyroid carcinoma cell line .
the anococcygeus muscle  ( acm )  is one of a pair of thin sheets of smooth muscle inserting on the rectum ,  having a tendinous origin largely on sacral vertebrae .
one of the hornlike projections of gray matter into the white matter of the spinal cord .
cisplatin resistant variant of the a2780 human ovarian carcinoma cell line .
the cem - vbl10 cell line is a multidrug - resistant derivative of the drugsensitive cem cell line obtained by selection in medium containing 10 ng / ml respectively of vinblastine .
the cem - vbl16 cell line is a multidrug - resistant derivative of the drugsensitive cem cell line obtained by selection in medium containing 16 ng / ml respectively of vinblastine .
the cem - vbl100 cell line is a multidrug - resistant variant of the derivative of the ccrf - cem cell line .
the c2bbe1  ( brush border expressing )  cell line was cloned in 1988 from the caco - 2 cell line by limiting dilution .
the juxtaglomerular apparatus is a microscopic structure in the kidney ,  which regulates the function of each nephron .
one of the three cellular components of the juxtaglomerular apparatus .
one of the three cellular components of the juxtaglomerular apparatus .
a gland ,  such as a sebaceous gland ,  that secretes an oily substance .
anaplastic thyroid carcinoma cell line .
a human anaplastic thyroid cancer cell line ,  derived from a 68 - year - old woman who underwent surgery for anaplastic thyroid cancer .
human squamous carcinoma cell line .
cell line ,  established from a primary moderately - differentiated squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus from a 47 - year - old hong kong chinese man .
human esophageal cancer cell line ,  established from a moderately differentiated escc of a 46 - year - old chinese woman from hong kong .
human esophageal cancer cell line ,  established from a well - differentiated escc of a 74 - year - old chinese man from hong kong .
human cutaneous squamous carcinoma cell line .
human chondrosarcoma cell line .
hcmec are isolated from heart ventricles from a single donor .
the fibroblastic stromal cell of the cornea .
human gastric cancer cell line .
a luciferase expressing cell line which was stably transfected with firefly luciferase gene  ( luc2 )  .
rat osteosarcoma osteoblastlike cell line .
human metastatic melanoma cell line .
pancreatic tumor cell line ,  which is syngeneic to c57bl / 6 mice .
human hodgkin lymphoma cell line , 	established from the bone marrow of a 20 - year - old woman with hodgkin lymphoma  ( nodular sclerosis ;  stage ivb ,  pre - terminal stage )  .
derived from a long - term culture of cd19 (  +  )  selected bone marrow lymphoplasmacytic cells isolated from an untreated patient with waldenstrm's macroglobulinemia .
human prostatic epithelial cells ,  derived from a normal prostate with mild hyperplasia ,  were immortalized with an adenovirus 12 - sv40 hybrid virus  ( ad12 - sv40 )  .
human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell line .
a fleshy mass of thickened conjunctiva that grows over part of the cornea usually from the inner side of the eyeball and causes a disturbance of vision .
hcv - expressing human hepatoblastoma - derived cell line .
this cell line was initiated in october of 1992 from a patient with early onset ovarian cancer .
this cell line was initiated in october of 1991 from a patient of french - canadian descent with no family history of ovarian cancer .
the svg p12 cell line was established by transfecting cultured human fetal glial cells from brain material dissected from 8 to 12 week old embryos with dna from an ori  -  mutant of sv40 .
a chondroma is a benign cartilaginous tumor ,  which is encapsulated with a lobular growing pattern .
the h4 human neuroglioma cell line stably overexpressing human beta - amyloid precursor protein app751 .
a leydig cell line ,  established from transgenic mice harboring a temperature - sensitive simian virus 40  ( tssv40 )  large t - antigen gene .
the kidney of the channel catfish is completely separated into the head and trunk kidneys .
the kidney of the channel catfish is completely separated into the head and trunk kidneys .
sarcomatoid carcinoma  ( sarc )  of the lung is defined in the most recent world health organization classification as  \ "poorly differentiated non - small cell carcinoma that contains a component of sarcoma or sarcoma - like elements .
human pancreatic cancer cell line .
a multidrug - resistant  ( mdr )  human breast cancer mcf - 7 subline .
this line is a derivative of the h4 - ii - e - c3 rat hepatoma cell line .
primary roots usually  < 2 mm diameter that have the function of water and nutrient uptake .
doxorubicin - selected variantt of the human myelogenous leukemia cell line k562 .
a multidrug - resistant clone of human oral epidermoid carcinoma kb cells was isolated by stepwise selection on exposure to increasing doses of vincristine .
the monoterpene fraction of the lemon - scented sweet basil  ( ocimum basilicum )  cv sweet dani consists mostly of citral  ( a mixture of geranial and neral )  ,  with lower levels of geraniol and nerol .
most adult stem cells are lineage - restricted  ( multipotent )  and are generally referred to by their tissue origin e .g .
doxorubicin - resistant human acute t lymphoblastic leukemia cell line cem / adr5000 .
a small bulb that develops from an aerial bud .
human gingival carcinoma cell line .
any of the arteries supplying blood to the cerebral cortex .
the middle cerebral artery  ( mca )  is one of the three major paired arteries that supplies blood to the cerebrum .
the left and right middle cerebral arteries rise from trifurcations of the internal carotid arteries and thus are connected to the anterior cerebral arteries and the posterior communicating arteries ,  which connect to the posterior cerebral arteries .
the left and right middle cerebral arteries rise from trifurcations of the internal carotid arteries and thus are connected to the anterior cerebral arteries and the posterior communicating arteries ,  which connect to the posterior cerebral arteries .
a biological relationship in which microorganisms of two different species or strains are mutually dependent on one another for nutritional requirements .
a fetal membrane .
cervical intraepithelial neoplasia  ( cin )  is the potentially premalignant transformation and abnormal growth  ( dysplasia )  of squamous cells on the surface of the cervix .
the inner layer of the muscular coat .
the outer layer of the muscular coat .
human epidermoid carcinoma cell line .
cysts found in the jaws and arising from epithelium involved in tooth formation .
human prostate cancer cell line .
c57bl / 6 - derived methylcholantrene - induced fibrosarcoma cell line .
a small ,  abnormal bony outgrowth .
human prostate cancer cell line .
pc - 3m cells were injected into the prostates of athymic mice .
pc - 3m cells were injected into the prostates of athymic mice .
d17 cells were originally isolated from cultures of dissected imaginal discs29 of drosophila melanogaster .
human fetal osteoblast cell line .
cho cells over - expressing hamster menkes protein  ( mnk )  due to gene amplification .
a thick ,  quadrilateral muscle of mastication .
rat xc sarcoma cell line ,  derived from a rous sarcoma virus - induced wistar strain rat tumor .
human t / nk cell leukemia cell line ,  established from the pericardial fluid of a 15 - year - old man with acute lymphoblastic leukemia  ( all )  at relapse  ( with accompanying thymoma )  in 1983 .
rat xc sarcoma cell line ,  derived from a rous sarcoma virus - induced wistar strain rat tumor .
the stem juice of musa paradisiaca l . is used in traditional medical practice in ghana to arrest bleeding from wound .
human embryonic kidney cell line stably expressing the tetracycline  ( tet )  repressor .
epithelium lining the pharynx consisting largely of simple columnar epithelium with a short segment  ( 1mm )  of stratified squamous epithelium on the ventral side .
oral keratinocyte cell line spontaneously derived from an oral leukoplakia lesion that exhibits an immortalized but non - tumorigenic phenotype .
murine lung epithelial cell line .
human lung bronchoalveolar carcinoma cell line ,  tumor stage 3b ,  derived from pleural effusion .
b - lymphocyte antigen cd19 also known as cd19  ( cluster of differentiation 19 )  ,  is a protein that in humans is encoded by the cd19 gene .
cd - 31 is normally found on endothelial cells ,  platelets ,  macrophages and kupffer cells ,  granulocytes ,  t  /  nk cells ,  lymphocytes ,  megakaryocytes ,  osteoclasts ,  neutrophils .
cd103 is expressed widely on intraepithelial lymphocyte  ( iel )  t cells and on some peripheral regulatory t cells  ( tregs )  .
a subline of the m - 07 human megakaryoblastic leukemia cell line .
human megakaryoblastic leukemia cell line .
human nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line .
with the exception of nocturnal and very deep water cephalopods ,  all coeloids which dwell in light conditions have an ink sac ,  which can be used to expel a cloud of dark ink to confuse predators .
rat glioma cell line .
human neuroblastoma cell line .
human neuroblastoma cell line .
human b - lymphocyte cell line .
wild carrot cell culture line of daucus carota ,  queen anne`s lace .
the area of the throat that is at the back of the mouth .
about 90% of oropharyngeal neoplasms are squamous cell carcinoma .
b cell lymphoblast cell line ,  derived from a normal individual .
nef cells are nih 3t3 fibroblasts devoid of endogenous egf - r ,  transfected with the human egf - r cdna .
her 14 cells are nih 3t3 fibroblasts devoid of endogenous egf - r ,  transfected with the human egf - r cdna .
mucoepidermoid carcinoma  ( mec )  is the most common primary salivary gland - type tumour of the lung .
hepatocytes may constitute 60 to 80 % of the mass of the liver tissue .
widespread disruption of normal liver structure by fibrosis and the formation of regenerative nodules that is caused by any of various chronic progressive conditions affecting the liver as long - term alcohol abuse or hepatitis .
freestyle 293 - f cell line is derived from the 293 cell line and is intended for use with the freestyle max 293 expression system or freestyle 293 expression system .
neuropil is a broad term defined as any area in the nervous system composed of mostly unmyelinated axons ,  dendrites and glial cell processes that forms a synaptically dense region containing a relatively low number of cell bodies .
the antennal lobe is the deutocerebral neuropil of insect which receives the input from the olfactory sensory neurons on the antenna .
human aortic adventitial fibroblast cell line ,  isolated from human aortic adventitial tissue .
three concentric rings of hypodermal cells  ( hyp 1 ,  hyp 2 and hyp 3 )  constitute the hypodermis of the extreme anterior of the worms head .
radical leaves arise from the root or its crown .
a root growing from a location other than the underground ,  descending portion of the axis of a plant ,  as from a stem or leaf .
leaf and stem explants cultured on ms  ( murashige and skoog )  medium supplemented with various auxins .
malignant human keratinocyte cell line .
established human keratinocyte cell line .
cag cell line ;  established from a bone marrow aspirate of a patient with myeloma .
any of a class  ( cestoda )  of bilaterally symmetrical flatworms parasitic especially in the intestines of vertebrates .
human colon carcinoma cell line .
intercostal muscles are several groups of muscles that run between the ribs ,  and help form and move the chest wall .
a macrophage - like myelomonocytic leukemia cell line established from inbred balb / c mice .
ts20 is a temperature - sensitive mutant cell line derived from balb / 3t3 cells that is blocked at a step in dna synthesis involving chain elongation .
human normal lymphoblastoid cell line .
niemann - pick type a dermal fibroblast cell line .
bloodstream form trypanosome cell line 13 - 90 .
human embryonal carcinoma line .
normal human fetal liver cell line .
cultured human colon cancer cell line .
skin normal fibroblast cell line .
human non - small cell lung cancer cell line ;  derived from a lymph node metastasis obtained from a patient prior to therapy .
human lung adenocarcinoma ;  non - small cell lung cancer cell line .
human non - small cell lung adenosquamous carcinoma cell line ,  established from a 56 years old caucasian male .
human mammary gland primary ductal carcinoma cell line .
this cell line is derived from kb - 3 - 1 by stepwise selection against hoechst 33342 .
suspension culture adapted subline of meg - 01 .
highly invasive human uveal melanoma line .
human uveal melanoma line .
an immortalized primary normal human prostate epithelial cell line .
undifferentiated human ovarian carcinoma cell line .
transgenic tobacco cell line lacking alternative oxidase aox  .
the ears are female inflorescences ,  tightly covered over by several layers of leaves ,  and so closed - in by them to the stem that they do not show themselves easily until the emergence of the pale yellow silks from the leaf whorl at the end of the ear ,  e .g .
murine stromal osteoblastic cell line .
human non - small cell lung cancer cell line .
immortalized mouse embryonic fibroblast cell line .
immortalized mouse embryonic fibroblast cell line .
human glioblastoma cell line .
any of various one - celled aquatic or parasitic protozoans of the genus amoeba or related genera ,  having no definite form and consisting of a mass of protoplasm containing one or more nuclei surrounded by a flexible outer membrane .
any of several types of coatings or coverings for nerve fibers and nerve tracts .
a nerve sheath tumor is a type of tumor of the nervous system which is made up primarily of the myelin surrounding nerves .
a peripheral nerve sheath tumor  ( pnst )  is a nerve sheath tumor in the peripheral nervous system .
a malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor is a cancerous peripheral nerve sheath tumor .
rat hepatocellular carcinoma cell line .
a cell of the vascular system and blood supply of the brain .
at the early fetal stage of development ,  the cells that later give rise to sperm or eggs cells .
mouse insulinoma cell line .
the mil - 3 - dependent cell line ,  bgsuta was derived from a friend virus infected culture of c57bl .s bone marrow cells .
a leukemic stem cell .
chrysene is a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon  ( pah )  with the molecular formula c18h12 that consists of four fused benzene rings .
methylsulfonylmethaneis an organosulfur compound with the formula  ( ch3 ) 2so2 .
rwleu4 is a chronic myelogenous leukemia cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human malignant melanoma cell line ,  established from liver .
human malignant melanoma cell line ,  established from pleural effusion .
established melanoma cell line from the skin cancer unit at the german cancer research center ,  heidelberg .
established melanoma cell line from the skin cancer unit at the german cancer research center ,  heidelberg .
established melanoma cell line from the skin cancer unit at the german cancer research center ,  heidelberg .
established melanoma cell line from the skin cancer unit at the german cancer research center ,  heidelberg .
established melanoma cell line from the skin cancer unit at the german cancer research center ,  heidelberg .
established melanoma cell line from the skin cancer unit at the german cancer research center ,  heidelberg .
established melanoma cell line from the skin cancer unit at the german cancer research center ,  heidelberg .
established melanoma cell line from the skin cancer unit at the german cancer research center ,  heidelberg .
established melanoma cell line from the skin cancer unit at the german cancer research center ,  heidelberg .
established melanoma cell line from the skin cancer unit at the german cancer research center ,  heidelberg .
established melanoma cell line from the skin cancer unit at the german cancer research center ,  heidelberg .
established melanoma cell line from the skin cancer unit at the german cancer research center ,  heidelberg .
established melanoma cell line from the skin cancer unit at the german cancer research center ,  heidelberg .
established melanoma cell line from the skin cancer unit at the german cancer research center ,  heidelberg .
established melanoma cell line from the skin cancer unit at the german cancer research center ,  heidelberg .
the optic vesicle after invaginating to form a 2 - layered cup from which the retina and pigmented layer of the eye will develop .
human prostate cancer cell line .
canine osteosarcoma cell line .
canine osteosarcoma cell line .
canine osteosarcoma cell line .
canine osteosarcoma cell line .
canine osteosarcoma cell line .
canine osteosarcoma cell line .
canine osteosarcoma cell line .
human t cell leukemia established from the peripheral blood of a 17 - year - old man with t cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia ,  t - all .
nematal gland originating posterior to the nerve ring that connects with the anterior lateral amphids .
trophoblast giant cells in the rodent placenta form the outermost layer of the extraembryonic compartment .
canine osteosarcoma cell line .
human glioma cell line .
an established epithelial cell line derived from an adenocarcinoma of human endometrial lining .
human small cell lung cancer cell line ;  established from a 55 years old caucasian male .
human multidrug resistant small cell lung cancer cell line ;  established from a 55 years old caucasian male .
human breast carcinoma cell line .
canine osteosarcoma cell line .
human acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
the spore - bearing layer of the fruiting body of certain fungi ,  containing asci or basidia .
this is a twice cloned subline of the neuroepithelioma cell line sk - n - mc which was established in september of 1971 from a metastatic tumor mass .
normal human oral keratinocyte cell line ;  established from a biopsy of normal floor of the mouth .
taxus cuspidata suspension culture cell line .
human rhabdomyosarcoma cell line .
human rhabdomyosarcoma cell line .
human alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma cell line .
human rhabdomyosarcoma cell line .
human alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma cell line .
human alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma cell line .
human alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma cell line .
human alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma cell line .
the region in the apical meristem of a root where little or no cell division occurs .
continuous lung squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human breast cancer cell line ,  derived from a primary human ductal carcinoma with evidence of micro - invasion and is a basal breast cancer cell line .
inflammatory human breast cancer cell line .
human breast cancer cell line ,  derived from primary human luminal breast epithelial cells of a pleural effusion .
human breast cancer cell line ,  derived from primary human luminal breast epithelial cells of a pleural effusion .
human breast cancer cell line .
human breast cancer cell line .
human breast cancer cell line .
human breast cancer cell line .
cell culture of catharanthus roseus .
human glioma cell line .
the shep human neuroblastoma cell line was subcloned from sk - n - sh .
human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell line .
canine osteosarcoma cell line .
human benign prostatic hyperplasia cell .
the murine placenta consists of two main fetally derived compartments: the labyrinthine zone and the junctional zone .
the junctional zone of the mouse placenta consists of two main trophoblast populations ,  spongiotrophoblasts and glycogen cells  ( gcs )  ,  but the development and function of both cell types are unknown .
the junctional zone of the mouse placenta consists of two main trophoblast populations ,  spongiotrophoblasts and glycogen cells  ( gcs )  ,  but the development and function of both cell types are unknown .
the murine placenta consists of two main fetally derived compartments: the labyrinthine zone and the junctional zone .
the locomotory and feeding organ ,  found in the larval veliger stage of bivalves .
the male gonad of shrimps include the lobes of the testis ,  the vas deferens and the terminal ampoule .
a hard ,  slow - growing carcinoma composed primarily of fibrous tissue .
human osteosarcoma cell line ;  derived from hos cells by transformation with 0 .01 g / ml mnng ,  a carcinogenic nitrosamine .
a gland or a cavity lined with cells that secrete oils .
madin - darby canine kidney cells transfected with the human mdr1 gene .
hermrk - transgenic melanocytes that transgenically express a chimeric protein consisting of an extracellular egfr -  and an intracellular xmrk  ( an oncogene )  domain .
human lung squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human neuroblastoma brain  ( stage iii )  cell line ,  isolated from a 16 month old male .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
a doxorubicin  ( dox )  resistant plhc - 1 subclone .
human gastric carcinoma cell line .
vgamma9vdelta2 t -  lymphocytes are reported to participate in the anti - tumor immune surveillance in human .
drosophila melanogaster larval neuronal cell line .
a branched indeterminate inflorescence in which the branches are racemes ,  so that each flower has its own stalk attached to the branch .
the human breast epithelium is a branching ductal system composed of an inner layer of polarized luminal epithelial cells and an outer layer of myoepithelial cells that terminate in distally located terminal duct lobular units  ( tdlus )  .
human epithelial ovarian cancer cell line .
human small cell lung cancer cell line .
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
lateral roots extend horizontally from the primary root  ( radicle )  and serve to anchor the plant securely into the soil .
human small cell lung cancer cell line .
human gastric carcinoma cell line .
to form a root nodule primordium ,  fully differentiated root cortical cells have to be developmentally reprogrammed ,  which starts with mitotic activation of these cells .
epithelium of the rectum .
a partition or wall ,  especially in an ovary .
melanoma cell line ,  isolated from lymph node metastasis from three separate patients .
nontumorigenic rat liver cell line .
tumorigenic rat liver cell line .
rat nervous tissue glial tumour cell line .
human amelanotic melanoma cell line .
aedes albopictus ,  mosquito ,  asian tiger larval cell line .
cd4 ,  cluster of differentiation 4 ,  is a glycoprotein found on the surface of immune cells such as t helper cells ,  monocytes ,  macrophages ,  and dendritic cells .
either of the columns of erectile tissue forming the body of the clitoris or penis .
a leaf of the embryo of a seed plant ,  which upon germination either remains in the seed or emerges ,  enlarges ,  and becomes green .
an sv40 t - antigen immortalized human foreskin melanocyte cell line .
human glioblastoma cell line .
human gastric carcinoma cell line .
an epidermal cell line from the 5th instar larval integument of helicoverpa armigera .
the cell line was derived from normal bronchial epithelium taken from a man undergoing lobectomy for squamous cell carcinoma .
in an insect it extends from the posterior extremity to the head ,  and it is enlarged and muscular posteriorly ,  constituting the heart .
huh - 7 .5 .1 cells were derived from the huh - 7 .5 gfp - hcv replicon cell line i / 5a - gfp - 6 .
mouse renal inner medullary epithelial cell line .
a meristem developing between regions of mature or permanent tissue as at the base of the grass leaf .
human gastric cancer cell line .
a human cholangiocarcinoma - derived cell line .
in carnivorous snails the lateral lips of the mouth form lobes called labial palps ,  which help to locate prey .
parental and gemcitabine resistant pancreatic cancer cell line .
parental and gemcitabine resistant pancreatic cancer cell line .
parental and gemcitabine resistant pancreatic cancer cell line .
rainbow trout ,  oncorhynchus mykiss ,  fibroblast cell line .
the rtg - 2 cell line was transfected with a trout mx1 promoter - luciferase construct and selected to produce a stable cell line .
long - term primary culture epithelial cells from rainbow trout ,  oncorhynchus mykiss ,  liver .
human breast cancer cell line ,  derived from a locally advanced primary human inflammatory ductal carcinoma .
human breast cancer cell line from a primary tumor .
human breast cancer cell line ,  derived from a poorly differentiated primary human inflammatoy luminal breast carcinoma .
human breast cancer cell line ,  derived from a primary human recurrent ductal carcinoma chest wall nodule .
human breast cancer cell line ,  derived from primary human luminal breast epithelial cells of a pleural effusion .
this cell line was established from skin taken from a patient with primary nodular melanoma in vertical growth phase .
human foreskin keratinocyte cell line expressing the e6 and e7 oncoproteins of human papillomavirus type 38 .
muscle responsible for holding closed the two halves of the shell of bivalves .
the expression vector encoding the wild type alpha - catenin was transfected into dld - 1 / delta alpha cells and selected using g418 to obtain a stable expression cell line .
osteoblast precursor cell line derived from mus musculus calvaria .
parental and gemcitabine resistant pancreatic cancer cell line .
parental and gemcitabine resistant pancreatic cancer cell line .
murine long bone osteocyte cell line .
parent cell line ,  established from peripheral blood of a multiple myeloma patient who had become resistant to steroid - based therapy .
acute myelogenous leukemia - derived cell line .
human lymphoblastic t - lymphocyte cell line ,  carrying the human t - cell leukemia virus type i .
mink fetal lung cell line ,  derived from trypsinised lungs of several foetuses of aleutian mink .
clonal chondrocytic cell line n1511 derived from rib cartilage of a p53 - null mouse .
though deposited with the atcc as a lymphoblastoid cell line established from a 34 year old male caucasian ,  dna fingerprinting has shown this line to be a derivative of raji burkitt's lymphoma cell line .
normal melanocyte cell line .
human nucleus pulposus cell line ,  isolated from nucleus pulposus of human intervertibral disc .
human small cell lung cancer cell line .
human pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor cell line .
human small cell lung carcinoma cell line .
panc - 1 cell line transfected with the core 2 n - acetylglucosaminyltransferase mucus - type .
an enclosure in which spores are formed .
a stalk or similar structure bearing sporangia in plants and fungi .
the node or joint at the base of the stem .
a usually tadpole - shaped larval trematode worm that develops in a molluscan host from a redia .
in caenorhabditis elegans ,  specialized contractile myoepithelial cells of the somatic gonad ,  the gonadal sheath cells ,  are closely apposed to oocytes and are required for normal meiotic maturation and ovulation .
the veins are the vascular tissue of the leaf and are located in the sponge layer of the mesophyll .
wood is a hard ,  fibrous structural xylem tissue found in the stems and roots of trees and other woody plants .
lyophilization is a dehydration process typically used to preserve a perishable material or make the material more convenient for transport .
a cell line derived from human lung adenocarcinoma .
a single syncytium cell of four nuclei makes a valve ,  connecting spermatheca and uterus of hermaphrodite gonad .
caenorhabditis elegans membranous cell attaches the uterus to the lateral epidermis  ( seam )  and forms a thin laminar process dorsal to the vulva .
human ebv - transformed lymphoblastoid cell line .
the plant epidermis cell is a group of cells that covers plants leaves ,  flowers ,  roots and stems .
one of the two divisions of a bilabiate corolla or calyx ,  as in the snapdragon ,  or the modified upper petal of an orchid flower .
a cell or organ in its initial stage of development .
it arises in the axil of a leaf primordium .
it arises in the pericycle .
plant secretory cells are derived from parenchyma cells and may function on their own or as a tissue .
a common type of trichome is a hair .
any of the various types of hairs may be glandular .
a common type of trichome is the scale or peltate hair: a plate or shield - shaped cluster of cells attached directly to the surface or borne on a stalk of some kind .
the initial cell formed when two gamete cells are joined by means of sexual reproduction .
a mushroom develops from a nodule ,  or pinhead ,  less than two millimeters in diameter ,  called a primordium ,  which is typically found on or near the surface of the substrate .
any of various specialized groups of nerve cells in the medulla oblongata ,  thalamus ,  or hypothalamus of the brain .
normal cells that stain positively for cd56 include nk cells ,  activated t cells ,  the brain and cerebellum ,  and neuroendocrine tissues .
an inflorescence in its earliest recognizable stage of development .
the region adjacent to the hvc called the parahvc .
human embryonic kidney fibroblast cell line expressing ebna - 1 plus sv40 large t - antigen .
murine embryonal fibroblast cell line ,  transfected with the h - ras - oncogene .
established from undifferentiated thyroid carcinomas of a 78 year old female patient .
abdominal aortic aneurysm is a localized dilatation of the abdominal aorta exceeding the normal diameter by more than 50 percent ,  and is the most common form of aortic aneurysm .
vertebral end plates are the top and bottom portions of the vertebral bodies that interface with the vertebral discs .
the innermost tunica  ( layer )  of the aorta .
mouse oral tongue squamous carcinoma cell line .
normal prostatic epithelium is composed of basal and luminal cells .
normal prostatic epithelium is composed of basal and luminal cells .
human b - cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line .
immortalized human chondrocyte cell line .
human renal cell carcinoma selected for resistance to 2 - deoxytubercidin .
mouse embryonic fibroblast cell line oncogenically transformed with both e1a and ras ,  and containing wild - type p53 .
mouse embryonic fibroblast cell line oncogenically transformed with both e1a and ras ,  and containing p53 -  /  -  .
a band of ectodermal cells growing from the epithelium of the embryonic jaws into the underlying mesenchyme and giving rise to the primordia of the enamel organs of the teeth .
epstein barr virus - transformed human b lymphocyte cell line .
the embryonic tracheal system or the fruitfly is an epithelial tubular network established from defined sets of ectodermal precursor cells .
epithelial lining fluid forms a thin fluid layer that covers the mucosa of the alveoli ,  the small airways ,  and the large airways .
adenocarcinoma originates in glandular tissue not normally present in the lining of the esophagus .
the mucous coat  ( membrane )  lining the stomach and the intestines .
primary human follicle dermal papilla cells are isolated from human dermis originating from the lateral scalp .
human airway epithelial cell line .
human esophageal carcinoma cell line .
human esophageal carcinoma cell line .
the smooth muscle of the ileums walls is thinner than the walls of other parts of the intestines ,  and its peristaltic contractions are slower .
a passage about one and one half inches  ( 4 cm )  long that lies parallel to and a half inch above the inguinal ligament .
lymphangioleiomyomatosis is a rare lung disease that results in a proliferation of disorderly smooth muscle growth  ( leiomyoma )  throughout the lungs ,  in the bronchioles ,  alveolar septa ,  perivascular spaces ,  and lymphatics ,  resulting in the obstruction of small airways  ( leading to pulmonary cyst formation and pneumothorax )  and lymphatics  ( leading to chylous pleural effusion )  .
acute myelogenous leukemia in which the predominating cell is so immature it cannot be classified .
well - differentiated neuroendocrine tumor cell .
the vestibular sensory epithelium is located on the maculae of the saccule and utricle and the cristae of the semicircular canals .
mouse microglial cell line .
during drosophila oogenesis somatic stem cells give rise to precursor follicle cells and about 16 of them invade between adjoining cysts ,  cease division ,  and become pre - polar cells ,  which ultimately become polar cells and stalk cells .
a peg cell is a non - ciliated epithelial cell within the uterine tube .
a ciliated columnar epithelium lines the lumen of the uterine tube ,  where currents generated by the cilia propel the egg cell toward the uterus .
the mesolimbic dopaminergic system includes the ventral tegmental area that project mainly to the nucleus accumbens as well as the olfactory tubercle innervating the septum ,  amygdala and hippocampus .
the mesocortical dopaminergic system which includes the ventral tegmental area ,  extends its fibers in the prefrontal ,  cingulate and perirhinal cortex .
because of the overlap between the mesocortical and the mesolimbic dopaminergic systems ,  they are often collectively referred to as the mesocorticolimbic system .
metastatic renal cell carcinoma is the spread of the primary renal cell carcinoma from the kidney to other organs .
a phototrophic microplantlet culture ,  consisting of regenerated shoot tissues in liquid suspension ,  established from red algae and cultivated in a stirred tank photobioreactor .
a nonepithelial cell ,  especially one derived from a macrophage ,  having characteristics resembling those of an epithelial cell ,  often found in granulomas associated with tuberculosis .
langhans giant cells are large cells found in granulomatous conditions .
any of various flattened cells that surround seminiferous tubules .
periodontal ligament cells are believed to play an important role in periodontal regeneration .
the outer nuclear layer is one of the layers of the vertebrate retina ,  the light - detecting portion of the eye .
the term paracentral lobule refers to the junction of the precentral gyrus and postcentral gyrus on the medial surface of the cerebral cortex .
the anterior portion of the paracentral lobule ,  the medial continuation of the primary somatomotor cortex  ( precentral gyrus )  in which the thigh ,  leg ,  and foot are represented .
the posterior part of the paracentral lobule ;  the medial continuation of the primary somatosensory cortex  ( postcentral gyrus )  in which sensory input from the thigh ,  leg ,  and foot are represented .
neuroendocrine tumors  ( nets )  are neoplasms that arise from cells of the endocrine  ( hormonal )  and nervous systems .
the precerebellar system provides the principal input to the cerebellum and is essential for coordinated motor activity .
gamma delta t cells are a subset of t cells defined by the genetic composition of their t cell receptor  ( tcr )  .
an aneurysm is the outward swelling ,  or ballooning ,  of a blood vessel at a weak spot in the wall of the blood vessel .
highly metastatic murine melanoma overexpressing pkc delta bl6  ( bl6t )  and wild type  ( bl6 )  cell line .
highly metastatic murine melanoma overexpressing pkc delta bl6  ( bl6t )  and wild type  ( bl6 )  cell line .
mouse macrophage cell line .
mouse macrophage cell line .
human primary colon cancer cell line .
cell line of asparagus offcinalis l . .
cell line of lycopersicon esculentum mill . .
region beneath the pharynx .
a flattened organ arising from the stem of a plant .
mouse embryonic stem cell line .
hepg2 .2 .15 cells are derived from the human hepatoblastoma cell line hepg2 and are characterized by having stable hbv expression and replication in the culture system .
suspension - cultured digitalis lanata cells .
the neuroepithelial cell line was established from the cerebral vesicles of 9 - day - old mouse embryos lacking the functional p53 genes .
the neuroepithelial cell line ne - gfp - 4c was established from the cerebral vesicles of 9 - day - old mouse embryos lacking the functional p53 genes .
cell pertaining to or affecting bones and joints .
the connective tissue and fat adjacent to the uterus .
the fat adjacent to the uterus .
satellite glial cells are the principle glial cells found in the peripheral nervous system ,  specifically in sensory ,  sympathetic ,  and parasympathetic ganglia .
the ganglion on the roots of the cranial nerves ,  containing the cell bodies of sensory neurons ;  the spinal ganglion .
mouse hybridoma cell line containing the human aspartyl  ( asparaginyl )  beta - hydroxylase .
the main axis of growth in the grapevine and similar plants: a lateral branch that arises from just behind the apex of the main stem ,  which ceases to grow ,  and continues growing in the same direction as the main stem .
a main axis of a plant ,  such as the trunk of a spruce ,  that maintains a single line of growth ,  giving off lateral branches .
cell line tig - 7 derived from human male fetal lung .
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis  ( ipf )  is a chronic interstitial lung disease of unknown etiology characterized by an accumulation of extracellular matrix ,  resulting in impaired pulmonary function .
primary myofibroblast cell culture isolated from an individual patient with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis .
primary myofibroblast cell culture isolated from an individual patient with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis .
human aortic adventitial fibroblasts  ( haoaf )  .
any of the bristles growing from the spikelets of certain grasses ,  including cereals .
a ring of nervous tissue ,  especially a ring of concentrated nervous tissue about the pharynx of various invertebrate animals .
a subset of t helper cells producing interleukin 17 .
endometriotic epithelial cell line .
a steroidogenic cell is involved in the formation of steroids ,  as by the adrenal cortex ,  testes ,  and ovaries .
a steroidogenic cell is involved in the formation of steroids ,  as by the adrenal cortex ,  testes ,  and ovaries .
a steroidogenic cell is involved in the formation of steroids ,  as by the adrenal cortex ,  testes ,  and ovaries .
the tubular part of the corolla .
the mouthparts in mollusks other than bivalves and the muscles by which they are operated and with which they generally form a more or less compact mass .
the muscle of the buccal mass .
a moderately differentiated human colon cancer cell line .
human colon cancer cell line .
a differentiated human colon cancer cell line .
human small cell lung cancer cell line ,  established from a 69 years old caucasian female ,  derived from the lymph node ,  stage e carcinoma .
human small cell lung cancer cell line ,  established from a 54 years old caucasian male .
nci - h295a cells are an adherent subline of human adrenocortical carcinoma nci - h295 cells that express all adrenal steroidogenic enzymes in a physiologically appropriate ,  hormonal responsive fashion .
human chondrocyte cell line ,  derived from juvenile costal chondrocytes by immortalization with origin - defective simian virus 40 large t antigen .
a steroidogenic human ovarian granulosa - like tumor cell line ,  from a patient with invasive ovarian granulosa cell carcinoma .
lncap and its derivative cell lines ,  which include c4 - 2 and the related c4 - 2b and cl1 ,  are used as models of prostate cancer .
lncap and its derivative cell lines ,  which include c4 - 2 and the related c4 - 2b and cl1 ,  are used as models of prostate cancer .
human colorectal tumor cell line .
mouse hepatoma cell line derived from the normal balb / c embryonic liver cell line bnl cl2 .
the mucosal layer of the vagina .
silkworm ovary - derived cell line ,  ectopically expressing caenorhabditis elegans transmembrane protein sid - 1 ,  which functions as a channel for the transport of dsrna .
cell of or relating to the uterine cervix and the vagina .
small luteal cells are derived from follicular theca cells .
large luteal cells are derived from follicular granulosa cells .
a modified root for storage of food or water ,  such as carrots and beets .
mouse 2b4 t hybridoma cell line .
the vaginal epithelial cell line vk - 2 / e6e7 was derived from epithelial cells of vaginal mucosal tissue from a 32 - years - old premenopausal woman undergoing anterior - posterior repair and was demonstrated to have structural and functional properties similar to those of their parental primary cells .
a pig endothelial cell line .
the tissue that produces all aerial parts of the plant ,  which include the stem as well as lateral structures ,  such as leaves and flowers .
a small mass of specialized cardiac muscle fibers ,  located in the wall of the right atrium of the heart ,  that receives heartbeat impulses from the sinoatrial node and directs them to the walls of the ventricles .
bombyx mori ovary - derived cultured cell line .
renal cell carcinoma cell line stably transfected with an empty expression vector ,  pcdna3 ,  conferring neomycin resistance .
a columnlike structure ,  especially one formed by the union of a stamen and the style in an orchid flower ,  or one formed by the united staminal filaments in flowers such as those of the hibiscus or mallow .
a cord of nerve tissue that is formed by union of the superior and middle trunks of the brachial plexus and that forms one of the two roots of the median nerve .
a leaf growing from the stem of a plant ,  as contrasted with a basal or radical leaf .
the precentral and postcentral gyri of the cerebral cortex .
this form of microglial cell is found mainly within the perinatal white matter areas in the corpus callosum known as the fountains of microglia .
a root epidermal cell that will not give rise to a root hair .
a root epidermal cell that will give rise to a root hair .
larval nutrition is provided via a modified accessory gland ,  a milk gland ,  that empties into the uterus .
the head - foot is the part you see most easily in slugs and snails .
human highly - invasive ovarian cancer cell line .
human middle ear epithelial cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
human malignant melanoma cell line .
human acute myeloid leukemia cell line .
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line .
a small glandular organ ,  attached to the epidermis above and behind the brain ,  comprised of the retrocerebral sac and the subcerebral glands .
in nemertina one of paired ciliated tubes associated with the dorsal ganglion and opening to the exterior ,  that function as chemical sense organs .
a permanent cell line of rat central nervous system glial precursors from primary cultures of bipotential oligodendrocyte - type 2 - astrocyte  ( o - 2a )  progenitor cells .
lunet - con1 cell line was derived from lunet cell line .
fumarate hydratase deficient hereditary leiomyomatosis renal cell carcinoma ,  derived from a patient having aggressive hlrcc - associated recurring kidney cancer .
a gynophore is the stalk of certain flowers which supports the gynoecium elevating it above the branching points of other floral parts .
a sensory nerve cell or sense organ ,  as of smell or taste ,  that responds to chemical stimuli .
terminally differentiated hepatic cells derived from a human hepatic progenitor cell line that retains many characteristics of primary human hepatocytes .
human microvascular endothelial cell line .
a type of plant cell specialized for the short - distance high - volume transport of materials .
plant stem cells are innately undifferentiated cells located in the meristems of plant .
a meristem in vascular plants ,  such as the cambium ,  in which secondary growth occurs .
the post - flowering stage of a plant .
the pre - flowering stage of a plant .
human acute myelocytic leukemia cell line ,  established in 2002 from the bone marrow of a 37 - year - old male with relapsed acute monocytic leukemia  ( aml - m5b )  .
the column formed by the union of androecium and gynoecium ,  as in an orchid .
human melanoma cell line ,  established from the lymph node metastasis  ( groin )  of a 26 - year - old man with malignant melanoma .
highly metastatic murine mammary carcinoma cell line .
an immortalized but nontransformed cell line ,  derived from ciliated human bronchial epithelial cells that line the airway of the lung .
the principal cell type of the dentate gyrus is the dentate granule cell .
human highly metastatic melanoma cell line .
ldl receptor - related protein 1 - deficient mutant cho cell line .
arginase - deficient cho cell variant .
choroid plexus papillomas are an uncommon ,  benign neuroepithelial intraventricular tumour which can occur in both the paediatric and adult population .
decidual stromal cells are the main cellular component of the human decidua .
human esophageal carcinoma cell line .
human esophageal squamous carcinoma cell line .
an in vitro tissue culture epithelial cell .
the human sarcoma cell line ht 1080 was transfected with a vector encoding the selectable marker guanine phosphoribosyltransferase regulated by alpha interferon to create the 2ftgh cell line ,  enabling the selection of mutations in genes encoding components of the interferon signalling pathway .
cisplatin - resistant variant of the human ovarian carcinoma cell line a2780 .
any of the small racemose mucous glands in the mucous membrane lining the cheeks .
in the epididymal epithelium ,  the tall columnar cells and shorter basal cells give the appearance of two rows of nuclei .
human squamous carcinoma cell line of the buccal mucosa .
highly metastatic human ovarian cancer cell line .
human hepatoma cell line ,  established from a liver tumor of a 53 - year - old japanese male .
human melanoma cell line ,  established from the primary tumor  ( right cervical )  of a 64 - year - old woman with cutaneous melanoma .
human chronic myeloid leukemia cell line .
human central nervous system glioma cell line .
the midgut of arachnids and crustaceans is a simple ,  often relatively short tube ,  bit it gives rise to large tubular or branched midgut diverticula .
a focal malignant tumor composed of myeloblasts or early myeloid precursors occurring outside the bone marrow .
human adenocarcinoma non - small cell lung cancer cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
nonmalignant human hepatocyte cell line .
an elongated fibroblast cell found in tendons .
a multinucleate mass of protoplasm produced by the merging of cells .
another correct and well - established use of the word syncytium is found in animal embryology to refer to the coenocytic blastoderm embryos of invertebrates ,  such as drosophila melanogaster .
human gastric carcinoma cell line ,  established from a 44 years old asian male .
an elongated ,  spindle - shaped ,  cell that is located between the basal lamina and the plasmalemma of a muscle fiber .
human neuroblastoma cell line ,  established from brain bone marrow tissue from a 4 years old caucasian white with neuroblastoma .
the node consists of a growth ring or intercalary meristem ,  the root band  ( containing root primordia )  and a bud above the leaf scar where the leaf sheath attaches ,  which delimits the node from the internode below .
granulocyte precursor ,  developing from the myeloblast and developing into the myelocyte .
in tooth development ,  the enamel knot is a localization of cells on an enamel organ that appear thickened in the center of the inner enamel epithelium .
the primary enamel knot forms at the tip of the bud during the cap stage of tooth development .
the primary enamel knot forms at the tip of the bud during the cap stage of tooth development .
a benign tumor composed of bony tissue ,  often developing on the skull .
human ovarian adenocarcinoma cell line .
human ovarian adenocarcinoma cell line .
human ovarian adenocarcinoma cell line .
a pituitary adenoma made up predominantly of corticotrophs .
murine astrocyte cell line .
cisplatin resistant subline of k - 562 leukemia cell line .
the dentate gyrus hicap cells  ( hilar commissural - associational pathway related cells )  are multipolar or triangular cells in the polymorphic layer with thin ,  aspiny dendrites that extend both within the hilus and within the molecular layer .
the dentate gyrus hipp cell  ( hilar perforant path - associated cell )  is an interneuron in the hippocampal formation .
the interneuron - specific subpopulation of interneurons have axons that preferentially innervate other interneurons .
the interneuron - specific subpopulation of interneurons have axons that preferentially innervate other interneurons .
the flexor tendons are strong smooth cords that connect the muscles of the forearm to the bones in the fingers and thumb .
human neuroblastoma cell line ;  established from the metastases of a lymph node biopsy of a stage iii neuroblastoma after 7 months of chemotherapy .
human neuroblastoma cell line ;  established from the metastases of a bone marrow specimen of a stage iv neuroblastoma after 6 months of chemotherapy .
normal human dermal lymphatic microvascular endothelial cell line .
the bodily system that protects the body from foreign substances ,  cells ,  and tissues by producing the immune response and that includes especially the thymus ,  spleen ,  lymph nodes ,  special deposits of lymphoid tissue  ( as in the gastrointestinal tract and bone marrow )  ,  macrophages ,  lymphocytes including the b cells and t cells ,  and antibodies .
a leaf near the apex of a stem that is still rolled into a cylinder .
hepatocellular carcinoma cell line .
skin malignant melanoma cell line .
a549 - cr cell line ,  was established by repeated subculturing of a549 cells with increasing cisplatin .
cell ,  pertaining to or arising from the cortex of the adrenal gland .
small cell ovarian carcinoma of the hypercalcemic type ,  sccoht cell line .
histaminergic neurons in mammalian brain are located exclusively in the tuberomamillary nucleus of the posterior hypothalamus and send their axons all over the central nervous system ;  the cell body of c2 is an identified histaminergic neuron in the cerebral ganglion of aplysia .
mouse brain neuronal cell line ;  established from cultures of a tumor that arose in the brain of a transgenic mouse ;  a cns catecholaminergic cell line ;  established by targeted oncogenesis in transgenic mice .
mouse lung carcinoma cell line ;  established from mouse strain c57bl / lcrf  .
sensory cells in the organ of corti in synaptic contact with sensory as well as efferent fibers of the cochlear auditory nerve ;  from the apical end of each cell ,  about 100 stereocilia extend from the surface and make contact with the tectorial membrane .
in the inner ear ,  stereocilia are the mechanosensing organelles of hair cells ,  which respond to fluid motion in numerous types of animals for various functions ,  including hearing and balance .
vestibular hair cells are in the sensory epithelium of the maculae and cristae of the membranous labyrinth of the internal ear .
1: the gill of a mollusk consisting typically of a respiratory structure that resembles a comb or feather ,  has a main stem with lateral lamellae ,  and is developed from the inner side of the mantle .
normal human skin fibroblast cell line ;  established from a fetus of a causian female .
rat hepatoma cell line .
relating to both frontal and parietal bones of the cranium .
leukodystrophy is a term for a group of white matter diseases ,  some familial ,  characterized by progressive cerebral deterioration usually in early life ,  and pathologically by primary absence or degeneration of the myelin of the central and peripheral nervous systems with glial reaction ;  probably related to a defect in lipid metabolism .
a cell of the lysosomal storage disease beginning in infancy ,  due to deficiency of beta - galactosidase .
a large cell of mesodermal origin that is found clustered in the intracranial tissues in globoid cell leukodystrophy .
an abnormal growth of plant tissue caused by an organism ,  such as an insect ,  mite ,  or bacterium ,  or by a wound .
one due to a specific microorganism ,  as tubercle bacilli .
an imprecise term applied to 1: any small nodular ,  delimited aggregation of mononuclear inflammatory cells ,  or 2: a similar collection of modified macrophages resembling epithelial cells ,  usually surrounded by a rim of lymphocytes ,  often with multinucleated giant cells .
human lung stage 4 adenocarcinoma cell line ;  established from a pleural effusion of a 50 years old caucasian male smoker .
human stage 3b adenocarcinoma non - small cell lung cancer cell line ,  established from soft tissue of a 62 years old caucasian female .
head and neck cancer is cancer that starts in the lip ,  oral cavity ,  nasal cavity ,  paranasal sinuses ,  pharynx ,  larynx or parotid glands .
a hek293 cell line that stably expresses the alpha v beta 3 integrin ,  the vitronectin receptor .
normal human lung fibroblast cell line .
the electric eel has three pairs of abdominal organs that produce electricity: the main organ ,  the hunter's organ ,  and the sach's organ .
the electric eel has three pairs of abdominal organs that produce electricity: the main organ ,  the hunter's organ ,  and the sach's organ .
human vaginal epithelial cell line .
human neuroblastoma cell line .
a sense organ in the second antennal segment of insects that responds to movements of the antennal flagellum and serves as a flight - speed indicator .
human melanoma cell line .
the independent cisplatin resistant derivative of the human epidermoid carcinoma cell line kb - 3 - 1 .
mucinous adenocarcinoma of ovary is a rapidly - growing epithelial tumor that is usually present as a single solid mass within an ovary .
small cell ovarian carcinoma of the hypercalcemic type ,  sccoht ,  represents an aggressive tumor with poor prognosis predominantly affecting young women .
any of the segmentally arranged excretory units of the pronephros in the early developing vertebrate embryo .
human tongue squamous cell carcinoma cell line ,  established from a 25 years old male .
the part of the root where growth and development starts is the root apex .
the outermost layer of the root of a plant ,  bounded on the outside by the epidermis and on the inside by the endodermis .
the root vascular cylinder is interior to the endodermis and is surrounded by the pericycle ,  a layer of cells that gives rise to branch roots .
human astrocytic glioma cell line ,  isolated from the 13th subculture of cells derived from a malignant glioma in 1972 and propagated in vitro for more than 13 years without morphological transformation or contamination by microorganisms .
human neuroblastoma cell line ,  derived from la1 - 5s a clonal subline of la - n - 1 .
human malignant melanoma cell line ,  derived from a lymph node metastasis of a 67 years old caucasian male .
human glioma cell line .
an ascites model of human breast cancer .
mda435 / lcc6 ascites cells transduced with the cdna of the mdr - 1gene .
androgen receptor - positive ,  hormone - insensitive lncap - derived prostate cancer cell line .
the free - swimming ciliated first larva of a digenetic trematode that seeks out and penetrates a suitable snail intermediate host in which it develops into a sporocyst .
mouse primary vascular aortic smooth muscle cell line ;  established from a adult mouse of the c57bl / 6 strain .
a t - cell that has differentiated in bone marrow ,  and successfully undergone the positive and negative processes of central selection in the thymus .
human neuroblastoma cell line .
human ovarian yolk sac tumor cell line .
kms - 11 cell line knocked out for the mmset ,  the multiple myeloma set domain containing protein on the non - translocated allele ,  ntko .
kms - 11 cell line knocked out for the mmset ,  the multiple myeloma set domain containing protein on the translocated allele ,  tko .
an adenocarcinoma containing fingerlike processes of vascular connective tissue covered by neoplastic epithelium ,  projecting into cysts or the cavity of glands or follicles ;  occurs most frequently in the ovary and thyroid gland .
human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell line ;  established in 1985 from the liver metastasis of a primary pancreatic adenocarcinoma from a 64 - year - old woman ;  sister cell line of pa - tu - 8988s .
human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell line ;  established in 1985 from the liver metastasis of a primary pancreatic adenocarcinoma from a 64 - year - old woman ;  sister cell line of pa - tu - 8988t .
human paediatric glioma cell line .
human paediatric glioma cell line .
complex sensillum in insects consisting of a bundle of sensory cells whose endings are separated from the body by one or more accessory cells ,  that are receptive to mechanical stimuli .
metastatic patient - derived human melanoma cell line .
a scolopidium is a composition of three cells ,  a scolopale cap cell which caps the scolopale cell ,  and a bipolar sensory nerve cell .
a scolopidium is a composition of three cells ,  a scolopale cap cell which caps the scolopale cell ,  and a bipolar sensory nerve cell .
a seed pod is an elongated ,  two - sided vessel that contain several fertilized seeds .
swine kidney cell line .
human paediatric glioma cell line .
a highly differentiated and polarized rat hepatoma / human fibroblast hybrid ,  which forms abundant bile canalicular structures .
xylem tissue features thin - walled ,  unspecialized parenchyma cells ,  for the storage of various substances .
1 .a larval form of digenetic trematode  ( fluke )  that develops in the body of its molluscan intermediate host ,  usually a snail ;  the sporocyst forms a simple saclike structure with germinal cells that bud off internally and develop into other larval types that continue this process of larval multiplication  ( considered to be a form of polyembryony )  .
immortalized human granulosa cell line .
the ciliary epithelium is composed of two layers juxtaposed ,  the proximal pigmented epithelium and the distal nonpigmented epithelium .
the ciliary epithelium is composed of two layers juxtaposed ,  the proximal pigmented epithelium and the distal nonpigmented epithelium .
metastatic patient - derived human melanoma cell line .
metastatic patient - derived human melanoma cell line .
metastatic patient - derived human melanoma cell line .
metastatic patient - derived human melanoma cell line .
metastatic patient - derived human melanoma cell line .
human colorectal cancer cell line ;  established from a familial adenomatous polyposis patient with extracolonic features characteristic of the gardner syndrome .
dms 273 was initiated in 1978 from the pleural fluid specimen from a 50 year old female patient with small cell carcinoma of the lung .
human chronic myeloid leukemia cell line in blast crisis ;  established from the bone marrow of  5 - year - old caucasian girl with philadelphia chromosome positive chronic myeloid leukemia in second relapse in 1980 ,  after bone marrow transplantation day  + 28 ;  sister cell line of em - 3 .
human chronic myeloid leukemia cell line in blast crisis ;  established from the bone marrow of  5 - year - old caucasian girl with philadelphia chromosome positive chronic myeloid leukemia in second relapse in 1980 ,  after bone marrow transplantation day  + 47 ;  sister cell line of em - 2 .
human stomach cancer cell line .
human malignant mesothelioma cell line .
human gastric adenocarcinoma cell line ;  established from a 63 - years old japanese male patient with moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the stomach .
human chronic myeloid leukemia in blast crisis ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 73 - year - old man with chronic myeloid leukemia in blast crisis in 1993 ;  cells carry the philadelphia chromosome ;  jurl - mk1 and jurl - mk2 are sister cell lines derived from the same patient .
human chronic myeloid leukemia in blast crisis ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 73 - year - old man with chronic myeloid leukemia in blast crisis in 1993 ;  cells carry the philadelphia chromosome ;  jurl - mk1 and jurl - mk2 are sister cell lines derived from the same patient .
human colon carcinoma cell line .
human multiple myeloma cell line ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 56 - year - old woman with multiple myeloma in leukemic transformation in 1986 .
human chronic b cell leukemia cell line ;  established in 1993 from the peripheral blood of a 61 - year - old caucasian man with chronic b cell leukemia ;  serial sister cell line of mec - 2 .
human chronic b cell leukemia cell line ;  established in 1993 from the peripheral blood of a 61 - year - old caucasian man with chronic b cell leukemia ;  serial sister cell line of mec - 1 .
human non - small cell carcinoma of the lung established  from a 65 year old caucasian female ,  prior to treatment .
human acute myeloid leukemia cell line ;  established from the bone marrow of a 31 - year - old woman with acute myeloid leukemia at 2nd relapse .
human gastric cancer cell line .
human gastric cancer cell line ,   derived from borrmann type iv tumor of the stomach .
human multiple myeloma established from the peripheral blood of a 56 - year - old woman with multiple myeloma in leukemic phase in 1982 .
human laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma cell line ;  established from korean patients .
human laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma cell line ;  established from korean patients .
human laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma cell line ;  established from korean patients .
human laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma cell line ;  established from korean patients .
human laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma cell line ;  established from korean patients .
human laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma cell line ;  established from korean patients .
human acute myeloid leukemia cell line ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 24 - year - old man with refractory acute promyelocytic leukemia after mediastinal granulocytic sarcoma .
human gastric choriocarcinoma cell line .
mus musculus embryo sarcoma cell line ;  isolated in 1972 from a line of c3h mouse embryo cells .
cem is a camptothecin  ( cpt )  resistant derivative of the human t cell leukemia cell line ccrf - cem .
ten sum cell lines derived in steve ethiers lab while present at the university of michigan are available for purchase .
a cell line developed from a mouse xenograft derived by transplantation of a metastatic nodule of a patient with infiltrating ductal carcinoma .
six main nerve centers lie in the arm of an octopus and are responsible for the performance of these sets of muscles .
prostate carcinoma cell line ;  castrate - resistant ,  derived from androgen - dependent cwr22 - relapsed tumors .
pharyngeal teeth are teeth in the pharyngeal arch of the throat of cyprinids ,  suckers ,  and a number of other fish species otherwise lacking teeth .
there ,  floral nectar is secreted from some part of the ovary tissue .
this kind of nectary is located on a sepal or an equivalent on a calyx .
there all or part of a stamen is nectariferous ,  either the filament or the anthers or both being involved .
this kind of nectary is formed from part or all of a petal .
visceral fat is composed of several adipose depots ,  including mesenteric ,  epididymal white adipose tissue ewat ,  and perirenal depots .
visceral fat is composed of several adipose depots ,  including mesenteric ,  epididymal white adipose tissue ewat ,  and perirenal depots .
visceral fat is composed of several adipose depots ,  including mesenteric ,  epididymal white adipose tissue ewat ,  and perirenal depots .
ho - 1 - u - 1 is a human tumor cell line established from human sublingual squamous cell carcinoma .
glioblastoma multiforme is the most aggressive of the gliomas ,  a collection of tumors arising from glia or their precursors within the central nervous system .
primary human adult gbm line derived from a tumor resected at initial diagnosis at brigham and women's hospital . .
primary human adult gbm line derived from a tumor resected at initial diagnosis at brigham and women's hospital .
primary human pediatric gbm line derived from a supratentorial gbm resected at initial diagnosis at boston children's hospital .
primary human adult gbm line derived from a tumor resected at initial diagnosis at brigham and women's hospital .
primary human pediatric gbm line derived from previously irradiated diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma ,  dipg at autopsy .
primary human pediatric gbm line derived from previously irradiated diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma ,  dipg at autopsy .
chicken ,  gallus gallus ,  embryonic fibroblast cell line .
nectary located outside the stamen whorl of a flower .
the ovarian follicular epithelium originates as a few flattened cells derived from the germinal epithelium .
a cell lining a follicle such as that of the thyroid gland .
a cell lining a follicle such as that of the thyroid gland .
human skin fibroblast cell line ;  established from a skin biopsy of the leg of a caucasian male .
a mutant cell line derived from mouse melanoma meb - 4 cells ,  is deficient in glycosphingolipids due to the lack of ceramide glucosyltransferase - 1 activity .
human breast mammary duct carcinoma cell line .
cell line ,  derived from a brown fat tumor of a transgenic mouse ,  capable of expressing the brown fat - specific mitochondrial uncoupling protein .
normal human liver cell line .
human classic small cell lung cancer cell line ;  established from a 50 years old caucasian male .
human duodenal adenocarcinoma cell line .
human oral cancer cell line .
human oral cancer cell line .
an antiestrogen - resistant mcf - 7 variant  .
mccoy's 5a medium was originally developed for the growth of novikoff hepatoma cells .
glc - p - dol - dependent glucosyltransferase  i deficient cho cell line .
one of the minute nitrogenous and oily glands on the leaves of a myrmecophyte ,  cecropia adenopus serving as food for the symbiotic ants that inhabit the plant .
human small cell lung cancer cell line ;  established in april 1985 from a pleural effusion metastasis of lung form a non - smoker human female .
human classic small cell lung cancer cell line ;  established from a stage l carcinoma of a 58 years old caucasian male .
human small cell lung cancer cell line ;  established in june 1988 from a stage l carcinoma of a 56 years old black male .
human small cell lung cancer cell line ;  established in september 1988 from a stage e carcinoma of a 69 years old caucasian female after chemotherapy and radiation .
human small cell lung cancer cell line ;  established in april 1989 from a stage e carcinoma of a 50 years old caucasian male .
human classic small cell lung cancer cell line ;  established in june 1984 from a stage e carcinoma of a 63 years old caucasian male .
the cartilage capsule surrounding the internal ear mechanism ;  in elasmobranchs ,  it remains cartilaginous in the adult ;  in the embryos of higher vertebrates ,  it is cartilaginous at first but later becomes bony ,  at approximately 23 weeks in humans .
the p69 cell line was derived by immortalization of human primary prostate epithelial cells with simian virus - 40 t antigen and is rarely tumorigenic .
fruiting spike of a cereal plant especially corn .
most head and neck cancers are biologically similar .
human hepatoma cell line .
chinese hamster ovary glycolysation mutant with no detectable n - acetylglucosaminyltransferase v activity .
chinese hamster ovary glycolysation mutant with n - acetylglucosaminyltransferase v activity as in the parental cho cell line .
the mesonephric duct is a paired organ found in mammals including humans during embryogenesis .
it is the predecessor of the wolffian duct .
a false stem made of the rolled bases of leaves ,  which may be 2 or 3 m tall as in banana .
normal human epithelial prostate cell line .
head and neck squamous cell carcinoma  ( hnscc )  cell line .
murine ,  mus musculus ,  stromal cell line ;  established from whitlock - witte type long - term bone marrow culture of bc8 mice .
at the thorax of a prawn there are five pairs of walking legs .
at the thorax of a prawn there are five pairs of walking legs .
wpe - int cells were derived from the rwpe - 1 cell line after two consecutive cycles of single cell cloning .
glioblastome multiforme stem cell line .
human glioblastoma multiforme stem cell line ,  gsc .
human glioblastoma multiforme stem cell line ,  gsc .
human glioblastoma multiforme stem cell line ,  gsc .
the brachial nerve of an octopus travels out to innervate the arms ,  that means more precisely to connect the nervous system of the head and the nervous system of the arms .
glioblastoma  ( gbm )  is a highly malignant ,  rapidly progressive astrocytoma that is distinguished pathologically from lower grade tumors by necrosis and microvascular hyperplasia .
human melanoma cell line .
the choroid plexus epithelium has functions as a barrier at the interface between the blood and cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  highly differentiated .
human nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line .
high tumorigenic and metastatic subline of sune - 1 cell line .
tumorigenic and non - metastatic subline of sune - 1 cell line .
non - tumorigenic subline of sune - 1 cell line .
motor neuron in the anterior horn .
a shoot system meristem formed in an axil .
normal breast epithelial cell line .
human cervical carcinoma cell line ,  established from an uterine cervix of a 41 years old caucasian female ,  containing the human papilloma virus .
a small or secondary corm produced by a larger corm .
a clone of ct - 26 cell line .
lethal subclone of ct26 .wt cell .
the reproductive system of female insects are made up of a pair of ovaries ,  accessory glands ,  one or more spermathecae ,  and ducts connecting these parts .
human non - small cell lung adenocarcinoma cell line ;  established from a pleural effusion metastasis of the lung .
human lung non - small cell lung cancer cell line .
human non - small cell lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
human lung papillary adenocarcinoma cell line ;  established from a 53 years old caucasian male ;  derived from lymph node metastasis .
human lung adeno - squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human cervical carcinoma cell line .
human lung squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line .
human oral squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human umbilical artery smooth muscle cell line .
human chronic b cell leukemia cell line ;  established from the peripheral blood of a 73 - year - old man with b - prolymphocytic leukemia at diagnosis .
the intrinsic neurons of the mushroom body .
human osteosarcoma cell line ,  ki - ras transformed te85 line .
the opening in the skull through which the spinal cord passes to become the medulla oblongata .
mouse areolar and adipose subcutaneous connective tissue cell line ;  established by transfection of l - m ( tk -  )  cells with a wnt - 3a expression vector and selection or stable clones with g418 .
human lung non - small cell adenocarcinoma cell line .
human mammary gland adenocarcinoma cell line ;  derived from a pleural effusion .
mesophyll cells are a type of ground tissue found in the plants leaves .
mouse mammary gland tumor cell line .
human stage 4 non - small cell lung cancer cell line ,  established from a 44 years old caucasian male smoker .
retinoid - maturation - resistant subclone of the acute promyelocytic leukemia cell line nb4 .
all - trans retinoic acid - resistant subclone of the acute promyelocytic leukemia cell line nb4 .
normal human nasopharyngeal cell line ,  immortalized with sv40 large t oncogene .
human immortalized non - neoplastic cell line ;  established by  transfection with a simian virus 40 large t antigen expression vector .
clone of ph5ch cell displaying more efficient hepatitis c virus replication .
clone of ph5ch cell displaying more efficient hepatitis c virus replication .
clone of ph5ch cell displaying more efficient hepatitis c virus replication .
a cartilage bar in the mandibular arch that forms a temporary supporting structure in the embryonic mandible .
human neuroblastoma cell line .
human neuroblastoma cell line .
human neuroblastoma cell line .
human neuroblastoma cell line .
human neuroblastoma cell line .
human t cell leukemia .derivative of ke - 37 cell line .
human tongue squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
human embryonic stem cell line from a female .
human embryonic stem cell line from a male .
human embryonic stem cell line from a male ;  established from human blastocysts .
human embryonic stem cell line from a male ;  established from human blastocysts .
mouse lymphoma cell line ;  induced with moloney murine leukmia virus .
this comples lies in the eyestalk or in an equivalent part of the head in which the eyes are sessile .
lapatinib - resistand subline of bt - 474 cell line .
embryonic rat hypothalamic cell line ,  a neuronal cell line .
huh - 7 derived ribavirin - resistant cell line .
a human hepatoma cell line .
li23 derived ribavirin - sensitive cell line .
tongue epithelial cell line .
is thought to be a human nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line .
embryonic mouse hypothalamus cell line .
benign enlargement of the prostate ,  a noncancerous increase in size of the prostate .
primary human small airway epithelial cells ,  isolated from normal human lung tissue at the distal portion of lung in the 1mm bronchiole area .
human pluripotent stem cell .includes human embryonic stem cells and human induced pluripotent stem cells .
human embryonic stem cell .
human induced pluripotent stem cell .
oral squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
cisplatin - resistant u87mg cell line ;  established by continuing exposure of the parental cells to gradient increasing concentration of the respective drug .
trophoblast cell having one nucleus .
head and neck cancer cell line .
human synovial sarcoma cell line  ( hs - sy - ii )  from pleural effusion with lung metastasis .
the avian nidopallium caudolaterale is a multimodal area in the caudal telencephalon that is apparently not homologous to the mammalian prefrontal cortex but serves comparable functions .
human skin connective tissue normal fibroblast cell line ;  established from a 35 years old black female .
human skin normal fibroblast cell line ;  established from a 39 years old black female from normal breast tissue .
human epithelial breast mammary gland carcinoma cell line ;  established from a 70 years old black female with tnm stage iv ,  grade 3 ,  primary metaplastic carcinoma .
the hela derivative hl3t1 is a sensitive indicator cell line for the hiv - 1 tat transactivator protein .
human normal pancreas duct cell line ;  established from a 52 years old male .
human prostate cancer cell line ;  established from a 50 years old caucasian male ;  derived from metastatic site: left supraclavicular lymph node .
normal human primary epidermal keratinocytes .
the collection of cells at the root tip that generate all the tissues of a plant root .
human pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma cell line .
a tuber structure that develops from the embryos of lycopods  ( lycopodiaceae )  and orchids  ( orchidaceae )  .
the part of an insect embryo posterior to the protocephalon .
a skeletal muscle cell that has become mitotically active  -  typically following muscle damage .
a skeletal muscle satellite cell that is mitotically quiescent .
a skeletal muscle satellite cell that divides by stem cell division .
a benign tumor of the adrenal cortex .
macrophages that encourage inflammation .m1  \ "killer \ " macrophages are activated by lps and ifn - gamma ,  and secrete high levels of il - 12 and low levels of il - 10 .
macrophages that decrease inflammation and encourage tissue repair .
faps are tissue - resident mesenchymal stromal cells  ( mscs )  .
a spore in heterosporous plants giving rise to female gametophytes and usually larger than a microspore .
the c19 mel cell line is a thymidine kinase negative subclone of the 745 murine erythroleukemia cell line .
a thickened rim or ribbon - like extension running along the free border of a mesentery from the end of the actinopharynx downwards .
a very small sclerotium .
the silk gland contains three compartments according its morphology and function ,  including the anterior silk gland ,  middle silk gland ,  and posterior silk gland .
human neuroblastoma cell line .
an undifferentiated cytotrophoblastic stem cell will differentiate into a villous cytotrophoblast ,  which is what constitutes primary chorionic villi ,  and will eventually coalesce into villous syncytiotrophoblast .
synergid cells are two specialized cells that lie adjacent to the egg cell in the female gametophyte of angiosperms and play an essential role in pollen tube guidance and function .
tumorigenic tu - kato - iii cells were derived from the gastric cancer cell line kato - iii .
t98 and t98g are two related cell lines that were derived from a human glioblastoma multiforma tumor .
human lymphoblastoid cell line ;  established by epstein - barr virus transformation from an healthy individual .
human lymphoblastoid cell line ;  established from a - t  ( ataxia telangiectasia )  patients by epstein - barr virus immortalization .
human lymphoblastoid cell line ;  established from a - t  ( ataxia telangiectasia )  patients by epstein - barr virus immortalization .
primordium of an adventitious root .
the spinothalamic tract is a sensory pathway from the skin to the thalamus .
one of the two main parts of the spinathalamic tract .
one of the two main parts of the spinathalamic tract .
the corticospinal tract is a descending tract of the spinal cord which contains bundles of axons which originate in the cerebral cortex and descend to synapse within the brainstem or spinal cord .
a precursor of a spore ;  specifically: a form preceding the endospore in some bacteria and characterized by diffuse response to chromatin stains .
gr1 +  is a granulocytic marker .
human nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line .
human nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line .
human foreskin fibroblast cell line ,  established from a black newborn male .
the internal capsule is a white matter structure situated in the inferomedial part of each cerebral hemisphere of the brain .
human nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line .
cell line from substantia nigra dopaminergic cells derived from transgenic mouse embryos .
lung giant cell carcinoma cell line derived from human .
human melanocyte melanoma cell line .
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line .
human melanocyte melanoma cell line .
human melanocyte melanoma cell line .
corn steep liquor is a by - product of corn wet - milling .
immortalized human hepatocyte cell line .
t - rex cell derivative with targeted integration of a flp - in expression vector .
plasmablastic lymphoma is a type of large b - cell lymphoma .
large coral colonies are fragmented into nubbins and attached to a substrate using gorilla glue .
a microtome is a tool used to cut extremely thin slices of material ,  known as sections .
system relating to ,  or joining the corpus striatum and the substantia nigra .
the olivocerebellar tract are neural fibers which originate at the olivary nucleus and pass out through the hilum and decussate with those from the opposite olive in the raphe nucleus ,  then as internal arcuate fibers they pass partly through and partly around the opposite olive and enter the inferior peduncle to be distributed to the cerebellar hemisphere of the opposite side from which they arise .
in the roots ,  the vascular tissue is organized within a single central vascular cylinder .
spinal cord motor tract emanating from the red nucleus .
fiber pertaining to the olive ,  the middle peduncles and the cerebellar cortex .
the pontocerebellar fibers are the second order neuron fibers of the corticopontocerebellar tracts that cross to the other side of the pons and run within the middle cerebellar peduncles ,  from the pons to the contralateral cerebellum .
histaminergic neuron of aplysia californica .
a nucleus of nerve cells in the preoptic area of the basal forebrain ,  ventral to the anterior commissure .
a nucleus of nerve cells in the preoptic area of the basal forebrain .
a nucleus of nerve cells in the preoptic area of the basal forebrain .
a nucleus of nerve cells in the preoptic area of the basal forebrain .
a stage of the embryo sac development .
somatic cell of the testis .
trichome - covered tissue .typically ,  the ventral petiole base of cecropia leaves has a hairy mat ,  the trichilia ,  that produces glycogen - rich muellerian bodies .
the inferior - most of the three longitudinal gyri that cover the lateral surface of the temporal lobe .
the middle the three longitudinal gyri that cover the lateral surface of the temporal lobe .
the superior of the three longitudinal gyri that cover the lateral surface of the temporal lobe .
the superior ,  the middle ,  or the inferior temporal gyrus .
the primordial tubular heart in the embryo ,  before its division into chambers .
the two endothelial tubes that meet in the midthoracic region of the embryo and fuse to form the primordial cardiac or heart tube ,  the primordium of the heart .
the buffy coat is the fraction of an anticoagulated blood sample that contains most of the white blood cells and platelets following density gradient centrifugation of the blood .
blood cell found in the veins .
blood cell found in arteries .
that area of the oral cavity beneath the tongue .
the buffy coat is the fraction of an anticoagulated blood sample that contains most of the white blood cells and platelets following density gradient centrifugation of the blood .
an air pouch is produced by subcutaneous injection of sterile air into the back of a mouse or rat .
blood found in the veins .
blood found in arteries .except for the pulmonary artery the arterial blood is rich in oxygen .
a primordium that when fertilized develops into a perithecium .
a cell that has nuclear dna from one source and cytoplasmic dna from another ,  such as a nonhuman animal cell that has had its nucleus replaced by the nucleus of a human somatic cell .
the cumulus - oocyte complex is an oocyte surrounded by specialized granulosa cells ,  called cumulus cells .
a glomus cell  ( type i )  is a peripheral chemoreceptor ,  mainly located in the carotid bodies and aortic bodies ,  that helps the body regulate breathing .
one of several small structures on the arch of the aorta that contain neural tissue sensitive to the chemical composition of arterial blood .
the aortic arch is the part of the aorta between the ascending and descending aorta .
chinese oesophaeal squamous cell carcinoma cell line .
one of the bony or cartilaginous segments composing the spinal column ,  consisting in some lower vertebrates of several distinct elements which never become united ,  and in higher vertebrates having a short more or less cylindrical body whose ends articulate by pads of elastic or cartilaginous tissue with those of adjacent vertebrae and a bony arch that encloses the spinal cord .
human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma cell line ;  derived from the moderately differentiated invasive esophageal squamous cell carcinoma resected from middle intra - thoracic esophagus of a 54 - year - old japanese man prior to treatment .
normal human mammary epithelial cell line .
sus scrofa lung alveolar macrophage cell line .
human normal mammary epithelial cell line .
human acute monocytic leukemia cell line ,  established from a 13 years old girl .
human kidney clear cell carcinoma cell line ,  established from a 69 - years - old caucasian male .
a nerve cell that uses serotonin as its neurotransmitter .
extravillous cytotrophoblast cells are the cells of the outermost layer of the fetal component of the human placenta .
extravillous cytotrophoblast cells are the cells of the outermost layer of the fetal component of the human placenta .
the outermost layer of trophoblast ,  produced by cytotrophoblast where there is direct contact with maternal decidua rather than blood .
the cell line human invasive proliferative extravillous cytotrophoblast 65 expresses markers of human invasive primary cytotrophoblast as determined by immunocytochemistry ,  immunobloting and real - time rt - pcr ,  and is highly invasive in vitro .
this line is a subline that has been derived from hmt - 3522 .
human thyroid carcinoma cell line ,  established from cancer cells disseminated in the pleural fluid of a 44 - year - old woman with undifferentiated giant cell carcinoma of the thyroid after chemotherapy ,  x - ray hyperthermia and ok432 injections in 1986 .
first trimester human trophoblast cell line .
human neuroblastoma cell line .
clear cell renal cell carcinoma cell line ,  derived from primary tumor site stage 4 human ccrcc patient tissue .
clear cell renal cell carcinoma cell line .
any of the cells in a leaf making up the epidermis .
mouse chondrocytes immortalized with a temperature - sensitive simian virus 40 large t antigen .
human breast medulla carcinoma cell line ,  established from the pleural effusion of a 44 year old woman with metastatic breast cancer .
one of the characteristic sensory organs of the lateral lines of fishes and various other lower vertebrates consisting of a cluster of sensory cells connected with nerve fibers .
human mammary gland ductal carcinoma cell line ,  established from breast tissue of a 43 years old female in 1986 ,  removed at mastectomy to remove a ductal carcinoma  ( stage ii ,  grade iv )  .
human glioblastoma cell line .
a thick plate of cells derived from the neural ectoderm in the head region of the vertebrate embryo and developing into the olfactory region of the nasal cavity .
the part of the embryonic ectoderm that develops into the neural tube .
mouse olfactory placode cell line .
a thick plate of cells derived from the neural ectoderm in the head region of the vertebrate embryo and developing into the olfactory region of the nasal cavity .
mouse olfactory placode cell line .
human lung squamous cell carcinoma cell line ,  established from a japanese male .
human myelodysplastic cell line .myelodysplastic syndromes are a group of cancers in which immature blood cells in the bone marrow do not mature and therefore do not become healthy blood cells .
human myelodysplastic syndrome - derived cell line .
the vascular cambium of a plant that develops between vascular bundles .
a portion of ground tissue located between vascular bundles in a shoot axis .
pk - 15 cell line ,  transfected with porcine cd163 by piggybac transposon system .
endomysium ,  meaning within the muscle ,  is a wispy layer of areolar connective tissue that ensheaths each individual myocyte .
a modified fat cell occurring in the fat body of certain insects and containing groups of bacterium - shaped rods that are believed to be symbiotic bacteria .
a layer of tightly packed unique endothelial cells that make up the walls of brain capillaries and prevent substances in the blood from diffusing freely into the brain .
cd11c is an integrin alpha x chain protein found at high levels on most human dendritic cells ,  but also on monocytes ,  macrophages ,  neutrophils ,  and some b cells that induces cellular activation and helps trigger neutrophil respiratory burst .
the lateral wall of a somite from which the dermis is produced .
single cell layer of involuted endoderm lying beneath the prechordal plate .
cranial ganglion which develops from an epibranchial placode .
human ovarian carcinoma cell line ;  established from a 56 - years - old female .
a stable cell line derived from uwb1 .289 .
the lower ,  medioventral part of the somite ,  that breaks up into mesenchyme ,  which contributes to the axial skeleton of the embryo ,  that is the vertebral column ,  ribs ,  and much of the skull .
an abnormal mass of tissue that usually does not contain cysts or liquid areas .
a mouth ,  as of a leech ,  adapted for sucking or adhering .
a mouth ,  as of a leech ,  adapted for sucking or adhering .
the free - swimming ,  bilaterally symmetrical larva of an echinoid or ophiuroid .
human fibroblast cell line .
promyeloblastic cell line differentiated to neutrophils or macrophages by tumor promoters ,  vitamne d3 or cytokines .
mouse thymic tumor cell line .
an androgen - independent cell line derived from the parental lncap cell line .
enzalutamide - resistant pancreatic cancer cell line .
a small tubercle in the floor of the third ventricle .
four small areas in or near the base of the brain that have fenestrated capillaries and are outside the blood - brain barrier .
one of the four sensory circumventricular organs of the brain .
uterine carcinosarcoma cell line .
a malignant tumor cell line combining elements of carcinoma and sarcoma in the uterus .
immortalized endometrial glandular cells with normal structural and functional characteristics .
immortalized endometrial glandular cells with normal structural and functional characteristics .
immortalized endometrial glandular cells with normal structural and functional characteristics .
intrinsic cddp resistant human non - small - cell lung cancer cell line .
besides pigments ,  the outer mantle of the giant clam tridacna squamosa has iridophores which consist of small groups of cells containing stacks of tiny platelets  .the reflective platelets scatter light of photosynthetically productive wavelengths into the tissue while back - reflecting non - productive wavelength .
the inner mantle of the giant clam tridacna squamosa ,  adjacent to the extrapallial fluid ,  as demarcated by the pallial line of the shell - valve ,  is thin and whitish ,  and is involved in shell formation .
the tubules and interstitial tissue of the kidneys .
the end of each vas deferens has an expanded portion ,  the ampulla ,  that serves as a reservoir for sperm .
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line .
human embryonic fibroblast cell line .
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
any of the small tubular flowers at the centre of the flower head of certain composite plants ,  such as the daisy .
mgh - u3 and  - u4 ,  derived respectively from a grade 1 tumor and an urothelium biopsy with severe atypia ,  are likely to be independent human bladder cell lines and different from other transitional cell bladder carcinoma cell lines reported .
mgh - u3 and  - u4 ,  derived respectively from a grade 1 tumor and an urothelium biopsy with severe atypia ,  are likely to be independent human bladder cell lines and different from other transitional cell bladder carcinoma cell lines reported .
a derivative of vero cells .
human urinary bladder transitional cell carcinoma cell line ,  but shown to be a derivative of t - 24 .
wild - type mouse embryonic fibroblast cell line mbeta16tsa .
aedes aegypti derived clonal mosquito cell line ;  derived from a neonate mosquito embryo .
mouse lymphoma cell line ,  derived by transfectlng alpha - beta - bw5147 cells with the nfat - lacz construct .
mouse lymphoma cell line ,  derived by transfectlng alpha - beta - bw5147 cells with the nfat - lacz construct .
either of a pair of collateral sympathetic ganglia that are the largest of the autonomic nervous system and lie one on each side of the celiac artery near the adrenal gland on the same side .
mouse b - lymphocyte cell line .
hepad38 is a stably transfected hepatoblastoma cell line that replicates human hbv under the control of a tetracycline - regulated promoter .
one of the elongated pouches projecting from the upper end of the insect stomach .
preparation resulting from the lysis of erythrocytes .
this cell line was constructed by stable transfection of a 1 .3 fold adw subtype hbv genome into hepg2 cells .
mouse cortical collecting duct cell line .
human melanoma cell line .
mouse mammary gland adenocarcinoma cell line .
the outermost primary cell layer of the root .
a column of glandular cells associated with the esophagus of various nematodes .
urinary bladder transitional cell carcinoma cell line ;  established in 1974 from a grade i transitional cell carcinoma .
urinary bladder transitional cell carcinoma cell line ;  established from the tumor spediment rexected from the undifferentiated grade iv urinary bladder transitinal cell carcinome of a 67 - year - old woman in 1974 .
rat hepatoma / human fibroblast hybrid cell line .
subline of wif - b9 cell line ,  obtained by exposure to progressively increasing cisplatin concentrations and double sub - clonal selection .
normal human lung fibroblast cell line .
a small muscle of the calf of the leg that arises from the lower end of the femur and the posterior ligament of the knee joint ,  is inserted with the achilles tendon by a very long slender tendon into the calcaneus ,  and weakly felxes the leg at the knee and the foot at the ankle .
main root of a primary root system ,  growing vertically downward .
pedunculate ,  goose or goose - neck barnacles have a flexible ,  muscular stalk ,  known as the peduncle ,  which supports the main body known as the capitulum .
pedunculate ,  goose or goose - neck barnacles have a flexible ,  muscular stalk ,  known as the peduncle ,  which supports the main body known as the capitulum .
a leaf in which the blade is divided to the midrib ,  forming two or more distinct blades or leaflets on a common axis ,  the leaflets themselves occasionally being compound .
the main axis or stem of an inflorescence or compound leaf .
is a substrate for basidiomycetes .
is a substrate for basidiomycetes .
cn - ii hyper - expressing cell line derived from human embryonic kidney hek 293 cells .
mouse testis type b spermatogonia cell line .
t - rex cell derivative generated by genomic integration of an r4 acceptor site and a promoterless geneticin antibiotic restistance gene using the jump - in cell engineering technology .
a variant of a2780 human ovarian cancer cell line ,  resistant to doxorubicin .
ek 293t / 17 cells were transformed with adenovirus e1a carrying a temperature sensitive t antigen co - selected with neomycin .
the 293t / 17 cell line is a derivative of the 293t cell line .
the red nucleus or nucleus ruber is a structure in the rostral midbrain involved in motor coordination .
any of the segments of a tapeworm ;  they contain both male and female reproductive organs .
the sum of the proglottids is called a strobila ,  which is thin and resembles a strip of tape .
human pediatric gbm - derived cell line .
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
human uterine endometrial undifferentiated carcinoma cell line ;  established from the metastatic lymph node of 56 year old patient .
human endometrial clear cell carcinoma cell line ;  established from operation material from a woman with endometrial clear cell carcinoma .
epithelial cell derived carcinoma ,  arising in the endometrium of the uterus ,  characterized by the presence of clear cells observed during histological ,  diagnostic assessment .
four distinctive cell types make up the excretory system of the worm caenorhabditis elegans: one pore cell ,  one duct cell ,  one canal cell and a fused pair of gland cells .
the pore cell is a specialized ,  transitional ,  epithelial cell .
the duct cell surrounds the duct from its origin to the boundary of the pore cell and is located just anterior and lateral  ( left or right )  to the excretory cell body .
the excretory duct of caenorhabditis elegans is a 15 micrometer long ,  cuticle - lined channel that connects the excretory system to outside via the excretory pore located at midline on the ventral side of the body .
gland cell of the secretory - excretory system ,  sends processes to ring ,  opens into excretory duct .
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line ,  highly metastatic .
a monolayer of follicle cells surrounding the developing oocyte and forming adhesive contacts with the surrounding follicular epithelium .
a cell of the vitellarium .
any large and undifferentiated stem cell in certain worms ,  esp planarian worms ,  involved in regeneration and repair .
germ stem cells of the seminiferous epithelium in the testis .
type b spermatogonia differentiate into spermatocytes ,  which in turn undergo meiosis to eventually form mature sperm cells .
the sessile form of cnidarian  ( such as a coral or sea anemone )  typically having a hollow cylindrical body closed and attached at one end and opening at the other by a central mouth surrounded by tentacles armed with nematocysts .
multipotent sphere - forming cells from human high grade glioma .
macrophage of the glomerulus .
human b - lymphoblastoid cell line .
normal mouse pancreatic islet endothelial cell line established in 1994 .
renal oncocytoma is thought to arise from the intercalated cells of collecting ducts of the kidney .
an abnormal growth of tissue in animals or plants .
normal human lung fibroblast cell line ;  established from lung tissue of a 5 month gestational age fetus from a therapeutic abortion .
stem cell - like aml cell line .
squamous cell carcinoma of the skin is the second most common form of skin cancer ,  characterized by abnormal ,  accelerated growth of squamous cells .
human ovarian carcinoma cell line .
rat kidney mesangial cell line .
a small but dense network of blood vessels formed by the breaking up of a larger vessel into branches that usually reunite into one trunk and believed especially important as an oxygen - storing mechanism in aquatic mammals .
human non - hodgkin lymphoma cell line ,  established in 1992 from a patient in the leukemic phase of diffuse large cell lymphoma  ( dlcl )  with cleaved and non - cleaved nuclei .
diffuse large b - cell lymphoma is a common type of non - hodgkin lymphoma  ( nhl )  accounting for about 2 in 5 of all cases .
flattened fibroblasts forming a sheath around the intestinal glands of the colon .
human head and neck squamous carcinoma cell line .
pc - 3ml are highly metastatic sublines isolated from pc - 3 cells .
the opisthonephros is the functional adult kidney in lampreys  ( cyclostomes )  ,  most fishes ,  and amphibians .
a simian virus - 40 antigen - immortalized human gingival epithelial cell line .
human nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line ;  derived from a from a 36 - year - old female chinese patient living in taiwan .
human nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line ;  derived from a 64 - year - old male chinese living in taiwan .
a u87mg derived clone ,  defective in ceramide production de novo .
mouse multiple myeloma cell line .
renal cell adenocarcinoma cell line ,  established from a 63 years old caucasian female .
b - lymphoblast cell line .
felis catus fetal lung cell line .
bel - 7404 cell line ,  growing in 20microgramm per milliliter cisplatin for 24 months .
bone lining cells cover inactive bone surfaces ,  particularly evident in the adult skeleton .
mouse b cell lymphoma cell line .
human neuroblastoma cell line ,  established in 1990 from a 104months old child post chemotherapy .
human synovial sarcoma cell line .
human synovial sarcoma cell line ;  established from a 25 years old caucasian female .
cuvierian tubules are clusters of fine tubes located at the base of the respiratory tree in some sea cucumbers in the genera bohadschia ,  holothuria and pearsonothuria ,  all of which are included in the family holothuriidae .
mouse microglial cell line .
a free - swimming larva of a scyphozoan jellyfish formed by transverse fission of a scyphistoma and growing into a medusa .
this continuous feline fetus cell line was developed in 1979 from a whole cat fetus with peritonitis .
cultures derived from parental 293 - f cells that were re - cloned by limiting dilution .
normal human gastric epithelial cell line .
mammary gland cancer cell line ,  from a tnm stage iib ,  grade 2 ,  primary acantholytic squamous cell carcinoma .
an sv40 - immortalized human corneal epithelial cell line .
primary human cardiac myocytes isolated from the ventricles of the adult heart .
nontumorigenic human mammary gland cell line from fibrocystic disease .
human foetal lung fibroblast cell line ;  established from a 14 week old female foetus .
primary human pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells isolated from the lung from a single donor .
nonalveolar macrophage located in the pulmonary interstitium .
porcine intestinal jejunum cell line ;  established from normal intestinal epithelium cells isolated from the jejunum of a neonatal ,  unsuckled pig .
porcine intestinal jejunum and ileum cell line ;  established from normal intestinal epithelium cells isolated from both jejunum and ileum of a neonatal pig .
originally thought to be a hnscc cell line ,  but it was cross - contaminated by a549 lung cancer cells .
human thyroid carcinoma cell line ;  derived from a primay papillary thyroid carcinoma .
primary thyroid papillary carcinoma cell line .
murine osteosarcoma cell line ;  derived by intra - osseous injection of the k7 murine osteosarcoma cell line to the proximal tibia of a balb / c mouse .
k7 murine osteosarcoma cell line .
kb cells gowing in 20microgramm per milliliter cisplatin .
kb cells gowing in 10microgramm per milliliter cisplatin .
kb cells gowing in 5microgramm per milliliter cisplatin .
the mv4 - 11 cell line was established from the blast cells of a 10 - year - old male with biphenotypic b - myelomonocytic leukemia .
b cell lymphoma cell line ;  established from the peripheral blood sample of a 48 - year - old man with b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma in 1984 .
ovarian clear - cell carcinoma is an uncommon subtype of epithelial ovarian carcinoma .
a sex cord - gonadal stromal tumor of sertoli cells .
human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma cell line which is relatively stably resistant to cddp after repeated exposure to escalating doses of the drug .
human h - tert immortalized aoa1 fibroblast cell line ,  derived from an individual with ataxia with oculomo -  \ ntor apraxia type 1  ( aoa1 )  and thus lacking aprataxin .
human osteosarcoma cell line from pelvis ,  established from primary patient samples at the norwegian radium hospital .
human osteosarcoma cell line from femur ,  established from primary patient samples at the norwegian radium hospital .
hek - 293 cell line ,  expressing app695  k595n / m596l  swedish  mutant .
ovary cell line ,  derived from pupal ovaries of heliothis zea .
ovary cell line ,  derived from pupal ovaries of heliothis zea .
ovary cell line ,  derived from pupal ovaries of heliothis zea .
ovary cell line ,  derived from pupal ovaries of heliothis virescens .
ovary cell line ,  derived from pupal ovaries of heliothis virescens .
human fibroblast osteosarcoma cell line lacking the thymidine kinase  ( tk )  gene .
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line .
hepatocellular carcinoma cell line .
ovary cell line ,  derived from pupal ovaries of heliothis virescens .
the part within the ovary of a flowering plant to which the ovules are attached .
white adipocytes are rounded cells that contain a single large fat droplet that occupies over 90% of the cell volume and the mitochondria and nucleus are squeezed into the remaining cell volume .
brown adipocytes include numerous mitochondria ,  which in part induce the darker color of this tissue compared to white adipose tissue .
an enlargement in the dorsal medulla oblongata associated with connections of the vagus nerve and ,  in some species ,  the glossopharyngeal nerve .
the posterior tuberculum and the preglomerular complex are two dominant structures in the basal diencephalon of zebrafish ,  which also have no apparent counterparts in amniote tetrapods like birds and mammals .
the outer covering of a nut or of an ear of corn .
a plant part functioning as or of similar origin to a leaf .
three human cancer cell lines  ( oc 314 ,  oc 315 ,  and oc 316 )  were newly established in permanent culture from the ascites of patients with serous adenocarcinoma of the ovary .
three human cancer cell lines  ( oc 314 ,  oc 315 ,  and oc 316 )  were newly established in permanent culture from the ascites of patients with serous adenocarcinoma of the ovary .
three human cancer cell lines  ( oc 314 ,  oc 315 ,  and oc 316 )  were newly established in permanent culture from the ascites of patients with serous adenocarcinoma of the ovary .
human non - small cell lung adenocarcinoma cell line ,  derived from lymph node metastasis .
subline of hct116 cell line which has intact dna mismatch repair gene  ( hmlh1 )  .
human lung large cell tumor cell line .
mammary gland primary ductal carcinoma cell line .
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line .
cd3  ( cluster of differentiation 3 )  is a protein complex and t cell co - receptor that is involved in activating both the cytotoxic t cell  ( cd8 +  naive t cells )  and t helper cells  ( cd4 +  naive t cells )  .
human peripheral blood mantle cell lymphoma cell line ,  established from the peripheral blood of a 78 - year - old woman with b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma  ( b - nhl )  .
human neuroepithelial stem cell line .
human normal skin fibroblast cell line ,  taken at biopsy from the left breast .
human breast carcinoma cell line ,  established from the pleural effusion of a 50 - year - old caucasian woman with breast carcinoma  ( ductal type ,  histological grading ii )  in 1979 .
human normal fibroblast cell line .
human normal fibroblast cell line .
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line .
cancer that forms in the peritoneum .
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line .
human embryonic kidney cell line expressing opsins .
human highly invasive ovarian cancer cell line .
human hepatocyte cell line .
immortal human pancreatic duct epithelial cell line .
human bladder transitional cell carcinoma  cell .
vl - 17a cell line ,   which are hepg2 cells over - expressing alcohol dehydrogenase  ( adh )  and cytochrome p450 2e1  ( cyp2e1 )  .
human multiple myeloma cell line ,  established from the bone marrow of a 64 - year - old woman with multiple myeloma in 1988 ;  sister cell line of kms - 12 - pe .
human multiple myeloma cell liine ,  established in 1987 from the pleural effusion of a 64 - year - old woman with refractory ,  terminal multiple myeloma  ( ig - non - producing )  after combination chemotherapy ;  described in the literature to carry t ( 11:14 )  ( q13:q32 )  rearrangement ;  sister cell line of kms - 12 - bm .
human myeloma cell line .
b cell lymphoma cell line ,  established from the peritoneal effusion of a 38 - year - old man with b - nhl  ( diffuse large cell ,  cleaved cell type ;  originally described as  \ "diffuse histiocytic lymphoma \ " )  in 1975 .
large cell lymphoma cell line ,  established from the peritoneal effusion of a 72 - year - old woman with  large cell lymphoma ,  originally described as  \ "diffuse histiocytic lymphoma \ " in 1975 .
muscle invasive bladder cancer  ( mibc )  is a cancer that spreads into the detrusor muscle of the bladder .
intestinal stem cells are multipotent adult stem cells ,  which in mammals reside in the base of the crypts of the adult intestine .
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line ,  established from the pleural effusion of a pulmonary adenocarcinoma in a 51 year - old japanese female .
androgen - independent cell line directly derived from lncap by maintaining in an androgen - depleted medium .
normal human peritoneal mesothelial cell line .
cell line generated from mda - mb - 231 cells co - transfected with reporter plasmids ,  pgl3 control luciferase and ppur .
normal immortalized human hepatocyte cell line .
human fibroblast cell line .
the brain - corpora cardiaca - corpora allata complex of insects is the physiological equivalent of the brain - hypophysis axis of vertebrates .
a slender rootlike filament that grows from an alga ,  a fungus ,  or the gametophyte of a moss ,  liverwort ,  or fern ,  used for attachment and nourishment .
neural embryonic stem cell line isolated from embryonic hindbrain ,  carnegie stage 15 .
multi - tissue structure that is located between the dorsal diencephalon and the mesencephalon and contains the caudal commissure .
lung cancer cells with progressive migration ability .
