a plant variety obtained in agriculture in horticulture .
a biotype resulting from selection in a particular habitat ,  e .g .
a strain or line is an animal or plant offspring that has a single ancestral breeding pair or parent as a result of brother x sister or parent x offspring matings .
an anatomical structure consisting of similarly specialized cells and intercellular matrix ,  aggregated according to genetically determined spatial relationships ,  performing a specific function .
the quantity of a substance per unit volume or weight ;  a measure of the amount of substance present in a unit amount of mixture ,  particularly ,  the amount of solute dissolved in a solvent .
the words or language units by which a thing is known .
a message describing how something is to be done .
a coordinated set of actions and observations designed to generate data ,  with the ultimate goal of discovery or hypothesis testing
an aqueous dilution of ethanol containing 70% ethanol by volume .
a homogeneous mixture of two or more substances ;  frequently  ( but not necessarily )  a liquid solution .
the first measured concentration of a compound in a substance .
date on the cover of a magazine issue ,  suitable for storing in a database field with a 'date' data type .
an element used to tag keywords that are likely to be used in search queries .
title of the magazine ,  or other publication ,  in which a resource was / will be published .
tissue and cells derived from animals for use in research .
a ubiquitous tissue culture model for nontransformed animal cells ;  derived from nonneoplastic immortalized fibroblasts .
expendable and nonexpendable equipment ,  supplies ,  apparatus ,  and instruments that are used in diagnostic ,  surgical ,  therapeutic ,  scientific ,  and experimental procedures .
trypanosoma is a genus of kinetoplastids  ( class kinetoplastida )  ,  a monophyletic group of unicellular parasitic flagellate protozoa .
introduction of object and / or substance into or onto body ,  including injection ,  implantation ,  infusion ,  perfusion ,  transfusion ,  irrigation ,  instillation ,  insertion ,  placement ,  replacement ,  packing ,  intubation ,  catheterization ,  cannulation introduction of object and / or substance into or onto body ,  including injection ,  implantation ,  infusion ,  perfusion ,  transfusion ,  irrigation ,  instillation ,  insertion ,  placement ,  replacement ,  packing ,  intubation ,  catheterization ,  cannulation .
injection is a introduction procedure where a substance is introduced into a organism ,  usually by means of a hypodermic syringe ,  as a liquid into the veins or muscles of the body .
physical state which is characteristic of a liquid .
physical state which is characteristic of a gel .
a quality ,  which is the physical condition of a material entity ,  based on its chemical composition and structure .100428npodennis thomas
a realizable entity the manifestation of which brings about some result or end that is not essential to a continuant in virtue of the kind of thing that it is but that can be served or participated in by that kind of continuant in some kinds of natural ,  social or institutional contexts .
established from a human primary embryonal kidney transformed by adenovirus type 5 .
very widely used mouse fibroblast cell line ;  3t3 cells have been derived from different mouse strains and it is therefore important to define the particular cell line .
an alkanesulfonate that has formula c32h58n2o7s .
aldehydic parent sugars  ( polyhydroxy aldehydes h [ ch ( oh )  ] nc ( =o ) h ,  n  > = 2 )  and their intramolecular hemiacetals .
an organic hydroxy compound that consists of benzene bearing a single hydroxy substituent .
a primary alcohol that is ethane in which one of the hydrogens is substituted by a hydroxy group .
a monohydroxy - 5beta - cholanic acid with a alpha - hydroxy substituent at position 3 .
a bile acid that is 5beta - cholan - 24 - oic acid bearing three alpha - hydroxy substituents at position 3 ,  7 and 12 .
a one - carbon compound with formula co2 in which the carbon is attached to each oxygen atom by a double bond .
any member of the class of organooxygen compounds that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone or a lactol resulting from their intramolecular condensation  ( monosaccharides )  ;  substances derived from these by reduction of the carbonyl group  ( alditols )  ,  by oxidation of one or more hydroxy groups to afford the corresponding aldehydes ,  ketones ,  or carboxylic acids ,  or by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by a hydrogen atom ;  and polymeric products arising by intermolecular acetal formation between two or more such molecules  ( disaccharides ,  polysaccharides and oligosaccharides )  .
a dihydroxy - 5beta - cholanic acid that is  ( 5beta )  - cholan - 24 - oic acid substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 3 and 7 respectively .
high molecular weight ,  linear polymers ,  composed of nucleotides containing deoxyribose and linked by phosphodiester bonds ;  dna contain the genetic information of organisms .
an aldohexose used as a source of energy and metabolic intermediate .
the primary alcohol that is the simplest aliphatic alcohol ,  comprising a methyl and an alcohol group .
a secondary alcohol that is propane in which one of the hydrogens attached to the central carbon is substituted by a hydroxy group .
a single - stranded rna molecule containing about 70 - 90 nucleotides ,  folded by intrastrand base pairing into a characteristic secondary  ( 'cloverleaf' )  structure that carries a specific amino acid and matches it to its corresponding codon on an mrna during protein synthesis .
sucrose is a disaccharide formed by glucose and fructose units joined by an acetal oxygen bridge from hemiacetal of glucose to the hemiketal of the fructose .
rna molecules which are essential structural and functional components of ribosomes ,  the subcellular units responsible for protein synthesis .
any ribonucleic acid that is transfer rna in which one or more of the free oh groups carries an alpha - aminoacyl group .
an inorganic chloride salt having sodium ( 1 +  )  as the counterion .
a spirostanyl glycoside that has formula c56h92o29 .
a dihydroxy - 5beta - cholanic acid that has formula c24h40o4 .
a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom .
a potassium salt that has formula c2h3o2 .k .
potassium chloride  ( kcl )  is a inorganic chloride composed of potassium and chloride .
an organic sodium salt that has formula c2h3nao2 .
a macromolecule made up of nucleotide units and hydrolysable into certain pyrimidine or purine bases  ( usually adenine ,  cytosine ,  guanine ,  thymine ,  uracil )  ,  d - ribose or 2 - deoxy - d - ribose and phosphoric acid .
high molecular weight ,  linear polymers ,  composed of nucleotides containing ribose and linked by phosphodiester bonds ;  rna is central to the synthesis of proteins .
an rna molecule that transfers the coding information for protein synthesis from the chromosomes to the ribosomes mrna is formed from a dna template by transcription .
organic aromatic compounds having one or more hydroxy groups attached to a benzene or other arene ring .
a substance used in a chemical reaction to detect ,  measure ,  examine ,  or produce other substances .
a hexose with a  ( potential )  aldehyde group at one end .
a one - carbon compound that is methane in which three of the hydrogens are replaced by chlorines .
parent monosaccharides are polyhydroxy aldehydes h [ ch ( oh )  ] nc ( =o ) h or polyhydroxy ketones h -  [ choh ] n - c ( =o )  [ choh ] m - h with three or more carbon atoms .
the organic bromide salt that is the bromide salt of cetyltrimethylammonium ;  one of the components of the topical antiseptic cetrimide .
a secondary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has two other carbon atoms attached to it .
a biological macromolecule minimally consisting of one polypeptide chain synthesized at the ribosome .
mercaptoethanol is an alkanethiol that has formula c2h6os .
a metal chloride salt with a li (  +  )  counterion .
a compound in which monosaccharide units are joined by glycosidic linkages .
a polymer composed of peg - ylated sorbitan  [ 2 -  ( 1 , 2 - dihydroxyethyl ) tetrahydrofuran - 3 , 4 - diol ]  normally containing a total of 20 oxyethylene groups ,  with one or more of the terminal hydroxy groups esterified with a fatty acyl group .
a polymer composed of peg - ylated sorbitan ,  where the total number of poly ( ethylene glycol )  units is 20  ( w  +  x  +  y  +  z = 20 )  and a single terminal is capped by a palmitoyl group .
a polymer composed of peg - ylated sorbitan ,  where the total number of poly ( ethylene glycol )  units is 20  ( w  +  x  +  y  +  z = 20 )  and a single terminal is capped by a dodecanoyl group .
a polymer composed of peg - ylated sorbitan ,  where the total number of poly ( ethylene glycol )  units is 20  ( w  +  x  +  y  +  z = 20 )  and a single terminal is capped by a stearate group .
a polymer composed of peg - ylated sorbitan ,  where the total number of poly ( ethylene glycol )  units is 20  ( w  +  x  +  y  +  z = 20 )  and a single terminal is capped by an oleoyl group .
a triblock copolymer composed of a central hydrophobic chain of poly ( propylene oxide )  flanked by two hydrophilic chains of poly ( ethylene oxide )  .
a triblock copolymer composed of a central hydrophobic chain of poly ( propylene oxide )   ( 70 units )  flanked by two hydrophilic chains of poly ( ethylene oxide )   ( 20 units each )  .
a polymer consisting of nonylbenzene with a poly ( ethylene glycol )  moiety attached at position 4 .
an inorganic sulfate salt obtained by reaction of sulfuric acid with two equivalents of ammonia .
poly ( ether )  macoromolecule comprising a branched nonyl group bonded to one of the ring positions in 2 -  [ phenoxypoly ( ethoxy )  ] ethanol .
an organic molecular entity containing a single carbon atom  ( c1 )  .
a glycoside resulting from attachment of a decyl group to the reducing - end anomeric centre of a beta - maltose molecule .
a ribonucleic acid with two complementary strands ,  similar to the dna found in all cells .
a class of small rna molecules which are comprised of approximately 150 nucleotides and which are found within the nucleus of eukaryotic cells .
a poly ( ether )  macromolecule that is polyethylene glycol in which one of the terminal hydroxy groups has been converted to the corresponding p - octylphenyl ether .
a threonylcarbamoyladenosine that is incorporated into a trna molecule .
an alkyl sulfate that has formula c12h25nao4s .
a bile acid salt that has formula c24h39nao4 .
triton x - 100 is a a poly ethylene glycol terminated with a 4 -  ( 2 , 4 , 4 - trimethylpentan - 3 - yl )  phenyl group at one end .
a immortal cell line that is dervied from human tissue .
a immortal contractile cell line cell that is derived from muscle cell
a immortal electrically responsive cell line cell that is derived from neuron .
a immortal neuron cell line cell that is derived from peripheral neuron
a immortal animal cell line that is derived from epithelial cell
a immortal animal cell line that is derived from neural cell
a immortal epithelial cell line cell that is derived from hela cell
an immortal cell line cell that derives from prostate gland .
an immortal cell line cell that derives from liver .
an immortal cell line cell that derives from colon .
an immortal cell line cell that derives from neural nucleus .
an immortal epithelial cell line cell that derives from uterine cervix .
an immortal colon - derived cell line cell that derives from human .
an immortal peripheral neuron cell line cell that derives from human .
an immortal liver - derived cell line cell that derives from human .
an immortal neural nucleus - derived cell line cell that derives from rat .
an immortal uterine cervix - derived epithelial cell line cell that derives from human .
an immortal prostate gland - derived cell line cell that derives from human .
a immortal human cell line cell that has the characteristics: lung carcinoma ,  refer to atcc ccl185
a immortal mouse muscle cell line cell that has the characteristics: said differentiate to myotubes ,  but need confirmation .
a material entity of anatomical origin  ( part of or deriving from an organism )  that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
a connective tissue cell which secretes an extracellular matrix rich in collagen and other macromolecules .
the basic cellular unit of nervous tissue .
a cell that is part of the nervous system .
software is a general term primarily used for digitally stored data such as computer programs and other kinds of information read and written by computers .
reagent that is a polymer comprised of nucleotides ,  each of which consists of three components: a nitrogenous heterocyclic base ,  which is either a purine or a pyrimidine ;  a pentose sugar ;  and a phosphate group .
a reagent that is a polymer comprised of dna nucleotides .
a dna reagent consisting of a short ,  linear dna polymer ,  typically with 100 or fewer bases .
an information content entity that is a mark or character used as a conventional representation of another entity .
an information content entity is an entity that is generically dependent on some artifact and stands in relation of aboutness to some entity
a data item that is an aggregate of other data items of the same type that have something in common .
a version number is an information content entity which is a sequence of characters borne by part of each of a class of manufactured products or its packaging and indicates its order within a set of other products having the same name .
a textual entity is a part of a manifestation  ( frbr sense )  ,  a generically dependent continuant whose concretizations are patterns of glyphs intended to be interpreted as words ,  formulas ,  etc .
a collection of information content entities intended to be understood together as a whole
an information content entity that is part of a document
part of a document that enumerates the authors of the document
mus  ( commonly mice )  is a small mammal belonging to the order of rodents .
a processual entity that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
a device in which environmental conditions  ( light ,  photoperiod ,  temperature ,  humidity ,  etc . ) 
a material obtained from an organism in order to be a representative of the whole
a material entity that has the material sample role
dna that has been produced in an enzymatic amplification process
the output of an extraction process in which dna molecules are purified in order to exclude dna from organellas .
a device that is used to freeze dry material .
a type of centrifuge that is designed for small tubes  ( 0 .2 ml to 2 .0 ml )  ,  has a compact design ,  and has a small footprint .
a microinjection device that is used to measure very small volumes of liquids .
a symbol denotes a specimen and used to distinguish one specimen from another in an investigation .
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
electrocution is process by which electric current is applied to a material with quality alive and result the termination of life process .
cervical dislocation is a process by which a vertebrate organism has its life terminated by rupturing spinal cord between cervical vertebrae induced by excessive mechanical torsion
asphyxiation is a process by which oxygen supplies are restricted  ( by mechanical ,  e .g obstructing airways or chemical means ,  e .g .
intentional overdosing is a process by which an excess dose of a chemical compound is given with the intent of causing death
decapitation is a process by which the head of a living organism is physically removed from the body ,  usually resulting in rapid death  ( in the case of rhodnius prolixus ,  it might take a bit longer . . ) 
a device with a rapidly rotating container that applies centrifugal force to its contents
a device that converts a variable electrical current to mechanical vibration of a metallic probe .
an instrument that is capable of repeatedly altering and maintaining specific temperatures for defined periods of time .
a temperature_control_bath is a device that has the function to regulate the temperature of a material ,  the function to contain fluid and the function to vary and maintain the temperature of the contained fluid .
a water bath is a temperature control bath in which a water acts as contact medium enabling temperature transfer from the heating element or cooling element to the sample .
a plant cell that is grown or maintained in vitro .
a cultured plant cell from which the entire plant cell wall has been removed .
a cultured plant cell that was derived from leaf tissue .
a cultured plant cell that was derived from root tissue .
a cell which is a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  .
a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  that consists predominantly of similarly specialized plant cells  ( po:0009002 )  of one or more types .
a multi - tissue plant structure  ( po:0025496 )  that develops from a plant ovule  ( po:0020003 )  and has as parts a plant embryo  ( po:0009009 )  enclosed in a seed coat  ( po:0009088 )  .
a determinate reproductive shoot system that has as part at least one carpel or at least one stamen and does not contain any other determinate shoot system as a part .
a shoot axis  ( po:0025029 )  that is the primary axis of a plant .
a collective plant organ structure  ( po:0025007 )  that produces root apical meristems  ( po:0020147 )  and the plant structures that arise from them .
a phyllome  ( po:0006001 )  that is not associated with a reproductive structure .
any portion of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  other than epidermis  ( po:0005679 )  or vascular tissue  ( po:0009015 )  .
a dna moelcule representing sequence reverse transcribed from a messenger rna template ,  in a reaction catalyzed by the enzyme reverse transcriptase and the enzyme dna polymerase .
a nucleoside triphosphate reagent containing three phosphate groups bound to a 2' - deoxyribo -  sugar ring
a nucleoside triphosphate reagent is a reagent that is a nucleoside containing three phosphate groups bound to its sugar ring .
a myogenic muscular circulatory organ found in the vertebrate cardiovascular system composed of chambers of cardiac muscle .
the brain is the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate ,  and most invertebrate ,  animals .
respiration organ that develops as an oupocketing of the esophagus .
the organ that functions to filter blood and to store red corpuscles and platelets
an exocrine gland which secretes bile and functions in metabolism of protein and carbohydrate and fat ,  synthesizes substances involved in the clotting of the blood ,  synthesizes vitamin a ,  detoxifies poisonous substances ,  stores glycogen ,  and breaks down worn - out erythrocytes [ go ]  .
a paired organ of the urinary tract which has the production of urine as its primary function .
a human being that bears an author role .
amv reverse transcriptase is an enzyme from the avian myeloblastosis virus like hiv has two subunits ,  a 63kda subunit and a 95kda subunit .
advantage 2 pcr buffer is a buffer optimized for amplifying genomic dna ,  and in particular with products less than 1 - 2 kb .
advantage of the protocol is a subclass of textual entity .
agarose gel electrophoresis protocol is a subclass of laboratory protocol .
agaroseingelstate is a gel resulting from the polymerization of agarose after heating agarose suspended in some buffer solution .
the agarose will be in a liquid state acording to its gelling temperature and concentration .
alkyl sulfate reagent is a reagent commonly used as an anionic surfactant in liquid soaps ,  detergents to clean wool ,  surface cleaners ,  as active ingredients in laundry detergents ,  shampoos and conditioners .
amplitaq dna polymerase is a 94 kda ,  thermostable ,  recombinant dna polymerase obtained by expression of a modified form of the thermus aquaticus  ( taq )  dna polymerase gene in e . coli .
amplitaq gold is a thermostable dna polymerase designed to make advanced polymerase chain reaction techniques .
is the result of data analysis process .
dna recovered from ancient biological material  ( e .g . ,  archaeological and historical skeletal material ,  mummified tissues ,  preserved plant remains ,  ice and permafrost cores )  .
a procedure in which is the end of life of animal is brought about in accordance with local regulations on treatment of animal subjects and using a method which causes minimal pain and distress to the animal subject may later be refined with more specific list of organisms .
a animal euthanization protocol is a protocol used in a parasitology experiments and defines instructions on how end the life of animals .
apex taq dna polymerase is a thermostable enzyme .
application of the protocol is a subclass of textual entity .
any ether in which the oxygen is attached to at least one aryl substituent .
author identifier is a unique number to all authors as a form of authority control .
author name is a textual entity .
a bag is a supply .
disruption caused by collision with agitated beads in liquid suspension .
any member of a group of steroid carboxylic acids occuring in bile ,  where they are present as the sodium salts of their amides with glycine or taurine .
a salt of a bile acid .
blender is an instrument that ensure a homogenized blending of the diluted sample .
buffer al is a lysis buffer used during dna isolation using qiaamp and dneasy kits .
buffer ap1 is a lysis buffer used during isolation of dna from plant tissue with the dneasy plant mini kit .
buffer atl is a lysis buffer for use in purification of nucleic acids .
buffer b1  ( bacterial lysis buffer 1 )  consists of 50 mm tris•cl ph 8 .0 ;  50 mm edta ph 8 .0 ;  0 .5% tween 20 ;  0 .5% triton - x100 .
buffer b2  ( bacterial lysis buffer 2 )  consists of 3 m guanidine hydrochloride ,  20% tween 20 .
cell lysis buffer
buffer name is a textual entity .
yeast lysis buffer
ctab buffer is a buffer used during the extraction / isolation of highly polymerized dna from plant material .
catalog number is a subclass of textual entity .
breaking the cells open ,  is the first basic step in a dna extraction .
centrifuge tube is a supply .
chemical compound reagent is a reagent that is added to a system in order to bring about a chemical reaction or are added to see if a reaction occurs .
mixture suitable for nucleic acid purification in plants .
cut  ( something )  into pieces with repeated sharp blows using a sharp instrument .
coffee mill is an instrument used  ( during the first stage of nucleic acids purification )  ,  to crush leaf tissue to make leaf powder .
a macromolecule derived from two or more species of monomer .
a critical step is a message given to a user to perform a protocol instruction in a very precise manner e .g . ,  where the time and temperature of a step is crucial or the use of rnase free solutions is required .
an animal cell that is grown or maintained in vitro .
the cytoplasmic extraction buffer is part of the subcellular protein fractionation kit for tissues .
a dna extraction procedure is a subclass of nucleic acid extraction procedure where the desired output material is dna .
dna extraction protocol is a subclass of nucleic acid extraction protocol .
a material entity which results from the aggregation of dna produced by the application of centrifugal force to a liquid containing dna in suspension .
dna separated by molecular size is obtained after the aplication of electrical potential to move material through a defined matrix .
the biological activity of a biopolymer is closely linked to its native structure which is retained only if critical factors such as temperature ,  ph ,  solvent and solute are kept within narrow limits .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from a disaccharide .
a compound in which two monosaccharides are joined by a glycosidic bond .
dithiothreitol  ( dtt )  is the common name for a small - molecule redox reagent also known as cleland's reagent .
shearing caused by a round glass pestle that is manually driven into a glass tube
a tool or machine with a rotating cutting tip or reciprocating hammer or chisel ,  used for making holes .
electrophoresis procedure is a subclass of laboratory procedure .
electrophoresis protocol is a subclass of laboratory protocol .
an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of keratin ,  and of other proteins with subtilisin - like specificity .
enzimatic amplification protocol is a subclass of laboratory protocol .
enzymatic amplification procedure is a subclass of laboratory procedure that uses enzymes to increase the number of molecules of a biomaterial .
enzymes are biological molecules that possess catalytic activity .
equipment and supplies list is a data set of the names or identifiers of the equipments and supplies  that are part of  materials section of a protocol .
equipment or supply name is a  textual entity .
a homogeneous mixture of ethanol and water .
an experimental protocol is a sequence of tasks and operations executed to perform experimental research .
the final measured concentration of a compound in a substance .
easily ignited .
freezer milling is a type of cryogenic milling that uses a solenoid to mill samples .
shearing is caused by high pressure when sample is forced through a small hole .
geneamp pcr buffer is optimized for use with the enzyme amplitaq dna polymerase .
a gene - specific primer is a short strand of nucleic acid that hybridizes only to sequences exactly complementary to the primer sequence .
geno grinder is a plant and animal tissue homogenizer used for high - throughput applications involving sample preparation for dna ,  rna ,  and protein extractions ,  pesticide residue analysis ,  and more .
a diol in which the two hydroxy groups are on different carbon atoms ,  usually but not necessarily adjacent .
grind is a experimetnal action .
grinding machine is a equipment .
guanidinium thiocyanate - phenol is a mixture used in rna / dna / protein extraction .
a hint is a message given to a user of a protocol that will help to perform the experiment .
homogenize is a experimental action .
homogenized tissue is a tissue that is brought to a state such that all fractions of the tissue are equal in composition .
a homogenizer is a equipment of laboratory used for the homogenization of various types of material ,  such as tissue ,  plant ,  food ,  soil ,  and many others .
hot start taq dna polymerase is a mixture of taq dna polymerase and an aptamer - based inhibitor .
the term “housing conditions” includes the physiological ,  chemical ,  and social environment as well as handling procedures and environmental enrichment .
housing condition protocol is a protocol that defines instructions about the environmental conditions and handling of experimental organims .
the state of being infected such as from the introduction of a foreign agent such as serum ,  vaccine ,  antigenic substance or organism
infection protocol is a protocol used in parasitology experiments and defines instructions on how carry out the infection of a organism that acts as host .
introduction section is part of a document .
a set of chemical substances ,  articles or equipment needed for a specific purpose .
kit name is a  textual entity .
klentaq dna polymerase is missing the n - terminal portion of the gene ,  encoding thermus aquaticus  ( taq )  dna polymerase ,  leaving a highly active and even more thermal stable dna polymerase activity .
a laboratory procedure is the conversion of an input into an output .
a sub procedure is a serie of statements that are executed .
limitation of the protocol is a subclass of textual entity where the possible limitations of the protocol should be discussed .
lyophilized tissue is a tissue dried by freezing in a high vacuum
a lysis buffer is a buffer solution used for the purpose of lysing cells for use in molecular biology experiments that analyze the compounds of the cells  ( e .g .
m - mlv reverse transcriptaseis an enzyme from the moloney murine leukemia virus is a single 75 kda monomer .
mpdb buffer is a lysis buffer used during isolation of dna .
manufacturer name is a subclass of textual entity .
materials section is part of a document .
mechanical milling is a plant and animal tissue homogenizer used for applications involving sample preparation for dna ,  rna ,  and protein extractions .
the membrane extraction buffer is part of the subcellular protein fractionation kit for tissues .
methods section is part of a document .
microcentrifuge tube is a supply .
micropestle is a very small pestle used for tissue homogenization .
mixer mill is a machine used for grinding dry ,  brittle samples .
a mortar and pestle is a device used to crushing and grinding tissue into a fine powder .
n - phenacylthiazolium bromide is a compound that breaks cross - links in advanced glycation end products .
the nuclear extraction buffer plus mnase is part of the subcellular protein fractionation kit for tissues .
nh4 buffer is an ready - to - use buffer for pcr using taq dna polymerases  ( both recombinant and native )  .
poisonous to nerves or nerve cells .
the nuclear extraction buffer is part of the subcellular protein fractionation kit for tissues .
nucleic acid extraction procedure is a subclass of laboratory procedure used to recover the nucleic acid fraction of an input material entity .
nucleic acid extraction protocol is a subclass of laboratory protocol .
oligo  ( dt )  primer is a short sequence of deoxy - thymine nucleotides .
protocol outcome is a textual entity that is an outcome or expected result by a protocol execution .
pcr buffer is a solution that provide a suitable chemical environment for optimum activity and stability of the dna polymerase
pcr program is a textual entity that consists in define a series of 20 - 40 repeated temperature changes ,  called cycles ,  with each cycle commonly consisting of 2 - 3 discrete temperature steps ,  usually three  ( denaturation ,  annealing and extention )  .
parasitology experiment is an experiment .
pause point is the point were the protocol naturally breaks into separate stages .
the pellet extraction buffer is part of the subcellular protein fractionation kit for tissues .
phenacyl bromide reagent is a reagent that has formula c8h7bro .
a mixture consisting of equal parts of equilibrated phenol and chloroform:isoamyl alcohol  ( 24:1 )  is frequently used to remove proteins from preparations of nucleic acids .
phosphate buffered saline  ( pbs )  is a non toxic solution used in many biological laboratories .
pcr is a subclass of enzymatic amplification procedure .
pcr protocol is a step by step description of the procedure to amplify a particular dna sequence .
poly ethylene glycol is a polymer composed of repeating ethyleneoxy units .
polytron homogenizer is a instrument used for pulverizing plant and animal tissue ,  grain and seed ,  soil extraction ,  dna / rna extraction .
a vinyl polymer composed of repeating  - ch2 - cr -  units where r is a 2 - oxopyrrolidin - 1 - yl group .
a portable ice chest is a supply .
any alkali metal salt having potassium ( 1 +  )  as the cation .
shearing is caused by a ptfe -  coated pestle that is manually or mechanically driven into a conical vessel
powdered tissue is a material entity .
a solid or solid phase separated from a solution .
precipitation reaction ,  is the third basic step in a dna extraction .
a primer is a short strand of nucleic acid that serves as a starting point for dna or rna synthesis .
primer name is a  textual entity .
primer sequence is a textual entity .
a procedure description is a short statement that describe the goal to achieve with the execution of a series of steps .
is a dna that suffers changes during a laboratory procedure .
is a rna that suffers changes during a laboratory procedure .
reads that have suffered some processing .
protein purification is a series of processes intended to isolate one or a few proteins from a complex mixture ,  usually cells ,  tissues or whole organisms .
protein extraction protocol is a subclass of laboratory protocol .
a protocol instruction should have sufficient level of detail and quantitative information to communicate it between domain experts ,  so that different domain experts will reliably be able to independently reproduce the procedure .
provenance of the protocol is a subclass of textual entity .
publication is a magazine ,  or other publication ,  in which a resource was / will be published .
the purpose of a protocol is a subclass of textual entity .
a chemical substance that will ignite spontaneously in air at or below a temperature of 130 f  ( 54 .4 c )  .
derivatives of ammonium compounds ,   ( nh4 (  +  )  ) y (  -  )  ,  in which all four of the hydrogens bonded to nitrogen have been replaced with univalent  ( usually hydrocarbyl )  groups .
a rna extraction procedure is a subclass of nucleic acid extraction procedure where the desired output material is rna
rna extraction protocol is a subclass of nucleic acid extraction protocol .
a material entity which results from the aggregation of rna produced by the application of centrifugal force to a liquid containing rna in suspension .
rna separated by molecular size is obtained after the aplication of electrical potential to move material through a defined matrix .
random primers are used for synthesizing large pools of cdna .
raw data set is an unanalyzed data set ;  data not yet subjected to analysis .
raw output of a sequencing process .
reagent list is a data set of the names or identifiers of the reagents  ( purchased ready - to - use )  ,  that are part of materials section of a protocol .
reagent name is a textual entity .
recipe list is a data set of the names or identifiers of the recipes ,  that are part of materials section of a protocol .
recipe name is a textual entity .
reference lists contain a complete list of all the sources  ( books ,  journal articles ,  websites ,  etc . ) 
a central location in which experimental protocols are stored and managed .
title of the repository in which a resource was / will be stored and managed .
results section is part of a document .
a reverse transcriptase  ( rt )  is an enzyme used to generate complementary dna  ( cdna )  from an rna template ,  a process termed reverse transcription .
in this step ,  total rna or messenger rna  ( mrna )  is first transcribed into complementary dna  ( cdna )  by reverse transcriptase .
reverse transcription pcr is a process which allow amplification of cdna during a pcr reaction while the cdna results from a retrotranscription of messenger rna isolated from a material entity .
reverse transcription pcr protocol is a step by step description of the procedure to reverse - transcribe and amplify rna to cdna .
a person who formally assesses or examines a document ,  for example ,  a protocol .
sample mills cover a broad range of sample preparation equipment and supplies .
saponin is a compound containing one or more hydrophilic glycoside moieties combined with a lipophilic triterpenoid or steroid derivative .
a n - alkylglycine that is the n - methyl derivative of glycine .
an aqueous dilution of ethanol containing 75% ethanol by volume .
sodium lauroyl sarcosinate also known as sarkosyl ,  is an ionic surfactant derived from sarcosine .
any alkali metal salt having sodium ( 1 +  )  as the cation .
software list is a data set of the names of softwares that are part of materials section of a protocol .
software name is a textual entity .
solution name is a textual entity .
specimen list is a data set of the names or identifiers of the specimens that are part of materials section of a protocol .
specimen name is a textual entity .
any method used to modify an existing sample / specimen
a specimen preparation protocol is a protocol used in a biological experiment and defines instructions on how a specimen or sample should be treated in a given experimental scenario .
stain extraction buffer is a buffer used to digest and extract dna .
stained dna is a material entity .
any steroid substituted by at least one carboxy group .annotations
any of naturally occurring compounds and synthetic analogues ,  based on the cyclopenta [ a ] phenanthrene carbon skeleton ,  partially or completely hydrogenated ;  there are usually methyl groups at c - 10 and c - 13 ,  and often an alkyl group at c - 17 .
storage condition is a message given to a user of a protocol about the shelf life  ( maximum storage time )  and temperature of storage of a buffer ,  reagent or solution .
subcellular protein fractionation kit for tissues includes five cellular components to obtain proteins .
a textual entity that describes the execution of a protocol insrtuction or step .
superscript reverse transcriptase  ( rt )  is a family of enzymes widely used for cdna synthesis .
taqman buffer is pcr buffer with rox added for florescence .
taq polymerase is a heat stable dna - direct dna polymerase from the bacteria thermus aquaticus .
taq polymerase buffer is a solution formulated to provide efficient activation of the enzyme taq dna polymerase ,  resulting in pcr amplification .
an aqueous dilution of ethanol containing 10% ethanol by volume .
images which show length ,  width and depth of the object ;  can be generated or simulated by assembling multiple tomographic images with the aid of a computer
timing is a message used to indicate the approximate time that a step ,  or set of steps ,  could take .
titanium taq is a mixture consisting of a 5’ exonuclease - deficient taq polymerase ,  and taqstart antibody ,  a monoclonal antibody which inhibits taq at ambient temperatures .
title of protocol is a subclass of textual entity .
of or relating to or caused by a toxin or poison 'suffering from exposure to toxic substances'
a troubleshooting is a message given to a user of a protocol where common problems ,  possible causes ,  and solutions / methods of correction should be listed .
trypanosoma experiment is a parasitology experiment .
validator is a person who formally assesses or examines that the protocol can be understood and carried out correctly by users .
a macromolecule composed of repeating  - chr - ch2 -  units .
the property of a substance of changing readily from a solid or liquid to a vapor .
instrument used in mechanical lysis .
this step is to wash any residual salt away from the pelleted dna / rna .
a single stranded oligo used for polymerase chain reaction .
a single stranded oligo used for polymerase chain reaction .
an expression of a bibliographic record in a specific format ,  that references a particular textual or data publication  ( or a work in preparation for publication )  .
a quantity is an informational entity that gives the magnitude of a property .
a measurement value is a quantitative description that reflects the magnitude of some attribute .
a procedure is a process that attempts to achieve one or more objectives by following an established set of actions .
a recipe is a set of instructions that describe how to prepare or make something .
a / j is a mouse strain as described in jackson laboratory
c57bl / 6 is a mouse strain as described in jackson laboratory strain index
a rna extract that is the output of an extraction process in which total rna from either whole cells or from specific cellular compartment ( s )  / organelle ( s )  are isolated from a specimena rna extract that is the output of an extraction process in which total celluar and organelle rna molecules are isolated from a specimen .
an inbred strain of mouse created in 1921 by c . c . little at the bussey institute for research in applied biology .
an alert message is information ,  such as a warning or a caution that can be ignored by an automatic agent .
a caution is a message given to a user of a protocol about potentially dangerous properties of materials used in the experiment .
