alteration in dna ,  rna or protein .
effects of a variation on protein level .
effect of variation on protein function .
effect of variation on the movement of a protein along filament of a polymeric molecule .
effect of variation on storage protein .
effect of variation on structural role of protein .
effect of variation on selective non - covalent interaction of protein .
effect of variation on catalytic function of protein .
effect of variation on transport function of protein in facilitating passage of an atom or molecule through membrane .
variation affecting abundance of produced rna molecules .
effect of variation on information transfer by protein to control activity of specific processes in cells ,  tissues or organs .
type of protein variation .describes origin and classification of a variant .
protein variation that has genetic origin .
removal of one or more continuous amino acids from protein .
shortening of protein sequence from terminus .
deletion of one or more amino acids from a protein ,  without affecting the sequence after deletion .
mrna variation leading to amino acid change in translated protein .
addition of one or more amino acids to protein sequence .
insertion of one or more amino acids to protein with sequence completely changed after the insertion position .
insertion of one or more amino acids to the protein without affecting the sequence after insertion .
substitution of an amino acid in protein .
a complex protein variation consisting of both amino acid insertion ( s )  and deletion ( s )  .
amino acid indel with sequence completely changed after the indel position .
protein variation that does not have genetic origin being modified at protein level .
heritable protein variation of non - genetic origin .
inheritance of protein or protein complex structure without involvement of genetic information .
protein conformation change induced by structurally modified protein .
protein molecule chemically modified after translation .
amino acid indel without affecting the sequence after the indel position .
rna indel not affecting reading frame after indel position .
rna indel containing a number of nucleotides not divisible by three and therefore causing change to reading frame .
variation affecting characteristic property of protein .
effect of variation on the targeting of a protein within a cell or cellular compartment .
effect of variation on stability of protein .
effect of variation on the potential of protein to dissolve in a liquid .
variation affecting the formation of particles of aggregated proteins .
variation at a covarying sequence position .
variation affecting protein aggregation tendency .
type of protein function affecting variation .
effect of variation causing new or enhanced protein activity .
variation generates new protein function .
dominant variation that acts to opposite direction than the normal protein .
effect of variation reducing or abolishing protein activity .
effect of variation to the accessibility of protein region to solvent .
variation exposing buried region .
variation leading to burying of exposed region .
implication of a protein variant to pathogenicity .
effect of variation on charge in protein .
variation affecting electrostatics of the protein surface .
variation changing protein isoelectric point .
effect of variation on degradation of protein .
variation affecting abundance of produced protein molecules .
effect of variation on activity of protein .
effect of variation on protein affinity to binding molecule ( s )  .
effect of variation on substrate binding specificity of protein .
effect of variation to enzyme reaction kinetics .
conservation of the variant site in related protein sequences .
effect of variation on the interaction of protein with its partner .
effect of variation on contact energy between interacting molecules .
variation affecting structure of protein .
hereditary protein structure modification of non - genetic origin .
variation affecting the formation of infectious protein having misfolded structure .
variation affecting heritable protein complex structure .
variation affecting protein three dimensional structure .
variation affecting dynamics in protein structure .
variation affecting protein structural flexibility .
variation affecting induced fit of protein binding to its partner .
variation affecting protein structural disorder .
variation in affecting protein allosteric site .
variation affecting protein three dimensional structure .
variation affecting rate of protein folding .
variation effect on nonchromosomal dna .
variation affecting protein tertiary structure .
variation changing protein conformation .
variation causing large overall protein conformational change .
variation causing local and minor conformational change .
variation affecting protein structure due to alteration to domain orientation .
variation affecting formation of intramolecular disulphide bonds .
variation affecting protein secondary structural element of local ordered structure .
variation affecting secondary structure conformation where the peptide backbone forms a coil .
variation affecting protein left handed helix turning anticlockwise .
variation affecting protein right handed helix where the coiled conformation turns in a clockwise ,  right handed screw .
variation affecting protein helix having 4 .1 residues per turn .
variation affecting protein helix having 3 residues per turn .
variation affecting protein helix having 3 .6 residues per turn .
variation affecting extended protein backbone structure .
variation affecting beta strand forming part of antiparallel beta sheet .
variation affecting beta strand forming part of parallel beta sheet .
variation affecting protein backbone turn motif .
variation affecting protein motif of five consecutive residues and two h - bonds in which: h - bond between co of residue ( i )  and nh of residue ( i + 4 )  ,  h - bond between co of residue ( i )  and nh of residue ( i + 3 )  , phi angles of residues ( i + 1 )  ,   ( i + 2 )  and  ( i + 3 )  are negative .
variation affecting protein motif of four consecutive residues that may contain one h - bond ,  which ,  if present ,  is between the main - chain co of the first residue and the main - chain nh of the fourth .
variation affecting protein motif of five consecutive residues and two h - bonds ,  where residue ( i )  is either serine or threonine .
variation affecting protein motif of four or five consecutive residues and one h - bond in which residue ( i )  is serine or threonine ,  the side chain oh of residue ( i )  is h - bonded to the main chain co or residue ( i - 3 )  or  ( i - 4 )  ,  and phi angles of residues ( i - 1 )  ,   ( i - 2 )  and  ( i - 3 )  are negative .
variation affecting protein turn defined for 3 residues i ,  i + 1 ,  i + 2 if a hydrogen bond exists between residues i and i + 2 and the phi and psi angles of residue i + 1 fall within 40 degrees .
variation affecting protein motif of three consecutive residues and one h - bond in which: residue ( i )  is serine or threonine ,  the side - chain o of residue ( i )  is h - bonded to the main - chain nh of residue ( i + 2 )  .
variation affecting protein motif of six or seven consecutive residues that contains two h - bonds .
variation affecting protein motif of two consecutive residues .
variation affecting a protein motif of three consecutive residues .
variation affecting protein motif of five consecutive residues and two h - bonds in which: residue ( i )  is aspartate or asparagine  ( asx )  ,  side - chain o of residue ( i )  is h - bonded to the main - chain nh of residue ( i + 2 )  or  ( i + 3 )  ,  main - chain co of residue ( i )  is h - bonded to the main - chain nh of residue ( i + 3 )  or  ( i + 4 )  .
variation affecting protein motif of three residues within a beta - sheet in which the main chains of two consecutive residues are h - bonded to that of the third ,  and in which the dihedral angles are as follows: residue ( i ) :  - 140 degrees  <  phi ( l )   - 20 degrees  ,   - 90 degrees  <  psi ( l )   <  40 degrees .
variation affecting protein motif of three consecutive residues and one h - bond in which: residue ( i )  is aspartate or asparagine  ( asx )  ,  the side - chain o of residue ( i )  is h - bonded to the main - chain nh of residue ( i + 2 )  .
variation affecting protein motif of three residues within a beta - sheet consisting of two h - bonds .
variation affecting irregular ,  unstructured region of protein .
variation altering membrane spanning protein .
variation affecting region not traversing the lipid bilayer in a membrane protein .
variation affecting region present in the lipid bilayer in a membrane protein .
variation affecting the covalent alteration of protein amino acid by post translational process .
variation causing deletion of a post translational modification site .
variation affecting site of protein maturation by cleavage of peptide bond ( s )  .
variation affecting post - translational removal of peptide sequences from within a protein sequence .
variation that generates a novel protein processing site .
variation causing prevention of polypeptide processing .
variation generating a novel post translational modification site .
variation affecting amino acid side chain size .
variation affecting amino acid packing in folded protein .
variation causing formation of a cavity to protein core due to replacement of a side chain by a smaller one .
variation causing over packing of amino acids due to replacement by larger amino acid side chain .
variation affecting ligand binding amino acid ( s )  in protein .
variation affecting region on the surface of a protein that interacts with another molecule .
variation affecting amino acid ( s )  in protein catalytic site .
variation affecting three dimensional structure of a protein complex .
variation affecting interaction between protein subunits in quaternary structure .
complex change of protein three dimensional structure .
variation prolonging protein chain at an end .
addition of one or more amino acids to protein c - terminus .
addition of one or more amino acids to protein n - terminus .
origin of dna variation .
effects of a variation on dna level .
type of dna variation .describes origin and classification of a variant .
dna variation that has genetic origin .
variation of genomic level .
variation at chromosomal level .
variation affecting chromosome number .
variation affecting structure of chromosome .
variation at dna chain .
substitution of a dna nucleotide .
variation affecting rna tertiary structure .
a genetic character ,  organism or individual with a difference to reference state .
any process generating variation .
the observed feature is not changed in relation to the wild type form .
removal of one or more continuous nucleotides from dna sequence .
addition of one or more nucleotides between two adjacent nucleotides in the dna sequence .
a complex dna variation consisting of both nucleotide insertion ( s )  and deletion ( s )  .
a continuous stretch of dna sequence moved to a new position within a chromosome .
a continuous stretch of dna sequence inserted to the same position in reverse orientation .
dna variation that does not have genetic origin .
heritable dna variation of non - genetic origin .
variation having effect on dna function and usage .
variation affecting transcription ,  synthesis of either rna on a template of dna or dna on a template of rna .
variation affecting information transfer of dna .
variation affecting the process of restoring dna after damage .
variation affecting regulatory function of dna .
variation affecting chromatin .
variation originating from semi conservative dna strand synthesis .
variation affecting structure of dna .
hereditary variation of dna not affecting primary sequence .
inheritable cytosine or adenosine pyrimidine ring methylation regulating gene expression .
positioning of nucleosomes to dna strand .
affected level of dna .
variation effect on dna level .
variation located in intron .
variation located in exon .
variation located in intergenic dna .
variation effect on chromosome level .
variation effect on genome level .
somatic recombination combining gene segments in antibody ,  immunoglobulin b and t cell receptor and mch coding genes .
variation affecting dna structural form .
immunoglobulin diversification mechanism by producing variations to antigen variable regions .
switching of immunoglobulin m to other isotype by changing a portion of a region coding for heavy chain .
secondary immunological receptor diversification by replacing a dna stretch by a homologous sequence .
variation affecting dna tertiary structure .
variation generated on purpose by e .g .
variation affecting g - quadruplex of four stranded nucleic acid structure .
variation affecting cytosine rich dna domain where strands associate both inter -  and intramolecularly .
variation affecting dna helix formed of three strands .
variation affecting chromosome .
variation affecting length of telomere sequence .
variation shortening length of telomere sequence .
variation extending length of telomere sequence .
variation affecting structure of chromosome .
chromosome lacking one arm with duplication of the other arm .
circular chromosome with ends joined .
increase in the frequency of a chromosomal region .
copies of a chromosomal region of length greater than one scattered to genome sequence .
adjacent copies of a chromosomal region of length greater than 1 .
tandem repetitive sequence consisting of units in length from seven to few tens of base pairs .
increase or decrease of the number of copies of a chromosomal region .
tandem repetitive sequence consisting of units of two to six base pair .
tandem repetitive sequence consisting of three nucleotide units .
tandem repetitive sequence consisting of one nucleotide type .
tandem repetitive sequence consisting of four nucleotide units .
mobile genetic element incorporated into chromosome .
deletion of chromosomal region .
deletion of chromosomal region not including terminus .
deletion of chromosomal region from the end of chromosome arm .
chromosome structure variation with four or more breakpoints .
translocation of chromosomal region .
translocation of chromosomal region within a chromosome .
intrachromosomal variation where a chromosomal region is inserted in reverse direction .
chromosomal inversion within a chromosome arm .
chromosomal inversion including centromere .
translocation of chromosomal region to another chromosome .
switching of chromosomal regions between nonhomologous chromosomes .
fusion of long arms of two acrocentric chromosomes having very short p arms .
tandem repetitive sequence consisting of two nucleotide units .
variation affecting the number of chromosomes .
three copies of a chromosome in a cell or organism .
two copies of a chromosome in a cell or organism  .
both copies of a chromosome or a part of it in diploid cell or organism are from one parent .
uniparental disomy with duplication of a single chromosome from one parent .
pair of non - identical chromosomes inherited from one parent .
no copies of a chromosome in a cell or organism .
four copies of a chromosome in a cell or organism .
one copy of a chromosome in a cell or organism .
variation affecting number of entire chromosome sets .
variation with two sets of chromosomes .
variation with four sets of chromosomes .
variation with several sets of chromosomes .
variation with several sets of chromosomes originating from the same organism .
variation with several sets of chromosomes originating from a different organism .
variation without chromosomes .
variation with three sets of chromosomes .
variation with five sets of chromosomes .
variation with six sets of chromosomes .
variation with a single set of chromosomes .
variation affecting structure of chromatin the complex of chromosomal dna and histone proteins .
variation affecting characteristic property of dna .
fusion of two protein chains .
implication of a dna variant to pathogenicity .
variation affecting interaction of dna with its partner .
conservation of the variation site in related dna sequences .
attributes define and modulate terms at other levels .
sequence conservation attribute .
variation at a region of sequence similarity in multiple sequence alignment of related sequences .
variation at invariant sequence region in multiple sequence alignment of related sequences .
mutual or reciprocal action or influence that happens at a given place and time between participating molecules .
two genes a and b  \ "genetically interact \ " when the phenotype generated as the result of variations in both genes  ( double variant ab )  is unexpectedly not just a combination of the phenotypes of the two single variants a and b .
two genes a and b present a genetic interaction defined by inequality if the phenotypes of the two single variants a and b ,  the double variant ab and the wild - type can be measured quantitatively and described relative to each other by an inequality relationship .
the phenotype resulting from genetic perturbation of b shows opposing effects in the wt and a backgrounds  ( for example ,  b  >  wt and ab  <  a )  ;  or ,  a shows opposing effects in the wt and b backgrounds ,  but not both .
variation preventing protein translation because of e . g . initiation codon variation or mrna surveillance mechanism .
a continuous stretch of rna sequence moved to a new position .
the phenotype resulting from genetic perturbation of a has an effect only in the b background ,  or the b variant has an effect only in the a background .
single - variant phenotype effects combine to give a double - variant effect different from the wild type and different from single variant effect .
a continuous stretch of rna sequence inserted to the same position in reverse orientation .
variation preventing transcription e . g . because of impaired transcription machinery or variation in the transcription regulation or start site .
protein variation generated on purpose .
rna variation generated on purpose .
the phenotype of the double variant ab is weaker than expected from the combination of the individual effects of a and b .
the phenotype resulting from genetic perturbation of both a and b show opposing effects in the wt background and the background with the other variant gene .
the genetic interaction between a group of genes ,  in which the effects of an allele of one member gene of the group hide the effects of alleles of other genes in the group .
the phenotype resulting from genetic perturbation of a and b have different effects  ( in terms of direction or magnitude )  on the wild - type background and the double variant has the same phenotype as either a or b  ( for example ,  a  <  wt  <  b = ab )  .
the phenotype resulting from genetic perturbation of a alone ,  b alone and ab combined have the same effect on the wt background .
the phenotype resulting from genetic perturbation of a has an effect on wt ,  but that effect is abolished by adding the suppressor b ,  which itself shows no single - variant effect .
the phenotype of the double variant ab is equal to the phenotype expected from the combination of the individual effects of a and b .
variation that has no effect in the wt and b backgrounds ,  or b has no effect in the a and wt backgrounds ,  or both hold true .
the phenotype of the double variant ab is stronger than expected from the combination of the individual effects of a and b .
the phenotype resulting from genetic perturbation a and the phenotype resulting from genetic perturbation b have no effect on the wt background ,  but the combined genetic perturbation of a and b has a phenotypic effect .
molecular structural level of interaction .
interaction between molecules .
interaction within a molecule .
coincident occurrence of molecules in a given subcellular fraction observed with a low resolution methodology from which a physical interaction among those molecules cannot be inferred .
entity participating in a physical or functional interaction .
molecule not part of or directly encoded by the genome ,  encompasses any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer ,  etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
metal atom .
a liquid that can dissolve other substances  ( solutes )  without any change in their chemical composition .
an inorganic hydroxy compound that has formula h2o .
set of interacting molecules that can be copurified .
a macromolecular complex containing both protein and rna molecules .
a stable set of interacting proteins that can be copurified and operate as a functional unit .
a stable set of interacting protein and dna that can be copurified and operate as a functional unit .
any type of molecule ,  including complexes ,  that may be observed but not identified .
interactor of genetic interaction .
molecule consisting of a specific sequence of amino acidic or nucleotidic monomers strung together through chemical bonds .
linear polymer of nucleotides ,  linked by 3' , 5' phosphodiester linkages .
chains of amino acids joined by peptide bonds .
a polysaccharide is a complex polymer of carbohydrate monomers .
a linear polymer of amino acids joined by peptide bonds in a specific sequence .
molecules that are experimentally shown to be associated potentially by sharing just one interactor .
interaction physical force .
a chemical link between two atoms in which electrons are shared between them .
the covalent bond between sulfur atoms that binds two peptide chains or different parts of one peptide chain .
interaction between biochemical entities that results in the formation of a non - covalent bond .
attractive interaction between an electronegative atom and a hydrogen atom bonded to another electronegative atom .
network of interactions formed by several hydrogen bonds .
interaction of nonpolar  ( un - ionizable )  hydrocarbon molecules forced together because of stronger water - water interaction .
interaction between charged groups .
weak attractive electrical force between neutral groups or molecules .
attraction between two electrically charged groups or molecules .
quantity attribute .
the observed feature is decreased compared to that in the wild type  ( slower ,  weaker ,  lower ,  smaller ,  etc .
the observed feature is increased compared to that in the wild type  ( faster ,  stronger ,  higher ,  larger ,  etc .
the observed feature is missing compared to that in the wild type .
pathogenicity attribute .
variation is causative of disease .
variation is not related to clinical phenotype .
variation is disease related .
effects of a variation on rna level .
variation affecting characteristic property of rna .
variation affecting degradation of rna .
variation affecting folding of rna .
variation affecting stability of transcript .
conservation of the variation site in related rna sequences .
an excess of a particular chromosome in a cell or organism .
implication of an rna variant to pathogenicity .
variation affecting interaction of rna with its partner .
type of rna variation .describes origin and classification of a variant .
rna variation that has genetic origin .
nucleotide change in the mrna triplet codon codes for another amino acid .
rna nucleotide change in termination codon .
nucleotide change in the mrna codon triplet creates a terminator codon .
a complex rna variation consisting of both nucleotide insertion ( s )  and deletion ( s )  .
substitution of rna nucleotide .
change of a pyrimidine nucleotide ,  c or t  ( or u )  ,  into an other pyrimidine nucleotide ,  or change of a purine nucleotide ,  a or g ,  into an other purine nucleotide .
a substitution of a pyrimidine ,  c or t  ( or u )  ,  for another pyrimidine .
a substitution of a purine ,  a or g ,  for another purine .
change of a pyrimidine nucleotide ,  c or t  ( or u )  ,  into a purine nucleotide ,  a or g ,  or vice versa .
rna nucleotide change in the initiation codon .
rna variation that does not change the encoded amino acid .
one or more continuous nucleotides are missing from rna sequence .
deletion of nucleotides in multiples of three so that the mrna coding sequence frame is retained .
deletion of nucleotide ( s )  causing alteration of mrna coding sequence frame .
classification of dna variation .
origin of protein variation .
origin of rna variation .
classification of protein variation .
addition of one or more nucleotides between adjacent nucleotides in rna sequence .
insertion of nucleotide ( s )  causing alteration of mrna reading frame .
classification of rna variation .
rna variation due to defective fidelity of transcription .
protein variation due to defective fidelity of translation .
alternative form of mrna molecule .
insertion of nucleotides in multiples of three so that the reading frame is retained .
rna variation that does not have genetic origin being modified at rna level .
change to rna splicing .
rna molecule destroyed due to appearance of a premature termination codon .
post transcriptionally modified rna .
dna variation due to biological ,  chemical ,  physical or other modification .
variation affecting structure of rna .
mrna variation not affecting the sequence of the translated protein .
affected type of rna .
variation affecting rna not coding for protein .
rna coding for protein .
variation affecting region coding for protein in protein coding rna .
variation affecting region not coding for protein in protein coding mrna .
variation affecting post transcriptional rna modification .
polyadenylation of mrna molecule at alternative site .
post transcriptional modification of rna nucleoside sugar .
effect to process where introns in mrna are cut away from exons .
variation affecting cellular localization of rna .
variation affecting aggregation tendency of rna .
intronic splicing within an rna molecule .
variation affecting splicing at recursive splice site which subdivides a large intron .
variation affecting intronic region bordering exon or retained rna region ,  at the five prime end of the intron .
variation affecting canonical prime splice site at five prime end .
variation affecting non canonical splice site at five prime end .
variation affecting intronic region bordering the exon or retained rna region ,  at the 3' edge of the intron .
variation affecting non canonical splice site at three prime end .
variation affecting canonical splice site at three prime end .
activation of new splice site .
activation of new splice donor site .
activation of new splice acceptor site .
variation affecting splicing and ligation different rna molecules .
insertion of retrotransposon into chromosome .
insertion of a dna transposable element into chromosome .
long interspersed nuclear element generated by retrotransposition .
short interspersed nuclear element generated by retrotransposition .
variation affecting rna double helix .
variation affecting rna secondary structure .
variation affecting closed rna structure in which at least two double stranded regions meet .
variation affecting rna structure in which nucleotides in one strand do not form base pairs .
variation affecting rna structure in which both the strands do not form base pairs .
variation effecting hydrogen bonding in contiguous nested base pairs in rna .
variation affecting loop connecting adjacent regions forming helix in rna .
retrotransposon that has long terminal repeat sequences .
tandem repetitive sequence consisting of five nucleotide units .
variation affecting dna double helical structure .
variation effect on independently replicating small dna molecule .
simple ,  relatively short transposable element .
rna variation of epigenetic origin .
variation affecting double stranded dna structure that contains in both strands at corresponding positions a single stranded base pairing forming stem and a connecting loop .
variation having effect on rna function and usage .
variation affecting splicing function of rna .
variation affecting catalytic function of rna .
variation affecting translation of protein .
variation affecting regulatory function of rna .
variation affecting rna function in amino acid transfer .
variation affecting information transfer by rna .
transposable element coding for self - splicing ribozyme when transcribed .
transposable element coding for a self - splicing ribozyme when transcribed .
fusion of two chromosome segments both containing a centromere .
variation generated by chromosome editing .
fusion transcript of exons from two or more genes .
transcript with  - 1 or  + 1 frameshift due to slipping back or skipping a nucleotide on a ribosome .
variation affecting single stranded dna structure .
mrna molecule matured by splicing at an alternative site .
variation affecting catalytic function of dna .
variation affecting a form of right - handed dna .
variation affecting b form of right - handed dna .
variation affecting c form of right - handed dna .
variation affecting l form of right - handed dna .
variation affecting s form of right - handed dna .
variation affecting d form of right - handed dna .
variation affecting h form of intramolecular triple helical dna .
variation affecting four - stranded dna .
variation affecting z form of left - handed dna .
variation affecting triple helical dna structure where the third strand is provided by one of the strands forming the duplex .
variation affecting triple helical dna structure where the third strand is from a second dna molecule .
variation affecting dna - rna hybrid .
variation affecting rna helix formed of three strands .
variation affecting four - stranded rna .
classification of chromosomal amplification type .
variation affecting genome .
chromosome structure variation due to several breakpoints .
repetitive sequence consisting of one more nucleotide units .
effect on dna - rna r loop structure of short rna - dna hybrid and the displaced single stranded dna .
effect on dna - rna t loop structure formed by single - stranded 3' strand looping back to anneal with double - stranded repeats .
effect on dna displacement loop where two double - stranded dna molecules are separated locally by a third strand of dna or rna .
replacement of the deoxyribonucleoside monophosphate by ribonucleoside monophosphate in the dna backbone .
effect of variation to protein reaction kinetics .
completely processed rna molecule .
rna variation causing alternative translation initiation .
epigenetic modification of rna .
effect of variation on rna activity .
effect of variation on rna reaction kinetics .
effect of variation on  rna affinity to binding molecule ( s )  .
effect of variation on substrate binding specificity of rna .
protein variant originating from alternative translation initiation .
variation that has emerged in a germ cell on one of the parents or in the fertilized egg during early embryogenesis .
variation that has been inherited from a germline cell .
variation that has its origin in a cell in soma .
processes that recombine and modify genes coding for immunological recognition molecules  ( antigens ,  b -  and t - cell receptors ,  mch type i and ii molecules )  .
variation effect on dna within cellular compartment .
circular dna molecule not part of the chromosomes .
variation affecting dna within mitochondria .
variation affecting dna within plastids e .g .
tandem repetitive sequence consisting of six nucleotide units .
epigenetic modification of histone .
variation affecting topology associating domain  ( tad )  .
genome composed of rna molecule .
genome for a rna virus .
genome for an infectious particle .
genome for a subviral agent .
unprocessed mrna .
mature mrna .
covalently closed single - stranded rna chain .
single - stranded non - coding rna compelementary to a mrna or part of it .
single - stranded noncoding rna overlapping with mrna but not coding for a protein .
non - coding rna with a function .
rna intermediate of a retrotransposon .
rna involved in protein synthesis .
transfer rna involved in protein synthesis .
non - coding rna that is a constituent of the large ribosomal subunit .
non - coding rna that is a constituent of the small ribosomal unit .
intron with an intrinsic splicing activity .
intron removed by spliceosome .
inclusion intron sequence to mrna .
non - coding rna component of telomerase .
rna with catalytic activity .
rna with regulatory activity .
short non - coding rna that binds to complementary region in mrna and silences and regulates gene expression .
short double - stranded non - coding rna regulating gene expresion by causing degration of mrna with complementary sequence .
non - coding rna binding to piwi - superfamily argonaute proteins to silence transposons ,  repeat - derived transcripts and genetic elements .
non - coding rna component of signal recognition particle .
non - coding rna component of x - inactivation center .
non - coding rna component of editosome complex .
non - coding rna component of dna editing complex .
non - coding rna in nucleus .
non - coding rna in mitochondrion .
non - coding rna related to chromatin .
non - coding rna related to centromere .
classification of non - coding rna based on the length .
non - coding rna shorter than 200 nucleotides or base pairs .
non - coding rna constituent of ribosome .
non - coding rna longer than 200 nucleotides or base pairs .
non - coding rna longer than 10 kb .
transcript region that is part in mature mrna .
variation causing alternative mrna termination .
variation affecting post transcriptional rna modification .
post transcriptionally modified nucleotide in mrna .
variation affecting rna stucture containing at teast two stem loops where part of one stem is intercalated to the other stem .
rna produced by degradation of processing of an rna molecule .
variation where an exon is completele cleaved out from a mature transcript .
transcript from which part of an exon is missing .
transcript that includes a cryptic exon from the middle of intron .
transcript that contains and additional stretch from intron .
type of variation affecting splice site .
variation affecting the type of rna splicing .
variation affecting splicing occurring simultnaeously with transcription .
variation affecting splicing that does not occur in sequential order .
variation affecting intron splicing that occurs in several splicing events .
a' is a variant  ( mutation )  of a = definition every instance of a' is either an immediate mutation of some instance of a ,  or there is a chain of immediate mutation processes linking a' to some instance of a .
alternative form of rna molecule .
post transcriptionally chemically modified rna .
chemical modification of rna transcript by rna editing mechanism .
rna editing process of chemical modification of a nucleotide in rna .
insertion of one or more nucleotides to rna by rna editing process .
deletion of one or more nucleotides from rna by rna editing process .
variation causing degradation of rna .
variation causing nonstop rna decay .
variation causing no - go rna decay .
variation causing nonsense - mediated decay of rna due to premature translation termination codon .
nonsense - associated altered rna splicing .
variation affecting region not coding for protein in protein coding mrna .
maturation of mrna .
enzymatic addition of adenylyl residues to the 3' end of rna molecule .
modification of five prime nucleotide in rna by adding guanine nucleotide with five prime to five prime linkage .
three prime end processing of rna .
covalent modification of rna during maturation .
post transcriptional modification of rna base .
post transcriptional modification of rna nucleoside sugar .
process where introns in mrna are cut away from exons .
intronic splicing within a mrna molecule .
splicing at recursive splice site which subdivides a large intron .
intronic two base pair region bordering exon ,  at the five prime end of the intron .
canonical prime splice site at five prime end .
non canonical splice site at five prime end .
intronic two base pair region bordering the exon ,  at the 3' edge of the intron .
non canonical splice site at three prime end .
canonical splice site at three prime end .
splicing and ligation of two different mrna molecules .
rna splicing by inherent ribozyme activity of the mrna molecule .
variation causing staufen - mediated rna decay .
rna molecule that has matured by processing .
rna variation causing alternative translation initiation .
