a genomic locus that has been annotated .
genomic locus where transcription occurs .
a transcript is the operational unit of a gene .
expressed sequence tag .coarse sequence reads from flanking vector regions into the inserts of cdna libraries .
the transcript support level  ( tsl )  is a method to highlight the well - supported and poorly - supported transcript models for users ,  based on the type and quality of the alignments used to annotate the transcript .
a transcript where all splice junctions are supported by at least one non - suspect mrna .
a transcript where the best supporting mrna is flagged as suspect or the support is from multiple ests
a transcript where the only support is from a single est
a transcript where the best supporting est is flagged as suspect
a transcript where no single transcript supports the model structure .
a transcript that was not analysed for tsl .
appris is a system to annotate alternatively spliced transcripts based on a range of computational methods to identify the most functionally important transcript ( s )  of a gene .
transcript ( s )  expected to code for the main functional isoform based solely on the core modules in the appris .
where the appris core modules are unable to choose a clear principal variant  ( approximately 25% of human protein coding genes )  ,  the database chooses two or more of the cds variants as "candidates" to be the principal variant .
where the appris core modules are unable to choose a clear principal variant and there more than one of the variants have distinct ccds identifiers ,  appris selects the variant with lowest ccds identifier as the principal variant .
where the appris core modules are unable to choose a clear principal cds and there is more than one variant with a distinct  ( but consecutive )  ccds identifiers ,  appris selects the longest ccds isoform as the principal variant .
where the appris core modules are unable to choose a clear principal variant and none of the candidate variants are annotated by ccds ,  appris selects the longest of the candidate isoforms as the principal variant .
for genes in which the appris core modules are unable to choose a clear principal isoform ,  the alt1 is the candidate transcript ( s )  models that is conserved in at least three tested species .
for genes in which the appris core modules are unable to choose a clear principal isoform ,  the alt1 is the candidate transcript ( s )  models that appear to be conserved in fewer than three tested species .
a subset of the gencode transcript set ,  containing only 5' and 3' complete transcripts .
a protein - coding transcript which is missing the start codon due to incomplete evidence .
a protein - coding transcript which is missing the stop codon due to incomplete evidence .
a single transcript chosen for a gene which is the most conserved ,  most highly expressed ,  has the longest coding sequence and is represented in other key resources ,  such as ncbi and uniprot .
a coding sequence in the consensus coding sequence set is consistently annotated between ensembl ,  mgi ,  hgnc and ncbi .
a gene or transcript classification .
gene / transcipt that contains an open reading frame  ( orf )  .
gene / transcript that doesn't contain an open reading frame  ( orf )  .
a non - coding gene / transcript  > 200bp in length
transcripts which are known from the literature to not be protein coding .
transcripts where ditag and / or published experimental data strongly supports the existence of long  (  > 200bp )  non - coding transcripts that overlap the 3'utr of a protein - coding locus on the same strand .
transcripts that overlap the genomic span  ( i .e .
transcripts that are long intergenic non - coding rna locus with a length  > 200bp .
an alternatively spliced transcript believed to contain intronic sequence relative to other ,  coding ,  transcripts of the same gene .
a long non - coding transcript in introns of a coding gene that does not overlap any exons .
a long non - coding transcript that contains a coding gene in its intron on the same strand .
unspliced lncrnas that are several kb in size .
a non - coding gene .
a small rna  ( ~22bp )  that silences the expression of target mrna .
an rna that interacts with piwi proteins involved in genetic silencing .
the rna component of a ribosome .
a small rna  ( 20 - 25bp )  that silences the expression of target mrna through the rnai pathway .
small rna molecules that are found in the cell nucleus and are involved in the processing of pre messenger rnas
small rna molecules that are found in the cell nucleolus and are involved in the post - transcriptional modification of other rnas .
a transfer rna ,  which acts as an adaptor molecule for translation of mrna .
short non coding rna genes that form part of the vault ribonucleoprotein complex .
miscellaneous rna .a non - coding rna that cannot be classified .
a gene that has homology to known protein - coding genes but contain a frameshift and / or stop codon ( s )  which disrupts the orf .
pseudogene that lack introns and is thought to arise from reverse transcription of mrna followed by reinsertion of dna into the genome .
pseudogene that can contain introns since produced by gene duplication .
pseudogene where protein homology or genomic structure indicates a pseudogene ,  but the presence of locus - specific transcripts indicates expression .
pseudogenes that have mass spec data suggesting that they are also translated .
pseudogene owing to a snp / indel but in other individuals / haplotypes / strains the gene is translated .
a species specific unprocessed pseudogene without a parent gene ,  as it has an active orthologue in another species .
inactivated immunoglobulin gene .
immunoglobulin gene that undergoes somatic recombination ,  annotated in collaboration with imgt http: /  / www .imgt .org /  .
t cell receptor gene that undergoes somatic recombination ,  annotated in collaboration with imgt http: /  / www .imgt .org /  .
regions with est clusters that have polya features that could indicate the presence of protein coding genes .
a readthrough transcript has exons that overlap exons from transcripts belonging to two or more different loci  ( in addition to the locus to which the readthrough transcript itself belongs )  .
variable chain immunoglobulin gene that undergoes somatic recombination before transcription
diversity chain immunoglobulin gene that undergoes somatic recombination before transcription
joining chain immunoglobulin gene that undergoes somatic recombination before transcription
constant chain immunoglobulin gene that undergoes somatic recombination before transcription
variable chain t cell receptor gene that undergoes somatic recombination before transcription
diversity chain t cell receptor gene that undergoes somatic recombination before transcription
joining chain t cell receptor gene that undergoes somatic recombination before transcription
constant chain t cell receptor gene that undergoes somatic recombination before transcription
the sequence of the spliced exons of a transcript expressed in dna notation  ( t rather than u )  ,  representing the coding or sense strand .
coding sequence .the region of a cdna which is translated .
a sequence of amino acids ,  translated from a cds .
a region of special biological interest within a single protein sequence .
transcribed genomic region that remains in the rna after splicing ,  includes both the cds and the utrs .
transcribed genomic regions that is removed from the rna by splicing .
three base pairs in either dna or rna that code for an amino acid  ( or stop translation )  .
exons that are not spliced out ,  therefore present in all transcripts of a given gene .
the position of an exon / intron boundary within a codon .
sequence 5' or 3' to a dna or rna sequence of interest  ( for example gene ,  transcript ,  snp or repeat )  .
the region of a coding cdna which is not translated .
the region of a coding cdna upstream of the start codon which is not translated .
the region of a coding cdna downstream of the stop codon which is not translated .
specific genes that are descended from the same common sequence in an ancestor .
a representation of the evolutionary relationship between homologues ,  constructed using the ensembl gene tree pipeline .
orthologues are genes derived from a common ancestor through vertical descent  ( or speciation )  and can be thought of as the direct evolutionary counterpart .
a type of orthologue assigned for a pair of species where only one copy is found in each species .
a type of orthologue assigned for a pair of species where one gene in one species is orthologous to multiple genes in the other species ,  due to  ( a )  duplication event ( s )  in the second species .
a type of orthologue assigned for a pair of species where multiple orthologues are found in both species ,  where the duplication events in both species occurred after the speciation event .
genes  ( homologues )  that have evolved by duplication .
members of the same gene family in different species that are not direct orthologues .
pairs of genes in a species that occur together in the same tree ,  but are actually two halves of the same gene split partway along .
paralogues which are very far away from the other members of a paralogue family .
two or more versions of a duplicated gene in a single species .
pairs of genes in a polyploid genome that underwent  ( a )  hybridisation event ( s )  .
locus where the sequence differs between individuals of the same species
genetic loci where allelic variation is associated with variation in a quantitative trait  ( e .g .
genetic loci where allelic variation is associated with expression levels of other genes .
codes that reflect the amount and type of evidence that supports the existence of a variant .
variant that only affects a small locus
variant that affects a large locus
single nucleotide polymorphism ,  substitution of a single nucleotide for another nucleotide
insertion of one or more nucleotides
deletion of one or more nucleotides
an insertion and a deletion ,  affecting two or more nucleotides
a sequence alteration where the length of the deleted sequence is the same as the length of the inserted sequence .
copy number variation: increases or decreases the copy number of a given locus .
a continuous nucleotide sequence is inverted in the same position
a region of nucleotide sequence that has translocated to a new position
one of a number of alternative forms of the same genetic locus / variant .
different versions of a gene found between the primary assembly and a patch or genome haplotype .
the allele of a variant found in the reference genome currently being studied .
any allele of a variant which is not the in the reference genome currently being studied .
the allele which is most frequent in the global population ,  defined in human by the 1000 genomes project .
the allele which is the second most frequent in the global population ,  defined in human by the 1000 genomes project .
an allele which has only been identified in one individual or one family .
the allele which occurs at this locus in closely related species and is thought to reflect the allele present at the time of speciation .
the frequency of the second most common allele in the specified population .
the highest minor allele frequency observed in any population typed for this variant .
the frequency of the second most common allele in the global population ,  defined in human by the 1000 genomes project phase 3 .
the specific alleles that are present in an individual's genome .
a measurable locus that varies within a population .
two or more adjacent copies of a region  ( of length greater than 1 )  .
a dispersed intermediately repetitive dna sequence found in the human genome in about one million copies .
a structural sequence alteration or rearrangement encompassing one or more genome fragments ,  with four or more breakpoints .
when no simple or well defined dna mutation event describes the observed dna change ,  the keyword ""complex"" should be used .
a rearrangement breakpoint between two different chromosomes .
a translocation where the regions involved are from different chromosomes .
a rearrangement breakpoint within the same chromosome .
a translocation where the regions involved are from the same chromosome .
a functional variant whereby the sequence alteration causes a loss of function of one allele of a gene .
a deletion of a mobile element when comparing a reference sequence  ( has mobile element )  to a individual sequence  ( does not have mobile element )  .
a kind of insertion where the inserted sequence is a mobile element .
an insertion the sequence of which cannot be mapped to the reference genome .
a variation that expands or contracts a tandem repeat with regard to a reference .
a duplication consisting of 2 identical adjacent regions .
a dna sequence used experimentally to detect the presence or absence of a complementary nucleic acid .
the effect that the variant has on each feature that it overlaps .
a subjective classification of the severity of the variant consequence ,  based on agreement with snpeff .
the variant is assumed to have high  ( disruptive )  impact in the protein ,  probably causing protein truncation ,  loss of function or triggering nonsense mediated decay .
a non - disruptive variant that might change protein effectiveness .
a variant that is assumed to be mostly harmless or unlikely to change protein behaviour .
usually non - coding variants or variants affecting non - coding genes ,  where predictions are difficult or there is no evidence of impact .
a feature ablation whereby the deleted region includes a transcript feature
a splice variant that changes the 2 base region at the 3' end of an intron
a splice variant that changes the 2 base region at the 5' end of an intron
a sequence variant whereby at least one base of a codon is changed ,  resulting in a premature stop codon ,  leading to a shortened transcript
a sequence variant which causes a disruption of the translational reading frame ,  because the number of nucleotides inserted or deleted is not a multiple of three
a sequence variant where at least one base of the terminator codon  ( stop )  is changed ,  resulting in an elongated transcript
a codon variant that changes at least one base of the canonical start codo
a feature amplification of a region containing a transcript
an inframe non synonymous variant that inserts bases into in the coding sequenc
an inframe non synonymous variant that deletes bases from the coding sequenc
a sequence variant ,  that changes one or more bases ,  resulting in a different amino acid sequence but where the length is preserved
a sequence_variant which is predicted to change the protein encoded in the coding sequence
a sequence variant in which a change has occurred within the region of the splice site ,  either within 1 - 3 bases of the exon or 3 - 8 bases of the intron
a sequence variant where at least one base of the final codon of an incompletely annotated transcript is changed
a sequence variant where at least one base in the terminator codon is changed ,  but the terminator remains
a sequence variant where there is no resulting change to the encoded amino acid
a sequence variant that changes the coding sequence
a transcript variant located with the sequence of the mature mirna
a utr variant of the 5' utr
a utr variant of the 3' utr
a sequence variant that changes non - coding exon sequence in a non - coding transcript
a transcript variant occurring within an intron
a variant in a transcript that is the target of nmd
a transcript variant of a non coding rna gene
a sequence variant located 5' of a gene
a sequence variant located 3' of a gene
a feature ablation whereby the deleted region includes a transcription factor binding site
a feature amplification of a region containing a transcription factor binding site
a sequence variant located within a transcription factor binding site
a feature ablation whereby the deleted region includes a regulatory region
a feature amplification of a region containing a regulatory region
a sequence variant located within a regulatory region
a sequence variant located within a regulatory region
a sequence variant that causes the reduction of a genomic feature ,  with regard to the reference sequence
a sequence variant located in the intergenic region ,  between genes
a single letter code that represents two or more possible nucleotides at a single base locus .
variants that failed our quality control analyses ,  therefore they are flagged as suspicious .
a classification of a variant's impact on disease ,  taken from clinvar .
a measure of how often two variants or specific sequences are inherited together .
the correlation between a pair of loci .
the difference between the observed and the expected frequency of a given haplotype .
a set of variant alleles in a contiguous genomic region .
the transcript sequence derived from one copy of a gene in an individual ,  based on the phased 1000 genomes genotype data .
the complete set of dna found in each cell .
a computational representation of the sequence of a haploid genome ,  representative of a species or strain .
refers to the number of overlapping sequences used to build a region of the assembly .
the underlying genome sequence ,  without alternative sequence included .
genomic sequence that differs from the genomic dna on the primary assembly .
new sequences that have been added to the genome assembly since its release .
known variations to the primary assembly ,  due to variability in the human genome sequence  ( eg .
novel patches represent new allelic loci .
fix patches are where the primary assembly was found to be incorrect ,  and the patch reflects the corrected sequence .
a contig is a contiguous stretch of dna sequence without gaps that has been assembled solely based on direct sequencing information .
scaffolds are sets of ordered ,  oriented contigs ,  assembled by sequence overlap .
a banding pattern on a chromosome resulting from staining and examination by microscopy .
a segment of dna that has been inserted into a vector molecule ,  such as a plasmid ,  and then replicated to form many identical copies .
a vector used to clone dna fragments  ( 100 to 300 - kb insert size ;  average ,  150 kb )  from another species so that it can be replicated in bacteria .
originated from a bacterial plasmid ,  a yac contains a yeast centromeric region ,  a yeast origin of dna replication ,  a cluster of unique rectriction sites and a selectable marker and a telomere region at the en of each arm .
dna from a bacterial virus spliced with a small fragment of a genome  ( up to 50 kb )  to be amplified and sequenced .
the actual number of bases of sequence we have for a full genome assembly ,  including alternative sequences and pars ,  excluding gaps .
the golden path is the length of the non - redundant reference assembly .
which level of the assembly we are working on .
the number of chromosomes of a genome .
small regions of sequence identity located at the tips of the short and the long arms of the x and y chromosomes where recombination and genetic exchange take place .
the term "slice" in ensembl refers to a length of dna sequence .
the largest continuous sequence for an organism .
a scaffold that can be positioned on a chromosome based on genetic mapping information .
a scaffold that cannot be positioned on a chromosome .
publicly available database that ensembl imports data from .
database from which ensembl imports cdna or protein sequence for gene annotation ,  or gene names .
the aim of gencode as a sub - project of the encode scale - up project is to annotate all evidence - based gene features in the entire human and mouse genomes at a high accuracy .
ncbi's reference sequences  ( refseq )  database is a curated database of genbank's genomes ,  mrnas and proteins .
database of protein sequence and functional information ,  based at european bioinformatics institute  ( embl - ebi )  ,  the sib swiss institute of bioinformatics and the protein information resource  ( pir )  .
international immunogenetics information system .database of immunoglobulin and t - cell receptor annotation .
uniprot / swiss - prot is a curated protein sequence database that provides a high level of annotation ,  a minimal level of redundancy and high level of integration with other databases .
a subset of trembl  ( translated embl database )  containing the computer - annotated protein translations of all coding sequences  ( cds )  present in the ena  ( formerly embl - bank )  that are not yet incorporated into the uniprot / swissprot database .
an international consortium between the ena ,  genbank and ddbj to share submissions of nucleotide sequence .
europe's primary nucleotide sequence resource .
the us branch of insdc .
the asian branch of insdc .
an organised hierarchy of terms produced by the gene ontology consortium ,  used to describe the function of proteins .
hgnc is responsible for approving unique symbols and names for human loci ,  including protein coding genes ,  ncrna genes and pseudogenes ,  to allow unambiguous scientific communication .
the rfam database is a collection of rna families ,  each represented by multiple sequence alignments ,  consensus secondary structures and covariance models  ( cms )  .
the mirbase database is a searchable database of published mirna sequences and annotation .
mgi is the international database resource for the laboratory mouse ,  providing integrated genetic ,  genomic ,  and biological data to facilitate the study of human health and disease .
an online biological database of information about the zebrafish  ( danio rerio )  .
canonical database for the molecular biology and genetics of saccharomyces cerevisiae ,  source of the annotation seen in ensembl .
a genome browser hosted at the university of california santa cruz .
database from which ensembl imports chip - seq ,  dnase - seq and other related datasets ,  which are used in the ensembl regulatory build .
project aiming to build a comprehensive parts list of functional elements in the human genome ,  including elements that act at the protein and rna levels ,  and regulatory elements that control cells and circumstances in which a gene is active ,  by large scale functional analyses of laboratory cell lines .
project aiming to apply functional genomics analysis on primary cells of the haematopoietic cell lineage from healthy and diseased individuals ,  to produce lineage - specific epigenomes .
project aiming to develop publicly available reference epigenome maps from a variety of cell types .
database from which ensembl imports variation data ,  including loci ,  sample genotypes ,  population frequencies and phenotype associations .
the single nucleotide polymorphism database  ( dbsnp )  is a public - domain archive for a broad collection of simple  ( short )  genetic polymorphisms in human ,  maintained by ncbi .
the european variation archive is an open - access database of all types of genetic variation data from all species .
dbvar is ncbi's database of human genomic structural variation — insertions ,  deletions ,  duplications ,  inversions ,  mobile elements ,  and translocations .
the database of genomic variants archive  ( dgva )  is a repository that provides archiving ,  accessioning and distribution of publicly available genomic structural variants ,  in all species .https: /  / www .ebi .ac .uk / dgva
the goal of the 1000 genomes project was to find most genetic variants with frequencies of at least 1% in the human populations studied .
an aggregation of publicly available whole genome and whole exome variant calling experiments in human .
whole genome variant calling data from humans worldwide with heart ,  lung ,  blood ,  and sleep disorders .
study comparing exomes of 6000 diseased individuals with 4000 healthy individuals in the uk in order to identify disease - causing variants .
an international collaboration formed to develop a haplotype map of the human genome and thus describe the common patterns of human dna sequence variation using genotyping .
ncbi resource that aggregates information about genomic variation and its relationship to human health .
database from which ensembl imports phenotype associations with genes and / or variants .
an online database that describes the function and phenotypes associated with human genes .
an online database that describes the function and phenotypes associated with animal genes .
a catalogue of rare disease associations .
a curated database that extracts associations between variants and genes from published genome - wide association studies in human .
an international scientific endeavour to create and characterise the phenotype of 20 , 000 knockout mouse strains .
project aiming to house all publicly available qtl and association data on livestock animal species .
project aiming to collate all known  ( published )  gene lesions responsible for human inherited disease .
database of somatic variants found in cancer .
a repository for 3d biological macromolecular structure data .
a sequence of computational tasks or actions that carry out a specific function .
the automatic process by which ensembl plot known rna and protein sequence onto the genome ,  using sequence similarity .
human and vertebrate analysis and annotation .
the process by which ensembl predict the location of regions that regulate gene expression using epigenomic evidence .
the process by which ensembl compare gene sequences in order to construct gene trees and predict homologues .
interpro is an integrated resource for protein families ,  domains and sites ,  combining information from several different protein signature databases ,  including prosite ,  prints ,  pfam ,  seg ,  signalp ,  gene3d ,  smart ,  tigrfams ,  pir superfamilies and superfamily .
a sequence comparison algorithm optimised for speed which is used to search sequence databases for optimal local alignments to a query .
an mrna / dna and cross - species protein sequence analysis tool to quickly find sequences of 95% and greater similarity of length 40 bases or more .
a standalone application that looks for low complexity sequences .
eponine is a probabilistic method for detecting transcription start sites  ( tss )  in mammalian genomic sequence ,  with good specificity and excellent positional accuracy .
genewise is a sequence analysis tool for comparing proteins to dna sequences allowing for introns and frameshifts .
a fast gapped dna - dna alignment algorithm .
a gene build method used by ensembl for low coverage genomes ,  allowing genes to be annotated that span two scaffolds by mapping to the human gene .
an hmm - based ab initio gene prediction method ,  used to create a track of ab initio genes in ensembl .
a tool which predicts if missense variants are likely to affect protein function based on sequence homology and the physico - chemical similarity between the alternate amino acids .
a tool which predicts if missense variants are likely to affect protein function based on physical and comparative considerations .
the method by which repeated sequences and low - complexity regions are hidden ,  usually used in searches by alignment and homology - searching programs .
a matrix that defines scores for amino acid substitutions ,  reflecting the similarity of physicochemical properties ,  and observed substitution frequencies .
the variant effect predictor  ( vep )  is an ensembl tool that predicts the effect of your variants  ( snps ,  insertions ,  deletions ,  cnvs or structural variants )  on genes ,  transcripts ,  and protein sequence ,  as well as regulatory regions .
a set of recomendations for variant naming .
vcf is a standard format for listing genetic variation ,  which is the output for many variant callers .
bed is a simple format for listing genomic loci .
fasta is used to store finished nucleotide and peptide sequences .
bam and cram store alignments of ngs data to the genome .
bigbed is an indexed form of bed ,  which can be used to store larger scale data .
ensembl default is an input format for the vep ,  used to describe the position and alleles of a variant .
bedgraph allows you to store scores for loci in bed format ,  the loci can be of varying size .
gtf is a tab - limited format that describes genomic features ,  such as genes and transcripts ,  and allows hierarchical linking of gene features .
gff is a tab - limited format that describes genomic features ,  such as genes and transcripts ,  and allows hierarchical linking of gene features .
psl represents alignments and can be viewed in ensembl .
wiggle format expresses scores across genomic loci ,  requiring fixed size bins for the scores .
bigwig is an indexed form of wiggle and can be used to store larger scale data .
pairwise interactions ,  such as those derived from hi - c ,  can be stored in the washu format and viewed in ensembl .
chain files describe the mapping between different genome assemblies .
newick is a tree format .
embl files store sequence and accompanying annotation for features across a genomic region .
genbank files store sequence and accompanying annotation for features across a genomic region .
ensembl multi format  ( emf )  stores genomic alignments in ensembl .
multiple alignment format  ( maf )  stores genomic alignments .
mysql is a database .all ensembl data is stored in mysql relational tables ,  which can be found on the ftp site and accessed directly by mysql queries .
a vep cache contains all the gene and variant data needed to run a vep query ,  and can be used to run large queries quickly on your own machine .
genome variation format  ( gvf )  is used to store variation data .
phyloxml is an xml language for the analysis ,  exchange ,  and storage of phylogenetic trees  ( or networks )  and associated data .
orthoxml is an xml format to allow the storage and comparison of orthology data .
resource description framework  ( rdf )  is used as a metadata data model .
a golden path .a file provided to ensembl that describes how the longer sequences in the genome assembly were assembled from shorter sequences .
the method by which repeated sequences and low - complexity regions are hidden ,  usually used in searches by alignment and homology - searching programs .
hard masked sequence is repeat masked with the repeat sequences replaced by ns .
soft masked sequence is repeat masked with the repeat sequences in lower case .
a region in the genomic sequence containing short tandem repeats of 2 - 10bp .
the region of the chromosome at which the two sister chromatids are joined during mitosis and meiosis ,  mostly composed of satellite dna .
poly - purine or poly - pyrimidine stretches ,  or regions of extremely high at or gc content .
non - functional copies of rna genes which have been reintegrated into the genome with the assistance of a reverse transcriptase .
multiple copies of the same base sequence on a dna sequence .
duplications of simple sets of dna bases  ( typically 1 - 5bp )  such as a ,  ca ,  cgg etc .
typically found at the centromeres and telomeres of chromosomes these are duplications of more complex 100 - 200 base sequences .
long tandem repeats .
long interspersed elements .retrotransposed elements in the genome containing open reading frames encoding  ( often inactive )  reverse transcription machinery .
short interspersed elements .retrotransposed elements less than 500 bp that contain trna ,  snrna and rrna ,  which require other mobile elements to be transposed .
elements that have been transposed and duplicated around the genome by excision and ligation .
repeats that cannot be classified .
a comparison between two or more sequences by matching identical and / or similar residues / nucleotides and assigning a score to the match .
an alignment carried out using the whole genome sequence .
an alignment between two whole genomes .
an alignment between more than two whole genomes of a selected taxon .
in a genomic context we refer to syntenic regions if the sequence is globally conserved between two species .
the cigar line defines the sequence of matches / mismatches and deletions  ( or gaps )  in an alignment
a measure of how similar two alignment sequences are ,  specifically ,  what percentage of amino acids or nucleotides are the same in type and position between the two sequences .
an application for displaying sequence alignments with custom colour - annotation ,  which is used by ensembl displaying gene tree and family alignments .
how well one sequence matches another determined by calculation by an alignment program of identical and conserved residues / nucleotides .
pecan is a global multiple sequence alignment program that makes practical the probabilistic consistency methodology for significant numbers of sequences of practically arbitrary length .
the epo  ( enredo ,  pecan ,  ortheus )  pipeline is a three step pipeline for whole - genome multiple alignments ,  using enredo segments ,  aligning them with pecan and constructing ancestal sequences with ortheus .
progressive - cactus is a next - generation aligner that stores whole - genome alignments in a graph structure .
lastz is a program for aligning dna sequences in a pairwise manner .
blastz is a program for aligning dna sequences in a pairwise manner .
translated blat can be used for alignment of the coding regions of genomes only in a pairwise manner .
regions that are predicted to regulate the expression of genes ,  based on the ensembl regulatory build .
regions at the 5' end of genes where transcription factors and rna polymerase bind to initiate transcription .
transcription factor binding regions that flank promoters .
regions that bind transcription factors and interact with promoters to stimulate transcription of distant genes .
regions that bind ctcf ,  the insulator protein that demarcates open and closed chromatin .
sites which bind transcription factors ,  for which no other role can be determined as yet .
regions of spaced out histones ,  making them accessible to protein interactions .
the activity state of a regulatory feature in a specific epigenome .
when a regulatory feature displays an epigenetic signature which is consistent with it carrying out its named function ,  for example an active promoter has an epigenetic signature consistent with initiating transcription ,  while an active ctcf binding site will bind ctcf .
when a regulatory feature displays a epigenetic signature with the potential to be activated .
when a regulatory feature is epigenetically repressed ,  having an epigenetic signature that prevents it from being active .
when a regulatory feature bears no epigenetic modifications from the ones included in the regulatory build .
when there is no available data in the cell type for this regulatory feature .
experimental data that is used to construct and determine activity of regulatory features .
a method to determine the genomic regions that proteins bind to .
a method to determine regions of open and closed chromatin .
a protein that binds to dna and controls the rate of transcription .
covalent modifications to the histone proteins that make up the nucleosome ,  which are known to regulate gene expression .
modification of cytosines in cpgs with methyl groups ,  which is known to repress gene expression .
a method to determine the methylation of genomic cytosines .
a count of the number of ngs reads from an epigenome experiment aligned to a locus ,  shown as a bigwig across the genome .
locus identified from epigenome signal as being having high signal ,  shown as a bigbed across the genome .
short genomic sequence that is known to bind to a particular transcription factor .
a cell type ,  such as a primary tissue or lab cell line ,  for which we have epigenome evidence and can predict regulatory features .
a short sequence whose placement on the genome is known .
unists is a ncbi resource for non - redundant sequence tagged sites  ( sts )  markers .
mapping between ensembl genes ,  transcripts and proteins to the same features in other databases .
a tool that integrates multiple annotations into one metric for scoring the deleteriousness of single nucleotide variants .
a tool for predicting the pathogenicity of single nucleotide variants using an ensemble method .
a tool for assessing the functional impact of single nucleotide variants based on evolutionary conservation of the affected amino acid in protein homologues .
a tool for predicting the pathogenicity of single nucleotide variants using a logistic regression based ensemble method .
the matched annotation from ncbi and embl - ebi is a collaboration between ensembl / gencode and refseq to identify transcripts that match grch38 and are 100% identical between refseq and ensembl / gencode for 5' utr ,  cds ,  splicing and 3'utr .
the matched annotation from ncbi and embl - ebi is a collaboration between ensembl / gencode and refseq .
the preliminary release  ( phase 1 )  of the mane select data set .
long - read sequence data is computationally processed into non - redundant transcript models which are manually appraised by the ensembl - havana annotation team .
the coding sequence contains a stop codon that is translated  ( as supported by experimental evidence )  ,  and termination occurs instead at a canonical stop codon further downstream .
dna strand arbitrary defined as the strand with its 5' end at the tip of the short chromosome arm  ( p )  .
dna strand arbitrary defined as the strand with its 5' end at the tip of the long chromosome arm  ( q )  .
refseq transcripts that match 100% across the sequence ,  exon / intron structure and utrs as part of the mane project
the uniprot identifier that matches to the ensembl transcript .
a transcript with a premature stop codon considered likely to be subjected to targeted degradation .
a transcript with a non - atg start codon but which still encodes a methionine since the ribosomal machinery allows non - aug to translate as methionine in specific cases .
transcripts in the mane plus clinical set are additional transcripts per locus necessary to support clinical variant reporting ,  for example transcripts containing known pathogenic or likely pathogenic clinical variants not reportable using the mane select set .
