a type of information that is used to support an assertion .
a type of curator inference where conclusions are drawn based on the background scientific knowledge of the curator .
a type of experimental evidence resulting from the direct measurement of some aspect of a biological feature .
a type of direct assay evidence based on reconstructing a biological sample from its disassociated state to its original state .
a type of fractionation evidence where sub - cellular components are separated based on their physical properties such as density in a sucrose density gradient .
a type of protein assay evidence where the catalytic activity of an enzyme is determined .
a type of evidence resulting from manipulation of variables in order to discover cause and effect .
a type of protein detection assay evidence where a fluorescently labeled antibody is used to detect the presence or localization of a biomolecule within a cell .
a type of experimental evidence that is based on characterization of gene expression .
a type of expression pattern evidence where abundance of a transcript is analyzed .
a type of expression pattern evidence resulting from protein abundance quantification techniques .
a type of experimental phenotypic evidence resulting from the effect that a given gene has on another gene or genes ,  and the products .
a type of genetic interaction evidence where a wild - type copy of the gene in question is inserted into a mutant cell to see if it restores the wild - type phenotype in the mutant background .
a type of functional complementation evidence resulting from the introduction of a transgene to prevent ,  or  \ "rescue \ " an organism from a condition .
a type of experimental phenotypic evidence in which an observable phenotypic difference results from a change or mutation in dna ,  reflecting a different form of an allele .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence where a phenotype is associated with altered gene product which lacks the molecular function of the wild - type gene .
a type of experimental phenotypic evidence where a transgenic strain carrying the construct of a promoter cdna fusion in which a gene of interest is driven by a defined promoter or enhancer is ectopically expressed in the defined pattern to characterize potential cellular properties and functions of a protein of interest .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence where a phenotype is observed while expressing an anti - sense version of a gene product in a wild - type  ( for that gene product )  background .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence where an rna construct is introduced into a cell and the expression of the gene bearing its complementary sequence is suppressed .
a type of direct assay evidence based on the inhibition of the molecular function of a protein .
a type of experimental evidence that is based on characterization of an interaction between a gene product and another molecule .
a type of physical interaction evidence where a cellular component subunit is isolated as part of purification of its larger complex .
a type of physical interaction evidence that depends on the strength of the interaction between two entities .
a type of affinity evidence resulting from the binding of a molecule to a protein or protein complex .
a type of affinity evidence where proteins of interest  ( bait and prey )  are covalently linked to incomplete fragments of a third protein  ( reporter )  and expressed in vivo ,  at which time interaction between bait and prey proteins brings reporter fragments in close enough proximity to allow them to reform and become a functional reporter protein .
a type of experimental genomic evidence resulting from a process in which single stranded nucleic acids are allowed to interact so that complexes ,  or hybrids ,  are formed by molecules with sufficiently similar ,  complementary sequences .
a type of similarity evidence based on structural similarity of an annotated gene or gene product to another gene or group of genes .
a type of match to sequence model evidence that is based on the presence of a recognized domain or motif in a gene product's  ( usually protein )  primary sequence .
a type of match to sequence model evidence resulting from a positive match of a protein ,  or set of proteins to a predictive model  ( signature )  in the interpro database .
a type of blast evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of protein blast evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of nucleotide blast evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of author statement in which the author makes a statement that is not supported by information in that particular publication ,  but rather can be traced to a reference cited by that publication .
a type of author statement that is not associated with results presented or a cited reference .
an inference that results when research finds no evidence information in the scientific literature ,  at reference databases ,  or from other resources .
a type of functional complementation evidence resulting from the introduction of nucleic acids ,  which are not permanently incorporated into the genome ,  to temporarily prevent ,  or  \ "rescue \ " an organism from a condition .
a type of direct assay evidence resulting from determining the presence ,  abundance ,  structure ,  function ,  or activity of proteins .
a type of affinity evidence resulting from quantitation of the analyte which depends on the reaction of an antigen  ( analyte )  and an antibody .
a type of evidence resulting from comparing likeness of distinct biological entities .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence resulting from an altered gene product which possesses a new molecular function or a new pattern of gene expression .
a type of similarity based on biomolecular sequence .
a type of protein expression evidence that accounts for the position of rna translation to a protein product ranging in scale from differing tissues to regions of an anatomical structure .
a type of transcript expression evidence that accounts for the position of transcription ranging in scale from the position of genes on the chromosome to differing tissues to regions of an anatomical structure .
a type of expression pattern evidence that is based on the expression pattern of a reporter gene .
a type of experimental phenotypic evidence based on an authors phenotypic description of a species  ( or higher - level group )  ,  which explicitly references an observation made of a voucher specimen  ( a specimen with a permanent museum catalog )  .
a type of similarity based on genotype without respect to expression .
a type of genetic interaction evidence resulting from a second mutation that either suppresses or enhances the phenotype expressed from an original mutation .
a type of automatically integrated combinatorial evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence resulting from an experiment typically constructed to determine if two different genes have an observable genetic interaction  ( functional connection )  as the result of a mutation occurring in the alleles of the two genes of interest .
a type of genetic interaction evidence resulting from the suppression of one allelic effect by an allele at another genetic locus .
a type of similarity based on the expression of a genotype in an environment .
a type of transcript expression evidence resulting from simultaneous profiling of the expression levels of thousands of genes in a single experiment allowing analysis of genes and their networks .
a type of experimental evidence that is based on an observable characteristic trait ,  which is the result of the expression of an organisms genotype in an environment .
a type of phenotypic similarity evidence based on the similarity of stucture locations or arrangements .
a type of phenotypic evidence that is based on a gene product that is associated with a quantitative trait locus ,  but has not been cloned .
a type of expression microarray evidence where expression level is quantified by sample biotin - labeled crna  ( transcribed from an unknown rna sample )  hybridized to dna oligonuclotides immoblized on a solid surface .
a type of phenotypic similarity evidence based on the similarity of the histological makeup of structures .
a type of functional complementation evidence that is based on the insertion of a wild - type copy of a gene into a heterologous organism ,  with the mutation occurring in a homologous gene .
a type of hybrid interaction evidence that is based on a protein - dna complementation assay where a single promoter acts as bait and is screened against a library of prey transcription factors .
a type of phenotypic similarity evidence based on the similarity of embryological or post - embryonic orgin of structures .
a type of hybrid interaction evidence that is based on detection of protein - protein interaction by activation of a yeast reporter gene after a bait protein fused to a dna - binding domain  ( which has been transfected into a yeast cell )  is used to screen a cdna library of clones fused to an activation domain .
a type of in vitro methylation assay evidence where methylation - sensitive restriction enzymes are utilized to compare differential methylation between two samples by first shearing dna ,  followed by end - blunting ,  ligation of linkers ,  methylation sensitive restriction ,  pcr using linker primers ,  dye labeling and relative quantification of methylated dna fragments by two - colored array hybridization to a cpg island microarray for visual assessment .
a type of immunoprecipitation evidence that involves precipitating two or more proteins via binding to an antibody specific to a single protein ,  followed by protein identification .
a type of phenotypic similarity evidence based on the similarity of shape ,  structure ,  or configuration in structures .
a type of experimental evidence that is based on the characterization of an attribute of the genome underlying a gene product .
a type of physical interaction evidence that is based on detection of protein - protein interaction between a bait and prey protein by in vivo reconstitution of split - ubiquitin  ( when bait and prey interact )  and release of a reporter protein .
a type of phenotypic similarity evidence that is based on the categorization of genes by the similarity of expression profiles .
a type of physical interaction evidence that is based on detection of protein - protein interactions by separation of target proteins by sds - page which are blotted to a membrane ,  followed by denaturation and renaturation ,  probing with purified bait proteins ,  and detection of the target - bait complexes .
a type of in vitro methylation assay evidence resulting from initial modification of dna by sodium bisulfite ,  converting all unmethylated cytosines to uracil ,  and subsequent amplification with primers specific for methylated versus unmethylated dna .
a type of dna detection assay evidence that is based on detection of a specific dna sequence by hybridization of labeled probes to any immobilized dna fragment with sequence similarity .
a type of affinity evidence that results from separation of biochemical mixtures by selective binding of a compound to an immobilized compound on a polymeric matrix ,  subsequent removal of unattached components ,  and then displacement of the bound compound .
a type of similarity that indicates common ancestry .
a type of motif similarity evidence that is based on detection of a targeting sequence in the primary sequence of a protein through computational prediction and / or a manual examination of the sequence .
a type of experimental genomic evidence where dna polymerase is used to synthesize new strand of dna complementary to the offered template strand .
a type of motif similarity evidence that is based on detection of one ,  or more ,  transmembrane domains in the primary sequence of a protein through computational prediction and / or a manual examination of the sequence .
a type of genomic context evidence in which a gene product's identity is supported on the basis of the identity of neighboring genes .
a type of protein binding evidence that involves precipitation of a multivalent antigen by a bivalent antibody for protein isolation .
a type of in vitro methylation assay evidence resulting from a genome - wide estimate of dna methylation by differential enzymatic digestion of genomic dna with methylation - sensitive and methylation - insensitive isoschizomers ,  followed by restrained pcr amplification of sequences methylated at both ends and resolving the pcr products in a denaturing polyacrylamide - sequencing gel to generate fingerprints that consist of multiple anonymous bands that represent the dna methylome of the cell .
a type of microscopy evidence where antibodies are used to detect the location of molecules or other structures within cells or tissues .
a type of evidence that is based on a combination of experimental evidences or existing models of that system in a related species used for the reconstruction of a biological system .
a type of dna detection assay evidence resulting from the use of restriction enzymes for direct end - labeling of dna  ( creating landmarks )  ,  followed by high - resolution two - dimensional electrophoresis to visualize the landmarks .
a type of immunolocalization evidence where the antibodies are labeled with colloidal gold particles whose location is then detected via microscopy .
a type of immunolocalization evidence in which recombinant proteins fused with epitopes are recognized by antibodies .
a type of dna detection assay evidence evidence where gene sequence or variation is determined or detected by fluorescently - labeled dna fragments hybridized to sequence - specific oligonucleotides immobilized on an array .
a type of cell growth assay evidence that measures one or more aspects of cell growth over a specified time period to indicate an induced or repressed regulatory effect .
a type of affinity evidence based on an electrophoretic mobility shift of macromolecules ,  where proteins ,  nucleic acids ,  or both ,  are combined and the resulting mixtures are electrophoresed under native conditions through polyacrylamide or agarose gel to detect interactions / complexes between proteins and / or nucleic acid .
a type of expression microarray evidence where expression level is quantified by fluroescently - labeled cdna  ( reverse transcribed from an unknown rna sample )  hybridized to dna immobilized on a solid surface .
a type of nucleic acid hybridization evidence based on localization of a specific segment of dna or rna by the application of a complementary strand of nucleic acid to which a reporter molecule is attached .
a type of direct assay evidence resulting from the separation of various cell components while preserving their individual functions .
a type of crna to dna expression microarray evidence resulting from the use of a proprietary affymetrix genechip system for analyzing complex genetic information .
a type of fractionation evidence resulting from a protein fractionated with other compounds ,  factors ,  or macromolecules .
a type of expression microarray evidence where expression levels are quantified by hybridization of fluorescently - labeled dna to cdna  ( reverse transcribed from an unknown rna sample )  immobilized on a solid surface .
a type of cdna to dna expression microarray evidence resulting from the use of a proprietary nimblegen array to measure expression levels .
a type of transcript expression evidence based on electrophoresis and probing to determine levels of rna expression using a complementary hybridization probe on the separated rna samples .
a type of rna detection assay evidence where an rna transcript is reverse transcribed into cdna and amplified to qualitatively detect gene expression .
a type of nuclease protection assay evidence where mrna is hybridized with radiolabeled rna probes after which rnase is added to digest the unbound ,  nonresistant single - stranded overhang regions ,  later the remaining probe target hybrids are purified and resolved on denaturing polyacrylamide gel ,  and quantified by autoradiography .
a type of protein expression evidence where proteins are separated using gel electrophoresis ,  blotted onto a membrane ,  and probed with an antibody that can be detected via light or radioactive emission .
a type of protein expression evidence where a protein of interest is isolated on the basis of its hybridization to an antibody raised to a homologous protein .
a type of nucleic acid hybridization evidence in which preferential or exclusive expression of genes in one cell type or tissue is compared to another cell type or tissue when mrna from each sample is reverse transcribed ,  labeled ,  and hybridized to a cdna library to compare hybridization patterns .
a type of nucleic acid hybridization evidence in which preferential or exclusive expression of genes in one cell type or tissue are compared to another cell type or tissue when denatured ds - cdna from the two samples are hybridized ,  and the common sequences are 'subtracted' .
a type of experimental phenotypic evidence in which a gene and / or gene product is investigated in a transgenic organism that has been engineered to overexpress that gene product .
a type of localization evidence where sub - cellular localization of a protein is determined .
a type of protein localization evidence resulting from the fusion of a protein of interest to a labeling protein which has enzymatic activity or fluorescence properties .
a type of fusion protein localization evidence resulting from the labeling of a protein of interest with green fluorescent protein  ( gfp )  from the jellyfish aequorea victoria .
a type of fusion protein localization evidence resulting from the labeling of a protein of interest with yellow fluorescent protein  ( yfp )  ,  which was created by mutating green fluorescent protein  ( gfp )  of the aequorea victoria .
a type of fusion protein localization evidence resulting from the targeted insertion of the beta - glucuronidase  ( gus )  coding gene as a reporter gene for the localization of a particular gene product .
a type of fusion protein localization evidence resulting from the targeted insertion of the beta - galactosidase coding gene  ( lacz )  into a specific gene to create a beta - galactosidase - tagged fusion protein .
a type of direct assay evidence resulting from the activity assessment of transport proteins .
a type of affinity evidence resulting from the binding of a molecule to a nucleic acid .
a type of nucleic acid binding evidence resulting from an enzyme displaying binding activity to specific ribohomopolymer .
a type of chromatography evidence that uses a thin layer of adsorbent  ( such as silica gel ,  alumina ,  or cellulose )  on a flat ,  inert substrate .
a type of protein binding evidence resulting from a metal ion binding to a protein at a specific binding site .
a type of nucleic acid binding evidence in which dna - protein binding is detected using labeled dna as probes ,  hybridized to electrophoretically separated proteins .
a type of nucleic acid binding evidence in which rna - protein binding is detected using labeled rna as probes ,  hybridized to electrophoretically separated proteins .
a type of reconstitution assay evidence resulting from the use of reconstituted polymerase transcription systems to investigate rna synthesis .
a type of in vitro transcription reconstitution assay evidence resulting from the use of recombinant proteins in preparation of a fully - defined transcription system .
a type of protein expression evidence where a gene from one cell is inserted into a cell that does not typically contain that gene and heterologous protein expression is assessed .
a type of fractionation evidence resulting from the isolation of a single type of protein from a complex mixture .
a type of protein separation evidence that is followed by direct protein sequencing whereby a protein's amino acid sequence is determined experimentally by edman degradation or by mass spectrometry .
a type of protein separation evidence which then utilizes the screening and identification of small - molecules that bind to proteins .
a type of transport assay evidence in which the uptake mechanism of a transporter is investigated in a cell that does not normally express that protein .
a type of direct assay evidence where electrical properties of cells or tissues are studied .
a type of voltage clamp recording evidence which involves using two electrodes inserted into a large cell  ( often a xenopus oocyte )  where one electrode is used to measure the internal potential  ( voltage )  of the cell and the other electrode is used to clamp the current .
a type of direct assay evidence resulting from the detection and quantification of transcribed rna .
a type of transcription assay evidence in which sequence - specific binding proteins that increase transcription of a specific target gene or genes are identified ,  quantified ,  and / or analyzed .
a type of experimental phenotypic evidence in which the biochemical aspect of a mutation is analyzed .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence in which the physiological response of a mutant when presented with an external stimulus is determined .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence in which traits arising from a mutation are visually examined .
a type of similarity evidence in which the location of the gene within the genome provides insight into the gene's function or evolutionary insight .
a type of direct assay evidence resulting from a sample of microorganisms or living tissue grown in a medium .
a type of experimental evidence arising from the investigation of an animal model system .
a type of experimental evidence arising from a controlled investigation that uses human subjects .
a type of direct assay evidence resulting from a process performed outside the living organism ,  where the components of an organism have been isolated from their usual biological context ,  to permit a more detailed or more convenient analysis in an artificial setting .
a type of direct assay evidence resulting from studies in which cytoplasmic and / or nuclear cellular components from resting ,  nonstimulated cells ,  are isolated by ultracentrifugation to provide molecular machinery that can be used in reactions in the absence of many of the other cellular components for the purpose of in vitro protein synthesis ,  transcription ,  dna replication ,  etc .
a type of protein inhibition evidence and enzymatic acitivty evidence where the protein under study is an enzyme .
a type of sequence similarity evidence in which an annotation is made based on a manually - reviewed or published sequence alignment
a type of sequence similarity evidence in which orthology is established by multiple criteria ,  including amino acid and / or nucleotide sequence comparisons and one or more of the following: phylogenetic analysis ,  coincident expression ,  conserved map location ,  functional complementation ,  immunological cross - reaction ,  similarity in subcellular localization ,  subunit structure ,  substrate specificity ,  and response to specific inhibitors .
a type of sequence similarity evidence in which the function of a gene product is predicted based on a sequence - based statistical model .
an assertion method that does not involve human review .
a documented statement evidence that is based on an assertion by the author of a paper ,  which is read by a curator .
a type of inferential evidence that is based on a conclusion drawn by a curator .
a type of pairwise sequence alignment evidence obtained with basic local alignment search tool  ( blast )  .
a type of blast evidence in which nucleotide sequences are aligned .
a type of blast evidence in which amino acid or translated nucleotide sequences are aligned .
a type of blast evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of nucleotide blast evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of protein blast evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of evidence in which at least two distinct types of evidence have been integrated .
a type of combinatorial analysis that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of phylogenetic evidence whereby an aspect of an ancestral gene is inferred through the characterization of an aspect of a descendant gene .
a type of phylogenetic evidence characterized by long phylogenetic tree branch lengths following a duplication event .
a type of phylogenetic evidence characterized by the absence of key sequence residues .
a means by which a statement is made about an entity .
an assertion method that involves human review .
a type of sequencing assay that determines the sequence of a biopolymer comprised of nucleotides .
a type of experimental evidence where the order of molecules that constitute a biopolymer is determined .
a type of nucleotide sequencing assay evidence in which a sequence is derived from a parallelized sequencing technique .
a type of high throughput nucleotide sequencing evidence in which sequence is determined through hybridization of adaptor - ligated dna to a glass slide on which each fragment is simultaneously clonally amplified ,  followed by progressive rounds of base incorporation with fluorescently - tagged nucleotides ,  washing ,  imaging ,  and cleavage .
a type of high throughput nucleotide sequencing evidence in which the sequence for a ssdna is determined by addition of primers and then nucleotides ,  one base pair at a time  ( which generate a specific fluorescence )  ,  to the target strand .
a type of high throughput nucleotide sequencing evidence in which sequence is determined through rounds of ligation - based sequencing with fluorescently - labeled di - base probes and cleavage ,  after which the template is reset ,  with a primer offset by one base ,  for subsequent rounds of ligation .
a type of nucleotide sequencing assay in which dna sequence is determined by addition of a primed dna template to a reaction mixture ,  followed by addition of dna polymerase ,  deoxynucleosidetriphosphates  ( dntps  -  one of which may be radiolabeled )  ,  and one of four di - deoxynucleotidetriphosphates  ( ddntps )  ,  after which dna elongation is terminated and the dna is separated by size and imaged .
a type of immunoprecipitation evidence that is used to identify a protein binding site on a genomic dna sequence .
a type of chromatin immunoprecipitation evidence that uses polymerase chain reaction  ( pcr )  where specific primers are used on the pulled - down dna for dna detection .
a type of chromatin immunoprecipitation evidence in which protein - dna interactions are investigated at known genomic binding sites through a process of chip ,  dna purification ,  and finally quantitative polymerase chain reaction  ( qpcr )  for dna detection .
a type of chromatin immunoprecipitation evidence that uses high - throughput sequencing where immunoprecipitated dna fragments are funnelled into a massively parallel sequencer to produce multiple short reads for locating binding sites of dna - associated proteins .
a type of chromatin immunoprecipitation evidence that uses a tiling microarray for the detection of protein - bound dna regions where chromatin is immunoprecipitated for protein tagging and dna is sheared from the cross - linked protein - dna complex to be arrayed revealing the protein - bound genomic regions .
a type of dna detection assay evidence where the reaction product is quantified in real - time across cycles by means of fluorescent dyes or fluorescent probes for detection and quantification of specific sequences in a dna sample .
a type of experimental evidence that is based on a five - step technique of cross - linking dna in vivo ,  restriction digestion ,  intramolecular ligation ,  reversing dna cross - links ,  dna processing ,  and quantitation that serves to analyze the spatial organization of chromatin in a cell and quantify the number of interactions between genomic loci that are nearby in 3 - d space .
a type of chromosome conformation - based evidence that is derived by 1 )  quantifying interactions between a single pair of genomic loci and not multiple interactions and 2 )  performing polymerase chain reaction  ( pcr )  in the final product quantitation step .
a type of chromosome conformation - based evidence that is derived by inverse polymerase chain reaction  ( inverse pcr )  on a prior circularized 3c library followed by product quantitation with a microarray .
a type of chromosome conformation - based evidence that is derived by performing ligation - mediated amplification  ( lma )  prior to product quantitation .
a type of chromosome conformation capture evidence that is derived by performing polymerase chain reaction  ( pcr )  in the quantitation step .
a type of 3c evidence evidence that 1 )  quantifies interactions between a single pair of genomic loci  ( not multiple interactions )  and 2 )  performs quantitative polymerase chain reaction  ( qpcr )  in the quantitation step .
a type of chromosome conformation - based evidence that is derived by performing immunoprecipitation enrichment of the biotin labelled ligated fragments events prior to sequencing of the library and mapping it to the genome .
a type of chromosome conformation - based evidence that is derived by inverse polymerase chain reaction  ( inverse pcr )  on a circularized 3c library prior to product quantitation with multiplexed high - throughput  ( ht )  sequencing .
a type of experimental phenotypic evidence resulting from the disruption of a structural feature .
a type of experimental phenotypic evidence resulting from modification to the surroundings or conditions in which an organism lives or operates .
a type of anatomical perturbation phenotypic evidence resulting from the surgical removal of tissue or subcellular components .
a type of anatomical perturbation phenotypic evidence resulting from the addition of tissue to an organism through a graft procedure .
a type of combinatorial analysis that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of automatically integrated combinatorial evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of computational combinatorial analysis that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of sequence alignment evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of sequence alignment evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of sequence similarity evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of sequence similarity evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of similarity evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of similarity evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of genetic similarity evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of genetic similarity evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of match to sequence model evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of match to sequence model evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of motif similarity evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of motif similarity evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of match to interpro member signature evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of match to interpro member signature evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of targeting sequence prediction that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of targeting sequence prediction that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of transmembrane domain prediction that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of transmembrane domain prediction that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of sequence orthology evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of sequence orthology evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of protein detection assay evidence where an antigen is bound to a substrate ,  and an antibody directly or indirectly linked to an enzyme is utilized to determine the amount of bound antigen which is visualized with a color change in the substrate .
a type of direct assay evidence in which cells or particles are characterized by passing them through a light source and monitoring the resultant light scatter or fluorochrome excitation .
a type of experimental evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of expression pattern evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of affymetrix genechip evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cdna to dna expression microarray evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of differential methylation hybridization evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of expression microarray evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of crna to dna expression microarray evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of evidence arising from a nimblegen array experiment that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of array - based sequence capture evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of qualitative western immunoblotting evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of expression library screen evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of heterologous protein expression analysis that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of protein expression spatial pattern analysis that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of protein expression analysis that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of dna to cdna expression microarray evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of differential hybridization experiment that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of rna protection assay that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of spatial pattern of transcript expression analysis that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of subtractive hybridization experiment that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of transcript expression evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence that uses anti - sense by introducing morpholino oligonucleotides into the cytosol of a cell .
a type of evidence arising from a physical interaction analysis where a combinatorial chemistry technique is used to identify oligonucleotides that bind to a target ligand .
a type of hybrid interaction evidence that uses bacterial transformation with two plasmids to assess in vivo binding of a dna - binding domain  ( bait )  and dna target site  ( prey )  .
a type of transcript evidence based on high - throughput  ( ht )  sequencing of fragmented cdna molecules .
a type of experimental phenotypic evidence where embryonic development proceeds although cytokinesis is blocked .
a type of cleavage arrested development that arises after treatment with cytochalasin .
a type of immunolocalization evidence data that was generated using green fluorescent protein  ( gfp )  as a marker .
a type of immunolocalization evidence that was generated using lacz protein as a marker .
a type of author statement that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of author statement without traceable support that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of author statement supported by traceable reference that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of curator inference that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of inference from background scientific knowledge that is used in a manual assertion .
an inference that results when research finds no evidence information in the scientific literature ,  at reference databases ,  or from other resources that is used in an manual assertion .
a type of phylogenetic evidence whereby an aspect of a descendant gene is inferred through the characterization of an aspect of an ancestral gene .
a type of transcript expression evidence based on high - throughput  ( ht )  sequencing of the 5' ends of cdna molecules that are selected by a cap - trapper system .
a type of transcript expression evidence based on high - throughput  ( ht )  sequencing of the 5' ends of cdna molecules that are selected by reverse transcriptase template switching .
a type of evidence that is based on work performed by a person or group prior to a use by a different person or group .
a type of imported information that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of imported information that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of direct assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of genetic interaction experiment evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of genomic context evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of biological aspect of ancestor evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of biological aspect of descendant evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of phylogenetic determination of loss of key residues evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of rapid divergence from ancestral sequence evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
evidence that was initially used in manual assertion by one person or group ,  which is imported by a second person or group and used in automatic assertion .
a type of imported information used in automatic assertion that was initially used in automatic assertion by one person or group ,  which is imported by a second person or group and used in automatic assertion .
a type of direct assay evidence in which an image is created and analyzed .
a type of experimental evidence that is based on separation of constituent parts of a mixture  ( the mobile phase )  as they pass differentially through a stationary phase due to differences in partition coefficient and retention on the stationary phase .
a type of sequence alignment evidence that is based on comparing the position of exon junctions ,  relative to a reference genome ,  for a transcript annotation and a supporting transcript .
a type of transcript splice pattern evidence that is based on the exon combination of a whole transcript ,  rather than its constituent features .
a type of transcript splice pattern evidence that is based on the exon combination of a coding sequence  ( cds )  ,  a sub - feature of a whole transcript .
a type of transcript splice pattern evidence that is based on the exon combination of a whole transcript ,  rather than its constituent features ,  and is used in manual assertion .
a type of transcript splice pattern evidence that is based on the exon combination of a coding sequence  ( cds )  ,  a sub - feature of a whole transcript ,  and is used in manual assertion .
a type of transcript splice pattern evidence that is based on the exon combination of a coding sequence  ( cds )  ,  a sub - feature of a whole transcript ,  and is used in automatic assertion .
a type of transcript splice pattern evidence that is based on the exon combination of a whole transcript ,  rather than its constituent features ,  and is used in automatic assertion .
a type of gel electrophoresis evidence where proteins are separated according to their electrophoretic mobility .
a type of direct assay evidence resulting from an assay where both the size of and number of particles in a sample are determined .
a type of direct assay evidence where the quantity of a substance used as part of an assay is measured .
a type of cell proliferation assay evidence in which a mutated strain of a microorganism ,  such as a yeast or bacterium ,  is grown competitively with wild - type cells and the relative fitness of the strains is assessed usually by means of a fluorescent marker and flow cytometric analysis .
a type of direct assay evidence where molecules have been sorted according to their size and charge by moving through a gel in the presence of an electric field .
a type of gel electrophoresis evidence in which large dna molecules are separated on agarose gel by alternately pulsed ,  perpendicularly oriented electrical fields ,  at least one of which is inhomogeneous .
a type of gel electrophoresis evidence where dna molecules are electrophoresed on a low percentage agarose gel followed by high voltage electrophoresis on a higher percentage agarose gel in the presence of ethidium bromide .
a type of experimental evidence in which a plasmid that is capable of being replicated is introduced into cells ,  cells are grown without selection for several generations ,  and retention of the plasmid is determined .
a type of specific protein inhibition evidence where the molecular function of a protein is inhibited by an antibody .
a type of rna - seq evidence where intron locations in predicted transcripts are compared to intron locations supported by rna - seq evidence .
a type of support of intron position by rna - seq alignment evidence where rna - seq alignment from a single sample supports all of the intron positions  ( exon pairs )  predicted for a transcript .
a type of support of intron position by rna - seq alignment evidence where rna - seq alignment to a genome supports only some of the intron positions  ( exon pairs )  predicted for a transcript .
a type of sequence alignment evidence resulting from the comparison of a single exon transcript to a collection  /  database of known single exon genes .
a type of support of intron position by rna - seq alignment evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of support of intron position by rna - seq alignment evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of full support of intron position by rna - seq alignment evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of full support of intron position by rna - seq alignment evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of partial support of intron position by rna - seq alignment evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of partial support of intron position by rna - seq alignment evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of evidence that is used in an manual assertion .
a type of physical interaction evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of gene neighbors evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of phylogenetic evidence characterized by the mapping of the character states of living organisms onto phylogenies using the method of maximum parsimony .
a type of transcript expression evidence resulting from a microarray analysis with the use of the gene set enrichment analysis  ( gsea )  method or the fisher's - exact  ( fe )  method to assess the differential expression .
a type of transcript expression evidence resulting from the use of the gene set enrichment analysis  ( gsea )  method or fisher's - exact  ( fe )  method to assess an rna - seq dataset for differential gene expression .
a type of experimental evidence resulting from the prediction of drug - target interactions by computational means .
a type of evidence where an assertion is derived from another assertion via logical inference or some non - logical but rational means .
a type of inferential evidence based on a computationally derived unary inference or an inference chain in which at least one step is  \ ncomputationally derived .
a type of evidence based on computational logical inference that is used in automatic assertion .
a type of evidence based on logical inference from a manually curated annotation that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of evidence based on logical inference from an automatically curated annotation that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cell proliferation assay evidence resulting from the growth of cells in a micro - environment that mimics real tissue and establishes physiological cell - cell and cell - substrate interactions that regulate proliferation and differentiation .
a type of cell - based assay evidence resulting from labeling cells with  [ 3h ] arachidonic acid and subsequently determining the release of the arachidonic acid by the cells .
a type of dna synthesis cell proliferation assay evidence resulting from the measurement of cell proliferation rate by determining the incorporation of  [ 3h ]  - thymidine into cellular nucleic acids .
a type of cytotoxicity assay evidence resulting from the measurement of the amount of radioactive 51cr released in the supernatant of a sample of 51cr pre - labeled cells via cytolysis by effector cells  ( cytotoxic t - cells )  .
a type of apoptotic assay evidence resulting from the use of 7 - aminoactinomycin d  ( 7 - aad )  to distinguish viable ,  apoptotic ,  and dead cells ,  using the fact that permeability of the cell membrane ,  and fluorescence intensity ,  is low in early apoptotic cells and high in late apoptotic and dead cells .
a type of cell - based assay evidence resulting from the analysis of cell binding either to extracellular matrix proteins or other cells .
a type of ex vivo assay evidence derived by ex vivo selection of tumor - reactive lymphocytes ,  and their activation and numerical expansion before re - infusion to the autologous tumor - bearing host .
a type of cell viability assay evidence resulting from the continuous measurement of fluorescence intensity from the viable cells ,  where a cell permeable compound ,  resazurin  ( the active ingredient of alamarblue )  ,  is reduced to fluorescent resorufin .
a type of anatomical perturbation phenotypic evidence resulting from the transplantation of an organ or tissue from one individual of the same species with a different genotype .
a type of chromatography evidence where a positively charged ion exchange resin with an affinity for molecules having net negative surface charges is used to separate the molecules .
a type of apoptotic assay evidence resulting from the addition and subsequent binding of annexin v to phosphatidylserine in cells to detect if they are viable ,  apoptotic ,  or necrotic .
a type of experimental phenotypic evidence resulting from behavioral phenotyping and analysis to assess cognitive functioning .
a type of immunological assay evidence resulting from inhibitory effect of monoclonal antibody combining with an antigen over other antibodies .
a type of immunological assay evidence resulting from the use of peptides to block antibodies from binding to their targets .
a type of immunological assay evidence resulting from the inhibitory effect of polyclonal antibodies  ( antibodies secreted by different b cell lineages )  ,  which while not reacting with a specific antigen ,  serve to prevent other antibodies from doing so .
a type of direct assay evidence where a blood sample is extracted from an organism to analyze different blood components .
a type of chemotaxis assay evidence where the presence or absence of positive or negative chemotaxis is determined by measuring the number of cells that migrate from the upper compartment of a chamber  ( separated by a micro - porous membrane )  to the lower compartment ,  in which chemotactic agents are present .
a type of nucleotide analog incorporation evidence resulting from the incorporation of bromodeoxyuridine  ( brdu )  as a thymidine analog into nuclear dna ,  resulting in a label that can be tracked using antibody probes .
a type of apoptotic assay evidence resulting from the detection of caspase activation ,  which results in the cleaving of intracellular substrates during apoptosis .
a type of cell - based assay evidence resulting from the quantification of a sample of cells .
a type of cell - based assay evidence resulting from the quantification of cell permeability .
a type of staining evidence resulting from monitoring division by the use of carboxyfluorescein diacetate succinimidyl ester  ( cfse )  to label intracellular molecules with carboxyfluorescein ;  when a labeled cell divides ,  the number of carboxyfluorescein - tagged molecules is split .
a type of protein detection assay evidence resulting from a complex  ( a chemiluminescent compound ,  protein and a steroidal hapten )  utilized as a labeled antigen ,  which emits light when treated with hydrogen peroxide and copper acetate at a high ph .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence resulting from the fusion of two or more different genes to create one protein product .
a type of gel electrophoresis evidence resulting from the electrophoresis of two substances together ,  allowing for the characterization of ligand / nucleic acid binding interactions .
a type of imaging assay evidence resulting from the limited observation of the co - occurrence of molecules in a subcellular location .
a type of direct assay evidence resulting from the counting of microbial colonies that arise from viable cells grown on a plate or dish .
a type of physical interaction evidence resulting from the separation of a mixture of molecules under the influence of a force such as artificial gravity ,  where molecules sedimenting together are assumed to interact .
a type of gel electrophoresis evidence resulting in the assessment of dna breakage in a cell ,  based on size and shape of dna migration .
a type of knockout evidence resulting from a temporally - restricted and / or tissue - specific targeted gene removal .
a type of knockin evidence resulting from the targeted introduction of a temporally - restricted and / or tissue - specific mutation .
a type of experimental phenotypic evidence resulting from a constitutively active mutant  ( cam )  ,  resulting in mutant proteins that remain active in the absence of upstream signals .
a type of protein binding evidence resulting from the identification of two interacting proteins  ( that exist in close proximity )  by linking through covalent bonds followed by identification
a type of structure determination evidence resulting from the use of a narrow beam of x - rays to identify molecular structures by creating a diffraction pattern .
a type of histochemistry evidence resulting from localizing chemical components of cells and organelles on histological sections .
a type of apoptotic assay evidence resulting from the identification of an accumulation of cytochrome c in the cytoplasm after its release from the mitochondria ,  an early event in apoptosis .
a type of staining evidence resulting from 4' , 6 - diamidino - 2 - phenylindole  ( dapi )  binding to at regions of dna and emitting a blue fluorescence .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence resulting from a mutation in which there is the removal of one or more contiguous nucleotides that may result in altered function or other measurable properties .
a type of apoptotic assay evidence resulting from the visualization via gel electrophoresis of the fragmented dna  ( dna ladder )  which is the result of apoptotic dna fragmentation .
a type of rna detection assay evidence based on the direct application of a rna mixture in a circular motion on a matrix for hybridization with labeled dna fragments .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence resulting from a mutated gene producing mutant polypeptides that disrupt the activity of the wild - type genes .
a type of edman degradation evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of protein detection assay evidence resulting from labeling a termonal amino acid residue and cleaving it from a peptide by sequentially removing one residue at a time from the amino end of the peptide ,  without disrupting the bonds .
a type of affinity evidence resulting from the quantitative analysis of gene and protein expression monitored by proprietary etag reporters .
a type of physical interaction evidence resulting from a mixture of two molecules passed through a nitrocellulose filter ,  where one may be immobilized on the filter ,  and if the immobilized molecule is capable of binding to the other ,  it will be retained on the filter as well .
a type of nucleic acid localization evidence and in situ hybridization evidence resulting from the use of fluorescent probes to detect complementary sequences of nucleic acids .
a type of physical interaction evidence resulting from the measurement of the proximity of two fluorophores ,  where the energy from an excited molecular fluorophore to another fluorophore can only occur within ~10nm .
a type of chromatography evidence resulting from the exclusion of proteins based on molecular size by filtration through a porous matrix  ( swollen gel )  ,  from which larger molecules are excluded .
a type of histology evidence resulting from the identification of chemical components in cells and tissues .
a type of imaging assay evidence resulting from the qualitative microscopic examination of cells or tissues .
a type of chromatography evidence resulting from the separation of molecules in a solute by forcing the solvent containing the sample through a column packed with nonporous particles at high pressure .
a type of protein detection assay evidence resulting from the use of antibodies linked to coloring agents to localize structures in cell cultures to identify proteins .
a type of immunological assay evidence resulting from the use of antibodies to remove specific proteins from a sample .
a type of protein detection assay evidence resulting from the use of antibodies to detect proteins in localized cells of tissue sections .
a type of genetic transformation evidence resulting from a mutation induced by a mutagenic compounds or irradiation .
a type of acetylation assay evidence used in an in vitro experiment .
a type of cleavage assay evidence used in an in vitro experiment .
a type of deubiquitination assay evidence used in an in vitro experiment .
a type of deacetylation assay evidence used in an in vitro experiment .
a type of defarnesylation assay evidence used in an in vitro experiment .
a type of demethylation assay evidence used in an in vitro experiment .
a type of desumoylation assay evidence used in an in vitro experiment .
a type of farnesylation assay evidence used in an in vitro experiment .
a type of methylation assay evidence used in an in vitro experiment .
a type of palmitoylation assay evidence used in an in vitro experiment .
a type of phosphatase assay evidence used in an in vitro experiment .
a type of protein kinase assay evidence used in an in vitro experiment .
a type of polyadp - ribosylation assay evidence used in an in vitro experiment .
a type of sumoylation assay evidence used in an in vitro experiment .
a type of transcription assay evidence used in an in vitro experiment .
a type of translation assay evidence used in an in vitro experiment .
a type of ubiquitination assay evidenceused in an in vitro experiment .
a type of acetylation assay evidence used in an in vivo experiment .
a type of cleavage assay evidence used in an in vivo experiment .
a type of deacetylation assay evidence used in an in vivo experiment .
a type of defarnesylation assay evidence used in an in vivo experiment .
a type of demethylation assay evidence used in an in vivo experiment .
a type of deubiquitination assay evidence used in an in vivo experiment .
a type of desumoylation assay evidence used in an in vivo experiment .
a type of farnesylation assay evidence used in an in vivo experiment .
a type of methylation assay evidence used in an in vivo experiment .
a type of palmitoylation assay evidence used in an in vivo experiment .
a type of phosphatase assay evidence used in an in vivo experiment .
a type of protein kinase assay evidence used in an in vivo experiment .
a type of sumoylation assay evidence used in an in vivo experiment .
a type of transcription assay evidence used in an in vivo experiment .
a type of translation assay evidence used in an in vivo experiment .
a type of ubiquitination assay evidence used in an in vivo experiment .
a type of genetic transformation evidence resulting from the targetted replacement of a wild - type dna sequence with a different sequence .
a type of genetic transformation evidence resulting from a change in the dna that results in the elimination of the function of the gene ,  allowing for functional analysis .
a type of physical interaction evidence resulting from the qualitative and quantitative analysis of the affinity with which a protein binds to a lipid .
a type of physical interaction evidence resulting from the analysis of protein - protein interactions by use of a luciferase enzyme fused to a particular protein  ( or proteins )  ,  which are coexpressed with epitope - tagged partners in mammalian cells .
a type of experimental evidence that is visible to the naked eye cf .
a type of hybrid interaction evidence resulting from the analysis of proteins of interest attached to two portions of the transcriptional activator ,  and in interaction bring the two portions together to increase expression of the reporter gene .
a type of spectrometry evidence resulting from identifying the amount and type of material entities present in a sample by fragmenting it and measuring the mass - to - charge ratio of the resulting particles .
a type of imaging assay evidence resulting from the use of technology to visualize and provide information about the body to diagnose ,  treat ,  or monitor medical conditions .
a type of direct assay evidence resulting from the use of a microscope .
a type of cell - based assay evidence to measure cell motility in which a  \ "wound \ " is created in a cell monolayer and the migration of the cells is captured by imaging at regular intervals during cell migration to close the wound .
a type of apoptotic assay evidence resulting from the reduction of 3 -  ( 4 , 5 - dimethylthiazol - 2 - yl )  - 5 -  ( 3 - carboxymethoxyphenyl )  - 2 -  ( 4 - sulfophenyl )  - 2h - tetrazolium  ( mts )  in combination with phenazine methyl sulfate  ( pms )  as an intermediate electron acceptor reagent to produce a soluble formazan dye in viable cells .
a type of apoptotic assay evidence resulting from the reduction of 3 -  ( 4 , 5 - dimethylthiazol - 2 - yl )  - 2 , 5 - diphenyltetrazolium bromide  ( mtt )  to its insoluble purple formazan dye in viable cells and measures cell viability  /  metabolic activity .
a type of protein detection assay evidence resulting from determination of analyte concentration by fluorescent bead sets attached to an antibody  ( to a specific analyte )  with a fluorescent reporter dye label attached to a second antibody  ( to a specific analyte )  .
a type of experimental phenotypic evidence resulting from the observation of the impact of a natural mutation on the expressed traits .
a type of apoptotic assay evidence resulting from the nuclei fragmenting into smaller pieces during programmed cell death .
a type of experimental evidence in which atomic nuclei in a strong constant magnetic field are perturbed by a weak oscillating magnetic field and the resulting electromagnetic signal is captured .
a type of rna detection assay evidence resulting from the detection and quantitation of specific rnas  ( from a sample of total cellular rna )  that are bound by antisense rna or dna probes and therefore protected from nucleases .
a type of dna synthesis cell proliferation assay evidence resulting from the analysis and measurement of the incorporation of fluorescently labeled nucleotide analog ( s )  into the dna .
a type of protein binding evidence resulting from the panning of a phage library where the individual phage displayed a different peptide or protein by fusion to coat proteins on the capsid .
a type of direct assay evidence resulting from the identification of the phosphorylated residue in a protein by amino acid analysis .
a type of affinity evidence resulting from the appending of affinity tags on proteins so that they may be purified from their biological source using an affinity technique .
a type of direct assay evidence resulting from the physical examination and measurement of the feature of a subject or sample .
a type of protein binding evidence resulting from protein - bound peptides detected from a collection of peptides arranged as an array and incubated with the partner protein in order to map protein - protein interaction sites .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence resulting from the change in a single nucleotide .
a type of staining evidence resulting from the binding and labeling of dna  ( during apoptosis ,  when there is a loss of nuclear dna content )  with propidium iodide  ( pi )  to identify the cells from which it originated .
a type of direct assay evidence resulting from the analysis of a molecule by its intrinsic fluorescence ,  or by attaching it with a fluorophore .
a type of protein detection assay evidence resulting from protein samples immobilized on a membrane ,  then subsequently incubated and imaged .
a type of protein detection assay evidence resulting from proteins immobilized to prepare protein chips ,  or microwells ,  that can be utilized to determine presence of proteins ,  monitor differential expression profiles ,  and / or study protein interactions .
a type of sequencing assay evidence resulting from determining the sequence of amino acids in a protein .
a type of mass spectrometry evidence resulting from quantitative analysis of peptides ,  proteins ,  and proteomes .
a type of direct assay evidence resulting from the assessment of biological reactions by use of a radioactive isotope to label the reactant .
a type of protein detection assay evidence resulting from the use of a radioligand to measure the binding of a substance to a specific antibody or other receptor system .
a type of direct assay evidence from the analysis of the real - time interaction between an analyte in solution and its interactant linked to the surface of the resonant mirror .
a type of dna detection assay evidence resulting from homologous dna fragments digested by restriction enzymes ,  and the resulting restriction fragments are sorted by length to illustrate differences .
a type of spectrometry evidence resulting from the evaluation of a molecule in a fluid by its ability to alter the transmission of light at specific wavelengths .
a type of physical interaction evidence based on real - time ,  rapid plasmon generation on the interface between a planar surface and vacuum that measures changes in refractive index close to the sensor surface when an analyte and its immobilized ligand bind to observe and characterize molecular interaction .
a type of experimental phenotypic evidence resulting from a transplantation in which the transplanted material  ( stem cells )  is from an individual's identical twin .
a type of enzymatic activity assay evidence resulting from the analysis of tumor necrosis factor  ( tnf )  - a converting enzyme  ( tace )  ,  which releases a soluble tnf - a from the membrane - bound precursor protein .
a type of cytochemistry evidence resulting from the analysis of section ( s )  of a paraffin block containing embedded tissues cores arranged in an array pattern .
a type of genetic transformation evidence resulting from an organism that has had its expressed phenotype altered by modification .
a type of mass spectrometry evidence resulting from the analysis of prepared phosphopeptides separated in two dimensions on a tlc plate .
a type of apoptotic assay evidence resulting from the visualization of dna fragmentation by detection of exposed 3' - oh ends ,  localized by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase  ( tdt )  which then catalyzes the addition of labeled dutps .
a type of direct assay evidence resulting from the analysis of a urine sample .
a type of cell proliferation assay evidence resulting from the assessment of metabolic activity from a water - soluble tetrazolium salt wst - 1 being reduced outside the cell  ( by reacting with mitochondrial succinate - tetrazolium reductase )  to form a formazan dye .
a type of anatomical perturbation phenotypic evidence resulting from the transplantation ,  implantation ,  or infusion of live cells ,  tissues ,  or organs between individuals of different species .
a type of 3d cell culture evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of 51cr release assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of 7 - aminoactinomycin staining evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of  [ 3h ]  - thymidine incorporation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of  [ 3h ] arachidonic acid release assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of adhesion assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of adoptive cell transfer evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of alamarblue assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of allograft transplantation phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of anion - exchange chromatography evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of annexin - v staining evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cognitive assay phenotypic evidence used that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of blocking monoclonal antibody evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of blocking peptide evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of blocking polyclonal antibody evidence tthat is used in a manual assertion .
a type of blood test evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of boyden chamber assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of bromodeoxyuridine incorporation assay evidence used in manual assertion .
a type of caspase assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cell counting evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cell permeability assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of carboxyfluorescein diacetate succinimidyl ester staining evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of chemiluminescence - linked immunoassay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of chimeric protein phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of co - electrophoresis evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of co - localization evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of co - sedimentation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of colony counting evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of comet assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of conditional knockin evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of conditional knockout evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of constitutively active mutant evidence that is used a in manual assertion .
a type of cross - linking evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of crystallography evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cytochemistry evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cytochrome c release assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of 4' , 6 - diamidino - 2 - phenylindole staining evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of deletion mutation phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of dna laddering assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of rna dot blot assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of dominant - negative mutant phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of etag assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of filter binding assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of fluorescence in situ hybridization evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of fluorescence resonance energy transfer evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of gel - filtration evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of histochemistry evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of immunocytochemistry evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of histology evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of immunodepletion evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of immunohistochemistry evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vitro acetylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vitro cleavage assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vitro deacetylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vitro defarnesylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vitro demethylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vitro desumoylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vitro deubiquitination assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vitro farnesylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vitro methylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vitro palmitoylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vitro phosphatase assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vitro polyadp - ribosylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vitro protein kinase assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vitro sumoylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vitro transcription assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vitro translation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vitro ubiquitination assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vivo acetylation assay evidence that is used in manual assertion .
a type of in vivo cleavage assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vivo deacetylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vivo defarnesylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vivo demethylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vivo desumoylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vivo deubiquitination assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vivo farnesylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vivo methylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vivo palmitoylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vivo phosphatase assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vivo protein kinase assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vivo sumoylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vivo transcription assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vivo translation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vivo ubiquitination assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of induced mutation evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of knockin evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of knockout evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of lipid binding assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of lumier assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of macroscopy evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of mammalian 2 - hybrid assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of mass spectrometry evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of medical imaging evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of microscopy evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of motility wound healing assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of mts assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of mtt assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of multiplex bead - based immunoassay evidence that is  used in a manual assertion .
a type of natural variation mutant evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of nuclear magnetic resonance evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of nuclear fragmentation evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of nuclease protection assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of nucleotide analog incorporation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of phage display evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of phosphoamino acid analysis evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of peptide affinity enrichment evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of peptide array evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of physical examination evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of point mutation phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of propidium iodide staining evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of protein detection by fluorescence evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of protein dot blot assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of protein microarray evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of protein sequencing assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of quantitative mass spectrometry evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of radioisotope assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of radioimmunoassay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of imaging assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of restriction fragment detection evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of spectrophotometry evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of syngeneic transplantation experiment evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of xenotransplantation phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of wst - 1 assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of urine test evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dutp nick end labeling assay evidence assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of tryptic phosphopeptide mapping assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of transgenic organism evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of tissue microarray evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of tace activity assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of surface plasmon resonance evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of restriction landmark genome scanning evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of resonant mirror biosensor evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of high - performance liquid chromatography evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of ectopic expression evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of molecule detection assay evidence resulting from the detection and quantification of a small molecule  ( a low molecular weight  ( typically  <  900 daltons )  organic compound )  ,  such as lipids ,  sugars ,  animo acids ,  drugs ,  etc .
a type of direct assay evidence in which the sub - cellular location of a protein or nucleic acid sequence is determined .
a type of localization evidence based on localization of a specific segment of dna or rna within tissue by the application of a complementary strand of nucleic acid to which a reporter molecule  ( i .e .
a type of direct assay evidence where acetylated residues are detected in a protein .
a type of direct assay evidence where the cleavage of a protein into protein fragments by a protease is detected .
a type of direct assay evidence where the removal of acetyl groups are detected in a protein .
a type of direct assay evidence where the removal of farnesyl groups from a protein is detected .
a type of direct assay evidence where the removal of methyl groups from a substrate  ( rna / dna or protein )  is detected .
a type of direct assay evidence where the removal of sumo groups from a protein is detected .
a type of direct assay evidence where the removal of ubiquitin groups from a protein is detected .
a type of direct assay evidence where farnesylated residues in proteins are detected .
a type of direct assay evidence where methylated residues of a substarte  ( rna / dna or protein )  are detected .
a type of direct assay evidence where palmitoylated residues in a protein are detected .
a type of direct assay evidence where the removal of phosphatase groups from a protein is detected .
a type of direct assay evidence where adp - ribosylated residues in proteins are detected .
a type of enzymatic activity assay evidence that measures transfer of a phosphate to a peptide or protein substrate by a protein kinase .
a type of direct assay evidence where sumoylated residues on a protein are detected .
a type of single cell rna - sequencing evidence that is used in automatic assertion .
a type of rna - sequencing evidence that uses a single cell as the source of the rna .
a type of direct assay evidence where de novo protein synthesis is detected .
a type of direct assay evidence where ubiquitinated residues on a protein are detected .
a type of direct assay evidence where biological cell development ,  i .e .
a type of direct assay evidence resulting from the study of cells .
a type of reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction evidence that combines reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and real time polymerase chain reaction to quantitatively assay for the detection of rna levels .
a type of quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction evidence used in manual assertion .
a type of quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction evidence used in automatic assertion .
a type of colony diameter phenotype evidence that is used in manual assertion .
a type of single cell rna - sequencing evidence that is used in manual assertion .
a type of colony size phenotypic evidence resulting from measurement of a microbial colony's diameter .
a type of colony diameter phenotype evidence that is used in automatic assertion
a type of direct assay evidence in which a broad variety of physiological processes are measured when two separate membranes merge into a single contiguous membrane .
a type of membrane fusion assay evidence that is used in automatic assertion .
a type of membrane fusion assay evidence that is used in manual assertion .
a type of membrane fusion assay evidence based on the fusion of spheroplasts .
a type of spheroplast fusion assay evidence used in automatic assertion .
a type of spheroplast fusion assay evidence that is used in manual assertion .
a type of mass spectrometry evidence where liquid chromatography is used to separate particles in solution ,  followed by fragmentation and measurement of the mass - to - charge ratio of the resulting particles to identify the amount and type of material entities present in a sample .
a type of liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of anti - sense experiment evidence where gene expression is disrupted through the introduction of double - stranded rna molecules ,  20 - 25 base pairs in length ,  which operate within the rna interference pathway .
a type of small interfering rna knockdown evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of small interfering rna knockdown evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of mass spectrometry evidence where a combination of magnetic and / or electric fields are utilized to capture charged particles in tandem with mass spectrometry .
a type of ion trap mass spectrometry evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of ion trap mass spectrometry evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of microscopy evidence where a mechanical probe is applied to a sample  ( i .e .
a type of atomic force microscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of atomic force microscopy evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of experimental evidence employed to study the associations between multiple ribosomes and mrna that utilizes density gradient centrifugation to separate out the lysate of cells of interest with the objective of isolating polysomes / polyribosomes which are complexes of an mrna molecule and two or more ribosomes that act to translate mrna .
a type of polysome profiling evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of polysome profiling evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of nucleotide sequencing assay evidence in which dna sequence variations within a specific set of genes  ( typically housekeeping genes )  are used to characterizes strains by their unique allelic profiles .
a type of multilocus sequence typing evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of multilocus sequence typing evidence that is used in a manual assertion
a type of protein - binding evidence that detects binding of a tagged protein to an array of oligonucleotide probes representing potential binding sites .
a type of cell - based assay evidence in which living cells are stained with a vital stain ,  i .e .
a type of reporter gene assay evidence based on the fusion of selected genes with the phoa gene to express alkaline phosphatase in periplasmic space for protein tracing .
a type of reporter gene assay evidence based on the fusion of the lacz gene to a specific promoter for the expression of beta - galactosidase which will appear blue when grown on a x - gal medium .
a type of reporter gene assay evidence based on the fusion of the cat gene to a specific promoter for the expression of chloramphenicol acetyltransferase which confers resistance to the chloramphenicol antibiotic .
a type of reporter gene assay evidence where the beta - glucuronidase enzyme from escherichia coli is used as the reporter to transform non - fluorescent substrates into fluorescents for detection .
a type of reporter gene assay evidence where luciferase ,  an oxidative enzyme ,  is used as the reporter to detect a gene product with bioluminescence .
a type of chromatin immunoprecipitation evidence that uses gama - exonuclease to digest tf - unbound dna after chip for the identification of transcription factor binding site locations with high - resolution data .
a type of electrophoretic mobility shift that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of chromatography evidence where immobilized promoter dna is labeled and bound to a matrix through which a protein mixture is poured and then eluted to purify specific dna binding proteins .
a type of nucleic acid binding evidence where proteins that have been bound to dna protect a binding site from enzymatic cleavage with dnase ,  thereby detecting protein - dna interactions .
a type of fluorescence evidence based on rapid and quantitative analysis of diverse molecular interactions ,  enzyme activities ,  and nucleic acid hybridization which uses a fluorophore to measure the binding constants and kinetics of reactions that cause a change in the rotational time of the molecules .
a type of systematic evolution of ligands by exponential amplification evidence based on a restricted genomic dna library to identify naturally occurring genomic aptamers and rna - protein interaction networks with rna - binding protein as bait and high - throughput sequencing .
a type of nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy evidence based on two - dimensional nmr for elucidation of the chemical structure of an isolated or synthesized chemical compound where the characteristic transfer magnetization of a proton to a nitrogen or carbon isotope is monitored by nmr ,  generating a specific peak in the spectrum .
a type of nucleic acid binding evidence where the synthetic molecule methidiumpropyl - edta  ( mpe )  is used to cleave ligand - protected dna ,  followed by analysis of the restriction fragments to generate a footprint  ( i .e .
a type of nucleic acid binding evidence where nucleic acid that has been bound to protein is cleaved with 1 , 10 - phenanthroline - copper complex resulting in a high - resolution footprint of sequence - specific protein - dna contacts .
a type of reporter gene assay evidence based on the fusion of select genes with the green fluorescent protein  ( gfp )  gene for detection with bioluminescence of the gene product when exposed to blue ultraviolet light .
a type of protein binding evidence where a gene is fused with the gst gene and the resulting recombinant bait protein is captured on an immobilized glutathione affinity ligand and incubated with prey protein to identify and characterize protein - protein interactions .
a type of nucleic acid binding evidence used to identify protein - binding sites on the dna molecule where dna that has been bound to protein is digested with hydroxyl radical produced by reduction of hydrogen peroxide with iron  ( ii )  ,  followed by separating the cleavage products on a denaturing electrophoresis gel .
a type of transcript expression evidence used to determine expression \ nlevels of mrna where a labeled synthetic oligonucleotide primer is annealed to mrna downstream of the presumed transcription start site of a gene .
a type of nucleotide sequencing assay evidence in which rt - pcr  ( cdna synthesis )  is first used to produce a cdna copy of a region of the rna transcript being investigated followed by pcr to capture either the unknown 5' or 3' end of the transcript for sequencing ,  depending on whether 5' race - pcr or 3' race - pcr are being undertaken .
a type of knockout evidence based on the survival of an organism in a particular environment where a gene for an enzyme or regulator is knocked out and results are used as a natural reporter .
a type of crystallography evidence where a purified sample at high concentration is crystallised and the crystals are exposed to an x ray beam to obtain three dimensional molecular structure of proteins and biological macromolecules .
a type of affinity evidence used to identify dna binding sites in eukaryotes where escherichia coli dna adenine methyltransferase  ( dam )  is fused to a transcription factor ,  co - factor ,  chromatin - associated protein ,  or nuclear - associated protein ,  followed by a methyl - dependent pcr to localize methyltransferase in the region of the binding site .
a type of affinity evidence where the absorbed or released heat of a biomolecular binding event is directly measured in a reference cell and sample cell after the addition of a ligand using a microcalorimeter for a complete thermodynamic profile of the molecular interaction .
a type of nucleic acid binding evidence where dna is non - specifically fragmented with ultraviolet light while protein - bound regions are protected from uv damage and strand breakage patterns are analyzed by page and sequenced to detect protein - dna contacts .
a type of nucleic acid binding evidence used to identify protein binding sites on the dna molecule where multiple copies of a dna fragment containing a putative tf - binding site are randomly methylated with dimethyl sulfate  ( dms )  and cleaved at the methyl group ,  followed by separating the cleavage products on a denaturing electrophoresis gel .
a type of inference of sequence features from visual inspection that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of reporter gene assay evidence used to locate and isolate fur sites where a plasmid library is created and cloned into a cell line with a ferric uptake regulator  ( fur )  - repressed reporter and the fur protein is titrated away from its binding site on the reporter ,  after which the cell is isolated and plasmid extracted for further sequence analysis .
a type of experimental evidence in which the colonization or adhesion capacity is measured .
a type of host colonization assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of host colonization assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of host colonization assay evidence in which the infection capacity is measured by assessing changes in the host .
a type of infection assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of infection assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of expression pattern evidence in which single - stranded dna or rna  ( probe )  are annealed to complementary dna or rna in a portion or section of tissue .
a type of in situ hybridization evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in situ hybridization evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of nucleic acid localization evidence and in situ hybridization evidence resulting from the use of colorimetric probes to detect complementary sequences of nucleic acids .
a type of colorimetric in situ hybridization evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of colorimetric in situ hybridization evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of random mutagenesis phenotypic evidence resulting from the random mutation of a specifically targeted region of dna .
a type of random mutagenesis of specific target dna evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of random mutagenesis of specific target dna evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cell - based assay evidence in which optical density is used to measure some aspect of a population of cells .
a type of cell population optical density evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cell population optical density evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cell - based assay evidence resulting from analyzing the ability of cells to survive or live successfully .
a type of cell - based assay evidence resulting from the measurement of the number of cells ,  which is a reflection of the balance between cell division and cell loss through cell differentiation or cell death .
a type of cell proliferation assay evidence resulting from the measure of dna synthesis in the presece of a label .
a type of cell viability assay evidence resulting from the analysis of atp concentration  ( by measuring light intensity )  when luciferase catalyzes the oxidation of luciferin in the presence of atp ,  magnesium ions and molecular oxygen .
a type of  cell - based assay evidence resulting from the ability of an agent to induce cellular necrosis or apoptosis and the subsequent analysis of cell death mechanism .
a type of direct assay evidence resulting from the use of stains or dyes to aid in analysis of a microscopic image .
a type of cell - based assay evidence resulting from the evaluation of chemotactic ability  ( i .e .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence resulting from the conversion of one genotype into another by the introduction of exogenous dna .
a type of experimental evidence resulting from the visualization and examination of chemical and / or molecular structures .
a type of microscopy evidence and structure determination evidence resulting from an electron beam utilized to create an image .
a type of cell - based assay evidence resulting from the occurrence ,  visualization ,  and / or analysis of apoptosis .
a type of polyadp - ribosylation assay evidence used in an in vivo experiment .
a type of in vivo polyadp - ribosylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of direct assay evidence derived by studying an organ ,  tissues ,  or cells taken from an organism and studied in an external environment with the minimum alteration of natural conditions .
a type of gel electrophoresis evidence that involves one dimension electrophoresis where biomolecules are electrophoresed on a low percentage polyacrylamide gel  to be separated in proportion to their mass or isoelectric point ,  followed by high voltage electrophoresis on a higher percentage gel in the presence of ethidium bromide to alter non - linear molecular shape .
a type of experimental evidence resulting from the use of a spectrometer .
a type of motif similarity evidence where the motif ,  a local alignment of sequences ,  is represented by a regular expression ,  which captures the variability of nucleotides at each position in a discrete form and can then be used to search genetic sequences by identifying matches to the regular expression .
a type of point mutation phenotypic evidence resulting from a change in a base  ( or bases )  causing the substitution of one amino acid for another .
a type of point mutation phenotypic evidence resulting in an incomplete and usually nonfunctional protein product because of a premature stop codon .
a type of point mutation phenotypic evidence resulting from the change of a dna nucleotide that does not cause any changes in the amino acid sequence .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence resulting from a mutation in which there is an insertion of one or more contiguous nucleotides .
a type of experimental phenotypic evidence resulting from a mutation in which inserted nucleotide ( s )  have a sequence identical to ,  or derived from ,  adjacent nucleotides .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence resulting from any mutation that causes an insertion or deletion of nucleotides in a dna sequence that is not divisible by three and therefore changes the codon reading frame and the translated amino acids .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence resulting from a mutation that increases the number of times that a dna sequence is repeated .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence resulting from a mutation in which there is a change in nucleotides at a splice site .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence resulting from a mutation in which a region of a chromosome is transferred to a nonhomologous chromosome .
a type of experimental evidence resulting from the detection and analysis of molecular markers .
a type of molecule detection assay evidence resulting from the detection and quantification of a protein ,  or multiple proteins .
a type of molecule detection assay evidence resulting from the detection of specific rnas .
a type of molecule detection assay evidence resulting from the detection and visualization of a sequence of dna .
a type of molecule detection assay evidence based on changes in surface - reflected light due to ligand binding on the surface of a semi - transparent substrate to detect proteins ,  dna ,  and other biological material in a multiplexed ,  high - throughput microarray format without labels .
a type of nuclease protection assay evidence where rna is hybridized with complementary dna probes and exposed to s1 nuclease for unbound rna degradation after which the intact rna is run on a gel for probe size determination and rna identification to detect and map specific rnas in a complex mixture of total cellular rna .
a type of dna detection assay evidence resulting from evaluation of the relative abundance of target sequences hybridizing to dna samples that are immobilized on a nitrocellulose or nylon membrane .
a type of dna dot blot assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of protein detection assay evidence where soft ionization is used for the analysis of biomolecules for mass determination in a three step process of plate preparation ,  radiation ,  and ionization with high throughput technology .
a type of matrix - assisted laser desorption / ionization time - of - flight mass spectrometry evidence that is  used in a manual assertion .
a type of mutant phenotype phenotype evidence based on target - specified mutagenesis for the characterization of various gene and protein interactions ,  structures ,  and functions where oligonucleotide primers are used to alter a nucleotide sequence .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence where a mutagenic product or process is used to alter the nucleotide sequence and thus induce genetic mutation .
a type of random mutagenesis phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of multiple sequence alignment evidence based on a set of algorithms that infer over - represented motifs from a set of biological sequences returning one or more local multiple sequence alignment defining the inferred motifs .
a type of motif similarity evidence where the motif is represented by a consensus sequence which incorporates the most frequent nucleotide at each position acting as a generic representative for the sequences in the alignment ,  and is compared to the genetic sequence  for a perfect or imperfect match .
a type of motif discovery evidence based on a set of algorithms that infer motifs in non - coding dna sequences from the conservation of functional regulatory sites through evolution at a higher rate than their local surroundings for the identification of an evolutionary 'footprint' .
a type of motif similarity evidence based on comparative genomics which uses a search method to scan a set of genomes for instances of a specific motif ,  and then applies a comparative criterion to analyze the collective strength of these predictions ,  based on the assumption that functional instances of the motif will be preserved by natural selection and their prediction will therefore be consistent across genomes .
a type of match to sequence model evidence which captures the application of a broad suite of supervised and unsupervised machine learning algorithms trained on known motif instances and applied to the prediction of novel putative instances of a motif in a set of biological sequences .
a type of motif similarity evidence where the motif is represented by a position - specific frequency matrix  ( psfm )  that specifies the frequency of each base at each position of the motif ,  from which a position - specific scoring matrix  ( pssm )  can be derived under the framework of a log - likelihood ratio providing a scoring system based on the likelihood of a sequence given the motif ,  versus a genomic - frequency based null hypothesis .
a type of reporter gene assay evidence based on the fusion of the xyle gene to a specific promoter for the expression of catechol 2 , 3 - dioxygenase that converts the colorless catechol substrate to yellow 2 - hydroxymuconic semialdehyde for identification of the expression of a particular gene .
a type of biological system reconstruction evidence by experimental evidence from single species that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of biological system reconstruction evidence by experimental evidence from mixed species that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of biological system reconstruction evidence based on orthology evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of biological system reconstruction evidence based on homology evidence where the evidence is inferred by orthology from an existing experimentally supported model to a process ,  pathway or complex in another species .
a type of  biological system reconstruction evidence based on paralogy evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of biological system reconstruction evidence based on inference from background scientific knowledge that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of biological system reconstruction based solely on background scientific knowledge of that biological system .
a type of biological system reconstruction where the evidence is inferred by homology based on conservation of sequence ,  function ,  and composition from an existing experimentally supported model to a process ,  pathway ,  or complex .
a type of  biological system reconstruction evidence based on homology evidence where the evidence is inferred by paralogy from an existing experimentally supported model to a process ,  pathway ,  or complex in the same species .
a type of biological system reconstruction evidence that uses experimental evidence as support .
a type of biological system reconstruction evidence where the experimental evidence is derived by using a mix of species used in the same experiment .
a type of biological system reconstruction where the experimental evidence is derived by using multiple experiments in a single species .
a type of sequence alignment evidence where two sequences are aligned to identify regions of similarity that may indicate functional ,  structural and / or evolutionary relationships between two biological sequences  ( protein or nucleic acid )  .
a type of sequence alignment evidence where three or more biological sequences  ( protein or nucleic acid )  of similar length are aligned to infer homology and the evolutionary relationships between the sequences studied .
a type of multiple sequence alignment evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of multiple sequence alignment evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of motif discovery evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of motif discovery evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of pairwise sequence alignment evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of pairwise sequence alignment evidence that is used in an automatic evidence .
a type of protein kinase assay evidence resulting from the evaluation of the phosphorylation activity of kinase on a gel - incorporated kinase substrate .
a type of voltage clamp recording evidence that involves recording trace of the current  ( pa )  going through the analyzed ion channels determined from voltage clamp current recording .
a type of electrophysiology assay evidence that involves measuring the amount of current  ( pa )  going through the ion channels per unit  of membrane .
a type of electrophysiology assay evidence that involves the measurement of the current that persists after the fast and slow inactivation of the analyzed channels .
a type of electrophysiology assay evidence in which the amount of current remaining after a series of depolarization at different frequencies described as the normalized current related to the time course .
a type of electrophysiology assay evidence that involves recording the change in membrane potential caused by applying specific current to the cell .
a type of voltage clamp recording evidence that involves direct measurement of ionic current across a membrane while controlling the membrane potential by maintaining the voltage .
a type of patch - clamp recording evidence that involves isolation of a patch of membrane electrically from the external solution and to record current flowing into the patch and this is achieved by pressing a fire - polished glass pipette ,  which has been filled with a suitable electrolyte solution ,  against the surface of a cell and applying light suction .
a type of patch - clamp recording evidence that involves study of individual ion channels by gently pulling the patch of membrane away from the cell ,  and the patch remains attached to the pipette with its cytoplasmic surface exposed to the bathing solution .
a type of patch - clamp reocrding evidence that involves ion channel analysis by incorporating the ion channels into liposomes suitable for patch - clamping which allows isolation and study of a specific population of channels into that bilayer membrane .
a type of electrophysiology assay evidence that involves recording membrane potential by controlling the membrane voltage and measuring the transmembrane current required to maintain that voltage .
a type of electrophysiology assay evidence that involves recording the electrical activity of the brain by means of electrodes placed on the surface of the head .
a type of microscopy evidence where the images are taken with a higher resolution than the diffraction limit that help in studying nanoscopic sub - cellular structures .
a type of immunogold labelling evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of flow cytometry evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of enzyme - linked immunoabsorbent assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of patch - clamp recording evidence where a part of cellular membrane is detached from the cell and whose external face is exposed to the extracellular medium which allows isolating and studying a single or at least a small number of channels into that fragment  ( patch )  .
a type of voltage clamp recording evidence that involves inserting the oocyte in a chamber that separates the surface into 3 regions where the top portion of the oocyte membrane is the region that is clamped from which currents are actually recorded while the bottom portion is the region of the oocyte that is cut - open ,  making it possible to inject current intracellularly through a low resistance pathway .
a type of voltage clamp recording evidence where recording is done on a fragment of the cell membrane  ( attached to or detached from the cell )  using a large tip diameter pipette that allows isolating and studying a small number of channels into that fragment  ( patch )  .
a type of mass spectrometry evidence where mass - to - charge ratio  ( m / z )  of gas - phase ions is measured which is used to identify and quantify molecules in complex solutions within the framework of high throughput studies .
a type of high throughput mass spectrometry evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of microscopy evidence where sharp images are taken by excluding most of the light from the specimen that is not from the microscope's focal plane ,  thus allowing better contrast and less haze ,  which makes it possible to build three - dimensional reconstructions of a volume of the specimen by assembling a series of thin slices taken along the vertical axis .
a type of microscopy evidence where imaging of a thin cell or a tissue specimen is performed by full aperture emission of light gathered by the microscope's objective ,  which maximizes the recorded signal and simultaneously minimizes the required exposure times .
a type confocal microscopy evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of wide - field microscopy evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of immunogold labelling evidence where electron microscopy technique is used to detect the location of the antibodies labeled with colloidal gold particles .
a type of immunogold labelling electron microscopy assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of direct assay evidence that involves the use of antibodies to detect biomolecules .
a type of immunolocalization evidence involving enzymatic detection of a peroxidase tagged antibody .
a type of immunoperoxidase immunolocalization evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of immunoperoxidase immunolocalization evidence where electron microscopy technique is used for enzymatic detection of a peroxidase tagged antibody .
a type of immunoperoxidase immunolocalization electron microscopy evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of wide - field microscopy evidence where pure white and ultraviolet light are produced by a mercury lamp ,  passed through an optical filter  ( excitation filter )  ,  and directed to a sample via a dichroic mirror ,  followed by detection of the fluorescent light by a camera after it passes through an emission filter .
a type of wide - field fluorescence microscopy evidence where fluorescently tagged antibodies are imaged that are used to bind to their antigens .
a type of confocal microscopy evidence where light passes through immunofluorescent - stained tissue sections or cells and then the emitted light passes through the dichroic mirror and is focused onto the pinhole for subsequent detection .
a type of immunofluorescence confocal microscopy evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of mass spectrometry evidence where one or more protein analyses are performed .
a type of cell proliferation assay evidence where the investigated organism or a potential antagonist is inoculated so as to grow along the diameter line of the agar medium in a petri dish ,  then ,  potentially susceptible microbes  ( usually bacteria )  are streaked perpendicularly to the growth line and inhibition of growth of a test microbe in the vicinity of that line suggests that the antagonist secretes one or more diffusible antibiotics .
a type of zone of inhibition evidence where sensitivity / resistance to an antimicrobial agent is tested by impregnating small filter disks with a known concentration of antimicrobial agent which is then placed on a mueller - hinton agar plate inoculated with the test organism .
a type of experimental evidence where a foreign genetic material is introduced into the cell for study of gene function and regulation and protein function .
a type of chemotaxis assay evidence where the presence or absence of positive or negative chemotaxis is determined by observing the rotational behavior of the cells tethered to a coverslip by their flagella .
a type of chemotaxis assay evidence where the presence or absence of positive or negative chemotaxis in swimming organisms is determined by measuring chemotaxis in response to sudden concentration changes from one uniform spatial environment to another .
a type of chemotaxis assay evidence where the presence or absence of positive or negative chemotaxis is determined by measuring the rate of accumulation of the cells into a capillary .
a type of biological system reconstruction evidence based on homology evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of direct assay evidence used in manual assertion where phenotype or disease association is made with the gene because of involvement in the molecular mechanism of disease or involvement in a pathway known to contribute to a disease .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence used in manual assertion where variations or changes ,  such as mutations or abnormal levels of the product ( s )  of a single gene of interest ,  including non - mutational changes such as inhibition with antibodies or other inhibitors are determined .
a type of natural variation mutant evidence used in manual assertion where alleles are directly linked to phenotype and mendelian diseases as a result of various experiments .
a type of two - dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of alkaline phosphatase reporter gene assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of beta - galactosidase reporter gene assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of chromatin immunoprecipitation - chip evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of chromatin immunoprecipitation -  exonuclease evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of chromatin immunoprecipitation - pcr evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of chromatin immunoprecipitation - seq evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of comparative genomics motif search evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of comparative genomics motif search evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of consensus search evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of consensus search evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of copper - phenanthroline footprinting evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of dna adenine methyltransferase identification evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of dna adenine methyltransferase identification evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of dna affinity chromatography evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cdna to dna expression microarray evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of dnase footprinting evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of fluorescence anisotropy evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of ferric uptake regulator titration assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of genomic systematic evolution of ligands by exponential amplification evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of genomic systematic evolution of ligands by exponential amplification evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of green fluorescent protein reporter gene assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of green fluorescent protein reporter gene assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cell growth regulation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cell growth regulation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of glutathione s - transferase pull - down assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of beta - glucuronidase reporter gene assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of heteronuclear single quantum coherence spectroscopy evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of hydroxyl - radical footprinting evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of immunoprecipitation evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of interferometric reflectance imaging sensor evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of interferometric reflectance imaging sensor evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of isothermal titration calorimetry evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of luciferase reporter gene assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of machine learning prediction of motif instance evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of machine learning prediction of motif instance evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of matrix - assisted laser desorption / ionization time - of - flight mass spectrometry evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of methidiumpropyl - ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid iron  ( ii )  footprinting evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of northern assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of phylogenetic footprinting evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of phylogenetic footprinting evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of methylation interference footprinting evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of primer extension assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of position - specific scoring matrix motif search evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of position - specific scoring matrix motif search evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of quantitative polymerase chain reaction evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of rapid amplification of cdna ends polymerase chain reaction evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of regular expression motif search evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of regular expression motif search evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of s1 nuclease protection assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of site - directed phenotypic mutagenesis evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of survival rate analysis evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of ultraviolet light footprinting evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of x - ray crystallography evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of x - ray crystallography evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of xyle reporter gene assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of experimental phenotypic evidence where a non - standard trait  ( e .g .
a type of ad - hoc qualitative phenotype observation that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of experimental phenotypic evidence where a quantifiable phenotypic trait  ( e .g .
a type of ad - hoc quantitative phenotype observation evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a direct assay evidence where the activity of a solution is determined by exposing an indicator culture or organism to a series of dilutions and determining the lowest concentration that elicits a biological response .
a type of enzyme assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cell transfection experiment evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of direct assay evidence where the motility of a cell or cells is determined .
a type of immunofluorescence evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of yeast 2 - hybrid evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of evidence derived from exploiting the cyaa  ( calmodulin - activated adenylate cyclase toxin )  secreted by bordatella pertussis to synthesize camp and alter cellular physiology in a host cell for various biological applications .
a type of cya fusion reporter assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of electron microscopy evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of super - resolution microscopy evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of fractionation evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of electrophysiology assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of chromatin immunoprecipitation - chip evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of chromatin immunoprecipitation -  exonuclease evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of chromatin immunoprecipitation - seq evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of nucleic acid binding evidence in which rna - binding proteins are identified through cross - linking rna and proteins by uv light ,  capturing rna - protein complexes on oligo ( dt )  beads ,  and finally identifying by mass spectrometry .
a type of mrna interactome capture evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of electrophysiology assay evidence in which a glass micropipette is sealed to the surface of a cell membrane  ( patch )  to study ion channels .
a type of patch - clamp recording evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of patch - clamp recording evidence in which a glass micropipette filled with a prepared solution is used to form a seal with the cell membrane followed by rupture of membrane to provide accurate and high resolution electrical property measurements of the whole cell .
a type of whole - cell patch - clamp recording evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of traceable author statement that is based on a publication about a clinical study .
a type of author statement from published clinical study that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of curator inference that is based on the individual clinical experience of a clinician
a type of inference based on individual clinical experience that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cell proliferation assay evidence in which biofilm growth is monitored and detected from attachment to development .
a type of biofilm formation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of biofilm formation assay evidence in which microtiter dishes or tubes are inoculated and incubated to promote biofilm formation ,  and then biofilms are detected by staining with crystal violet or safranin to observe phenotypes .
a type of microtiter plate biofilm assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of biofilm formation assay evidence in which biofilm formation is analyzed ,  without staining ,  over 4 to 48 hours by growth on a tilted multiwell plate .
a type of air - liquid interface assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of biofilm formation assay evidence in which a colony is grown on a semipermeable membrane on an agar plate .
a type of colony biofilm assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of biofilm formation assay evidence in which mature bacterial biofilms are grown in a multiwell plate that has a growth medium continually pumped through the wells while waste is continually pumped out .
a type of kadouri drip - fed biofilm assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of co - immunoprecipitation evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of immunolocalization evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of experimental phenotypic evidence arising from experiment in which neuronal activity is manipulated using genetically encoded ,  optically activated neuronal actuators .
a type of optogenetic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of fluorescence evidence that is based on direct ,  quantitative measurement of some cellular property using a fluorescent sensor .
a type of fluorescent sensor evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of fluorescent sensor evidence that is based on direct ,  quantitative measurement of some cellular property using a genetically encoded fluorescent sensor .
a type of genetically encoded fluorescent sensor evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of fluorescent sensor evidence and electrophysiology assay evidence where the electrical properties of cells or tissues are studied using fluorescent sensors .
a type of genetically encoded fluorescent electrophysiology assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of genetically encoded fluorescent electrophysiology assay evidence that is based on direct ,  quantitative measurement of ion concentration using a genetically encoded fluorescent sensor .
a type of genetically encoded fluorescent ion concentration sensor assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cell fractionation evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of electrophysiology assay evidence resulting from the use of electrodes to measure in vivo electrical activity coming from adjacent neurons .
a type of extracellular recording evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of extracellular recording evidence in which an extracellular microelectrode is used to measure the electrical activity of a single neuron .
a type of single - unit extracellular recording evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of extracellular recording evidence in which electrical activity is measured in either tissue or at a cellular level with microelectrodes .
a type of field potential recording evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of genetic transformation evidence that is used in a manual assertion
a type of anti - sense experiment evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of morpholino experiment evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of rnai evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of experimental phenotypic evidence that arises from assaying the response of a cell ,  tissue ,  organ or organism following exposure to a receptor agonist or antagonist .
a type of experimental phenotypic evidence used in a manual assertion that arises from assaying the response of a cell ,  tissue ,  organ or organism following exposure to a receptor agonist or antagonist .
a type of evidence where data generation is automated with equipment to allow for assaying samples or molecules in parallel .
a type of evidence that is used in a manual assertion where data generation is automated with equipment to allow for assaying large numbers of samples or molecules in parallel .
a type of evidence that is used in an automatic assertion where data generation is automated with equipment to allow for assaying samples or molecules in parallel .
a type of high throughput evidence where a classical cell biology technique is automated with equipment to allow for assaying biomolecules in parallel .
a type of high throughput evidence used in a manual assertion where a classical cell biology technique is automated with equipment to allow for assaying biomolecules in parallel .
a type of high throughput evidence used in an automatic assertion where a classical cell biology technique is automated with equipment to allow for assaying biomolecules in parallel .
a type of wide - field fluorescence microscopy evidence used in a manual assertion where fluorescently tagged antibodies are imaged that are used to bind to their antigens .
a type of wide - field microscopy evidence that is used in a manual assertion where pure white and ultraviolet light are produced by a mercury lamp ,  passed through an optical filter  ( excitation filter )  ,  and directed to a sample via a dichroic mirror ,  followed by detection of the fluorescent light by a camera after it passes through an emission filter .
a type of experimental phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion where a gene and / or gene product is investigated in a transgenic organism that has been engineered to overexpress that gene product .
a type of cell - free assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of fluorescence evidence where quantitative information on the diffusion properties of a sample is produced from the measurement of diffusion of fluorescent probes over time into an area that has been photobleached by a high - intensity laser pulse .
a type of fluorescence evidence that is used in a manual assertion where quantitative information on the diffusion properties of a sample is produced from the measurement of diffusion of fluorescent probes over time into an area that has been photobleached by a high - intensity laser pulse .
a type of high throughput nucleotide sequencing assay evidence used in a manual assertion based on high - throughput  ( ht )  sequencing of fragmented cdna molecules .
a type of high throughput nucleotide sequencing assay evidence used in an automatic assertion based on high - throughput  ( ht )  sequencing of fragmented cdna molecules .
a type of electron microscopy evidence resulting from the use of antibodies to identify the localization of antigens in cells and tissues .
a type of electron microscopy evidence used in a manual assertion resulting from the use of antibodies to identify the localization of antigens in cells and tissues .
a type of super - resolution microscopy evidence resulting from the use of fluorescently - tagged antibodies to identify the localization of antigens in cells and tissue .
a type of super - resolution microscopy evidence used in a manual assertion resulting from the use of fluorescently - tagged antibodies to identify the localization of antigens in cells and tissue .
a type of physical interaction evidence that is used in manual assertion where a cellular component subunit is isolated as part of purification of its larger complex .
a type of physical interaction evidence that is used in manual assertion that depends on the strength of the interaction between two entities .
a type of affinity evidence that is used in manual assertion resulting from the binding of a molecule to a protein or protein complex .
a type of affinity evidence that is used in manual assertion where proteins of interest  ( bait and prey )  are covalently linked to incomplete fragments of a third protein  ( reporter )  and expressed in vivo ,  at which time interaction between bait and prey proteins brings reporter fragments in close enough proximity to allow them to reform and become a functional reporter protein .
a type of affinity evidence that is used in manual assertion resulting from quantitation of the analyte which depends on the reaction of an antigen  ( analyte )  and an antibody .
a type of hybrid interaction evidence that is used in manual assertion that is based on a protein - dna complementation assay where a single promoter acts as bait and is screened against a library of prey transcription factors .
a type of physical interaction evidence that is used in a manual assertion that is based on detection of protein - protein interaction between a bait and prey protein by in vivo reconstitution of split - ubiquitin  ( when bait and prey interact )  and release of a reporter protein .
a type of physical interaction evidence that is used in a manual assertion that is based on detection of protein - protein interactions by separation of target proteins by sds - page which are blotted to a membrane ,  followed by denaturation and renaturation ,  probing with purified bait proteins ,  and detection of the target - bait complexes .
a type of affinity evidence that is used in a manual assertion that results from separation of biochemical mixtures by selective binding of a compound to an immobilized compound on a polymeric matrix ,  subsequent removal of unattached components ,  and then displacement of the bond compound .
a type of affinity evidence that is used in a manual assertion resulting from the binding of a molecule to a nucleic acid .
a type of nucleic acid binding evidence that is used in a manual assertion resulting from an enzyme displaying binding activity to specific ribohomopolymer .
a type of protein binding evidence that is used in a manual assertion resulting from a metal ion binding to a protein at a specific binding site .
a type of nucleic acid binding evidence that is used in a manual assertion in which dna - protein binding is detected using labeled dna as probes ,  hybridized to electrophoretically separated proteins .
a type of nucleic acid binding evidence that is used in a manual assertion in which rna - protein binding is detected using labeled rna as probes ,  hybridized to electrophoretically separated proteins .
a type of evidence that is used in a manual assertion arising from a physical interaction analysis where a combinatorial chemistry technique is used to identify oligonucleotides that bind to a target ligand .
a type of hybrid interaction evidence that is used in a manual assertion that uses bacterial transformation with two plasmids to assess in vivo binding of a dna - binding domain  ( bait )  and dna target site  ( prey )  .
a type of oligonucleotide microarray evidence that is used in a manual assertion that detects binding of a tagged protein to an array of oligonucleotide probes representing potential binding sites .
a type of genetic interaction evidence that is used in a manual assertion where a wild - type copy of the gene in question is inserted into a mutant cell to see if it restores the wild - type phenotype in the mutant background .
a type of functional complementation evidence that is used in a manual assertion that is used in manual assertion resulting from the introduction of a transgene to prevent ,  or  \ "rescue \ " an organism from a condition .
a type of transient rescue experiment evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of suppressor / enhancer interaction phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of double mutant phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of epistatic interaction phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of functional complementation evidence that is used in a manual assertion that is based on the insertion of a wild - type copy of a gene into a heterologous organism ,  with the mutation occurring in a homologous gene .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence resulting from altered gene function at higher temperatures .
a type of temperature - sensitive mutant phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence based on the analysis of a mutation which ,  in diploid organisms ,  must be present in both alleles for a phenotype to manifest itself .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence that is used in a manual assertion based on the analysis of a mutation which ,  in diploid organisms ,  must be present in both alleles for a phenotype to manifest itself .
a type of computational evidence where the active site of the molecular system is described with highly accurate quantum theory ,  while the contribution of the rest of the system is described with molecular mechanical force field .
a type of quantum mechanics / molecular mechanics simulation evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of quantum mechanics / molecular mechanics simulation evidence that is used in manual assertion .
a type of computational evidence where the energy of a molecular system is predicted as a function of its conformation .
a type of molecular mechanics simulation evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of molecular mechanics simulation evidence that is used in manual assertion .
a type of computational evidence where the behavior of matter and light on the atomic and subatomic scale is described .
a type of quantum mechanics simulation evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of quantum mechanics simulation evidence that is used in manual assertion .
a type of quantum mechanics simulation evidence that results from the calculation of ground - state electronic structure of atoms ,  molecules and solid state materials .
a type of density functional theory simulation evidence that is used in manual assertion .
a type of density functional theory simulation evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of evidence in which information is recorded in some documentation system ,  for example ,  but not limited to a publication ,  survey ,  or medical record .
a type of documented statement evidence in which information is stated by a health care professional ,  for example ,  but not limited to a doctor ,  nurse ,  or psychologist .
a type of documented statement evidence in which information is provided by an individual through means including ,  but not limited to ,  paper form ,  electronic form ,  or verbal communication ,  and is captured in a documented record .
a type of self - reported individual's statement evidence in which information is provided by a patient in a clinical setting .
a type of documented statement evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of documented statement evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of self - reported individual's statement evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of self - reported individual's statement evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of self - reported patient statement evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of self - reported patient statement evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of medical practitioner statement evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of medical practitioner statement evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of nuclear magnetic resonance evidence used for quantification of metabolites or for the determination of chemical structure or composition .
a type of nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of nuclear magnetic resonance evidence used to image anatomy and physiological processes .
a type of magnetic resonance imaging evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of magnetic resonance imaging evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of qualitative western immunoblotting evidence where detection of the signal is carried out through digital imaging and the signal is normalized with methods such as standard curves built from reference housekeeping proteins or total transferred protein measurements .
a type of quantitative western immunoblotting evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of quantitatative western immunoblotting evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of high throughput evidence derived from high throughput analysis of differences in alleles of a corresponding gene .
a type of high throughput mutant phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of high throughput evidence resulting from the high throughput analysis of the effect that a given gene has on another gene or genes ,  and products .
a type of high throughput genetic interaction phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of high throughput evidence derived from the high throughput direct measurement of some aspect of a biological feature .
a type of high throughput evidence that is used in a manual assertion derived from the high throughput direct measurement of some aspect of a biological feature .
a type of high throughput evidence derived from the high throughput characterization of gene expression .
a type of high throughput evidence that is used in a manual assertion derived from the high throughput characterization of gene expression .
a type of protein binding evidence in which radioactive ligands are used to measure receptor - ligand interactions ,  such as in determining selectivity for a particular ligand .
a type of radioligand binding assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of combinatorial evidence in which the author draws a conclusion based on a combination of prior scientific background knowledge and evidence from one or more experiments .
a type of combinatorial evidence in which the curator draws a conclusion based on a combination of prior scientific background knowledge and evidence from one or more experiments .
a type of combinatorial evidence from author knowledge and experimental evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of combinatorial evidence from curator knowledge and experimental evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of substance quantification evidence where an electrical gradient potential is applied to analyze an analyte of interest ,  resulting in a measurement amount of electrical current across the potential range applied .
a type of voltammetry evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of fluorescence evidence where a molecule tagged with a fluorescent protein is exposed to ultraviolet or blue light to shift the spectral emission properties for visualization .
a type of photoconversion evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of immunological assay evidence that involves observation of visible clumping of antibody and antigen into a complex .
a type of agglutination test evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of agglutination test evidence that involves observaiton of visible clumping of antibody and antigen into a complex on a slide .
a type of slide agglutination test evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of agglutination test evidence that results in detection of nonagglutinating antibodies or complement proteins on red blood cells in vivo .
a type of direct coombs test evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of agglutination test evidence that results in screening of antibodies against red blood cell antigens  ( other than the a and b antigens )  that are unbound in a patient's serum in vitro .
a type of indirect coombs test evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of agglutination test evidence where some bacteria and viruses cross - link red blood cells and clump together .
a type of direct hemagglutination assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of agglutination test evidence where antiviral antibodies in a patient's serum or in a lab - produced antiserum neutralize the virus and block it from agglutinating the red blood cells .
a type of viral hemagglutination inhibition assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of immunological assay evidence that results in the detection of presence of specific antibodies in the patient's serum based on the use of complement ,  a biologically labile serum factor .
a type of compement fixation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of immunogical assay evidence that results in detection of specific neutralizing antibodies in a sample .
a type of neutralization test assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of transport assay evidence where the rate of copper transport is estimated .
a type of copper transport assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of staining evidence that involves the use of the redox dye 5 - cyano - 2 , 3 - ditolyl tetrazolium chloride to evaluate the respiratory activity of cells .
a type of 5 - cyano - 2 , 3 - ditolyl tetrazolium chloride staining evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cell growth assay evidence resulting in direct quantification of infectious virons and antiviral substances through the counting of discrete plaques  ( infectious units and cellular dead zones )  in cell culture .
a type of plaque assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of microscopy evidence where the light source is mounted above the specimen and the excitation light passes through the microscope objective lens on its way toward the specimen .
a type of epifluorescence microscopy evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of electron microscopy evidence where a beam of electrons are transmitted through an ultra thin specimen forming an image which is magnified and focused onto an imaging device ,  such as a fluorescent screen ,  on a layer of photographic film ,  or to be detected by a sensor such as a ccd camera .
a type of transmission electron microscopy evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of electron microscopy evidence where a focused beam of high - energy electrons is used to generate a variety of signals at the surface of solid specimens .
a type of scanning electron microscopy evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of microscopy evidence where a serial images are taken at regular time points to capture the dynamics of what is being observed .
a type of time - lapsed microscopy evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of microscopy evidence where a transparent specimen is illuminated with visible light and small phase shifts in the light passing through the specimen are used to produce an image .
a type of phase contrast microscopy evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of microscopy evidence where a sample is illuminated with transmitted white light from below and observed from above .
a type of transmitted light brightfied mircoscopy evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of microscopy evidence that results in a bright image without glare and minimum heating of the specimen by employing both field and an aperture iris diaphragm for illumination .
a type of koehler illumination microscopy evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of microscopy evidence that results in visualization of living cells and transparent specimens by taking advantage of differences in the light refraction of different parts of the specimen .
a type of differential interference contrast microscopy evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of confocal microscopy evidence that results in creation of a continuous confocal multi - colour mosaic from thousands of individually captured images .
a type of extended field laser confocal microscopy evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of confocal microscopy evidence that results in an image that is built up pixel - by - pixel by collecting the emitted photons from the fluorophores in the sample by passing a laser beam through a light source aperture which is then focused by an objective lens into a small area on the surface of the sample . \ n
a type of confocal laser scanning microscopy evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of direct assay evidence derived from determining the properties of particles in a solution such as size ,  shape ,  structure ,  molecular weight ,  diffusion and interaction strength by illuminating the sample with a laser beam and the scattered intensity is probed at a certain angle by a detector .
a type of light scattering assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of light scattering assay evidence derived by analyzing the fluctuations in the internsity of the scattered light by the particles in motion .
a type of dynamic light scattering assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of light scattering assay evidence derived by measuring the average intensity of scattered light by the particles at multiple angles .
a type of static light scattering assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of colony morphology phenotypic evidence resulting from the formation of papillae  ( microcolonies )  that protrude outwards from the main colony by mutant cells .
a type of colony papillation assay phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of staining evidence that is derived from the use of gentian violet as a general biological stain and an acid - base indicator .
a type of crystal violet staining evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of biofilm formation assay evidence derived from in vitro cultivation and evaluation of bacterial biofilms under hydrodynamic conditions of flow .
a type of flow cell biofilm assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of hybrid interaction evidence that involves the detection of protein - protein interaction by fusing the protein target  ( the  \ "bait \ " )  to rna polymerase and fusing protein or peptide library to be analyzed  ( the  \ "prey \ " )  to dna - binding domain .
a type of bacterial 2 - hybrid assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of experimental phenotypic evidence that results from the comparison of phenotype profiles  ( the physical and biochemical traits of organisms in particular environments )  across multiple strains ;  that is ,  a meta - analysis of a set of phenotypic patterns from many tests in response to a series of changing genetic and / or environmental factors .
a type of phenomic profiling assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of experimental phenotypic evidence resulting from studying the physical characteristics of an assemblage of microorganisms growing on a solid surface such as the surface of an agar culture medium .
a type of colony morphology phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of colony morphology evidence resulting from studying the colony pigmentation .
a type of colony color phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of colony morphology phenotypic evidence resulting from measuring the area or diameter of the colony .
a type of colony size phenotypic evidence that is used in an manual assertion .
a type of cell growth assay evidence resulting from assessing the sensitivity or resistance of bacteria or fungi to an antimicrobial agent or chemical by measuring the size of the zone of inhibition that results when the test organism is grown on a solid surface in the presence of the antimicrobial agent or chemical .
a type of zone of inhibition evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of zone of inhibition evidence resulting from testing the antimicrobial susceptibility by using predefined ,  continuous ,  and exponential gradient of antibiotic concentrations immobilized along a rectangular plastic test strip .
a type of etest evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of expression pattern evidence in which translation is measured by the positions of ribosomes active in a cell ,  identified through deep sequencing of ribosome - protected mrna fragments .
a type of ribosome profiling evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of loss - of - function mutant phenotype evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of structural similarity evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of gain - of - function mutant phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of voucher specimen phenotypic analysis evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of positional similarity evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of quantitative trait analysis evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of compositional similarity evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of developmental similarity evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of morphological similarity evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of gene expression similarity evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of methylation - specific polymerase chain reaction evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of southern hybridization evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of intermethylated site amplification evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of epitope - tagged protein immunolocalization evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of co - fractionation evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of green fluorescent protein fusion protein localization evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of yellow fluorescent protein fusion protein localization evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of beta - glucuronidase fusion protein localization evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of beta - galactosidase fusion protein localization evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of thin layer chromatography evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vitro recombinant protein transcription reconstitution assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of protein separation followed by direct sequencing evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of protein separation followed by fragment identification evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of heterologous system uptake evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of two - electrode voltage clamp recording evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of biochemical trait analysis evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of mutant physiological response evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of mutant visible phenotype evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vivo assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of animal model system study evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of clinical study evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vitro assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of enzyme inhibition evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of illumina sequencing evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of 454 pyrosequencing evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of solid sequencing evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of chain termination sequencing evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of chromatin immunoprecipitation - qpcr evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of 4c evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of 5c evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of 3c - qpcr evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of hi - c evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of 3c - seq evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of environmental perturbation phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of tissue ablation phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of tissue grafting phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cytochalasin experiment evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of green fluorescent protein immunolocalization evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of beta - galactosidase protein immunolocalization evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cap analysis of gene expression evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of nano - cap analysis of gene expression evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of particle size and count assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of competitive growth assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of pulsed - field gel electrophoresis evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of two - dimensional agarose gel electrophoresis evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of plasmid maintenance assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of specific protein inhibition by antibody evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of single exon transcript confirmation via alignment evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of phylogenetic distribution evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of differential geneset expression evidence from microarray experiment  ( gsea ,  fisher - exact )  that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of differential geneset expression evidence from rna - seq experiment  ( gsea ,  fisher - exact )  that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of biological target - disease association via drug that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cell staining evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of visual sequence inspection evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of atp bioluminescence assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of missense mutation phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of nonsense mutation phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of silent mutation evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of insertion mutation phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of duplication mutation evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of frameshift mutation phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of repeat expansion mutation phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of splice site mutation phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of translocation mutation phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in - gel protein kinase assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of macroscopic current trace evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of current density evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of sustained current evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of use dependence of inactivation evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of current clamp recording evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of whole - cell voltage clamp recording evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cell - attached single - channel recording evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cell - detached inside - out single - channel recording evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of reconstituted bilayer single - channel patch recording evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of electroencephalography recording evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cell - detached outside - out single - channel recording evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cut - open oocyte voltage clamp recording evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of macropatch voltage clamp recording evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of protein mass spectrometry evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cross - streak test evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of tethered cell assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of tumble frequency assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of capillary assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of inference from experimental data evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of inference from phenotype manipulation evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of inference by association of genotype from phenotype that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of motility assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of loss - of - function mutant phenotype evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of structural similarity evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of gain - of - function mutant phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of voucher specimen phenotypic analysis evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of positional similarity evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of quantitative trait analysis evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of compositional similarity evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of developmental similarity evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of morphological similarity evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of gene expression similarity evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of methylation - specific polymerase chain reaction evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of southern hybridization evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of intermethylated site amplification evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of epitope - tagged protein immunolocalization evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of co - fractionation evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of green fluorescent protein fusion protein localization evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of yellow fluorescent protein fusion protein localization evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of beta - glucuronidase fusion protein localization evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of beta - galactosidase fusion protein localization evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of thin layer chromatography evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vitro recombinant protein transcription reconstitution assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of protein separation followed by direct sequencing evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of protein separation followed by fragment identification evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of heterologous system uptake evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of two - electrode voltage clamp recording evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of biochemical trait analysis evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of mutant physiological response evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of mutant visible phenotype evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vivo assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of animal model system study evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of clinical study evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vitro assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of enzyme inhibition evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of illumina sequencing evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of 454 pyrosequencing evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of solid sequencing evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of chain termination sequencing evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of chromatin immunoprecipitation - qpcr evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of 4c evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of 5c evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of 3c - qpcr evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of hi - c evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of 3c - seq evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of environmental perturbation phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of tissue ablation phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of tissue grafting phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cytochalasin experiment evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of green fluorescent protein immunolocalization evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of beta - galactosidase protein immunolocalization evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cap analysis of gene expression evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of nano - cap analysis of gene expression evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of particle size and count assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of competitive growth assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of pulsed - field gel electrophoresis evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of two - dimensional agarose gel electrophoresis evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of plasmid maintenance assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of specific protein inhibition by antibody evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of single exon transcript confirmation via alignment evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of phylogenetic distribution evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of differential geneset expression evidence from microarray experiment  ( gsea ,  fisher - exact )  that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of differential geneset expression evidence from rna - seq experiment  ( gsea ,  fisher - exact )  that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of biological target - disease association via drug that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cell staining evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of visual sequence inspection evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of atp bioluminescence assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of missense mutation phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of nonsense mutation phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of silent mutation evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of insertion mutation phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of duplication mutation evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of frameshift mutation phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of repeat expansion mutation phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of splice site mutation phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of translocation mutation phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in - gel protein kinase assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of macroscopic current trace evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of current density evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of sustained current evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of use dependence of inactivation evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of current clamp recording evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of whole - cell voltage clamp recording evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cell - attached single - channel recording evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cell - detached inside - out single - channel recording evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of reconstituted bilayer single - channel patch recording evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of electroencephalography recording evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cell - detached outside - out single - channel recording evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cut - open oocyte voltage clamp recording evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of macropatch voltage clamp recording evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of protein mass spectrometry evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cross - streak test evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of tethered cell assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of tumble frequency assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of capillary assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of inference from experimental data evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of inference from phenotype manipulation evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of inference by association of genotype from phenotype that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of motility assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of experimental evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of expression pattern evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of affymetrix genechip evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of crna to dna expression microarray evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of expression microarray evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of differential methylation hybridization evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of transcript expression evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of nimblegen array evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of array - based sequence capture evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of qualitative western immunoblotting evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of direct assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of protein expression evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of expression library screen evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of heterologous protein expression evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of spatial pattern of protein expression evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of dna to cdna expression microarray evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of differential hybridization evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of rna protection assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of nuclease protection assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of spatial pattern of transcript expression evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of subtractive hybridization evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of author statement that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of author statement without traceable support that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of author statement supported by traceable reference that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of curator inference that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of inference from background scientific knowledge that is used in an automatic assertion .
an inference that results when research finds no evidence information in the scientific literature ,  at reference databases ,  or from other resources that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of mutant phenotype evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of genetic interaction evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of genomic context evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of biological aspect of ancestor evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of biological aspect of descendant evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of phylogenetic determination of loss of key residues evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of rapid divergence from ancestral sequence evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of physical interaction evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of gene neighbors evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of edman degradation evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of 3d cell culture evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of 51cr release assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of 7 - aminoactinomycin staining evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of  [ 3h ]  - thymidine incorporation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of  [ 3h ] arachidonic acid release assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of adhesion assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of adoptive cell transfer evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of alamarblue assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of allograft transplantation phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of anion - exchange chromatography evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of annexin - v staining evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cognitive assay phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of blocking monoclonal antibody evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of immunological assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of blocking peptide evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of blocking polyclonal antibody evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of blood test evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of boyden chamber assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of bromodeoxyuridine incorporation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of nucleotide analog incorporation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of caspase assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cell counting evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cell permeability assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of carboxyfluorescein diacetate succinimidyl ester staining evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of chemiluminescence - linked immunoassay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of chimeric protein phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of co - electrophoresis evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of co - localization evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of imaging assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of co - sedimentation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of colony counting evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of comet assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of conditional knockin evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of knockin evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of conditional knockout evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of knockout evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of constitutively active mutant evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cross - linking evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of protein binding evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of crystallography evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cytochemistry evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of histochemistry evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cytochrome c release assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of 4' , 6 - diamidino - 2 - phenylindole staining evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of deletion mutation phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of dna laddering assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of rna dot blot assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of dominant - negative mutant phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of etag assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of affinity evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of filter binding assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of fluorescence in situ hybridization evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of fluorescence resonance energy transfer evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of gel - filtration evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of histology evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of immunocytochemistry evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of immunodepletion evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of immunohistochemistry evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vitro acetylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vitro cleavage assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vitro deacetylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vitro defarnesylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vitro demethylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vitro desumoylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vitro deubiquitination assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vitro farnesylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vitro methylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vitro palmitoylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vitro phosphatase assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vitro polyadp - ribosylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vitro protein kinase assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vitro sumoylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vitro transcription assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vitro translation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vitro ubiquitination assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vivo acetylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vivo cleavage assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vivo deacetylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vivo defarnesylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vivo demethylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vivo desumoylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vivo deubiquitination assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vivo farnesylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vivo methylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vivo palmitoylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vivo phosphatase assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vivo protein kinase assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vivo sumoylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vivo transcription assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vivo translation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vivo ubiquitination assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of induced mutation evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of genetic transformation evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of lipid binding assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of luminescence - based mammalian interactome mapping assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of macroscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of mammalian 2 - hybrid assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of hybrid interaction evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of mass spectrometry evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of medical imaging evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of microscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of motility wound healing assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of mts assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of mtt assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of multiplex bead - based immunoassay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of natural variation mutant evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of nuclear magnetic resonance evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of nuclear fragmentation evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of phage display evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of phosphoamino acid analysis evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of peptide affinity enrichment evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of peptide array evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of physical examination evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of point mutation phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of propidium iodide staining evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of fluorescence evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of protein dot blot assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of protein microarray evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of protein sequencing assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of quantitative mass spectrometry evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of radioisotope assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of radioimmunoassay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of restriction fragment detection evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of spectrophotometry evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of syngeneic transplantation experiment evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of xenotransplantation phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of wst - 1 assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of urine test evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dutp nick end labeling assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of tryptic phosphopeptide mapping assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of transgenic organism evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of tissue microarray evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of tace activity assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of enzyme assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of surface plasmon resonance evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of restriction landmark genomic scanning evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of resonant mirror biosensor evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of high - performance liquid chromatography evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of ectopic expression evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of electrophoretic mobility shift assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vivo polyadp - ribosylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of dna dot blot assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of random mutagenesis phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of biological system reconstruction evidence by experimental evidence from single species that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of biological system reconstruction evidence by experimental evidence from mixed species that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of biological system reconstruction evidence based on orthology evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of biological system reconstruction evidence based on homology evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of biological system reconstruction evidence based on paralogy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of biological system reconstruction evidence based on inference from background scientific knowledge that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of immunogold labelling evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of immunolocalization evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of flow cytometry evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of enzyme - linked immunoabsorbent assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of high throughput mass spectrometry evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of confocal microscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of wide - field microscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of immunogold labelling electron microscopy assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of electron microscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of immunoperoxidase immunolocalization evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of immunoperoxidase immunolocalization electron microscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of immunofluorescence confocal microscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of immunofluorescence evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of two - dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of alkaline phosphatase reporter gene assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of beta - galactosidase reporter gene assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of chromatin immunoprecipitation - pcr evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of immunoprecipitation evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of copper - phenanthroline footprinting evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of nucleic acid binding evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of dna affinity chromatography evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of dnase footprinting evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of fluorescence anisotropy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of ferric uptake regulator titration assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of systematic evolution of ligands by exponential amplification evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of glutathione s - transferase pull - down assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of beta - glucuronidase reporter gene assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of heteronuclear single quantum coherence spectroscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of hydroxyl - radical footprinting evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of isothermal titration calorimetry evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of luciferase reporter gene assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of methidiumpropyl - ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid iron  ( ii )  footprinting evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of northern blot evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of methylation interference footprinting evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of primer extension assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of quantitative polymerase chain reaction evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of rapid amplification of cdna ends polymerase chain reaction evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of s1 nuclease protection assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of site - directed mutagenesis phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of survival rate analysis evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of ultraviolet light footprinting evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of xyle reporter gene assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of ad - hoc qualitative phenotype observation evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of ad - hoc quantitative phenotype observation evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cell transfection experiment evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of yeast 2 - hybrid evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cya fusion reporter assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of super - resolution microscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of fractionation evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of electrophysiology assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of mrna interactome capture evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of patch - clamp recording evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of whole - cell patch - clamp recording evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of author statement from published clinical study that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of inference based on individual clinical experience that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of biofilm formation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of microtiter plate biofilm assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of air - liquid interface assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of colony biofilm assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of kadouri drip - fed biofilm assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of co - immunoprecipitation evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of optogenetic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of fluorescent sensor evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of genetically encoded fluorescent sensor evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of genetically encoded fluorescent electrophysiology assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of genetically encoded fluorescent ion concentration sensor assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cell fractionation evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of extracellular recording evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of single - unit extracellular recording evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of field potential recording evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of anti - sense experiment evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of morpholino experiment evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of rnai evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of pharmacological assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of immunofluorescence wide - field microscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of wide - field fluorescence microscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of over expression analysis evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cell - free assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of fluorescence recovery after photobleaching evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of immuno - labelling electron microscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of immunofluorescence super resolution microscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of co - purification evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of yeast one - hybrid evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of split - ubiquitin assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of far - western blotting evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of affinity chromatography evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of ribohomopolymer binding assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of protein:ion binding evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of southwestern blot evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of northwestern blot evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of bacterial one - hybrid evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of protein - binding microarray evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of functional complementation evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of transgenic rescue experiment evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of transient rescue experiment evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of suppressor / enhancer interaction phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of double mutant phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of epistatic interaction phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of functional complementation in heterologous system evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of temperature - sensitive mutant phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of recessive mutant phenotype evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of high throughput mutant phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of high throughput genetic interaction phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of high throughput direct assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of high throughput expression pattern evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of radioligand binding assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of combinatorial evidence from author knowledge and experimental evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of combinatorial evidence from curator knowledge and experimental evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of voltammetry evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of photoconversion evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of agglutination test evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of slide agglutination test evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of direct coombs test evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of indirect coombs test evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of direct hemagglutination assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of viral hemagglutination inhibition assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of compement fixation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of neutralization test assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of copper transport assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of 5 - cyano - 2 , 3 - ditolyl tetrazolium chloride staining evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of plaque assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of epifluorescence microscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of transmission electron microscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of scanning electron microscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of time - lapsed microscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of phase contrast microscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of transmitted light brightfied mircoscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of koehler illumination microscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of differential interference contrast microscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of extended field laser confocal microscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of confocal laser scanning microscopy evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of light scattering assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of dynamic light scattering assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of static light scattering assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of colony papillation assay phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of crystal violet staining evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of flow cell biofilm assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of bacterial 2 - hybrid assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of phenomic profiling assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of colony morphology phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of colony color phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of colony size phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of zone of inhibition evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of etest evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of ribosome profiling evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of evidence based on computational logical inference that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of transcriptional activation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of transcriptional activation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of experimental phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of experimental phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of curator inference from authoritative resource based on information located in a queryable database and is optimized for computers .
a type of curator inference from published work where the reference is to an entry in a compendium that provides summarized information on a subject .
a type of curator inference from encyclopedia where the reference is to a wikipedia article .
a type of curator inference from encyclopedia where the reference is to an encyclopedia britannica article .
a type of curator inference from encyclopedia in which the reference is to an article in the national library of medicine's medlineplus encyclopedia .
a type of curator inference from published work in which the entry comes from a collection of words with definitions ,  usages ,  pronounciations ,  and more .
a type of curator inference from dictionary in which the reference is to an entry in the oxford dictionaries .
a type of curator inference from dictionary in which the reference is to an entry in the merriam - webster dictionary .
a type of curator inference from dictionary in which the reference is to an entry in the national library of medicine's medlineplus dictionary .
a type of curator inference from published work reporting on research findings .
a type of curator inference from published work based on a book ,  which may be a reference to a url  ( for ebooks )  or a doi .
a type of curator inference that is from what is generally considered an authoritative source on the topic ,  including model organism databases ,  newspaper articles ,  books ,  journal publications ,  etc .
a type of manually integrated combinatorial evidence in which two or more distinct types of computational evidence are integrated manually .
a type of manually integrated combinatorial computational evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of manually integrated combinatorial computational evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of automatically integrated combinatorial evidence in which two or more distinct types of computational evidence are integrated automatically .
a type of automatically integrated combinatorial computational evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of automatically integrated combinatorial computational evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of combinatorial evidence in which two or more distinct types of experimental evidence are integrated .
a type of manually integrated combinatorial evidence in which two or more distinct types of experimental evidence are integrated manually .
a type of manually integrated combinatorial experimental evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of manually integrated combinatorial experimental evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of automatically integrated combinatorial evidence in which two or more distinct types of experimental evidence are integrated automatically .
a type of automatically integrated combinatorial experimental evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of automatically integrated combinatorial experimental evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of combinatorial evidence in which at least one line of experimental evidence and at least one line of computational evidence have been integrated .
a type of manually integrated combinatorial evidence in which at least one line of experimental evidence and at least one line of computational evidence have been integrated manually .
a type of manually integrated combinatorial computational and experimental evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of manually integrated combinatorial computational and experimental evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of automatically integrated combinatorial evidence in which at least one line of experimental evidence and at least one line of computational evidence have been integrated automatically .
a type of automatically integrated combinatorial computational and experimental evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of automatically integrated combinatorial computational and experimental evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of computational evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of computational evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of evidence in which data are produced ,  and / or generated ,  and / or analyzed on a computer .
a type of combinatorial evidence in which at least two distinct types of evidence have been integrated automatically .
a type of combinatorial evidence in which at least two distinct types of evidence have been integrated manually .
a type of manually integrated combinatorial evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of manually integrated combinatorial evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of combinatorial evidence in which at least two distinct types of computational evidence have been integrated .
a type of combinatorial computational evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of combinatorial computational evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of chromatography evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of chromatography evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of reporter gene assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of protein separation evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of substance quantification evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of voltage clamp recording evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of protein kinase assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of gel electrophoresis evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of ex vivo assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cleavage assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of deacetylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of transcription assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of phosphatase assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cell - based assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cell proliferation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of dna synthesis cell proliferation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of apoptotic assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cell growth assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of disk diffusion test evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of chemotaxis assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cytotoxicity assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cell viability assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of methylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of protein assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of chromatin immunoprecipitation evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of protein inhibition evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of sumoylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of transport assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of defarnesylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of deubiquitination assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of palmitoylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of acetylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of demethylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of polyadp - ribosylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of staining evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of translation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of ubiquitination assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of immunodetection assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of desumoylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of farnesylation assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of reconstitution assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of in vitro transcription reconstitution assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of localization evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of protein localization evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of fusion protein localization evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of nucleic acid localization evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of anatomical perturbation phenotypic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of cleavage arrested development evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of spectrometry evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of sequencing assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of nucleotide sequencing assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of high throughput nucleotide sequencing assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of structure determination evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of molecule detection assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of dna detection assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of protein detection assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of rna detection assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of small molecule detection assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of chromosome conformation - based evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of 3c evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of combinatorial computational and experimental evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of combinatorial experimental evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of biological system reconstruction evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of biological system reconstruction evidence by experimental evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of phenotypic similarity evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of transcript splice pattern evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of phylogenetic evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of inferential evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of curator inference from authoritative source that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of curator inference from encyclopedia that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of curator inference from wikipedia that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of curator inference from medlineplus encyclopedia that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of curator inference from britannica that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of curator inference from book that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of curator inference from journal publication that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of curator inference from database that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of curator inference from dictionary that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of curator inference from medlineplus dictionary that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of curator inference from oxford dictionary that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of curator inference from merriam - webster dictionary that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of reporter gene assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of voltage clamp recording evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of protein kinase assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of transcription assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of gel electrophoresis evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of deacetylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of phosphatase assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cell - based assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cell viability assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cell proliferation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of dna synthesis cell proliferation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of apoptotic assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cell growth assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of disk diffusion test evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of chemotaxis assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cytotoxicity assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cleavage assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of methylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of protein assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of protein inhibition evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of chromatin immunoprecipitation evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of protein separation evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of sumoylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of transport assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of defarnesylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of deubiquitination assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of palmitoylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of ex vivo assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of acetylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of demethylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of immunodetection assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of polyadp - ribosylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of staining evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of translation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of farnesylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of ubiquitination assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of desumoylation assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of reconstitution assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of in vitro transcription reconstitution assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of substance quantification evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of localization evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of protein localization evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of fusion protein localization evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of nucleic acid localization evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of anatomical perturbation phenotypic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of cleavage arrested development evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of sequencing assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of nucleotide sequencing assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of high throughput nucleotide sequencing assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of structure determination evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of molecule detection assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of dna detection assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of rna detection assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of protein detection assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of small molecule detection assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of spectrometry evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of chromosome conformation - based evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of 3c evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of phenotypic similarity evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of transcript splice pattern evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of phylogenetic evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of biological system reconstruction evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of biological system reconstruction evidence by experimental evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of combinatorial computational and experimental evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of combinatorial experimental evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of inferential evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of curator inference from authoritative source that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of curator inference from encyclopedia that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of curator inference from wikipedia that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of curator inference from britannica that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of curator inference from medlineplus encyclopedia that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of curator inference from book that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of curator inference from dictionary that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of curator inference from medlineplus dictionary that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of curator inference from merriam - webster dictionary that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of curator inference from oxford dictionary that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of curator inference from journal publication that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of radioisotope assay evidence in which radioisotopic labeling is used to quantify a substance after a biochemical process or extraction from a biological sample .
a type of radioisotope quantification assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of radioisotope quantification assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of fluorescence evidence in which fluorescent labeling is used to quantify a substance after a biochemical process or extraction from a biological sample .
a type of fluorescence quantification assay evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of fluorescence quantification assay evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a relation connecting a piece of evidence to an assertion method ,  where that assertion method is supported by the evidence .
a type of rna - seq evidence where intron locations in predicted transcripts are compared to intron locations supported by rna - seq evidence .
a type of support of intron positions by rna - sequencing alignment evidence where rna - seq alignment from a single sample supports all of the intron positions  ( exon pairs )  predicted for a transcript .
a type of support of intron positions by rna - sequencing alignment evidence where rna - seq alignment to a genome supports only some of the intron positions  ( exon pairs )  predicted for a transcript .
a type of support of intron positions by rna - sequencing alignment evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of support of intron positions by rna - sequencing alignment evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of full support of intron positions by rna - sequencing alignment evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of full support of intron positions by rna - sequencing alignment evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of partial support of intron positions by rna - sequencing alignment evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of partial support of intron positions by rna - sequencing alignment evidence that is used in a manual assertion .
a type of support of intron positions by rna - sequencing alignment evidence where rna - seq alignments from a mixture of samples support all of the intron positions  ( exon pairs )  predicted for a transcript .
a type of mixed support of intron positions by rna - sequencing alignment evidence that is used in an automatic assertion .
a type of mixed support of intron positions by rna - sequencing alignment evidence that is used in a manual assertion
an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
a continuant that is a bearer of quality and realizable entity entities ,  in which other entities inhere and which itself cannot inhere in anything .
an occurrent that has temporal proper parts and for some time t ,  p s - depends_on some material entity at t .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
a continuant that inheres in or is borne by other entities .
a realizable entity  the manifestation of which brings about some result or end that is not essential to a continuant  in virtue of the kind of thing that it is but that can be served or participated in by that kind of continuant  in some kinds of natural ,  social or institutional contexts .
a continuant that is dependent on one or other independent continuant bearers .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
an adenosine 5' - phosphate in which the 5' - phosphate is a triphosphate group .
amide derived from two or more amino carboxylic acid molecules  ( the same or different )  by formation of a covalent bond from the carbonyl carbon of one to the nitrogen atom of another with formal loss of water .
high molecular weight ,  linear polymers ,  composed of nucleotides containing deoxyribose and linked by phosphodiester bonds ;  dna contain the genetic information of organisms .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
a member of the class of acrylamides that results from the formal condensation of acrylic acid with ammonia .
a chemical entity constituting the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element .
a macromolecule made up of nucleotide units and hydrolysable into certain pyrimidine or purine bases  ( usually adenine ,  cytosine ,  guanine ,  thymine ,  uracil )  ,  d - ribose or 2 - deoxy - d - ribose and phosphoric acid .
high molecular weight ,  linear polymers ,  composed of nucleotides containing ribose and linked by phosphodiester bonds ;  rna is central to the synthesis of proteins .
a macromolecule is a molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
a pyrimidine 2' - deoxyribonucleoside compound having 5 - bromouracil as the nucleobase .
a synthetic radioactive isotope of chromium having a half - life of 27 .7 days and decaying by electron capture with emission of gamma rays  ( 0 .32 mev )  ;  it is used to label red blood cells for measurement of mass or volume ,  survival time ,  and sequestration studies ,  for the diagnosis of gastrointestinal bleeding ,  and to label platelets to study their survival .
thymidine linked to the radioisotope tritium .
any type of microscopy where the specimen can be made to fluoresce  ( emit energy as visible light )  by illuminating it with light of specific wavelengths .
microscopy where the specimen is illuminated with visible light and a system of lenses is used to produce an image .
a material entity of anatomical origin  ( part of or deriving from an organism )  that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
a cell in vitro that is or has been maintained or propagated as part of a cell culture .
a lymphocyte of b lineage with the phenotype cd19 - positive ,  cd20 - positive ,  and capable of b cell mediated immunity .
a lymphocyte is a leukocyte commonly found in the blood and lymph that has the characteristics of a large nucleus ,  a neutral staining cytoplasm ,  and prominent heterochromatin .
a cell in vitro that has undergone physical changes as a consequence of a deliberate and specific experimental procedure .
a leukocyte with a single non - segmented nucleus in the mature form .
a type of inferential evidence in which sequence features are inferred based on visual inspection of the sequence .
the ordered and organized complex of dna ,  protein ,  and sometimes rna ,  that forms the chromosome .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with the regulatory region composed of the transcription start site and binding sites for the basal transcription machinery .
the cellular synthesis of rna on a template of rna .
a process in which membrane potential cycles through a depolarizing spike ,  triggered in response to depolarization above some threshold ,  followed by repolarization .
any process in an organism that results in the killing of its own cells or those of another organism ,  including in some cases the death of the other organism .
a molecular process that can be carried out by the action of a single macromolecular machine ,  usually via direct physical interactions with other molecular entities .
catalysis of a biochemical reaction at physiological temperatures .
catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  .
enables the facilitated diffusion of an ion  ( by an energy - independent process )  by passage through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel without evidence for a carrier - mediated mechanism .
a location ,  relative to cellular compartments and structures ,  occupied by a macromolecular machine when it carries out a molecular function .
a structure composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins  ( e .g .
the covalent transfer of a methyl group to either n - 6 of adenine or c - 5 or n - 4 of cytosine .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
the process in which a gene's sequence is converted into a mature gene product or products  ( proteins or rna )  .
a protein complex that in its canonical form is composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds and sometimes complexed with additional proteins .
an immunoglobulin complex that is present in the plasma membrane of b cells and that in its canonical form is composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains and two identical immunoglobulin light chains and a signaling subunit ,  a heterodimer of the ig - alpha and ig - beta proteins .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a specific domain of a protein .
assembly of actin filaments by the addition of actin monomers to a filament .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the myeloid and lymphoid derived organ / tissue systems of the blood and other parts of the body over time ,  from formation to the mature structure .
a stable assembly of two or more macromolecules ,  i .e .
any process in which a macromolecule is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  ;  the synthesis of dna from deoxyribonucleotide triphosphates in the presence of a nucleic acid template and a 3'hydroxyl group .
any heritable epigenetic process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein function by self - perpetuating conformational conversions of normal proteins in healthy cells .
a protein complex that contains a disulfide - linked heterodimer of t cell receptor  ( tcr )  chains ,  which are members of the immunoglobulin superfamily ,  and mediates antigen recognition ,  ultimately resulting in t cell activation .
an immunoglobulin complex that is secreted into extracellular space and found in mucosal areas or other tissues or circulating in the blood or lymph .
a protein complex that possesses dna polymerase activity and is involved in template directed synthesis of dna .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with dna of a specific nucleotide composition ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent transfer of a methyl group to either n - 6 of adenine or c - 5 or n - 4 of cytosine .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that is carried out at the cellular level that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of chromosomes ,  structures composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins that carries hereditary information .
any constituent part of a neuron ,  the basic cellular unit of nervous tissue .
a measurement unit label is as a label that is part of a scalar measurement datum and denotes a unit of measure .
a directive information entity that describes an intended process endpoint .
a directive information entity that describes an action the bearer will take
a label is a symbol that is part of some other datum and is used to either partially define  the denotation of that datum or to provide a means for identifying the datum as a member of the set of data with the same label
a quality of an information bearer that imparts the information content
a data item is an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
a generically dependent continuant that is about some thing .
a scalar measurement datum is a measurement datum that is composed of two parts ,  numerals and a unit label .
an information content entity whose concretizations indicate to their bearer how to realize them in a process .
a diagram that presents one or more tuples of information by mapping those tuples in to a two dimensional space in a non arbitrary way .
a plan specification which describes the inputs and output of mathematical functions as well as workflow of execution for achieving an predefined objective .
the curation status of the term .
an image is an affine projection to a two dimensional surface ,  of measurements of some quality of an entity or entities repeated at regular intervals across a spatial range ,  where the measurements are represented as color and luminosity on the projected on surface .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
a directive information entity with action specifications and objective specifications as parts that ,  when concretized ,  is realized in a process in which the bearer tries to achieve the objectives by taking the actions specified .
a measurement datum is an information content entity that is a recording of the output of a measurement such as produced by a device .
a material entity in which a concretization of an information content entity inheres .
the reason for which a term has been deprecated .
an information content entity consisting of a two dimensional arrangement of information content entities such that the arrangement itself is about something .
a figure that expresses one or more propositions
a denotator type indicates how a term should be interpreted from an ontological perspective .
a scalar measurement datum that is the result of measurement of mass quality
a scalar measurement datum that is the result of measuring a temporal interval
a line graph is a type of graph created by connecting a series of data points together with a line .
a part of an extended organism that itself has as part a population of one or more infectious agents and that  ( 1 )  exists as a result of processes initiated by members of the infectious agent population and is  ( 2 )  clinically abnormal in virtue of the presence of this infectious agent population ,  or  ( 3 )  has a disposition to bring clinical abnormality to immunocompetent organisms of the same species as the host  ( the organism corresponding to the extended organism )  through transmission of a member or offspring of a member of the infectious agent population .
a processual entity that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
biological_feature_identification_objective is an objective role carried out by the proposition defining the aim of a study designed to examine or characterize a particular biological feature .
a role inhering in a material entity that is realized when  characteristics or responses elicited by the substance are used for comparison or reference .
chromatography column in chemistry is a tube and contents  ( typically glass )  used to purify individual chemical compounds from mixtures of compounds .
is the transplantation of living cells ,  tissues or  \ norgans from one species to another such as from pigs to humans
is a material entity that is created or changed during material processing .
a device that facilitates the separation of mixtures .
a mass spectrometer is an instrument which is used to measure the mass to charge ratio of ions .
is the transplantation of organs between members of the same species .
a reference role in which the characteristics or responses elicited by the substance playing the reference substance role are used to establish a "100%" response
a role that inheres in a material entity that is realized in an assay in which data is generated about the bearer of the evaluant role
a planned process with the objective to produce information about the material entity that is the evaluant ,  by physically examining it or its proxies .
a processed material that provides the needed nourishment for microorganisms or cells grown in vitro .
a role inhering in a biological or chemical entity that is intended to be applied in a scientific technique to participate  ( or have molecular components that participate )  in a chemical reaction that facilitates the generation of data about some entity distinct from the bearer ,  or the generation of some specified material output distinct from the bearer .
a planned process which results in physical changes in a specified input material
a role that is realized through the execution of a study design in which the bearer of the role participates and in which data about that bearer is collected .
a protocol application to replace an organ or tissue of an organism
a role borne by a material entity that is gained during a specimen collection process and that can be realized by use of the specimen in an investigation
sequence_feature_identification_objective is a biological_feature_identification_objective role describing a study designed to examine or characterize molecular features exhibited at the level of a macromolecular sequence ,  e .g .
an intervention design is a study design in which a controlled process applied to the subjects  ( the intervention )  serves as the independent variable manipulated by the experimentalist .
molecular_feature_identification_objective is a biological_feature_identification_objective role describing a study designed to examine or characterize molecular features of a biological system ,  e .g .
a device manufacture with the intent to provide a porous unsized paper used for filtering .
a material combination in which cell cultures of two or more different types are are combined and allowed to culture as one .
mixed population of cdnas  ( complementarydna )  made from mrna from a defined source ,  usually a specific cell type .
an assay that produces a picture of an entity .
a microtiter_plate is a flat plate with multiple wells used as small test tubes .
an immunoprecipitation in which chromatin  ( i .e .
an assay that measures the amount of radiation in the radioactive spectrum  ( alpha ,  beta or gamma rays )  emitted from an input material .
cellular_feature_identification_objective is a biological_feature_identification_objective role describing a study designed to examine or characterize a biological feature monitored at the cellular level ,  e .g .
enzymatic cleavage is a protocol application to digest the fraction of input material that is susceptible to that enzyme
an entity that can bear roles ,  has members ,  and has a set of organization rules .
a molecular label role which inheres in a material entity and which is realized in the process of detecting a molecular dye that imparts color to some material of interest .
is a material transformation in which strands of nucleic acids that are  ( somewhat )  complementary form a double - stranded molecule .
a dna extraction is a nucleic acid extraction where the desired output material is dna .
organism_feature_identification_objective is a biological_feature_identification_objective role describing a study designed to examine or characterize a biological feature monitored at the level of the organism ,  e .g .
a plan specification which has sufficient level of detail and quantitative information to communicate it between investigation agents ,  so that different investigation agents will reliably be able to independently reproduce the process .
is a process with the objective to place a material entity bearing the 'material to be added role' into a material bearing the 'target of material addition role' .
a measurand role borne by a molecular entity or an atom and realized in an analyte assay which achieves the objective to measure the magnitude / concentration / amount of the analyte in the entity bearing evaluant role .
an assay that determines interactions between proteins ,  such as protein - protein binding .
a eluate is a material entity which results from an elution ,  e .g .
material to be added role is a protocol participant role realized by a material which is added into a material bearing the target of material addition role in a material addition process
histological sample preparation is the preparation of an input tissue via slicing and labeling to make tissue microstructure of interest visible in a future histology assay
a mass analyzer is a device that separates ions according to their mass - to - charge ratio .
an ion source is a device that is part of a mass spectrometer that ionizes the material under analysis .
an ion detector is a device that measures and records the charge induced or current produced when an ion passes by or hits a surface .
an assay that detects and identifies chemical entities resulting from biochemical and cellular metabolism
a light emission function is an excitation function to excite a material to a specific excitation state that it emits light .
a magnify function is a function to increase the size of a transmitted object image through the precise arrangement of energy diffraction elements along an imaging path .
a contain function is a function to constrain a material entities location in space
a heat function is a function that increases the internal kinetic energy of a material
a material separation function is a function that increases the resolution between two or more material entities .
a excitation function is a function  to inject energy by bombarding a material with energetic particles  ( e .g . ,  photons )  thereby imbuing internal material components such as electrons with additional energy .
a synthesizing function is a function to assemble new output materials from distinct input materials .
a perturb function is a function that disrupts the normal function of a system induced through either internal or external means .
a filter function is a function to prevent the flow of certain entities based on a quality or qualities of the entity while allowing entities which have different qualities to pass through
a mechanical function is a function that is realised via mechanical work  ( through an certain amount of energy transferred by some force )  .
an electricity supply function is an energy supply function to transfer electricity from one source to another ,  typically a consumer of the electricity or as a stimulus during a neuroscience experiment .
an ionization function is a function to physically convert an atom or molecule into an ion by adding or removing charged particles such as electrons or other ions .
a cool function is a function to decrease the internal kinetic energy of a material below the initial kinetic energy of that type of material .
an energy supply function is a function to supply or transfer energy from an energy source to a consumer of the energy
an image acquisition function is a function to acquire an image of a material
an image creation device is a device which captures a digitized image of an object
a solid support function is a function of a device on which an entity is kept in a defined position and prevented in its movement
an environmental control function is a function that regulates a contained environment within specified parameter ranges .
a sort function is a function to distinguish material components based on some associated physical quality or entity and to partition the separate components into distinct fractions according to a defined order .
is double stranded dna that is the specified output of a polymerase chain reaction
a reference substance role which inheres in nucleic acid material entity and is realized in the process of using the nucleic acid bearing the template role as a reference during synthesis of a reverse copy .
a material to be added role played by a small ,  self - replicating dna or rna molecule  -  usually a plasmid or chromosome  -  and realized in a process whereby foreign dna or rna is inserted into the vector during the process of cloning .
pcr is the process in which a dna polymerase is used to amplify a piece of dna by in vitro enzymatic replication .
cloning insert role is a role which inheres in dna or rna and is realized by the process of being inserted into a cloning vector in a cloning process .
enzyme and has_function some go:0003964  ( rna - directed dna polymerase activity ) 
an extract is a material entity which results from an extraction process
an assay that determines gene expression and transcription activity using ribonucleic acids collected from a material entity .
 ( protein or rna )  or has_part  ( protein or rna )  and has_function some go:0003824  ( catalytic activity ) 
a material entity resulting from the polymerization of acrylamide with temed in some buffer solution
is the specification of an objective to add a material into a target material .
an assay which generates data about a genotype from a specimen of genomic dna .
an assay objective to determine the presence or concentration of an analyte in the evaluant
a material entity resulting from the polymerization of agarose after heating agarose suspended in some buffer solution
an objective specification to determine a specified type of information about an evaluated entity  ( the material entity bearing evaluant role ) 
an assay with the objective to capture information about the presence ,  concentration ,  or amount of an analyte in an evaluant .
target of material addition role is a role realized by an entity into which a material is added in a material addition process
an electrophysiology recording assay where the recording location of the electrode is intracellular
measure function is a function that is borne by a processed material  and realized in a process in which information about some entity is expressed relative to some reference .
an electrophysiology recording assay where the recording location of the electrode is extracellular
an objective specifiction that creates an specific output object from input materials .
an assay that identifies the amount and type of material entities present in a sample by fragmenting the sample and measuring the mass - to - charge ratio of the resulting particles .
a planned process that carries out a study design
an affinity column is a chromatography column that is used in affinity chromatography .
a gel filtration column is a chromatography column for size - exclusion chromatography ,  in which the stationary phase is a gel .
reverse transcribe pcr is a process which allow amplification of cdna during a pcr reaction while the cdna results from a retrotranscription of messenger rna isolated from a material entity .
a material entity that consists of all the molecules of a specific type that are located in some bounded region and which is part of a more massive material entity that has parts that are other such aggregates
a chromatography consumable is a consumable that is used in a chromatography experiment .
a size exclusion column is a chromatography column as used in size exclusion chromatography and which enables the separation of mixtures according to differrences in molecular size .
an assay that exploits the magnetic properties of certain nuclei  ( those with a spin )  to resonate when placed in particular magnetic field conditions .
a sequencing assay which determines information on the sequence of a dna molecule .
an assay that studies blood and blood producing organs using a variety of techniques and instruments
an assay that measures the state of methylation of dna molecules using genomic dna collected from a material entity using a range of techniques and instrument such as dna sequencers and often relying on treatment with bisulfites to ensure cytosine conversion .
is an objective to transform a material entity into spatially separated components .
a differential expression analysis data transformation is a data transformation that has an objective of differential expression analysis .
a portion of urine collected from an organism
is a material processing with the objective to combine two or more material entities as input into a single material entity as output .
a quality inheres_in some device and is concretization of some  ( device_setting_specification and is_about a quality of the device
a planned process with the objective of collecting a specimen .
a cell proliferation assay in which cells are cultured in the presence of brdu which is incorporated into newly synthesized dna of replicating cells  ( during the s phase of the cell cycle )  ,  substituting for thymidine during dna replication ,  which can be quantified by brdu specific antibodies .
a cell proliferation assay in which cells are cultured in the presence of tritiated thymidine which is incorporated into newly synthesized dna of replicating cells  ( during the s phase of the cell cycle )  .
a material obtained from an organism in order to be a representative of the whole
a material separation objective aiming to separate material into multiple portions ,  each of which contains a similar composition of the input material .
a material separation objective aiming to separate a material entity that has parts of different types ,  and end with at least one output that is a material with parts of fewer types  ( modulo impurities )  .
a objective specification to obtain a material entity for potential use as an input during an investigation .
is a process with the objective to prepare a liquid solution of one or more chemicals at desired concentrations .
is an objective to obtain an output material that contains several input materials .
is a process which realizes a material separation objective by relying on antibodies to specifically binding to material entity
an assay that measures the occurrence of death events in one or more organisms over time
is a process which results in the creation of a library from fragments of dna using cloning vectors or oligonucleotides with the role of adaptors .
an assay in which chromatin is immunoprecipitated and subsequently analyzed using a dna sequencing step to identify which parts of dna are part of the isolated chromatin
is a collection of short paired tags from the two ends of dna fragments are extracted and covalently linked as ditag constructs
a recombinant vector is created by a recombinant vector cloning process ,  and contains nucleic acids that can be amplified .
is a collection of short tags from dna fragments ,  are extracted and covalently linked as single tag constructs
a cloning vector is an engineered material that is used as an input material for a recombinant vector cloning process to carry inserted nucleic acids .
a material sample role is a specimen role borne by a material entity that is the output of a material sampling process .
a specimen gathering process with the objective to obtain a specimen that is representative of the input material entity
a material entity that has the material sample role
a directive information entity that is part of a study design .
a measurement data that represents the percentage of people or animals in a study or treatment group who are alive for a given period of time after diagnosis or initiation of monitoring .
the objective to separate a material entity into different compositions of which one or more have are purified fractions that contain higher concentration of a desired component ,  while others contain impurities and are not of interest
a process in which bonds are created that link one polymer to another
an objective specification maintains some or all of the qualities of a material over time .
a planned process in which an organism is exposed to some stimulus with the intent to invoke an action
dna that has been produced in an enzymatic amplification process
a quality of a dna molecule that inheres in its bearer due to the order of its dna nucleotide residues .
an electrode of very fine caliber consisting usually of a fine wire or a glass tube of capillary diameter drawn to a fine point and filled with saline or a metal used in physiological experiments to stimulate or record action currents of extracellular or intracellular origin in the nervous system .
a device in which a measure function inheres .
the output of an extraction process in which dna molecules above a molecular weight cutoff are purified in order to exclude dna from organellas .
a process with that achieves the objective to maintain some or all of the characteristics of an input material over time
the primary structure of an rna molecule that is completely defined by the set of its nucleic residue parts and the linear order induced by the peptide bonds that hold them together
a role played by a nucleic acid molecule that is used in a planned process for its ability to bind a nucleic acid molecules with complementary nucleotide sequence
an assay that determines the presence of gene transcripts by hybridizing labeled rna or dna probes against messenger rnas isolated from tissue or cell cultures ,  resolved on denaturing gel ,  transfered by a blotting procedure to a solid support .
a specimen that was taken from a live organism
an analyte assay in which a specified input material  ( the evaluant )  is examined for the presence or quantity of specified nucleic acid polymers ,  which are identified based on the use of complementary nucleic acid probes .
an extract which is the output of an extraction process in which rna molecules are isolated from a specimen .
a cytometry assay that monitors a cell population to track how many are killed by other cells .
a cell killing assay that measures if and how many target cells are killed within an organism .
a cytometry assay which measures the degreee to which input cells are replicating .
an analyte assay that detects the presence of a specific sequence in a dna sample ,  which has been digested by restriction enzymes ,  resolved by gel electrophoresis ,  and blotted to a solid support ,  followed by hybridization of a probe raised against a specific sequence and detected with fluorescence or radioactivity .
an assay ,  based on the pcr ,  that amplifies and simultaneously quantifies a specific dna molecule based on the use of complementary probes / primers .
a specimen that was taken from a dead organism
a cell killing assay that measures if and how many target cells are actively killed by other cells in a cell culture .
a 3d structure determination assay in which the diffraction of pattern of x - ray beams in a crystal of purified material entities is used to resolve the 3 - dimensional structure of the material entity of interest .
an assay in which the activity of a promoter in a cell is monitored by using a reporter gene that was inserted in a genomic location under control of the promoter and whose expression can be easily detected based on qualities or functions of the gene .
a cytometry assay in which an input cell population is put in solution ,  is passed by a laser ,  and optical sensors are used to detect scattering of the laser light and / or fluorescence of specific markers to count and characterize the particles in solution .
a labeled specimen that is the output of a labeling process and has grain labeled rna to be able to detect rna in future experiments .
a binding assay that uses the detection of electromagnetic waves in a surface to detect material entities adsorbed to the surface ,  which change the local optical index of refraction .
a specimen  that has been modified in order to be able to detect it in future experiments
is a material entity bearing the disposition to infect an organism
a measurement device that is used to calculate the heat flow of a chemical reaction or physical change .
the part of the execution of an intervention design study which is varied between two or more subjects in the study
a device with a separation function realized in a planed process
a specimen that has been intentionally physically modified .
an assay in which a measurement is made by observing entities located in a live cell .
an assay in which a measurement is made by observing entities located in an organism .
a device that can be used to restrict the location of material entities over time
a material entity that is designed to perform a function in a scientific investigation ,  but is not a reagent .
a measurement datum that representing the primary structure of a macromolecule ( it's sequence )  sometimes associated with an indicator of confidence of that measurement .
a binding assay which uses a flow cytometer to detect pairs of cells that are bound to each other by staining them with different fluorescent labels .
an assay in which a measurement is made by observing entities located in a container .
a study design in which the independent variable is the environmental condition in which the specimen is growing
a device that is used to amplify a single or few copies of a piece of dna across several orders of magnitude ,  generating thousands to millions of copies of a particular dna sequence .
a microscope that produces an image of an object by targeting it with an electron beam
the collection of material entities and their qualities that are located near a live organism ,  tissue or cell and can influence its growth .
a planned process that captures an image of an object .
an extract that is the output of an extraction process in which nucleic acid molecules are isolated from a specimen .
a binding assay where the specified output is a binding constant
a device which has a function to emit light .
a perturbation device is a device which is designed to perform a perturb function
an environmental control device is a device which has the function to control some aspect of the environment such as temperature ,  or humidity .
the output of an extraction process in which dna molecules are purified in order to exclude dna from organellas .
a device that moves charged particles through a medium by using an electric field induced by electrodes .
a liquid chromatography instrument that consists of a reservoir of mobile phase ,  a pump ,  an injector ,  a separation column ,  and a detector .
a microscope that is used to increase micrograph contrast and / or reconstruct three - dimensional images by using a spatial pinhole to eliminate out - of - focus light in specimens that are thicker than the focal plane .
a device used in electrophysiology that allows the study of single or multiple ion channels in cells .
an device that is used to determine the order of nucleotides in nucleic acid sequences .
a device that moves charged particles through a medium by using an electric field induced by electrodes .
a device that is used to measure the ion currents across the membrane of excitable cells ,  such as neurons ,  while holding the membrane voltage at a set level .
a tool for measuring adsorption of material onto planar metal  ( typically gold and silver )  surfaces or onto the surface of metal nanoparticles .
an device that is used to determine the order of amino acids in protein sequences .
a device that is used to generate x - rays .
a chromatography device that dissolves a mixture in liquid mobile phase to separate the analyte to be measured from other molecules in the mixture and allows it to be isolated
a labeled specimen that is the output of a labeling process and has grain labeled nucleic acid for detection of the nucleic acid in future experiments .
a binding datum about the disposition of two or more material entities to form complexes which comes in the form of a scalar and unit that are utilized in equations that model the binding process
a 3d structure determination assay in which a complex of 2 or more material enties is characterized which provides information on their binding configuration .
an assay with the objective to characterize the disposition of two or more material entities to form a complex .
a processual entity that results in the increase of cell numbers
a genetic transformation that renders a gene non - functional ,  e .g .
a genetic transformation that involves the insertion of a protein coding cdna sequence at a particular locus in an organism's chromosome .
a material entity ,  organism or cell ,   that is the output of a genetic transformation process .
a genetic transformation which relies on the use of physical ,  electrical and chemical phenomena to introduce dna or rna into a cell
a material transformation objective aims to create genetically modified organism or cell
a genetic transformation that the modification of the genetic material  ( either coding or non - coding )  of an organism is caused by mutagenic compounds or irradiation .
a measurement datum that describes the structural orientation of a material entity in 3d space .
the time it takes for 50% of a class of stochastic processes to occur .
a data item of paired values ,  one indicating the dose of a material ,  the other quantitating a measured effect at that dose .
an assay that determines the sequence of an rna molecule .
half maximal effective concentration  ( ec50 )  is a scalar measurement datum corresponding to the concentration of a compound which induces a response halfway between the baseline and maximum after some specified exposure time .
a data item that states if two or more material entities have the disposition to form a complex ,  and if so ,  how strong that disposition is .
half maximal inhibitory concentration  ( ic50 )  is a scalar measurement datum that measures the effectiveness of a compound to competitively inhibit a given process ,  and corresponds to the concentration of the compound at which it reaches half of its maximum inhibitory effect .
a study design that is conducted entirely in a living organism ,  e .g .
a study design that classifies an individual or group of individuals on the basis of alleles ,  haplotypes ,  snps using high througput sequencing techniques .
a study design where all or part of an organism is removed and studied in vitro ,  e .g .
a genetic characteristics information which is a part of genotype information that identifies the population of organisms
a molecular feature identification objective that aims to detect epigenetic modifications ,  such as dna methylation ,  histone modifications .
a study design in which sequencing technology  ( e .g .
a genotyping assay that uses a high througput sequencer
an assay in which chromatin is immunoprecipitated and subsequently analyzed using a dna microarray to identify which parts of dna are part of the isolated chromatin
a study design which aims to identify protein and dna interactions using a combination of chromatin immunoprecipitation and high throughput sequencing .
a dna methylation profiling assay in which the methylation state of dna is determined and can be compared between samples using sequencing based technology
an transcription profiling assay that determines an rna sequence by analyzing the transcibed regions of the genome and or to quantitate transcript abundance .
a study design in which the methylation state of dna is determined and is compared between samples using array technology .
a study design that is done in a test tube or a culture dish ,  e .g .
a study design that identifies forms and abundance of transcripts in the genome using microarray technology .
a genetic characteristics information that is about the genetic material of an organism and minimally includes information about the genetic background and can in addition contain information about specific alleles ,  genetic modifications ,  etc .
a study design which aims to examine the transcriptome of a biological sample by reverse transcription pcr  ( rt - pcr )  .
an assay that detects proteins in a sample  ( quantified or otherwise analyzed )  ,  e .g .
a molecular feature identification objective that aims to characterize the abundance of transcripts
a study design in which a modification of the transcriptome ,  proteome  ( not genome )  is made ,  for example rnai ,  antibody targeting .
a transcription profiling assay that uses reverse transcription pcr  ( rt - pcr )  .
a genetic characteristics information that is about known changes or the lack thereof from the genetic background ,  including allele information ,  duplication ,  insertion ,  deletion ,  etc .
a study design that aims to study the processes that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
a study design in which the response of an organism ( s )  to the stress or stimulus is studied ,  e .g .
a sequence feature identification objective that aims to characterize the interactions between protein and dna which includes identification of transcription factor binding sites .
a study design which aims to identify protein binding sites in genomic dna by a combination of chromatin immunoprecipitation and dna microarray  ( chip )  assays .
a data item that is about genetic material including polymorphisms ,  disease alleles ,  and haplotypes .
a study design that investigates protein binding sites on nucleic acids .
a study design that identifies forms and abundance of transcripts in the genome .
a study design in which proteins in a sample are detected ,  quantified or otherwise analysed ,  through an array - based technology .
a study design that classifies an individual or group of individuals on the basis of alleles ,  haplotypes ,  snps .
a study design in which an organism ( s )  is studied that has had genetic material removed ,  rearranged ,  mutagenized or added ,  such as in a knock out .
a transcription profiling assay that uses array technology .
a binding assay in which a collection of phages expressing a library of different peptides or protein fragnments is used to infect cells ,  followed by screening for cells that bind a protein of interest ,  and identifiying the sequence of infecting phages to determine a suitable binding partner .
a specimen that derives from an anatomical part or substance arising from an organism .
phage display library panning is a process in which a diverse collection of phages encoding peptides or proteins are screened and the ones encoding active peptides / proteins are selected in an iterative process similar to natural selection .
an assay in which a material's fluorescence is determined .
a planned process to separate a material entity into different compositions of which one or more have are purified fractions that contain higher concentration of a desired component ,  while others contain impurities and are not of interest
a specimen that has been established to be taken from a live  ( pre - mortem )  or dead  ( post - mortem )  organism .
a binding constant defined as the ratio of kon over koff  ( on - rate of binding divided by off - rate ) 
a binding constant defined as the ratio of koff over kon  ( off - rate of binding divided by on - rate ) 
a scalar measurement datum that represents the number of events occuring over a time interval
a measurement of an ic50 value under specific assay conditions approximates kd ,  namely the binding reaction is at an equilibrium ,  there is a single population of sites on the receptor that competitor and ligand are binding to ,  and the concentration of the receptor must be much less than the kd for the competitor and the ligand .
a sequence data item that is about the primary structure of dna
a measurement of an ec50 value under specific assay conditions approximates kd ,  namely the binding reaction is at an equilibrium ,   and the concentration of the receptor must be much less than the kd for the ligand .
a half life datum of the time it takes for 50% of bound complexes in an ensemble to disassociate in absence of re - association .
the process of material entities forming complexes .
a binding assay that measures the formation or disassociation of a complex of 2 material entities directly without use of a competitve ligand .
a binding assay that detects the inhibition of binding between 2 material entities known to form a complex by the addition of a third material entity of interest .
a rate measurement datum of how quickly bound complexes disassociate
a rate measurement datum of how quickly bound complexes form
an analyte assay that uses a biomaterial's preferential affinity for either the mobile phase or the stationary phase to separate it from other materials and thereby detect its presence in an input material .
an imaging assay in which an electrons are used to probe the density ,  shape and composition of an input material which are detected in an electron microscope and utilized to produce an image of the material .
a assay detecting a molecular label assay in which the label is attached to an antibody so that substances are marked based on the antibody's binding specificity .
a material entity that is generated by a purification process in which an input material is separated to obtain a fraction with a higher concentration of a desired component
a binding assay in which the heat generated or absorbed during a binding event is measured ,  which allows determination of binding constants ,  reaction stoichiometry ,  enthalpy and entropy .
a binding assay in which affinity is measured by detecting a change in fluorescence  ( usually quenching )  that occurs upon binding of the antibody to the ligand .
a binding assay that screens membrane soluble proteins by fusion of two integral membrane proteins  ( bait and prey )  to two different ubiquitin moieties .
an assay that measures protein - protein interactions by separating target proteins on an sds - page gel ,  transfering them to a solid substrate ,  hybridizing with a protein probe and visualizing bound proteins using a probe - directed antibody .
an assay that determines the presence and estimates abundance of transcript species by first creating an homo or heteroduplex by adding a specific ,  complementary sequence to the sequence of interest and then exposing the mixture of ribonuclease ,  which will degrade only single stranded molecules .
an assay that measures information about protein - dna or protein - rna interactions using gel electrophoresis and relying on the fact the molecular interactions will cause the heterodimer to be retarded on the gel when compared to controls corresponding to protein extract alone and protein extract  +  neutral nucleic acid .
an assay which transiently disrupts gene transcripts by expressing antisense rna constructs or delivering rna interfering molecules in cells .
a transcription profiling assay that is performed using a very low amount  ( nanogram scale )  of mrna samples using cap analysis gene expression  ( cage )  .
a transcription profiling assay which measures rna transcript abundances in biological samples by extracting 5' ends of capped transcripts ,  rtpcr and sequence those .
an assay that detects protein protein interactions and protein dna interactions by testing for physical interactions  ( such as binding )  between two proteins or a single protein and a dna molecule ,  respectively .
an assay that determines protein dna interactions using a single fusion protein in which the activating domain is linked directly to the binding domain .
an assay that identifies the sequence - specific target site of a dna - binding domain .
an in - situ hybridization assay that uses fluorescence to detect chromosomal integrity
an assay that uses initial modification of dna by sodium bisulfite ,  converting all unmethylated ,  but not methylated ,  cytosines to uracil ,  and subsequent amplification with primers specific for methylated versus unmethylated dna .
an assay that estimates genome - wide dna methylation and measures methylation of dna sequences .
an assay that localizes a specific dna or rna sequence within a portion or section of tissue using artificially induced nucleic hybridization .
an assay which uses compound cytochalasin  ( chebi: 23528 )  to block actin polymerization - dependent cell motility  ( go:0070358 )  and actin filament polymerization  ( go:0030041 )  .
is an objective specification which aims to discover cellular structure properties
an analyte assay in which an input material is mixed with antibodies and bound antigen:antibody complexes are separated out using immunoprecipitation .
a process of an immunoglobulin complex binding to a material entity at the immunoglobulin complementarity determining region  ( cdr )  .
a library preparation that results in the creation of a library of the 5' and 3' ends of dna or cdna fragments using adaptors and endonucleases .
an assay that identifies unmethylated cpgs using methylation sensitive restriction enzymes to fragment dna .
a device made to be used in an analyte assay for immobilization of substances that bind the analyte at regular spatial positions on a surface .
a biological or chemical entity that bears a reagent role in virtue of it being intended for application in a scientific technique  to participate in  ( or have molecular parts that participate in )  a chemical reaction that facilitates the generation of data about some distinct entity ,  or the generation of some distinct material specified output .
a processed material that serves as a liquid vehicle for freezing cells for long term quiescent stroage ,  which contains chemicls needed to sustain cell viability across freeze - thaw cycles .
a polymerase chain reaction that amplifies multiple targets with a single primer pair mediated by hybridization of a primer with its target sequence using ligation .
a molecular feature identification objective that aims to determine spatial organization of chromatin .
an assay that measures the organization of chromosomes at the genome - wide scale .
a chip - seq assay which uses immunoprecipitation to isolate protein bound dna followed by an exonuclease step to degrade dna that is not protein bound to provide greater resolution of the dna binding site
a value specification that consists of two parts: a numeral and a unit label
an information content entity that specifies a value within a classification scheme or on a quantitative scale .
a material entity that is the specified output of an addition of molecular label process that aims to label some molecular target to allow for its detection in a detection of molecular label assay
an assay in which portions of chromatin ,  the ordered and organized complex of dna and its interaction partners that make up a chormosome ,  is extracted and purified by immunoprecipitation with antibodies or tags ,  and subsequently analyzed
a positive reference substance role that inheres in a material entity that is known to bind to a target entity ,  and that is realized in a competitive binding assay that has as specified input the target entity ,  an evaluant and the positive reference substance ,  where the binding of the evaluant to the target is measured based on the evaluant's ability to compete with the positive reference substance for binding to the target .
an assay that produces data about protein - dna interaction or dna epigenetic modification using immunoprecipitation
an assay that measures properties of cells .
a binding assay in which the proximity of two entities is monitored by measuring a fluorescent signal of one of the entities that gets reduced if the two entities are cliose to each other .
an analyte assay where binding of the analyte to immobilized matrix is measured .
an immunostaining assay to detect and potentially localize antigens within the cells of a tissue section .
an assay that identifies epigenetic modifications including histone modifications ,  open chromatin ,  and dna methylation .
a mass spectrometry assay that measures the absolute mass of the cleaved peptides derived from an unknown protein of interest .
a material entity that has two or more specimens as its parts .
an assay that detects expression of a reporter gene that was inserted under the control of a regulatory sequence of interest .
a container with an environmental control function .
a reverse transcribed polymerase chain reaction that is used to amplify a mrna sequence between a defined internal site and the 5' or 3' end of the mrna .
an analytical chromatography assay that utilizes a high performance liquid chromatography instrument for separation of compounts in a solution .
an imaging assay that utilizes a microscope to magnify features of the visualized material of interest that are not visible to naked eye .
an assay that determines the specific location of a protein .
a protein localization assay that determines the specific subcellular location of a protein .
a chip assay that uses quantitative pcr to determine levels of specific dna in immunoprecipitated samples .
an analyte assay that detects molecules in a mixture dotted on a membrane using dna probes or antibodies .
an analyte assay that detects atp concentration through light intensity when luciferase catalyzes the oxidation of luciferin in the presence of atp ,  magnesium ions ,  and molecular oxygen .
an assay that measures the electrical properties of biological cells or tissues .
an intracellular electrophysiology assay where a glass micropipette is sealed to the surface of the cell membrane as a recording electrode to study ion channel activity .
a patch - clamp assay where the electrode is left in place on the cell ,  as in cell - attached recordings ,  but the membrane patch has been perforated ,  providing access from the interior of the pipette to the intracellular space of the cell .
a patch - clamp assay where the electrode is left in place on the cell ,  and the membrane patch has been left intact been perforated .
a patch - clamp assay where a patch of the membrane is attached to the patch pipette ,  detached from the rest of the cell ,  and the cytosolic surface of the membrane is exposed to the external media ,  or bath .
a patch - clamp assay where a patch of the membrane is attached to the patch pipette .
an extracellular electrophysiology assay where electrodes are mounted outside the brain  ( either on the surface of the scalp on onto the brain surface itself during surgery )  to measure the electrical field over the external surface .
an extracellular electrophysiology assay where a single microelectrode is placed in close proximity to a single neuron to measure voltage and current changes over time .
an extracellular electrophysiology assay where a microelectrode is placed in the extracellular space of brain tissue to measure action potential and compared to an electrode either outside or inside that tissue .
an assay that identifies rna binding proteins by cross - linking rna and proteins with uv light ,  then purifying the bound complexes by oligo ( dt )  capture .
an assay that detects the proximity of chromosomal dna through the use of a ligation reaction in isolated nuclei .
a nuclear ligation assay that detects chromosomal interactions between any two genomic loci .
a chromosome conformation capture assay that detects genome - wide chromosomal interactions .
a role borne by a material entity and realized in an assay which achieves the objective to measure the magnitude / concentration / amount of the measurand in the entity bearing evaluant role .
an artificially induced nucleic acid hybridization that is performed to compare gene expression in different cell or tissue types based on normalization and suppression ,  which creates a subtracted cdna or genomic dna library .
an artificially induced nucleic acid hybridization that is performed to identify differentially expressed genes through hybridization of cdna probes .
a specimen that is derived from brain .
a study design that investigates the features of interaction between molecules .
an induced mutation in which a specific base change is programmed into the sequence of a synthetic primer .
an induced mutation that produces a random mutation ,  either by introducing the organism to mutagens ,  or through a process such as error - prone pcr .
an assay in which a cellular process is replicated from the bottom - up using isolated components in order to observe how the components work together .
a reconstitution assay in which rna synthesis is investigated using rna polymerase ii transcription systems replicated in vitro from their base components .
a genetic transformation which reduces the expression of a specific gene or genes in an organism .
a material entity which results from viral transformation process using ebv as transformation agent when applied to b - cell entity
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
a material entity that has the specimen role .
a processed material comprised of a collection of cultured cells that has been continuously maintained together in culture and shares a common propagation history .
a processed material which derives from an organ and results from a process of dissection or histological sample preparation a portion ( formerly an organ section is portion of an organ removed from the context of the organ ) 
a planned process that produces output data from input data .
a differential expression analysis objective is a data transformation objective whose input consists of expression levels of entities  ( such as transcripts or proteins )  ,  or of sets of such expression levels ,  under two or more conditions and whose output reflects which of these are likely to have different expression across such conditions .
a data transformation which has the objective of spectrum analysis .
an objective specification to transformation input data into output data
is a data transformation objective where the aim is to analyse some aspect of spectral data by some data transformation process .
a pool of specimens is a mixture of a population of samples which have been gathered from one or more sample populations ,  obtained by the physical process of mixing individual specimens ,  e .g .
a material entity  that is made up of at least 2 scattered molecular aggregates ,  one playing the role of solvent and the other one playing the role of solute .
solvent role is a role which inheres in a molecular entity capable of ensuring the dissolution of another chemical entity and realized by the process of solvation
solute role is a role played by a chemical entity which is dissolved by another chemical entity  ( the solvent )  when creating a solution
an assay that measures dna damage  ( dna breakage )  in eucaryotic cells exposed to a challenge by determining the size and shape of dna migration by detecting fluorescently labeled dna from a cell placed in an electric field using gel electrophoresis
an organism that is the output of a genetic transformation process
a material entity that has been going through a process of being put into solution
a material separation in which a desired component of an input material is separated from the remainder
staining is a process which results in the addition a class - specific  ( dna ,  proteins ,  lipids ,  carbohydrates )  dye to a substrate to qualify or quantify the presence of a specific compound .
polymerization is process by which molecular entity of small mass are aggregated in motifs over the course of a chemical reaction catalyzed by enzymes or other molecular entities acting as catalyst .
an enzymatic ligation is a planned process in which molecules  are joined by covalent bonds through the action of an material entity with a ligase activity
a planned process by which totally or partially complementary ,  single - stranded nucleic acids are  combined into a single molecule called heteroduplex or homoduplex to an extent depending on the amount of complementarity .
the process of extracting one material from another by washing with a solvent to remove adsorbed material from an adsorbent  ( as in washing of loaded ion - exchange resins to remove captured ions ) 
aparatus in the fluidic subsystem where the sheath and sample meet .
a flow_cytometer is an instrument for counting ,  examining and sorting microscopic particles in suspension .
a light source is an optical subsystem that provides light for use in a distant area using a delivery system  ( e .g . ,  fiber optics )  .
an obscuration bar is a an optical subsystem which is a strip of metal or other material that serves to block out direct light from the illuminating beam .
an optical filter is an optical subsystem that selectively transmits light having certain properties  ( often ,  a particular range of wavelengths ,  that is ,  range of colours of light )  ,  while blocking the remainder .
a photodetector is a device used to detect and measure the intensity of radiant energy through photoelectric action .
a dna sequencer is an instrument that determines the order of deoxynucleotides in deoxyribonucleic acid sequences .
a device which is used to maintain constant contact of a liquid on an array .
a device which is used to maintain the temperature of one or more hybridization_chamber ( s )  at a defined ,  constant temperature .
a device that converts a variable electrical current to mechanical vibration of a metallic probe .
a spectrophotometer is an instrument that measures the intensity of light as a function of the color ,  or more specifically ,  the wavelength of light ,  transmitted by a substance .
an instrument that is capable of repeatedly altering and maintaining specific temperatures for defined periods of time .
a cytometer is an instrument for counting and measuring cells .
a device which holds a gel and running buffers to allow electrophoresis to be performed .
a power supply is an device or part of a device that permits the required application of a defined electrical charge to an instrument .
a processed material that is made to be used in an analyte assay .
a dna - microarray is a microarray that is used as a physical 2d immobilisation matrix for dna sequences .
a protein - microarray is a microarray ,  ususlly a piece of glass ,  on which different molecules of protein have been affixed at separate locations in an ordered manner .
a droplet sorter is part_of a flow cytometer sorter that converts the carrier fluid stream into individual droplets ,  and these droplets are directed into separate locations for recovery  ( enriching the original sample for particles of interest based on qualities determined by gating )  or disposal .
a microtome is a mechanical instrument used to cut biological specimens into very thin segments for further treatment  ( e .g .
a microscope is an instrument which magnifies the view on objects  ( too small to be viewed by the naked eye )  under increased resolution .
a plan specification comprised of protocols  ( which may specify how and what kinds of data will be gathered )  that are executed as part of an investigation and is realized during a study design execution .
plan for the precise procedure to be followed in a clinical trial ,  including planned and actual timing of events ,  choice of control group ,  method of allocating treatments ,  blinding methods ;  assigns a subject to pass through one or more epochs in the course of a trial .
a reference experiment design type is where all samples are compared to a common reference .
is process in which a material substance is added to a cell culture
a process with the objective to obtain a material entity that was part of an organism for potential future use in an investigation
a process by which a substance is intentionally given to an organism resulting in exposure of the organism to that substance .
a material processing in which components of an input material become segregated in space
an assay that detects the presence or a quality of a molecular label which is a proxy for the detection of the molecular target to which the label is attached
an assay that uses visual examination of cells or tissue  ( or images of them )  to make an assessment regarding a quality of the cells or tissue .
a protocol application in which cells are kept alive in a defined environment outside of an organism .
an assay that detects a specified substance
a protocol with the objective to transcribe single - stranded rna into complementary dna  ( cdna ) 
a protocol application to permeabilize cell membranes ,  allowing molecules to more easily pass through the membrane than was possible prior to the protocol application
a process through which a new type of cell culture or cell line is created ,  either through the isolation and culture of one or more cells from a fresh source ,  or the deliberate experimental modification of an existing cell culture  ( e .g passaging a primary culture to become a secondary culture or line ,  or the immortalization or stable genetic modification of an existing culture or line )  .
a material processing technique intended to add a molecular label to some input material entity ,  to allow detection of the molecular target of this label in a detection of molecular label assay
the introduction .alteration or integration of genetic material into a cell or organism
an assay that determines the 3 - dimensional configuration of an input material .
the use of a biomaterial's preferential affinity for either the mobile phase or the stationary phase to separate it from other materials of differing affinity
an assay the uses chemical or biochemical means to infer the sequence of a biomaterial
a protocol application to digest the fraction of input material that is susceptible to that enzyme
a protocol application that uses different concentrations of materials in a defined order to create a gradient to facilitate the separation of an input material into its components with specific qualities
a protocol application that uses an electrical potential to move material through a defined matrix in order to separate it by its resistance to movement and its charge
the use of environmental conditions to select for the organism or cells that have a certain trait
the use of enzymes to cut dna molecules ,  the study of dna through cleavage ,  mapping ,  and analysis of the fragments
the use of enzymes to increase the number of molecules of a biomaterial
a planned process with the objective to insert genetic material into a cloning vector for future replication of the inserted material
a rna extraction is a nucleic acid extraction where the desired output material is rna
a material separation to recover the nucleic acid fraction of an input material
a phage display library is a collection of materials in which a mixture of genes or gene fragments is expressed and can be individually selected and amplified .
a transgenic organism is material entity which derives from an organism which has been modified to express a gene not normally part of it
a material entity bearing the epitope role
is the process in which an adaptive immune receptor binds to a material entity  ( realizing its disposition )  .
the detrimental process in which an infectious agent colonizes or replicates in a host environment
is a receptor produced by cells of the adaptive immune system with the purpose of binding epitopes .
is the administration of an infectious agent to a cell culture with the objective to have the agent colonize and replicate in culture
is a material entity that has the antigen role
is the disposition borne by a material entity that is realized in a process of being bound by a adaptive immune receptor .
is a role borne by an agent ,  and realized when in contact with or inside another organism in which it is capable of replicating and causing disease
a material that is added to another one in a material combination process
a material entity into which another is being added in a material combinatino process
any molecule recognized by the adaptive immune receptors?
abnormal ,  harmful processes caused by or associated with a disease
an in vitro cell killing assay in which radioactive chromium is absorbed by cells and released into supernatant when the cells die .
a luminous flux quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's emitting longer wavelength light following the absorption of shorter wavelength radiation ;  fluorescence is common with aromatic compounds with several rings joined together .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the proportion of the bearer's amount of matter .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of the bearer's disposition to survive and develop normally or the number of surviving individuals in a given population .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a physical quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with electromagnetic radiation .
a scalar optical quality which obtains by the magnitude of the light emitted by the bearer .
an em radiation quality in which the em radiation is within the fiat range of the spectrum visible deemed to be light .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's condition before death .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the cessation of the bearer's life .
a quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with radiation .
a radiation quality inhering in a radioactive substance by virtue of its transformation  ( disintegration )  rate .
a radiation quality inhering in bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting or being caused by radioactivity .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
an amino acid chain that is produced de novo by ribosome - mediated translation of a genetically - encoded mrna .
a protein that is a translation product of the escherichia coli k - 12 liga gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the aspergillus oryzae nucs gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a reagent role inhering in a molecular entity intended to associate with some molecular target to serve as a proxy for the presence ,  abundance ,  or location of this target in a detection of molecular label assay .
a molecular reagent intended to associate with some molecular target to serve as a proxy for the presence ,  abundance ,  or location of this target in a detection of molecular label assay
a sequence_feature with an extent greater than zero .
a fluid that is composed of blood plasma and erythrocytes .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
multicellular anatomical structure that consists of many cells of one or a few types ,  arranged in an extracellular matrix such that their long - range organisation is at least partly a repetition of their short - range organisation .
the brain is the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate ,  and most invertebrate ,  animals .
excretion that is the output of a kidney
a unit which is a standard measure of the amount of matter / energy of a physical object .
a unit which is a standard measure of the dimension in which events occur in sequence .
a unit which represents a standard measurement of how much of a given substance there is mixed with another substance .
