an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
b is an independent continuant = def .
a continuant  that is either dependent on one or other independent continuant  bearers or inheres in or is borne by other entities .
p is a process = def .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
a realizable entity  the manifestation of which brings about some result or end that is not essential to a continuant  in virtue of the kind of thing that it is but that can be served or participated in by that kind of continuant  in some kinds of natural ,  social or institutional contexts .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
p is a process boundary =def .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
b is a continuant fiat boundary = def .
b is a process_profile =def .
b is a relational quality = def .
digestive gland of crustaceans with functions approximately analogous to liver and pancreas of vertebrates  -  enzyme secretion ,  food absorption and storage .
1: the trunk of an elephant ;  also: any long flexible snout .
an anatomical entity that has mass .
an anatomical structure that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
the main structural component of the liver .
a red blood cell .in mammals ,  mature erythrocytes are biconcave disks containing hemoglobin whose function is to transport oxygen .
a mononuclear phagocyte present in variety of tissues ,  typically differentiated from monocytes ,  capable of phagocytosing a variety of extracellular particulate material ,  including immune complexes ,  microorganisms ,  and dead cells .
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
the process resulting in division and partitioning of components of a cell to form more cells ;  may or may not be accompanied by the physical separation of a cell into distinct ,  individually membrane - bounded daughter cells .
the curation status of the term .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
the reason for which a term has been deprecated .
a denotator type indicates how a term should be interpreted from an ontological perspective .
an ontology module that comprises only of asserted axioms local to the ontology ,  excludes import directives ,  and excludes axioms or declarations from external ontologies .
an ontology module that is intended to be directly edited ,  typically managed in source control ,  and typically not intended for direct consumption by end - users .
an ontology module that is intended to be the primary release product and the one consumed by the majority of tools .
an ontology module that consists entirely of axioms that connect or bridge two distinct ontology modules .
a subset ontology module that is intended to be imported from another ontology .
an ontology module that is extracted from a main ontology module and includes only a subset of entities or axioms .
a subset ontology that is intended as a whitelist for curators using the ontology .
an ontology module that is intended for usage in analysis or discovery applications .
a subset ontology that is largely comprised of a single layer or strata in an ontology class hierarchy .
a subset of an ontology that is intended to be excluded for some purpose .
an imported ontology module that is derived from an external ontology .
a subset ontology that is crafted to either include or exclude a taxonomic grouping of species .
an ontology module that contains axioms generated by a reasoner .
an ontology module that is automatically generated ,  for example via a sparql query or via template and a csv .
an ontology module that is automatically generated from a template specification and fillers for slots in that template .
a subset ontology that is designed for basic applications to continue to make certain simplifying assumptions ;  many of these simplifying assumptions were based on the initial version of the gene ontology ,  and have become enshrined in many popular and useful tools such as term enrichment tools .
a symbiont role borne by an organism in virtue of the fact that it derives a growth ,  survival ,  or fitness advantage from symbiosis while the other symbiont's growth ,  survival ,  or fitness is reduced .
a role borne by an infectious agent when contained in a host in which its infectious disposition can be realized .
a role borne by pathogen in virtue of the fact that it or one of its products is sufficiently close to an organism towards which it has the pathogenic disposition to allow realization of the pathogenic disposition .
a symbiont host role borne by an organism in virtue of the fact that its partner in symbiosis reaches developmental maturity or reproduces sexually in the host .
a symbiont host role borne by an organism in virtue of the fact that its partner in symbiosis utilizes the host to undergo a developmental stage transition ,  and the host is required for continuation of the partner's life cycle .
a symbiont host role borne by an organism in virtue of the fact that its partner in symbiosis derives from the host a growth ,  survival ,  or fitness advantage while the host's growth ,  survival ,  or fitness is reduced .
an infectious agent transporter role that is borne by an organism active in the transfer of an infectious agent to an organism of another species and in which the agent is infectious .
an infectious agent vector role borne by an organism in virtue of the fact that the infectious agent multiplies in the vector .
host role is a role played by an organism and realized by providing nourishment ,  shelter or a means of reproduction to another organism within the organism playing the host role
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
a leishmania major promastigote that undergoes a second developmental transition yielding the metacyclic promastigote .
a hindgut that is a part of or originated from a triatominae bug .
a liver that is a part of or originated from a human  ( homo sapiens )  .
a promastigote stage of some kinetoplastids .
an exflagellated microgametocyte stage in the lifecycle of plasmodium falciparum that occurs in the midgut of a mosquito vector .
a sporocyst stage in the schistosoma haematobium lifecycle that occurs within the snail intermediate host .
a cercaria stage in the lifecycle of schistosoma japonicum that occurs in a freshwater snail and in fresh water .
a microgametocyte stage in the plasmodium falciparum lifecycle that occurs either in the bloodstream of a human host or the midgut of a mosquito vector .
a schistosoma haematobium schistosomulum in a migratory larval form that is found within blood vessels of mammal ,  as definitive host ,  3 hours post - infection .
a schistosoma haematobium in a free - living motile form that is covered with cilia and develops in the snail intermediate host .
a 3 days schistosomulum stage of schistosoma mansoni that occurs in the definitive host 3 days post - infection .
a proboscis that is a part of or originated from a sand fly of genus phlebotominae .
a leishmania major that is extracellular and motile form with an anterior flagellum .
a schistosomulum stage that occurs in 3 hours after infection of the mammalian host .
a parasite lifecycle stage of trematodes where the parasite is in free - living motile form ,  covered with cilia and settles in the mollusc to become a sporocyst .
cerebrospinal fluid that is a part of or originated from a human  ( homo sapiens )  .
a schistosoma japonicum schistosomulum in a migratory larval form that is found within blood vessels of the mammal ,  as definitive host ,  3 days post - infection .
a schistosoma japonicum schistosomulum in a migratory larval form that is found within blood vessels of the mammal ,  as definitive host ,  3 weeks post - infection .
a trypomastigote stage where trypmastigote form of parasites are found in mammalian host blood stream .
a miracidium stage in the schistosoma japonicum lifecycle that occurs in the intermediate snail host .
a daughter sporocyst stage of schistosoma japonicum that occurs in the snail intermediate host .
a schistosoma mansoni schistosomulum in a migratory larval formi that is found within blood vessels of the definitive host ,  mammal ,  24 hours post - infection .
a gamete stage in apicomplexan parasites when exflagellated microgametocyte divides into microgamete .
a skin that is a part of or originated from a human  ( homo sapiens )  body .
a gametocyte stage where a cell differentiates into a female sexual form called macrogametocyte .
a schistosoma haematobium schistosomulum in a migratory larval form that is found within blood vessels of mammal ,  as definitive host ,  24 hours post - infection .
a schistosoma japonicum sporocyst that develops into cercariae .
a trypanosoma brucei trypomastigote that is a dividing form of trypanosoma brucei found in the midgut of an insect vector .
a midgut that is a part of or originated from an anopheles mosquito .
a parasite lifecycle stage of trypanosomes .
a trypanosoma brucei trypomastigote that is a non - dividing form infectious for the mammal host .
an erythrocytic schizont stage in the plasmodium falciparum lifecycle that occurs in the infected erythrocytes of a human host .
a parasite lifecycle stage of apicomplexan species where a daughter cell ,  called merozoite is produced from schizont through schizogony .
a schistosoma haematobium is a mature form of schistosoma haematobium and capable of sexual reproduction ,  which lives in the pelvic blood vessels of the vesicle plexis of the mammal host .
a schistosoma mansoni in a migratory larval form that is found within blood vessels of the definitive host ,  mammal ,  and develops into the worm .
a schistosoma japonicum schistosomulum in a migratory larval form that is found within blood vessels of the mammal ,  as definitive host ,  6 days post - infection .
a hepatocyte that is a part of or originated from a human  ( homo sapiens )  .
a sporocyst stage in the schistosoma mansoni lifecycle that occurs in the snail intermediate host .
an erythrocytic ring trophozoite stage in the plasmodium falciparum life cycle that occurs in erythrocytes of a human host .
a schistosoma japonicum in a parasitic larval form that develops in a freshwater snail and is released into the water .
a promastigote stage where the form of parasite is short ,  ovoid ,  and slightly motile .
a 6 day schistosomulum stage of schistosoma mansoni that occurs in the definitive host 6 days post - infection .
a schistosoma japonicum schistosomulum stage that occurs in the definitive host 6 days post - infection .
a mesenteric vein that is a part of or originated from a human  ( homo sapiens )  .
a lifecycle stage of trypanosoma brucei .
a trypanosoma cruzi that is found in the intestinal tract of the insect vector .
a plasmodium falciparum gametocyte that is a male gametocyte and found in either bloodstream of a human host or midgut of a mosquito vector .
a schistosoma japonicum worm is the mature form of schistosoma japonicum and capable of sexual reproduction ,  which is found in the small superior mesenteric blood vessels associated with the ileo - caecal area of the intestine of the human host 7 weeks after infection of the mammal host .
a schistosoma japonicum in an egg form that is laid by the female adult worm and released into the host gut where they leave the host in the faeces .
a schistosoma japonicum worm is capable of sexual reproduction ,  which is found in the small superior mesenteric blood vessels associated with the ileo - caecal area of the intestine of the mammal host 3 weeks after infection of the human host .
a metacyclic trypomastigote stage in the lifecycle of trypanosoma brucei that occurs either in vertebrate host bloodstream or in salivary glands of an insect vector .
a parasite lifecycle stage of some protozoan parasites that is a non - reproductive ,  feeding and growing stage .
a procyclic promastigote stage in the leishmania major lifecycle .
a schizont stage that occurs in hepatocyte where sporozoites mature into a schizont .
a plasmodium falciparum divides through schizogony .
a trypanosoma cruzi that is the intracellular dividing form in the cytoplasm of mammalian cells .
a 3 days schistosomulum stage of schistosoma haematobium occurs in the definitive host 3 days post - infection .
a 24 hours schistosomulum stage of schistosoma mansoni that occurs in the definitive host 24 hours post - infection .
an amastigote stage in the lifecycle of trypanosoma cruzi that occurs in mammalian hosts .
a schistosomulum stage that occurs in 6 days after infection of the mammalian host .
a schistosoma mansoni schistosomulum in a migratory larval formi that is found within blood vessels of the definitive host ,  mammal ,  3 hours post - infection .
a macrogametocyte stage in the plasmodium falciparum lifecycle that occurs either in the bloodstream of a human host or the midgut of a mosquito vector .
a miracidium stage in the schistosoma haematobium lifecycle that occurs in the intermediate snail host .
a parasite lifecycle stage that is a free - living larval stage of digenea ,  developed within the germinal cells of the sporocyst or redia .
a worm stage of schistosoma japonicum that is fully developed mature form and found in the small superior mesenteric blood vessels associated with the ileo - caecal area of the intestine of the mammalian host .
an egg stage in the lifecycle of schistosoma japonicum that occurs in the mammalian host .
a parasite lifecycle stage of sporozoa consisting of a zygote enclosed by cyst wall .
a 3 hours schistosomulum stage of schistosoma haematobium that occurs in the definitive host 3 hours post - infection .
a macrogamete stage in the plasmodium falciparum lifecycle that occurs in the midgut of a mosquito vector .
a trypomastigote stage where trypomastigote form of parasites are in dividing form .
a schistosoma japonicum in a migratory larval form that is found within blood vessels of the definitive host and develops into the worm .
a schizont stage that occurs in erythrocytes where trophozoites mature into a schizont and schizont produces daughter trophozoites or merozoites .
a schistosoma haematobium is the parasitic larval form of the schistosoma haematobium that develops in a freshwater snail and is released into the water .
a parasite lifecycle stage that occurs in the liver of the host organism .
a procyclic promastigote stage in the trypanosoma brucei lifecycle .
a parasite lifecycle stage of some parasites in which the parasite develops into a worm form ,  and undergoes maturation .
hepatopancreas that is a part of or originated from a bulinus snail .
a parasite lifecycle stage that is the multinucleate stage in the development of some members of the sarcodina and some sporozoans during schizogony .
a gamete stage in parasites when macrogametocytes produce macrogametes through the process known as gametogenesis .
a sporocyst stage of trematodes produced by a mother sporocyst ;  it lacks a gut and is capable of asexual production of either rediae or cercariae .
a schistosoma haematobium worm is the mature form of schistosoma haematobium and capable of sexual reproduction ,  which is found in the pelvic blood vessels of the vesicle plexis of the mammal host 7 weeks after infection of the mammal host .
a midgut that is a part of or originated from a triatominae bug .
a plasmodium falciparum that is a 'banana - shaped' form and originates from the round zygote .
a schistosoma mansoni worm that is capable of sexual reproduction ,  which is found in the small inferior mesenteric blood vessels surrounding the large intestine of the mammal host 3 weeks after infection of the mammalian host .
a worm stage of schistosoma haematobium that is fully developed mature form and found in the pelvic blood vessels of the vesicle plexis of the mammalian host .
a trypanosoma brucei that is found in the salivary glands of tse - tse fly .
a hepatic schizont stage in the lifecycle of plasmodium falciparum that occurs in the infected hepatocytes of a human host .
a schistosoma japonicum is an elongated sac that develops from the miracidium within the snail indermediate host ,  and that either produces more sporocysts or develops into cercariae .
a parasite lifecycle stage that is the migratory stage between cercaria and adult of the schistosomes ;  equivalent to the metacercarial stage in other digeneans .
an erythrocyte that is a part of or originated from a human  ( homo sapiens )  .
vesical venus plexus that is a part of or originated from a human  ( homo sapiens )  .
a parasite lifecycle stage that is the early developmental stage capable of asexual reproduction: in sporozoans it is usually enclosed within an oocyst ;  in digeneans it is an intramolluscan stage lacking a gut .
a schistosoma haematobium worm is the mature form of schistosoma haematobium and capable of sexual reproduction ,  which is found in the pelvic blood vessels of the vesicle plexis of the human host 3 weeks after infection of the mammal host .
a schistosomulum stage of schistosoma mansoni that occurs in the definitive host and is followed by the parasitic worm stage .
a cercaria stage in the lifecycle of schistosoma haematobium that occurs in a freshwater snail and in fresh water .
a metacyclic promastigote stage in the lifecycle of leishmania major .
a merozoite stage in the plasmodium falciparum lifecycle that occurs in the bloodstream or hepatocytes of a human host .
hepatopancreas that is a part of or originated from a biomphalaria snail .
a schistosoma mansoni in an egg form that is laid by the female adult worm and released into the host gut where they leave the host in the faeces .
a worm stage of schistosoma japonicum that is found in the small superior mesenteric blood vessels associated with the ileo - caecal area of the intestine of the definitive host 3 weeks after infection .
a worm stage of schistosoma mansoni that is found in the small inferior mesenteric blood vessels surrounding the large intestine of the definitive host 3 weeks after infection .
a parasite lifecycle stage of trypanosomatids .
a schistosoma haematobium sporocyst that develops into cercariae .
a plasmodium falciparum schizont that is found in infected erythrocytes of a human host .
a 7 week worm stage of schistosoma haematobium that is the mature stage of schistosoma haematobium and found in the pelvic blood vessels of the vesicle plexis of the definitive host 7 weeks after weeks after infection  .
a miracidium stage in the schistosoma mansoni lifecycle that occurs in the intermediate snail host .
an oocyst stage in the plasmodium falciparum lifecycle that occurs on the hemocoel side of the midgut of a mosquito vector .
a parasite lifecycle stage is a nonflagellate intracellular developmental stage in the trypanosomatid parasites lifecycle that occurs in mammalian host .
a sporozoite stage in the plasmodium falciparum lifecycle that occurs in the salivary glands of the mosquito and invades hepatocytes in the human host .
a trypanosoma cruzi trypomastigote that is found in blood or cells of mammal hosts at the infectious stage for mammals .
blood that is part of or originated from a human  ( homo sapiens )  .
a schistosomulum stage of schistosoma japonicum that occurs in the definitive host and is followed by the parasitic worm stage .
a microgametocyte stage in some apicomplexan parasites where microgametocyte gets matured and form microgamete through the process known as exflagellation .
a 3 hours schistosomulum stage of schistosoma mansoni that occurs in the definitive host 3 hours post - infection .
a salivary gland that is a part of or originated from an anopheles mosquito .
a macrophage that is a part of or originated from a human  ( homo sapiens )  .
a schistosoma mansoni schistosomulum in a migratory larval formi that is found within blood vessels of the definitive host ,  mammal ,  3 days post - infection .
a 6 day schistosomulum stage of schistosoma haematobium that occurs in the definitive host 6 days post - infection .
an egg stage in the lifecycle of schistosoma haematobium that occurs in the mammalian host . .
a schistosoma japonicum is the mature form of schistosoma japonicum and capable of sexual reproduction ,  which lives in the small superior mesenteric blood vessels associated with the ileo - caecal area of the intestine of the mammal host .
an adult worm stage of a female parasitic worm .
a schistosoma mansoni in the mature form that is capable of sexual reproduction ,  which lives in the small inferior mesenteric blood vessels surrounding the large intestine of the mammal host .
a 24 hours schistosomulum stage of schistosoma haematobium that occurs in the definitive host 24 hours post - infection .
a plasmodium falciparum that is produced in a schizont ,  found in the bloodstream of a human host and invades erythrocytes .
a metacyclic trypomastigote stage in the lifecycle of trypanosoma cruzi that occurs in a vertebrate host .
a schistosoma japonicum schistosomulum in a migratory larval form that is found within blood vessels of the mammal ,  as definitive host ,  24 hours post - infection .
a lung that is a part of or originated from a human  ( homo sapiens )  .
hepatopancreas that is a part of or originated from a oncomelania snail .
an egg stage in the lifecycle of schistosoma mansoni that occurs in the mammalian host .
a schistosoma mansoni worm is the mature form of schistosoma mansoni and capable of sexual reproduction ,  which is found in the small inferior mesenteric blood vessels surrounding the large intestine of the mammal host 7 weeks after infection of the mammalian host .
a plasmodium falciparum is formed in the oocyst .
a plasmodium falciparum that oocyst is formed ,  after traversal of the midgut wall by the ookinete stage ,  on the hemocoel side of the midgut wall of the mosquito vector .
a 7 week worm stage of schistosoma japonicum that is the mature stage of schistosoma japonicum and found in the small superior mesenteric blood vessels associated with the ileo - caecal area of the intestine of the definitive host 7 weeks after weeks after infection .
an early trophozoite stage of plasmodium sp .
an intestine that is a part of or originated from a human  ( homo sapiens )  .
a mother sporocyst stage in the schistosoma mansoni lifecycle that occurs in the snail intermediate host .
a gametocyte stage where a cell differentiates into a male sexual form called microgametocyte .
a schistosoma haematobium sporocyst that produces more sporocysts .
a schistosoma japonicum sporocyst that produces more sporocysts .
a plasmodium falciparum is a feeding form .
a schistosoma mansoni is an elongated sac that develops from the miracidium within the snail indermediate host ,  and that either produces more sporocysts or develops into cercariae .
a parasitic worm stage of development 7 weeks post differentiation into a worm form .
a trypomastigote stage of trypanosoma species which are nondividing forms resistant to mammalian complement that have the capacity to infect mammalian cells .
a life cycle stage where a cell differentiates into male or female sexual forms .
a parasite lifecycle stage of trypanosomatids .
a parasite lifecycle stage of some sporozoans where cells divide through sporogony producing daughter cells called sporozoites that infect new hosts .
a parasite lifecycle stage of some sporozoans where motile and elongated zygote is formed by the fertilization of the macrogamete during the sexual reproductive phase of the sporozoan life cycle ,  specifically the malarial parasite plasmodium .
a salivary gland that is a part of or originated from a tsetse fly of genus glossina .
plasmodium falciparum is a protozoan parasite ,  one of the species of plasmodium that cause malignant malaria in humans .
a lifecycle stage of schistosoma japonicum .
an amastigote stage in the lifecycle of leishmania major that occurs in mammalian hosts .
a schizont stage in the plasmodium falciparum lifecycle that occurs in erythrocytes or in hepatocytes .
a 3 days schistosomulum stage of schistosoma japonicum that occurs in the definitive host 3 days post - infection .
a leishmania major promastigote that is found in the alimentary tract of an insect vector .
a plasmodium falciparum zygote is formed after fertilisation of the macrogamete by a microgamete in the midgut of the mosquito vector .
a plasmodium falciparum microgametocyte that is matured with flagellated motile microgametes still attached to its central body .
a daughter sporocyst stage in the lifecycle of schistosoma haematobium that occurs within the snail intermediate host .
a trypanosoma cruzi that is found in the bloodstream of infected mammals .
a lifecycle stage of plasmodium falciparum .
a schistosoma haematobium that is an elongated sac and develops from the miracidium within the snail indermediate host ,  and that either produces more sporocysts or develops into cercariae .
a plasmodium falciparum gamete that is a matured form of the macrogametocyte and is found in the midgut of a mosquito vector .
a schistosoma mansoni in a parasitic larval form that develops in a freshwater snail and is released into the water .
a trypomastigote stage in the trypanosoma cruzi lifecycle that occurs either in the vertebrate host or an insect vector .
a microgamete stage in the plasmodium falciparum lifecycle that occurs in the midgut of a mosquito vector .
a parasite role which is realized only during parasitic infection of a human .
a schistosomulum stage that occurs in 24 hours after infection of the mammalian host .
a parasite lifecycle stage of some plasmodium sp . ,  such as plasmodium vivax and plasmodium ovale ,  the parasite in the liver cells do not achieve matuaration to a schizont immediately ,  but remain in a dormant form .
a plasmodium falciparum gamete that is a matured form of exflagellated microgametocyte and found in the midgut of a mosquito vector .
a trypomastigote stage in the trypanosoma brucei lifecycle that occurs in the vertebrate host .
a ureter that is a part of or originated from a human  ( homo sapiens )  .
a lifecycle stage of schistosoma haematobium .
a schistosoma haematobium in a migratory larval form that is found within blood vessels of the definitive host ,  mammal ,  and develops into the flatworm .
a schistosoma japonicum in a free - living motile form that is covered with cilia ,  and develops in the snail intermediate host .
a life cycle stage of some parasites in which a non - operculate egg emerges from the adult female worm .
a life cycle stage of a parasite .
a trypanosoma brucei that is a trypomastigote form of trypanosoma brucei .
a parasitic worm stage of development 3 weeks post differentiation into a worm form .
a mother sporocyst stage in the schistosoma japonicum lifecycle that occurs in the snail intermediate host .
a lifecycle stage of trypanosoma cruzi .
a sporocyst stage in the schistosoma japonicum lifecycle that is found within the snail intermediate host .
an ookinete stage in the plasmodium falciparum lifecycle that occurs in the midgut of a mosquito vector and on the outside of the midgut .
bloodstream trypomastigote stage in the lifecycle of trypanosoma brucei .
a promastigote stage in the leishmania major lifecycle .
a plasmodium falciparum schizont that is found in infected hepatocytes  ( i .e . ,  liver cells )  of a human host .
a schistosoma mansoni sporocyst that develops into cercariae .
a gametocyte stage in the lifecycle of plasmodium falciparum .
a 3 hours schistosomulum stage of schistosoma japonicum that occurs in the definitive host 3 hours post - infection .
a midgut that is a part of or originated from a sand fly of genus phlebotominae .
a 24 hours schistosomulum stage of schistosoma japonicum that occurs in the definitive host 24 hours post - infection .
a schistosoma mansoni sporocyst that produces more sporocysts .
a schistosomulum stage of schistosoma haematobium that occurs in the definitive host and is followed by the parasitic worm stage .
a schistosoma haematobium adult worm is a fully developed mature male form of schistosoma haematobium and capable of sexual reproduction ,  which lives in the pelvic blood vessels of the vesicle plexis of the mammal host and has 4 - 5 testes .
a zygote stage in the plasmodium falciparum lifecycle that occurs in the midgut of the mosquito vector where a microgamete and a macrogamete fertilizes each other to produce a diploid cell .
a schistosoma haematobium in an egg form that is laid by the female adult worm and released into the host gut where they leave the host in the faeces .
a schistosoma haematobium schistosomulum in a migratory larval form that is found within blood vessels of mammal ,  as definitive host ,  6 days post - infection .
a worm stage of schistosoma haematobium that is found in the pelvic blood vessels of the vesicle plexis of the definitive host 3 weeks after infection .
a lifecycle stage of schistosoma mansoni .
a leishmania major that is the intracellular ,  non - motile form of the parasite found in the mammalian host .
a schistosoma haematobium schistosomulum in a migratory larval form that is found within blood vessels of mammal ,  as definitive host ,  3 days post - infection .
a plasmodium falciparum gametocyte that is a female gametocyte and found either in bloodstream of a human host or midgut of mosquito vector .
an erythrocytic trophozoite stage in the plasmodium falciparum life cycle that occurs in erythrocytes of a human host .
a schistosoma mansoni in a free - living motile form that is covered with cilia and develops in the snail intermediate host .
a parasite lifecycle stage of leishmania major .
a cercaria stage in the lifecycle of schistosoma mansoni that occurs in a freshwater snail and in fresh water .
a worm stage of schistosoma mansoni that is fully developed mature form and found in the small inferior mesenteric blood vessels surrounding the large intestine of the mammalian host .
a mother sporocyst stage in the schistosoma haematobium lifecycle that occurs in the snail intermediate host .
the vesical plexus envelops the lower part of the bladder and the base of the prostate and communicates with the pudendal and prostatic plexuses .
a sporocyst stage of digenea formed after penetration of the miracidium into a mollusc ;  it lacks a gut and gives rise asexually to daughter sporocysts or rediae .
a midgut that is a part of or originated from a tsetse fly of genus glossina .
an epimastigote stage in the lifecycle of trypanosoma brucei .
a 7 week worm stage of schistosoma mansoni that is the mature stage of schistosoma mansoni and found in the small inferior mesenteric blood vessels surrounding the large intestine of the definitive host 7 weeks after weeks after infection .
a schistosoma mansoni schistosomulum in a migratory larval formi that is found within blood vessels of the definitive host ,  mammal ,  6 days post - infection .
a urinary bladder that is a part of or originated from a human  ( homo sapiens )  .
a daughter sporocyst stage of schistosoma mansoni that occurs in the snail intermediate host .
a schistosomulum stage that occurs in 3 days after infection of the mammalian host .
a plasmodium falciparum erythrocytic trophozoite that is found in erythrocytes .
an epimastigote stage in the lifecycle of trypanosoma cruzi .
an adult female worm stage of schistosoma japonicum that is fully developed mature female stage of schistosoma japonicum and occurs in the small superior mesenteric blood vessels associated with the ileo - caecal area of the intestine of the mammalian host .
an adult male worm stage of schistosoma japonicum that is fully developed mature male stage of schistosoma japonicum and occurs in the small superior mesenteric blood vessels associated with the ileo - caecal area of the intestine of the mammalian host .
a schistosoma japonicum worm is a fully developed mature form of schistosoma japonicum and capable of sexual reproduction ,  which lives in the small superior mesenteric blood vessels associated with the ileo - caecal area of the intestine of the mammal host .
a schistosoma mansoni worm is the fully developed mature form of schistosoma mansoni and capable of sexual reproduction ,  which lives in the small inferior mesenteric blood vessels surrounding the large intestine of the mammal host .
an adult male worm stage of schistosoma haematobium that is fully developed mature male stage of schistosoma haematobium and found in the pelvic blood vessels of the vesicle plexis of the mammalian host .
a schistosoma japonicum adult worm is a fully developed mature male form of schistosoma japonicum and capable of sexual reproduction ,  which lives in the small superior mesenteric blood vessels associated with the ileo - caecal area of the intestine of the mammal host and has 4 - 5 testes .
an adult male worm stage of schistosoma mansoni that is fully developed mature male stage of schistosoma mansoni and found in the small inferior mesenteric blood vessels surrounding the large intestine of the mammalian host .
a schistosoma mansoni adult worm is the fully developed mature female form of schistosoma mansoni and capable of sexual reproduction ,  which lives within the gynacophoric canal of the adult male worm in the small inferior mesenteric blood vessels surrounding the large intestine of the mammal host .
an organism living in ,  with ,  or on another organism in parasitism .
a schistosoma haematobium worm is a fully developed mature form of schistosoma haematobium and capable of sexual reproduction ,  which lives in the pelvic blood vessels of the vesicle plexis of the mammal host .
an adult female worm stage of schistosoma haematobium that is fully developed mature female stage of schistosoma haematobium and found in the pelvic blood vessels of the vesicle plexis of the mammalian host .
a schistosoma haematobium adult worm is a fully developed mature female form of schistosoma haematobium and capable of sexual reproduction ,  which lives within the gynacophoric canal of the adult male worm in the pelvic blood vessels of the vesicle plexis of the mammal host .
an adult female worm stage of schistosoma mansoni that is fully developed mature female stage of schistosoma mansoni and found in the small inferior mesenteric blood vessels surrounding the large intestine of the mammalian host .
a parasitic worm stage where the worm is matured and ready to pair up with another adult worm of the opposite gender ,  and reproduce .
a schistosoma japonicum adult worm is a fully developed mature female form of schistosoma japonicum and capable of sexual reproduction ,  which lives within the gynacophoric canal of the adult male worm in the small superior mesenteric blood vessels associated with the ileo - caecal area of the intestine of the mammal host .
an adult worm stage of a male parasitic worm .
a schistosoma mansoni adult worm is the fully developed mature male form of schistosoma mansoni and capable of sexual reproduction ,  which lives in the small inferior mesenteric blood vessels surrounding the large intestine of the mammal host and has 4 - 5 testes .
a plasmodium falciparum merozoite that is produced in a hepatic schizont and released into the bloodstream of a human host .
a plasmodium falciparum merozoite that is produced in an erythrocytic schizont and released into the bloodstream of a human host .
a trophozoite stage in some protozoan parasite life cycle that occurs in erythrocytes .
a plasmodium falciparum trophozoite that is found in erythrocytes .
an erythrocytic merozoite stage in the plasmodium falciparum lifecycle that occurs in the bloodstream of a human host .
a hepatic merozoite stage in the plasmodium falciparum lifecycle that occurs in the hepatocyte of a human host .
a merozoite stage in the plasmodium lifecycle that occurs in the hepatocyte of a vertebrate host .
a merozoite stage in the apicomplexan lifecycle that occurrs in the bloodstream of a vertebrate host .
a plasmodium falciparum that is located either in the bloodstream of the human host or midgut of mosquito vector .
a hepatic trophozoite stage in the plasmodium falciparum life cycle that occurs in hepatocytes of a human host .
a trophozoite stage in the plasmodium falciparum lifecycle that occurs in a human host .
a sporozoite stage in the plasmodium falciparum lifecycle that occurs in the hemocoel and the salivary glands of the mosquito .
a sporozoite stage in the plasmodium lifecycle that occurs in the hemocoel and the salivary glands of the mosquito .
a salivary gland - derived sporozoite stage in the plasmodium falciparum lifecycle that occurs in the hemocoel and the salivary glands of the mosquito .
a plasmodium falciparum sporozoite that is formed in the oocyst .
a sporozoite stage in some parasite lifecycle that occurs in the hemocoel and the salivary glands of the mosquito .
a plasmodium falciparum trophozoite that is found in hepatocytes of a human host .
a plasmodium falciparum that is found in midgut of mosquito vector .
a plasmodium falciparum sporozoite that is found in the infected hepatocytes of a human host .
a life cycle stage of some parasites that develop into mature sexual cells .
a trophozoite stage in some protozoan parasite life cycle that occurs in hepatocytes .
a gamete stage in the plasmodium falciparum lifecycle that occurs in the midgut of a mosquito vector .
a parasite lifecycle stage that occurs as a result of asexual replication in the red blood cells of the host organism .
a plasmodium that is found in the midgut of a mosquito vector during gamete lifecycle stage .
a plasmodium gamete that is in a matured form of the macrogametocyte and found in the midgut of a mosquito vector .
a plasmodium gamete that is in a matured form of exflagellated microgametocyte and found in the midgut of a mosquito vector .
a plasmodium that is located either in the bloodstream of the vertebrate host or midgut of mosquito vector during gametocyte stage .
a plasmodium gametocyte that is a female gametocyte of plasmodium and found either in the bloodstream of the vertebrate host or midgut of mosquito vector .
a plasmodium gametocyte that is a male gametocyte of plasmodium and found either in the bloodstream of a vertebrate host or midgut of a mosquito vector .
a plasmodium that is during merozoite lifecycle stage ,  occurs in the bloodstream of a vertebrate host .
a plasmodium merozoite that is produced in an erythrocytic schizont and released into the bloodstream of a vertebrate host .
a plasmodium merozoite that is produced in a hepatic schizont and released into the bloodstream of a vertebrate host .
a plasmodium that is formed after traversal of the midgut wall by the ookinete stage ,  on the hemocoel side of the midgut wall of the mosquito vector .
a plasmodium that is a 'banana - shaped' form originates from the round zygote .
a plasmodium that is a form divides through schizogony .
a plasmodium schizont that is found in infected erythrocytes of a vertebrate host .
a plasmodium schizont that is found in infected hepatocytes  ( i .e .
a plasmodium that is formed in the oocyst and migrates to and reside in the salivary glands of the mosquito vector .
a plasmodium sporozoite that is found in the infected hepatocytes of a vertebrate host .
a plasmodium sporozoite that is found in the salivary glands of the mosquito vector .
a plasmodium that is a feeding form which has a single nucleus during the trophozoite stage .
a plasmodium trophozoite that is found in erythrocytes of a vertebrate host .
a plasmodium erythrocytic trophozoite that has a typical 'ring - like' appearance .
a plasmodium trophozoite that is found in hepatocytes .
a plasmodium that is formed after fertilization of the macrogamete by a microgamete in the midgut of the mosquito vector .
a gamete stage in the plasmodium lifecycle that occurs in the midgut of a mosquito vector .
a macrogamete stage in the plasmodium lifecycle that occurs in the midgut of a mosquito vector .
a microgamete stage in the plasmodium lifecycle that occurs in the midgut of a mosquito vector .
a gametocyte stage in the lifecycle of plasmodium .
a macrogametocyte stage in the plasmodium lifecycle that occurs either in the bloodstream of a vertebrate host or the midgut of a mosquito vector .
a microgametocyte stage in the plasmodium lifecycle that occurs either in the bloodstream of a vertebrate host or the midgut of a mosquito vector .
a merozoite stage in the plasmodium lifecycle that occurs in the bloodstream or hepatocytes of a vertebrate host .
an erythrocytic merozoite stage in the plasmodium lifecycle that occurs in the bloodstream of a vertebrate host .
a hepatic merozoite stage in the plasmodium lifecycle that occurs in the hepatocyte of a vertebrate host .
an oocyst stage in the plasmodium lifecycle that occurs on the hemocoel side of the midgut of a mosquito vector .
an ookinete stage in the plasmodium lifecycle that occurs in the midgut of a mosquito vector and on the outside of the midgut .
a schizont stage in the plasmodium lifecycle that occurs in erythrocytes or in hepatocytes .
an erythrocytic schizont stage in the plasmodium lifecycle that occurs in the infected erythrocytes of a vertebrate host .
a hepatic schizont stage in the plasmodium lifecycle that occurs in the infected hepatocytes of a vertebrate host .
a sporozoite stage in the plasmodium lifecycle that occurs in the salivary glands of the mosquito and invades hepatocytes in the vertebrate host .
a sporozoite stage in the plasmodium lifecycle that develops in oocysts of the mosquito midgut .
a salivary gland - derived sporozoite stage in the plasmodium lifecycle that occurs in the salivary glands of the mosquito and invades hepatocytes in the vertebrate host .
a trophozoite stage in the plasmodium lifecycle that occurs in a vertebrate host .
an erythrocytic trophozoite stage in the plasmodium life cycle that occurs in erythrocytes of a vertebrate host .
an erythrocytic ring trophozoite stage in the plasmodium life cycle that occurs in erythrocytes of a vertebrate host .
a hepatic trophozoite stage in the plasmodium life cycle that occurs in hepatocytes of a vertebrate host .
a zygote stage in the plasmodium lifecycle that occurs in the midgut of the mosquito vector where a microgamete and a macrogamete fertilizes each other to produce a diploid cell .
an adult worm stage in the schistosoma haematobium lifecycle .
an adult worm stage in the schistosoma japonicum lifecycle .
blood that is part of or originated from a vertebrate .
an erythrocyte that is a part of or originated from a vertebrate .
a hepatocyte that is a part of or originated from a vertebrate .
cerebrospinal fluid that is a part of or originated from a mammal .
a skin that is a part of or originated from a mammalian body .
a liver that is a part of or originated from a mammal  ( mammalia )  .
a lung that is a part of or originated from a mammal  ( mammalia )  .
a mesenteric vein that is a part of or originated from a mammal  ( mammalia )  .
an intestine that is a part of or originated from a mammal  ( mammalia )  .
an adult worm stage in the schistosoma mansoni lifecycle .
blood that is part of or originated from a mammalia .
a macrophage that is a part of or originated from a mammalia .
a parasite lifecycle stage of trypanosomatidae in which the organism is infectious and does not multiply .
a parasite lifecycle stage of trypanosomatidae in which the organism is in dividing form and it occurs in fly vector .
muscular duct that propels urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder ,  or related organs .
a spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of the life cycle of an organism .
a stage at which the organism is a single cell produced by means of sexual reproduction .
segment of the alimentary canal extending from the stomach to the anus and ,  in humans and other mammals ,  consists of two segments ,  the small intestine and the large intestine .
a fluid that is composed of blood plasma and erythrocytes .
saliva - secreting exocrine glands of the oral cavity [ go ] 
middle subdivision of a digestive tract [ cjm ]  .
the caudalmost subdivision of a digestive tract .
distensible musculomembranous organ situated in the anterior part of the pelvic cavity in which urine collects before excretion [ mp ]  .
a clear ,  colorless ,  bodily fluid ,  that occupies the subarachnoid space and the ventricular system around and inside the brain and spinal cord .
respiration organ that develops as an outpocketing of the esophagus .
the organ covering the body that consists of the dermis and epidermis .
an exocrine gland which secretes bile and functions in metabolism of protein and carbohydrate and fat ,  synthesizes substances involved in the clotting of the blood ,  synthesizes vitamin a ,  detoxifies poisonous substances ,  stores glycogen ,  and breaks down worn - out erythrocytes [ go ]  .
a vein that returns blood from the intestines .
