the production by an organism of new individuals that contain some portion of their genetic material inherited from that organism .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a nucleotide ,  any compound consisting of a nucleoside that is esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the ribose or deoxyribose moiety .
elemental activities ,  such as catalysis or binding ,  describing the actions of a gene product at the molecular level .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any nucleic acid .
any molecular function by which a gene product interacts selectively with dna  ( deoxyribonucleic acid )  .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with chromatin ,  the network of fibers of dna and protein that make up the chromosomes of the eukaryotic nucleus during interphase .
the function of binding to a specific dna sequence in order to modulate transcription .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an rna molecule or a portion thereof .
catalysis of movement along a polymeric molecule such as a microfilament or microtubule ,  coupled to the hydrolysis of a nucleoside triphosphate .
catalysis of a biochemical reaction at physiological temperatures .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids .
mediates the transfer of a signal from the outside to the inside of a cell by means other than the introduction of the signal molecule itself into the cell .
combining with an extracellular or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell activity .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with one or more specific sites on a receptor molecule ,  a macromolecule that undergoes combination with a hormone ,  neurotransmitter ,  drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function .
the action of a molecule that contributes to the structural integrity of a complex or assembly within or outside a cell .
enables the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric ,  interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein or protein complex  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  .
the part of a cell or its extracellular environment in which a gene product is located .
the space external to the outermost structure of a cell .
a layer consisting mainly of proteins  ( especially collagen )  and glycosaminoglycans  ( mostly as proteoglycans )  that forms a sheet underlying or overlying cells such as endothelial and epithelial cells .
that part of a multicellular organism outside the cells proper ,  usually taken to be outside the plasma membranes ,  and occupied by fluid .
the rigid or semi - rigid envelope lying outside the cell membrane of plant ,  fungal ,  and most prokaryotic cells ,  maintaining their shape and protecting them from osmotic lysis .
the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
the double lipid bilayer enclosing the nucleus and separating its contents from the rest of the cytoplasm ;  includes the intermembrane space ,  a gap of width 20 - 40 nm  ( also called the perinuclear space )  .
that part of the nuclear content other than the chromosomes or the nucleolus .
a small ,  dense body one or more of which are present in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells .
all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
a semiautonomous ,  self replicating organelle that occurs in varying numbers ,  shapes ,  and sizes in the cytoplasm of virtually all eukaryotic cells .
a small lytic vacuole that has cell cycle - independent morphology and is found in most animal cells and that contains a variety of hydrolases ,  most of which have their maximal activities in the ph range 5 - 6 .
a membrane - bounded organelle that carries materials newly ingested by endocytosis .
a closed structure ,  found only in eukaryotic cells ,  that is completely surrounded by unit membrane and contains liquid material .
a small ,  membrane - bounded organelle that uses dioxygen  ( o2 )  to oxidize organic molecules ;  contains some enzymes that produce and others that degrade hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  .
the irregular network of unit membranes ,  visible only by electron microscopy ,  that occurs in the cytoplasm of many eukaryotic cells .
a compound membranous cytoplasmic organelle of eukaryotic cells ,  consisting of flattened ,  ribosome - free vesicles arranged in a more or less regular stack .
the part of the cytoplasm that does not contain organelles but which does contain other particulate matter ,  such as protein complexes .
an intracellular organelle ,  about 200 a in diameter ,  consisting of rna and protein .
any of the various filamentous elements that form the internal framework of cells ,  and typically remain after treatment of the cells with mild detergent to remove membrane constituents and soluble components of the cytoplasm .
the membrane surrounding a cell that separates the cell from its external environment .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of precursor metabolites ,  substances from which energy is derived ,  and any process involved in the liberation of energy from these substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna ,  deoxyribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main types of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from one ,  or more commonly ,  two ,  strands of linked deoxyribonucleotides .
the synthesis of either rna on a template of dna or dna on a template of rna .
the cellular metabolic process by which a protein is formed ,  using the sequence of a mature mrna molecule to specify the sequence of amino acids in a polypeptide chain .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents ,  and compounds derived from amino acids ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that mediates interactions between a cell and its surroundings .
the cascade of processes by which a signal interacts with a receptor ,  causing a change in the level or activity of a second messenger or other downstream target ,  and ultimately effecting a change in the functioning of the cell .
any process that mediates the transfer of information from one cell to another .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli .
functions during translation by binding nucleic acids during polypeptide synthesis at the ribosome .
any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells ,  tissues ,  organs ,  and organisms .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
the specific activation or halting of processes within a cell so that its vital functions markedly cease ,  rather than simply deteriorating gradually over time ,  which culminates in cell death .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a lipid .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  including the breakdown of carbon compounds with the liberation of energy for use by the cell or organism .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ;  typically the energy - requiring part of metabolism in which simpler substances are transformed into more complex ones .
any member of a family of organelles found in the cytoplasm of plants and some protists ,  which are membrane - bounded and contain dna .
a membranous cellular structure that bears the photosynthetic pigments in plants ,  algae ,  and cyanobacteria .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the movement of an organism ,  or part of an organism ,  in response to an external source of stimulus ,  usually toward or away from it .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process by which anatomical structures are generated and organized .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an embryo from its formation until the end of its embryonic life stage .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the organism over time ,  from the completion of embryonic development to the mature structure .
the series of events causing changes in one or more characteristics of a fruit  ( color ,  aroma ,  flavor ,  texture ,  hardness ,  cell wall structure )  to make it more attractive to animals and / or aid in seed dispersal .
the controlled shedding of a body part .
the cascade of biological processes occurring in plants beginning when the pollen lands on the stigma and continuing up to ,  but not including ,  fertilization ,  as defined by sperm - central cell fusion .
the interaction between a pollen grain and pistil .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the flower over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the synthesis by organisms of organic chemical compounds ,  especially carbohydrates ,  from carbon dioxide  ( co2 )  using energy obtained from light rather than from the oxidation of chemical compounds .
double layer of lipid molecules that encloses all cells ,  and ,  in eukaryotes ,  many organelles ;  may be a single or double lipid bilayer ;  also includes associated proteins .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
the process by which a cell irreversibly increases in size over time by accretion and biosynthetic production of matter similar to that already present .
a permanent cessation of all vital functions: the end of life ;  can be applied to a whole organism or to a part of an organism .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a specific protein ,  rather than of proteins in general .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium at the level of the cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in many of the chemical changes of compounds that are not necessarily required for growth and maintenance of cells ,  and are often unique to a taxon .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with oxygen  ( o2 )  .
the process whereby relatively unspecialized cells ,  e .g .
modulates the activity of an enzyme .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any carbohydrate ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
a structure that lies outside the plasma membrane and surrounds the entire cell .
plays a role in regulating transcription ;  may bind a promoter or enhancer dna sequence or interact with a dna - binding transcription factor .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression ;  the process is mitotically or meiotically heritable ,  or is stably self - propagated in the cytoplasm of a resting cell ,  and does not entail a change in dna sequence .
any substance involved in the initiation ,  activation ,  perpetuation ,  repression or termination of polypeptide synthesis at the ribosome .
