contains acquisition parameters such as magnification ,  voltage ,  spherical aberration ,  amplitude contrast ,  dose per frame and inital dose ,  optics group ,  and beam tilt
file representing an atomic structure  ( pdb ,  mmcif ,   . . . ) 
x , y coordinate of a particle in a micrograph
contains a minimum description of the microscope contrast transfer function with parameters like the two defoci ,  the defocus angle ,  phase shift and an image of the power spectrum density
defines a min and maximum defocus that belongs to this group .
fourier shell correlation
it has an index and filename to point to the physical image .
this is the result of a normal mode analysis on an atomic or pseudoatomic structure
protein sequence
transformation matrix .it is valid for images and volumes
any import protocol
any operation on a set of micrographs
any protocol that takes a set of movies
operations on sets
this is a set of classes 2d ,  3d or vol
creates a 2d mask
protocols dealing with particles and restricted to 2d
performs any 3d analysis on a set of particles
protocols whose main input is a volume or a set of volumes
extracts coordinates from a set of particles
takes a set of micrographs and produces a set of coordinates with particle candidates
produces a difference between two sets of coordinates
imports a set of averages
produces a set of coordinates
imports a set of ctfs and assigns it to a set of micrographs
imports a 2d or 3d mask .
imports a set of micrographs
import micrographs tilt pairs
imports a set of movies
import a set of particles
imports an atomic structure
imports sequence
imports a volume
assigns an already computed set of ctfs to a set of micrographs or particles
computes the ctf of a set of micrographs
operations like cropping ,  resizing ,  inverting contrast ,   . . .
aligns a set of movies into a set of micrographs
computes the average of a set of movies into a set of micrographs
extracts a set of movieparticles from a set of movies and a set of particles
assigns a gain to a set of movies
creates a consensus of a set of classes
creates an fsc
splits a set into several pieces
computes a subset of a set
computes the union of several sets
mask 2d
map
mask 3d
special protocol used in batch mode
performs some other kind of 2d analysis
takes a set of micrographs and coordinates and extract the particles
the input may be a set of particles or a set of averages  ( which can be regarded as a summary of a set of particles ) 
reconstruct a map from a set of particles
refine the angular alignment of a set of particles
align volumes
create a 3d mask
filter volumes
apply a mask to a volume  ( the mask can be defined by a description ,  for instance ,  a geometrical object ) 
preprocess volumes  ( filters ,   . . . ) 
performs an operation with one or two volumes  ( calculator ) 
a subclass of particle picking algorithms that can perform this operation completely automatically .
importing coordinates for tilt pairs
computes a subset of particles according to a set of micrographs
computes a subset of another set by a graphical intervention of the user
this is a set of 2d averages
this is a set of images corresponding to a single particle in each ones of the frames .
aligns a set of 2d images
classifies a set of particles in 2d classes
any protocol that applies a transformation to a setofparticles
extracts particles from a set of tilt pairs
this is a set of particles and its 2d representative
this is a set of particles and its 3d representative
this is a set of volumes and its 3d representative
assigns a 2d alignment to a setofparticles
applies a filter
applies a mask
other operations on a setofparticles not considered on the other branches
