an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
b is an independent continuant = def .
p is a process = def .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
p is a process boundary =def .
an independent continuant  that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
b is a continuant fiat boundary = def .
b is a process_profile =def .
b is a relational quality = def .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
a ketose phosphate that consists of glycerone bearing a single phospho substituent .
a cholestanoid consisting of cholestane having a double bond at the 5 , 6 - position as well as a 3beta - hydroxy group .
natural compounds consisting of a trisaccharide repeating unit  ( two heptose units and octulosonic acid )  with oligosaccharide side chains and 3 - hydroxytetradecanoic acid units  ( they are a major constituent of the cell walls of gram - negative bacteria )  .
high molecular weight ,  linear polymers ,  composed of nucleotides containing deoxyribose and linked by phosphodiester bonds ;  dna contain the genetic information of organisms .
the meso - diastereomer of butane - 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 - tetrol .
a biomacromolecule consisting of large numbers of monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
a macromolecule made up of nucleotide units and hydrolysable into certain pyrimidine or purine bases  ( usually adenine ,  cytosine ,  guanine ,  thymine ,  uracil )  ,  d - ribose or 2 - deoxy - d - ribose and phosphoric acid .
a macromolecule is a molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any molecular entity consisting of more than one atom .
a nucleotide is a nucleoside phosphate .
a sialotetraosylceramide consisting of a branched pentasaccharide made up from one sialyl residue ,  two galactose residues ,  one n - acetylgalactosamine residue and a glucose residue at the reducing end attached to n - stearoylsphingosine via a beta - linkage .
a repetitive glycan polysaccharide contained within a lipopolysaccharide  ( lps )  .
a nucleobase - containing molecular entity with an oligomeric structure comprised of a linear sequence of nucleotide residues .
a cell line cell that is expected to be capable of an unlimited number of divisions ,  and is thus able to support indefinite propagation in vitro as part of an immortal cell line .
a immortal phagocyte cell line that is derived from macrophage
a immortal animal cell line that is derived from epithelial cell
anatomical structure that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
a cell that is usually found in a two - dimensional sheet with a free surface .
a mononuclear phagocyte present in variety of tissues ,  typically differentiated from monocytes ,  capable of phagocytosing a variety of extracellular particulate material ,  including immune complexes ,  microorganisms ,  and dead cells .
a cell lining the outside of the blastocyst .
a cell of hematopoietic origin ,  typically resident in particular tissues ,  specialized in the uptake ,  processing ,  and transport of antigens to lymph nodes for the purpose of stimulating an immune response via t cell activation .
an achromatic cell of the myeloid or lymphoid lineages capable of ameboid movement ,  found in blood or other tissue .
a spatial region having environmental qualities which may sustain an organism or a community of organisms .
the production by an organism of new individuals that contain some portion of their genetic material inherited from that organism .
an immune response based on directed amplification of specific receptors for antigen produced through a somatic diversification process ,  and allowing for enhanced response to subsequent exposures to the same antigen  ( immunological memory )  .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a leukocyte .
a structure composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins  ( e .g .
the directed movement of substances from the golgi back to the endoplasmic reticulum ,  mediated by vesicles bearing specific protein coats such as copi or cog .
any immune system process that functions in the calibrated response of an organism to a potential internal or invasive threat .
an immune response mediated through a body fluid .
the process in which a pre - trna molecule is converted to a mature trna ,  ready for addition of an aminoacyl group .
any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells ,  tissues ,  organs ,  and organisms .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
any biological process that results in permanent cessation of all vital functions of a cell .
a permanent cessation of all vital functions: the end of life ;  can be applied to a whole organism or to a part of an organism .
a protein complex that in its canonical form is composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds and sometimes complexed with additional proteins .
an immunoglobulin complex that is present in the plasma membrane of b cells and that in its canonical form is composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains and two identical immunoglobulin light chains and a signaling subunit ,  a heterodimer of the ig - alpha and ig - beta proteins .
the invasion by an organism of a cell of its host organism .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an integrated living unit: an anatomical structure  ( which may be a subcellular structure ,  cell ,  tissue ,  or organ )  ,  or organism over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
a stable assembly of two or more macromolecules ,  i .e .
the process in which a bacterium enters a host cell .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell .
a protein complex that contains a disulfide - linked heterodimer of t cell receptor  ( tcr )  chains ,  which are members of the immunoglobulin superfamily ,  and mediates antigen recognition ,  ultimately resulting in t cell activation .
a cytokinesis process that involves a set of conserved proteins including ftsz ,  and results in the formation of two similarly sized and shaped cells ;  the process by which prokaryotic cells divide .
an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
the attachment of an organism to its host via adhesion molecules ,  general stickiness etc . ,  either directly or indirectly .
penetration by an organism into the body ,  tissues ,  or cells of the host organism .
penetration by an organism into its host organism via active breaching of the physical barriers of the host organism .
any process in which an organism has an effect on an organism of a different species .
innate immune responses are defense responses mediated by germline encoded components that directly recognize components of potential pathogens .
the directed movement of substances within a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the viral life cycle ,  the set of processes by which a virus reproduces and spreads among hosts .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
the directed movement of a cell ,  substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  to a specific location .
the directed movement of a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  to a specific location within ,  or in the membrane of ,  a cell .
any process by which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nitric - oxide synthase ,  an enzyme which catalyzes the reaction l - arginine  +  n nadph  +  n h +   +  m o2 = citrulline  +  nitric oxide  +  n nadp +  .
the process in which a community of single - celled organisms living in intimate contact with a host organism monitors population density by detecting the concentration of small diffusible signal molecules .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any biological process ,  quality or function .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a reactive oxygen species ,  any molecules or ions formed by the incomplete one - electron reduction of oxygen .
an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association in a relationship in which both organisms benefit from each other .
an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association in a relationship in which one benefits and the other is unaffected .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the arrangement of constituent parts of a phagosome within a cell .
any process that reduces the ph of the phagosome ,  measured by the concentration of the hydrogen ion .
the creation of a phagolysosome from a phagosome and a lysosome .
a directive information entity that describes an intended process endpoint .
a directive information entity that describes an action the bearer will take
a data item is an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
a smallish ,  word - like datum . . .
an information content entity is an entity that is generically dependent on some artifact and stands in relation of aboutness to some entity
an information content entity whose concretizations indicate to their bearer how to realize them in a process .
the curation status of the term .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
a directive information entity that when concretized it is realized in a process in which the bearer tries to achieve the objectives ,  in part by taking the actions specified .
a measurement datum is an information content entity that is a recording of the output of a measurement such as produced by a device .
the reason for which a term has been deprecated .
a denotator type indicates how a term should be interpreted from an ontological perspective .
a role borne by an organism in symbiosis .
a symbiont role borne by an organism in virtue of the fact that both symbionts derive a growth ,  survival ,  or fitness advantage from symbiosis .
a symbiont role borne by an organism in virtue of the fact that it derives a growth ,  survival ,  or fitness advantage from symbiosis ,  but the other symbiont is neither advantaged nor disadvantaged .
a symbiont role borne by an organism in virtue of the fact that it derives a growth ,  survival ,  or fitness advantage from symbiosis while the other symbiont's growth ,  survival ,  or fitness is reduced .
a role borne by an infectious agent when contained in a host in which its infectious disposition can be realized .
a role borne by pathogen in virtue of the fact that it or one of its products is sufficiently close to an organism towards which it has the pathogenic disposition to allow realization of the pathogenic disposition .
an infectious disposition to become part of a disorder only in organisms whose defenses are compromised .
an infectious disposition to become part of a disorder in organisms that have intact defenses .
a host role borne by an organism in virtue of the fact that its extended organism contains a second organism and provides an environment supportive for the survival ,  growth ,  maturation ,  or reproduction of that organism .
a symbiont host role borne by an organism in virtue of the fact that its partner in symbiosis reaches developmental maturity or reproduces sexually in the host .
a symbiont host role borne by an organism in virtue of the fact that its partner in symbiosis utilizes the host to undergo a developmental stage transition ,  and the host is required for continuation of the partner's life cycle .
a symbiont host role borne by an organism in virtue of the fact that its partner in symbiosis utilizes the host to undergo a developmental stage transition ,  but the host is not required for continuation of the partner's life cycle .
a symbiont host role borne by an organism in virtue of the fact that its partner in symbiosis has the infectious disposition but cannot be transmitted from the host to the partner's definitive host .
a symbiont host role borne by an organism in virtue of the fact that its partner in symbiosis derives from the host a growth ,  survival ,  or fitness advantage while the host's growth ,  survival ,  or fitness is reduced .
a pathogen host role borne by an organism in virtue of the fact that its extended organism contains an infectious agent .
a host role borne by an organism in virtue of the fact that its extended organism contains a pathogen .
an infectious agent host role borne by an organism in virtue of the fact that its extended organism contains an infectious agent ,  the infectious agent has the infectious disposition towards the host ,  and the host has no symptoms of the infectious disease caused by the infectious agent .
a role borne by a material entity in virtue of the fact that an infectious agent is located in or on the entity and the entity has the capability to transfer  ( either actively or passively )  the infectious agent from one location to another .
an infectious agent transporter role that is borne by an organism active in the transfer of an infectious agent to an organism of another species and in which the agent is infectious .
an infectious agent vector role borne by an organism in virtue of the fact that the infectious agent does not multiply in or on the vector .
an infectious agent vector role borne by an organism in virtue of the fact that the infectious agent multiplies in or on the vector .
an infectious agent transporter role borne by an entity in virtue of the fact that the entity is not a complete organism .
an infectious agent vehicle role borne by an entity in virtue of the fact that the entity is living or contains living cells other than those that have the infectious disposition .
an infectious agent vehicle role borne by an entity in virtue of the fact that the entity is not alive .
a role borne by a material entity in virtue of the fact that it is a habitat in which infectious agents can persist and multiply and from which they can be transmitted in virtue of prevailing practices of potential hosts .
a disposition borne by a biological macromolecule produced by a pathogen that is a disposition to undergo processes that increase the pathogen's virulence .
a disposition to cause i )  malfunction of cells ,  ii )  damage to extracellular matrix ,  or iii )  damage of cells to a degree that can result in cell death .
a toxin disposition to damage cells or extracellular matrix by a direct enzymatic process .
a role borne by an anatomical entity in virtue of the fact that it serves as the site through which an infectious agent enters a host .
a role borne by an anatomical entity in virtue of the fact that it serves as the site through which an infectious agent exits a host .
a role borne by a material entity in virtue of the fact that it has an antimicrobial disposition and is applied to a non - living entity .
a role borne by a material entity in virtue of the fact that it has an antimicrobial disposition and is applied to an anatomical entity of a living organism .
a role borne by an infectious disorder in virtue of the fact that  ( 1 )  the host has at least two distinct infectious disorders ,  where neither arose from the other through metastasis ,   ( 2 )  at the time the infectious disorder was established in the host ,  the host had no infectious disorder ,  and  ( 3 )  the infectious disorder increases the host's susceptibility to infectious disorders .
a role borne by an infectious disorder in virtue of the fact that  ( 1 )  the host has at least two distinct infectious disorders ,  where neither arose from the other through metastasis ,   ( 2 )  at the time the infectious disorder was established in the host ,  the host had a primary infectious disorder ,  and  ( 3 )  establishment of the infectious disorder occurs because of increased susceptibility to infectious disorders conferred by the primary infectious disorder .
a disease whose physical basis is an infectious disorder .
a disposition borne by a biological macromolecule that is the disposition to participate in adherence to host .
a disposition borne by a biological macromolecule that is the disposition to facilitate breach of host epithelial barriers or entry into and survival in host cells .
a disposition to kill or inhibit the development or reproduction of microorganisms .
a disposition to kill or inhibit the lifecycle of viruses .
a disposition to kill or inhibit the development or reproduction of fungal organisms .
a disposition to kill or inhibit the reproduction of bacteria .
a disposition to kill or inhibit the development or reproduction of eukaryotic parasites .
a disposition that inheres in a material entity in virtue of the fact that the entity has a part  ( e .g .
a protective resistance that mitigates the damaging effects of a drug .
a protective resistance that inheres in an organism and mitigates the damaging effects on that organism of an infectious agent .
a collective resistance disposition that inheres in an organism population in virtue of the fact that the proportion of the population with immunity to an infectious agent is high resulting in a low number of transmissions from hosts in the population to susceptible individuals in the population and thereby mitigating the damaging effects of the infectious agent on the population .
a resistance to infectious agent that inheres in an organism in virtue of immune system components in the extended organism .
an immunity to infectious agent that results in elimination of the infectious agent from the host .
a disposition to initiate processes that result in a disorder .
a disposition borne by an infectious agent that is the disposition to penetrate the epithelial barriers of an organism of another species .
a pathogenic disposition that inheres in an organism and is the disposition for that organism  ( 1 )  to be transmitted to a host ,   ( 2 )  to establish itself in the host ,  and  ( 3 )  to become part of a disorder in the host .
an infectious disposition that is the disposition to be transmitted from an infected ,  non - human host to a human host .
an infectious disposition that is the disposition to be transmitted from an infected ,  human host to a non - human host .
a disposition that inheres in a collection of entities in virtue of the individual dispositions of the constituents of that collection .
an organism that is experiencing pregnancy - induced or pathologic immunosuppression .
an organism that has immunocompetence .
a disposition that inheres in a host of infectious agent and is a disposition to transmit infectious agents to organisms of the same species through casual contact with a high likelihood of realization .
an organism that contains a colony in or on its extended organism .
an organism that has an infection in or on its extended organism .
an organism that has two infections with distinct species of infectious agents .
a quality that inheres in an infectious agent and is the likelihood that the infectious agent will undergo a horizontal transmission process .
a quality that inheres in an infectious agent and is the liklihood that the infectious disposition will be realized upon exposure of a susceptible organism .
a quality that inheres in an infectious agent and is the degree to which realizations of the infectious disease caused by the infectious agent become severe or fatal .
a quality that inheres in an entity and is the degree to which it can be harmed by another entity .
a susceptibility that inheres in an organism and is the degree to which it can be harmed by an infectious agent .
a susceptibility that is the degree to which an entity can be harmed or inhibited from surviving by a drug .
a drug susceptibility that inheres in an infectious agent and is the degree to which the infectious agent can be harmed or inhibited from surviving by a drug .
an infection comprised of infectious organisms from different species .
an infection for which the infectious agents that are part of the infection persist in the extracellular space of the host .
an infection for which the infectious agents that are part of the infection persist inside host cells .
an infection for which the infectious agents that are part of the infection are distributed throughout the host .
an infection for which the infectious agents that are part of the infection are limited to a relatively small area of the host's body .
a local infection for which symptoms are observed in parts of the host's extended organism that are distant from the infection .
an infectious disease course that begins soon after infection is established and progresses rapidly to severe stages .
a quality that inheres in an organism population and is the number of realizations of an infectious disease for which the infectious disease course begins during a specified period of time .
a quality that inheres in an organism population and is the number of organisms in the population that become infected with an infectious agent during a specified period of time .
a quality that inheres in an organism population and is the proportion of members of the population not experiencing an infectious disease course at the beginning of a specified period of time in whom the infectious disease begins during the specified period of time .
a quality that inheres in an organism population and is the proportion of members of the population not experiencing an infectious disease course at the beginning of a specified period of time in whom the infectious disease begins during the specified period of time .
a quality that inheres in an organism population and is the infectious disease incidence proportion per unit time .
a quality that inheres in an organism population and is the infection incidence proportion per unit time .
a quality that inheres in an organism population and is the number of realizations of an infectious disease in the population at a specified time .
a quality that inheres in an organism population and is the number of organisms in the population infected with an infectious agent at a specified time .
a quality that inheres in an organism population and is the number of organisms in the population who have ,  at any point during their lives ,  been bearers of an infectious disease and experienced realization of the disease .
a quality that inheres in an organism population and is the number of organisms in the population that have antibody specific for an infectious agent in their serum at a specified time .
a quality that inheres in an organism population and is the per capita number of deaths in the population resulting from an infectious disease over a specified period of time .
a quality that inheres in an organism population in virtue of the fact that infections of the type that causes an infectious disease are maintained in the population via intra - population transmission or by transmission from a local reservoir .
an infectious disease prevalence that is typical for an infectious disease in an organism population .
an infectious disease incidence rate that is typical for an infectious disease in an organism population .
an infectious disease endemicity that inheres in an organism population in virtue of the fact that the infectious disease endemic level for an infectious disease is persistently high in the population .
a quality that inheres in an organism population by virtue of the fact that realizations of an infectious disease occur in the population with a fluctuating prevalence .
a disease course that is the realization of an infectious disease .
a chronic infectious disease course that does not progress to severe stages for a long period of time .
a process by which an organism acquires immunity to an infectious agent .
an immunization that begins with exposure of an organism to antigen and results in immunity against an infectious agent .
an active immunization that begins with exposure of an organism to a vaccine .
an active immunization that begins with exposure to smallpox in the form of a scab from a pustule and results in immunity against smallpox .
an immunization that begins with transfer to an organism of molecules not produced by that organism and that confer immunity against an infectious agent .
a process of infectious disease realizations and for which there is a statistically significant increase in the infectious disease incidence of a population .
a process in which multiple infectious disease epidemics of the same type of infectious disease unfold over overlapping periods of time and affect organism populations located in different geographic regions ,  including different countries and continents .
an infection that is clinically abnormal .
an infection that has as part virus particles located in the blood .
an infection that has as part bacteria located in the blood .
a virus that is in its assembled state consisting of genomic material  ( dna or rna )  surrounded by coating molecules .
an aggregate of organisms of the same type .
an organism population whose members have an infection .
an organism population in whose members an infectious disease is being realized .
an organism population whose members each have an infectious disposition .
an organism population whose members are not infected with an infectious agent and who lack immunity to the infectious agent .
an organism population whose members are particpating in non - parasitic symbiosis with a particular host .
a continuous temporal interval beginning with the extablishment of an infectious agent colony and ending with the onset of symptoms  ( or infectious disease course?
a continuous temporal interval during which contagiousness inhering in the bearer of a host role .
an organism bearing a symbiont role .
an organism that can only reach developmental maturity ,  replicate ,  or persist in symbiosis .
an organism bearing a mutualist role .
an organism bearing a commensal role .
a organism bearing a parasite role .
a material entity with a pathogenic disposition .
an infectious agent with a primary infectious disposition .
an organism bearing a host role .
an organism bearing a definitive host role .
a organism bearing an intermediate host role .
an organism bearing a paratenic host role .
an organism bearing a dead - end host role .
an organism bearing a parasite host role .
an organism bearing an infectious agent host role .
an organism bearing a pathogen host role .
an organism bearing the infectious agent carrier role .
an organism bearing an infectious agent vector role .
an infectious agent vector bearing a mechanical vector of infectious agent role .
an infectious agent vector bearing a biological vector of infectious agent role .
a material entity bearing an infectious agent vehicle role .
a material entity bearing a fomite role .
a material entity bearing an infectious agent reservoir role .
a biological macromolecule produced by a pathogen and that has a virulence factor disposition .
a biological macromolecule that has an invasion disposition .
a molecular entity that has a toxin disposition .
a molecular entity bearing an exotoxin disposition .
a molecular entity with an exotoxin disposition ,  the realization of which damages cells of the host intestinal mucosa .
a molecular entity with a toxin disposition and that is a structural component of a pathogen and is released from the pathogen only upon cytolysis .
an anatomical entity bearing an infectious agent portal of entry role .
an anatomical entity bearing an infectious agent portal of exit role .
a material entity bearing a disinfectant role .
a material entity bearing an antiseptic role .
a biological macromolecule that has an adhesion disposition .
a material entity with an antimicrobial disposition .
a material entity bearing an antiviral disposition .
a material entity bearing an antifungal disposition .
a material entity bearing an antiparasitic disposition .
a material entity bearing an antiviral disposition .
a material entity with an antimicrobial disposition that is realized in a process of killing microorganisms .
a material entity with an antiviral disposition that is realized in a process of killing viruses .
a material entity with an antimicrobial disposition that is realized in a process of inhibiting the growth of microorganisms .
an infection bearing the primary infection role .
an infection bearing the secondary infection role .
an infectious disease that has as its physical basis an infectious disorder composed of infectious agents that have a zoonotic disposition .
an organism that is host to an infectious agent has no symptoms of the infectious disease associated with the infectious agent .
an infection that is part of an asymptomatic host .
a material entity that has a resistance disposition .
an organism who has been bearer of the infectious agent carrier role for an extended period of time .
an organism who is host to an infectious agent and has symptoms of the infectious disease associated with the infectious agent
an immunity to infectious agent that inheres in an organism in virtue of germline encoded components that directly recognize components of potential pathogens .
an immunity to infectious agent that inheres in an organism in virtue of components of its circulating body fluid .
an immunity to infectious agent that inheres in an organism in virtue of its leukocytes .
an immunity to infectious agent that inheres in an organism in virtue of antibodies not produced by that organism .
a resistance to drug that mitigates the damaging effects of an antibiotic .
an organism experiencing a long - term non - progressing infectious disease course .
an infectious agent whose infection incidence is increasing following its first introduction into a new host species .
a molecular entity with a toxin disposition ,  the realization of which damages host cells .
a collective disposition to initiate processes that result in a disorder .
a part of an extended organism that itself has as part a population of one or more infectious agents and that is  ( 1 )  clinically abnormal in virtue of the presence of this infectious agent population ,  or  ( 2 )  has a disposition to bring clinical abnormality to immunocompetent organisms of the same species as the host  ( the organism corresponding to the extended organism )  through transmission of a member or offspring of a member of the infectious agent popuation .
a resistance to infectious agent that inheres in an organism in virtue of a specific allele or combination of alleles in its genome .
a collective disposition the realization of which mitigates the damaging effects of some entity on members of the collection .
an organism that has an immunodeficiency .
an infectious disease course that unfolds over a long period of time .
an organism population whose members have acquired immunity to an infectious agent .
a continuous temporal interval during which a transmission process occurs .
a process in which a potential host of an infectious agent comes into direct physical contact with the infectious agent .
an organism that has the capability to bear a host of infectious agent role .
an organism that has an infectious disposition .
a process in which a potential host of an infectious agent is exposed to an environment in which the infectious agent is present and physical contact between the two can occur ,  but such contact is not planned .
a host exposure to environment with infectious agent where the environment is a household that also has an infected host
a host exposure to environment with infectious agent where the environment is an area in which an infectious agent is endemic
a host exposure to environment with infectious agent where the exposure is accidental ;  the environment is a laboratory ,  and the infectious agent is infectious in humans .
a host exposure to environment with infectious agent where the environment contains an infectious agent vector .
a host exposure to environment with infectious agent where the environment contains a material entity that has been assessed to confer a risk of infection .
a process by which an infectious agent ,  established in a host ,  becomes part of an infection in the host .
an establishment in host process in which an organism establishes itself in a host .
a colonization of host process that results in a clinically abnormal colony .
a process in which an entity comes into being as a result of the process .
a production process in which a participant creates a copy of itself .
a colonization of human process in which the colonized site is the anterior nares .
a process that attenuates an immune response .
an immunosuppression which unfolds as part of the natural self - regulation of an immune response .
an immunosuppression process which arises as the result of a disorder .
an organism population persisting in a site it has colonized .
a colony whose members are infectious agents .
a disorder of an immune system component that results in defective functioning of the immune system .
a disposition that is the ability to mount a normal immune response .
a disposition whose realization negatively regulates an immune response .
an immunity to infectious agent that inheres in an organism in virtue of antigen receptors encoded by somatically diversified genes in the organism's genome and expressed by cells that have undergone selection during a primary immune response in that organism .
a disposition to colonize an organism and participate in mutualism or commensalism with that organism .
an infectious disposition to be transmitted directly from one organism to another of the same species by horizontal transmission .
an establishment of localization process in which a material entity reaches a site in an organism in which it can survive ,  grow ,  multiply ,  or mature .
a process by which a disorder comes into existence .
an infectious disorder that is the physical basis for an unfolding acute infectious disease course .
an infection that persists for an extended period of time .
a role borne by an organism in virtue of the fact that it's extended organism contains a material entity other than the organism .
an infection resulting from a transmission process that unfolds in a hospital .
an infection resulting from a transmission process that did not unfold in a health care facility .
a molecular entity with a toxin disposition ,  the realization of which damages or interferes with the function of nerve tissue .
an infection established as a result of spread from another infection in a non - adjacent location in the extended organism of the host .
a role borne by a material entity in virtue of the fact that it contains a site from which an infectious agent is transmitted .
a process that is a systemic inflammatory response to infection .
a sepsis that results in organ dysfunction ,  hypotension ,  or hypofusion of at least one organ .
an infection resulting from a transmission process that unfolds in a nursing home .
an infectious agent with a capability to infect human hosts .
an immunodeficiency that is not caused by a genetic predisposition .
an infection comprised of infectious organisms all of the same species .
an infectious agent whose infection incidence is increasing in a host population as a result of changes in the biology of the host or pathogen ,  or changes in their interactions .
an immunosuppression induced by progesterone and other factors upregulated in pregnant women .
an infection that has as part organisms of the genus candida .
an infection that has as part organisms of the species trichomonas vaginalis .
an infection that has as part organisms of the genus leptospira .
an infection located in the bowel and that has as part organisms of the genus shigella .
an infection located in the colon and that has as part organisms of the species entamoeba histolytica
a colonization of host process in which the host is of species homo sapiens .
an immunodeficiency that exists in an organism because of a genetic predisposition .
a colonization of human process in which the colonized site is a perineum .
an infectious disease that has as its physical basis an infectious disorder composed of infectious agents that have a reverse zoonotic disposition .
an infectious agent with an opportunistic infectious disposition .
a disposition to undergo a transmission process .
a pathogen transmission process in which a pathogen is transmitted from one host to another of the same species ,  and the two hosts are not in a parent - child relationship .
a process that results in death .
a process in which a potential host of an infectious agent is exposed to an infectious agent .
an organism that is not infected with an infectious agent and lacks protective immunity to the infectious agent .
a process which is necessary for the survival of an organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a life - sustaining process .
a material entity bearing a source of infection role .
a process by which a part of an organism or something contained in an organism becomes clinically abnormal .
a zoonosis that is caused by brucella .
a symptom that is observed by a brucellosis patient .
a brucellosis symptom that appears in human .
a brucellosis symptom that observed in cattle .
a brucellosis symptom that appears as cough .
a brucellosis symptom that appears in goat .
a brucellosis symptom that appears in swine  ( pig )  .
a human brucllosis symptom that is usually characterized by nonspecific febrile illness ,  including irregular and intermittent fever and chills and is observed in 90% of brucellosis cases .
arthritis  typically shown in a brucellosis patient .
sweating
hepatomegaly typically shown in a brucellosis patient .
splenomegaly typically shown in a brucellosis patient .
anaemia typically shown in a brucellosis patient .
leucopenia typically shown in a brucellosis patient .
leucocytosis typically shown in a brucellosis patient .
thrombocytopenia typically shown in a brucellosis patient .
thrombocytosis typically shown in a brucellosis patient .
an elevated crp  typically shown in a brucellosis patient .
an elevated esr typically shown in a brucellosis patient .
positive rf typically shown in a brucellosis patient .
arthralgia  typically shown in a brucellosis patient .
fever is the most common ( 92 .8% of adults ,  87 .5% of children )  feature of brucellosis .
chill typically shown in a brucellosis patient .
anorexia  typically shown in a brucellosis patient .
malaise typically shown in a brucellosis patient .
asthenia typically shown in a brucellosis patient .
weight loss typically shown in a brucellosis patient .
brucellosis that is beared by a human .
brucellosis that is beared by a swine  ( pig )  .
brucellosis that is beared by a horse .
brucellosis that is beared by a cattle .
brucellosis that is beared by a sheep .
virulence factor that bears brucella virulence factor dispositon
a pcr test for brucellosis that is a single step pcr for the detection of a 223 bp region encoding brucella abortus protein bcsp31 in peripheral blood samples is used in the diagnosis of human brucellosis ( casanas et al . ,  2001 ,  quiepo - ortuno et al . ,  1997 )  .
an acute disease course temproally lasts up to a week .
brucellosis diagnosis made by using pcr test method
specimen that derives from a patient
a pcr product that is the output of the pcr assay used in diagnosing brucellosis
brucellosis diagnosis made base on the observation from microscopy
brucellosis diagnosis made base on the positive result of immunoassay test
brucellosis diagnosis made base on the positive result of coombs test
brucellosis diagnosis made base on the positive result of complement fixation test
brucellosis diagnosis made base on the positive result of competitive elisa
brucellosis diagnosis made base on the radia immunodiffusion test
brucellosis diagnosis made base on the counter immunoelectrophoresis
brucellosis diagnosis made base on the positive result of milk ring test
brucellosis diagnosis made base on the positive result of brucellacapt
brucellosis diagnosis made base on the positive result of serum agglutination test
brucellosis diagnosis made base on the positive result of rose bengal test
brucellosis diagnosis made base on the positive result of 2 - mercapto - ethanol test
brucellosis diagnosis made base on the positive result of skin delayed - type hypersensitivity test
brucellosis diagnosis made base on the positive result of dipstick assay
brucellosis diagnosis made based on the pcr assay that is detecting the brucella omp - 2 gene .
the life course that has brucella as participant
a clinical manifestation of brucellosis .
a preclinical manifestation of brucellosis .
a symptom that is observed by a clinician .
a symptom that is observed by a brucellosis patient .
brucellosis disposition that is the disposition to be transmitted from an infected ,  non - human host to a human host .
a brucellosis diagnosis that detects the presence of b . abortus vaccine rb51 .
a pcr assay for brucellosis that is designed to detect brucella 16s rrna .
a pcr test for brucellosis that is composed of updated amos .
a treatment that has an objective to reduce the sign and symptom in brucellosis
a brucellosis treatment that was recommended by who .
antibiotic that is doxycycline
a protein synthesized by brucella spp .
a disposition borne by a biological macromolecule produced by brucella spp .
an antigen that is specifically targeted by the acquired immune response of the host and is able to induce protection in the host against infectious and non - infectious diseases .
protective antigen role is a role of protective antigen .
a primer role that is specifically for the pcr forward primer .
a primer role that is specifically for the pcr reverse primer .
brucella lipopolyasccharide that is part of brucella ovis
a milk producing disposition that produces brucella - contaminated milk .
brucella abortus infection diagnosis made by pcr test method
diagnosis of brucella melitensis biovar 1 infection made by pcr test
diagnosis of brucella melitensis biovar 2 infection made by pcr test
diagnosis of brucella melitensis infection made by pcr test
diagnosis of brucella melitensis biovar 3 infection made by pcr test
diagnosis of brucella abortus biovar1 infection  made by pcr test
diagnosis of brucella aborus biovar2 made by pcr test
diagnosis of brucella abortus biovar3 infection  made by pcr test
diagnosis of brucella abortus biovar 4 infection made by pcr test
diagnosis of brucella abortus biovar 5 infection made by pcr test
diagnosis of brucella abortus biovar 6 infection made by pcr test
diagnosis of brucella abortus biovar 7 infection made by pcr test
diagnosis of brucella abortus biovar 9 infection made by pcr test
diagnosis of brucella suis infection made by pcr test
diagnosis of brucella suis biovar 1 infection made by pcr test
diagnosis of brucella suis biovar 2 infection made by pcr test
diagnosis of brucella suis biovar 3 infection made by pcr test
diagnosis of brucella suis biovar 4 infection made by pcr test
diagnosis of brucella suis biovar 5 infection made by pcr test
laboratory test for brucellosis that uses pcr method
laboratory test that is used for testing brucella infection
the process of testing brucella infection by culturing the specimen derived from patient .
laboratory test for testing brucella infection by using immuoassay
we say w is a string of its elements e iff  ( def . ) 
a genome is a material entity that represents the entirety of an organism's hereditary information .
dna sequence data of primer that is used in pcr .
a immunoassay test for brucellosis that uses 2 - mercapto - ethanol
brucellosis patient specimen that is from blood
temporal distribution is the description of the occurence of the disease over time .
a planned process that has an objective of releasing biological agent ,  usualy has bioterrorism agent as participant .
intentional release process that has an objective of release aerosolized brucella .
accidentally release an disease agent or biohazard agent  that is not intended .
a planned process of heating a liquid entity ,  to a specific temperature of a defined length of time span ,  and then cooling it immediately .
pasteurization process has dairy product as input
dairy product pasteurization that has objective of preventing brcuella's growth ,  with an input of the dairy product that potentially contains brucella .
pasteurization process has milk as input
milk pasteurization that has objective of preventing brcuella's growth ,  with an input of the milk that potentially contains brucella .
a process that has an objective to reduce the epidemic of infectious disease
process of eradication that has a objective specification of reduce brucellosis epidemic
brucellosis eradication that has objective of reducing non - human brucellosis
brucellosis treatment that uses antibotic
a who brucellosis treatment that is for non - human brucellosis
a who brucellosis treatment that is for human brucellosis
an infection that has part brucella
a disease course that is realized by burcella infection
the brucellosis disease course happened in a human
a biological process that is essential for a pathogen to survive in a host and be virulent to the host  ( e .g . ,  a host organism or host cell )  .
an infectious agent that eventually survives and replicates inside a host
a survived infectious agent in host where the infectious agent is brucella .
a biological process of brucella that has effects upon the host organism or host cell .
the physical dna sequence that is part of a chromosome
the brucellosis disease course happened in a cattle
the brucellosis disease course happened in a sheep
the brucellosis disease course happened in a swine
a brucellosis pathogen role that is beared in cattle .
a brucellosis pathogen role that is beared in human .
a process of establishing infection when the pathogen is a brucella bacterium .
a role of being a patient .
a patient role that is for brucellosis patient .
a function of drinking that is realized by a drinking process .
a drinking function that is for drinking milk .
a disposition that produces milk .
extended milk that has brucella as its part
the natural production process of a cow that has milk as the final result .
the description of the occurence of brucellosis over time .
a bacterial lipopolsaccharide that is from brucella .
brucella lipopolysaccharide that is part of brucella abortus
brucella lipopolysaccharide that is part of brucella suis
a pathogen role of being a brucellosis pathogen .
an infectious angent host role borne by an organism in virtue of the fact that its extended organism contains brucella .
a brucellosis pathogen role that is beared in goat .
a brucellosis pathogen role that is beared in sheep .
a brucellosis pathogen role that is beared in camel .
a brucellosis pathogen role that is beared in pig .
a brucellosis pathogen role that is beared in dog .
brucellosis that is beared by a dog .
brucellosis that is beared by a camel .
brucellosis that is beared by a goat .
the brucellosis disease course happened in a goat
a brucellosis symptom shown in a sheep .
a brucellosis system shown in camel .
the brucellosis disease course happened in a camel
the brucellosis disease course happened in a dog
a brucellosis symptom shown in a dog .
a pathological bodily process that happens in brucellosis
the planned process that has out put of an aerosol  -  -  a fine mist or spray containing minute particles of brucella
brucellosis eradication that has objective of reducing human brucellosis
realization of brucellosis that become epidemic
the process of controling aerosolized brucella that has a output of reduced or eliminated aerosolized brucella in the air .
disinfection process of aerosolized brucella that has a input of bleach
bleach that is a disinfectant and bears disinfectant role
brucellosis epdiemic that happened in human
brucellosis epdiemic that happened in non - human organism
the milk production process that has brucella contaiminated milk as the final result ,  which usually caused by a brucella - infected cow .
vaccine preparation that has a objective of preventing brucella infection
an infection incidence that occurs in brucellosis patients .
an infection incidence proportion that happens in brucella infection .
an infection incidence rate that occurs for brucella infection .
an infection prevalence that is for brucella infection .
an infectious disease endemicity that is specifically for brucellosis .
a brucellosis endemicity that is specifically for human brucellosis .
a brucellosis endemicity that is specifically for non - human brucellosis .
an infectious disease hyper - endemicity that is specifically for brucellosis .
a brucellosis hyper - endomicity is that specifically for human brucellosis .
a brucellosis hyper - endomicity is that specifically for non - human brucellosis .
an infectious disease incidencea that is specifically for brucellosis .
a brucellosis incidencea that is specifically for human brucellosis .
a brucellosis incidencea that is specifically for non - human brucellosis .
an infectious disease incidence proportion that is specifically for brucellosis .
a brucellosis incidence proportion that is specifically for human brucellosis .
a brucellosis incidence proportion that is specifically for non - human brucellosis .
an infectious disease endemic rate that is specifically for brucellosis .
a brucellosis endemic rate that is specifically for human brucellosis .
an infectiuos disease mortality rate that is specfically for brucellosis .
an infectious disease endemic level that is specfically for brucellosis .
an infectious disease sporadicity that is specfically for brucellosis .
the process of controlling brucellosis that inteded to prevent the occurence of brucellosis
human brucellosis treatment that is a standard in who ,  and uses docycycline as input , and is a part of who standard treatment for human brucellosis in adults and children eight years of age and older
human brucellosis treatment that is a standard in who ,  and uses streptomycin as input ,  and it is a part of who standard treatment for human brucellosis in adults and children eight years of age and older
a site that is infectious disease endemic
an infectious disease endemic site that is specific for brucellosis
a site that is considered as infectious disease free
an infectious disease free site that is specific for brucellosis
a site that is considered infectious disease non - endemic
a dna sequence that codes for protein
protein coding gene that is part of brucella
a genetic material that is an organized structure of dna and protein found in brucella cells .
a symbol that represents a gene
a symbol that represent protein
amino acid sequence data that is about brucella protein's primary structure .
a number of different approaches can be used to generate the fluorescence signal .
a pcr test for brucellosis that is designed to detect brucella omp2 gene .
the study of disease distribution ,  or the geography of disease ,  reveals real differences in disease distribution among nations and in regions within nations .
re - emerging infectious diseases are diseases that once were major health problems globally or in a particular country ,  and then declined dramatically ,  but are again becoming health problems for a significant proportion of the population .
the chromosome 1 that found in brucella melitensis 16m's cell
a role of being an animal dealer
a role of being a lab worker
a role of being a research worker .
a role of being a veterinarian .
a role of being an abattoir worker .
a role of being a butcher
a role of being a dog owner
a role of being a dog handler
an occupational disease is any chronic ailment that occurs as a result of work or occupational activity .
re - emerging infectious diseases are diseases that once were major health problems globally or in a particular country ,  and then declined dramatically ,  but are again becoming health problems for a significant proportion of the population either due to upward trends in incidence or prevalence or because they show novel  outbreak  ranges  ( geographical or host )  .
a disease that is endemic .
a disease that is not endemic .
the occurence of brucellosis
 ( 1 )  two or more cases of a relatively uncommon event or disease related in time and / or place perceived to be greater than expected by chance  ( 2 )  an unusual aggregation ,  real or perceived ,  of health events that are grouped together in time and space ,  which is reported to a public health department  ( http: /  / medical - dictionary .thefreedictionary .com / disease + cluster ) 
the dna sequence data of a pcr product
a process of breeding and raising livestock .
a transmission process of which the disease agent is transferred directly by biting ,  sucking ,  chewing or indirectly by inhalation of droplets ,  drinking of contaminated water ,  traveling in contaminated vehicles .
the disease transmission process of which the disease agent is spread by  consuming contaminated food or drink .
the process in which brucella enters a macrophage .
spread of infection by droplet nuclei or dust through the air .
the biological processof brcuella's survival inside the macrophage cell that is part of the process of establishing brucella infection
the establishment of brucella localization in host cell .
the process of brucella to establish its localization into macrophage cell
the dna sequence data that is about the primary structure of b .abortus genome .
a dna sequence data that is about a 139bp's region located in brucella omp - 2 gene
dna sequence data that is about brucella omp - 2 gene .
a  temporal interval for a continuous treatment
a human body temperature that is considered normal .
a sign that shows elevated temperature .
the bodily process when body temperature measures as a normal temperature .
the process of  body temperature's going up .
mornings  ( from sun rise to 12pm )  within the time span of diseae course
all the afternoons  ( from 12pm to sunset time )  within the time span of disease course
domestic animal that bears a food production role .
a material entity that is made from milk ,  and it is an output of a dariy factory's dairy production facility .
the process of moving brucella infected livestock from one site to another site .
abortion process happens in a brucella infectied livestock
a process of travel from one country to another country
the process of importing dariy products from abroad country
extended meat that has brucella as its part
extended liver that has brucella as its part .
extended bone marrow that has brucella as part .
a role of being a farmer
a role of being a dairy worker
a role of being a herdsman
a role of being a cattle rancher
a role of being a shepherd .
a site that has a political border desrcibed by a geographical boundary ,  including all the entities ocuppies within this geographical boundary ,  such as people ,  building ,  river ,  mines ,  and so on .
restriction of movement of individuals who have been exposed to infectious or communicable disease in order to prevent its spread  ( from dorland ,  28th ed & black's veterinary dictionary ,  17th ed )  .
the evaluation of an asymptomatic person in a population ,  or examination of a large sample of animals in a population ,  to detect an unsuspected disease process not known to exist at the time of evaluation .
monitoring of information sources of potential value in detecting an emerging epidemic ,  whether naturally occurring or the result of bioterrorism .
a surveillance system is an information loop or cycle that involves health care proviers ,  public health agencies ,  and the public .
education that increases the awareness and favorably influences the attitudes and knowledge relating to the improvement of health on a personal or community basis .
the smooth brucella strain is brucella that has a smooth lipopolysaccharide as its part .
brucella infection test by culturing the blood dervied from patient .
brucella infection test culturing milk derived from infected non - human organism
a genome that is part of brucella abortus
provision of physical and biological barriers to the dissemination of potentially hazardous biologically active agents  ( bacteria ,  viruses ,  recombinant dna ,  etc . )  .
the rough brucella strain is brucella that has a rough lipopolysaccharide as its part .
the diagnostic process of making diagnosis of brucellosis
ongoing ,  systematic collection ,  analysis ,  interpretation and dissemination of health - related data essential for public health practice  ( i .e .
re - emerging infectious diseases are diseases that once were major health problems globally or in a particular country ,  and then declined dramatically ,  but are again becoming health problems for a significant proportion of the population .
these are countries or parts of countries where brucellosis has reappeared after a significant decline in incidence
a role of being a b . abortus host .
surveillance of environmental factors  ( ie .
biohazard containment that is for brucella
a role of being a b . canis host .
a role of being a b . melitensis host .
a role of being a b . cetaceae host .
a role of being a b . neotomae host .
a role of being a b . ovis host .
a role of being a b . pinnipediae host .
a role of beign a bioterrorism agent
a antibiotic brucellosis treatment that uses doxycycline 100mg twice a day .
a antibiotic brucellosis treatment that uses sterptomycin 1g once a day .
a brucella lipopolysaccharide that has brucella o polysaccharide as its intergal part
a brucella lipopolysaccharide that has no 'o polysaccharide' as its part
host - brucella interaction is a process that brucella and its host  ( host organism or host cell )  have effects upon each other during the course of brucellas establishing the infection and the hosts responses in order to fight the infection .
the virulence from the brucella bacterium
a role inheres in a brucella protein or a dna - complex upon which the brucella t4ss acts ,  and it is realized in the processes where brucella t4ss acts as an agent .
a molecular entity that bears the brucella t4ss substrate role .
the metabolic process of brucella that includes pathways and chemical reactions for brucella to use erythritol as resource of sugar to support the intracellular growth .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the brucella's l life cycle ,  the set of processes by which brucella reproduces and spreads among macrophage cells .
a process that smooth brucella and macrophage have effects upon each other during the course of smooth brucellas establishing the infection and the macrophages responses in order to fight the infection .
a process that rough brucella and macrophage have effects upon each other during the course of rough brucellas establishing the infection and the macrophages responses in order to fight the infection .
a process that rough brucella and dendritic cell have effects upon each other during the course of rough brucellas establishing the infection and the dendritic cells responses in order to fight the infection .
a process that smooth brucella and dendritic cell have effects upon each other during the course of brucellas establishing the infection and the dendritic cells responses in order to fight the infection .
a process that smooth brucella and epithelial cell have effects upon each other during the course of smooth brucellas establishing the infection and the epithelial cells responses in order to fight the infection .
a process that rough brucella and epithelial cell have effects upon each other during the course of brucellas establishing the infection and the epithelial cells responses in order to fight the infection .
a proessed material that is generated by mutate one or more genes inside brucella's genome ,  which results in the lack of experssion of those genes ,  and brucella lacks the proteins encoded by mutated genes as its part .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate of the biological process og brucella enter into host cells .
the directed movement of brucella within macrophage ,  which starts from internalization of brucella by phagecytes and nonprofessional phagocytrs and leads to the developement of the replicative niche in the case of smooth brucella ,  or lead to the killing of brucella in the case of rought brucella .
the process starts with the engulfment of smooth brucella into a macrophage ,  and ends with the formation of er - derived replication niches of smooth brucella vacuole .
the process starts from rough brucella is engulfed by marcophage to the formation of a phagolysosome containing rough brucella ,  where the bacterium is killed by macrophage .
brucella's chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a purine nucleotide ,  a compound consisting of nucleoside  ( a purine base linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
brucellas's chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of amino acids containing a branched carbon skeleton ,  comprising isoleucine ,  leucine and valine .
brucella's chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living brucella transform chemical substances .
brucella's chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipopolysaccharides ,  any of a group of related ,  structurally complex components of the outer membrane of brucella .
brucella's chemical reactions and pathways involving glycine ,  aminoethanoic acid .
brucella's chemical reactions and pathways involving the transfer of one - carbon units in various oxidation states .
brucella's process in which a pre - trna molecule is converted to a mature trna ,  ready for addition of an aminoacyl group .
the glucose metabolic process happened within brucella .
brucella's chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
brucella's chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any member of a large group of derivatives or analogs of porphyrin .
brucella's chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heme ,  any compound of iron complexed in a porphyrin  ( tetrapyrrole )  ring ,  from less complex precursors .
brucella's chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of aromatic amino acid family ,  amino acids with aromatic ring  ( phenylalanine ,  tyrosine ,  tryptophan )  .
the formation of glucose from noncarbohydrate precursors ,  such as pyruvate ,  amino acids and glycerol in brucella
brucella's chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a carbohydrate into pyruvate ,  with the concomitant production of a small amount of atp .
the translation process that forms a brucella protein .
the plasma membranes of marcophage contain combinations of glycosphingolipids and protein receptors ,  which is a part of cellular component and organized in glycolipoprotein microdomain .
a process of establishing brucella infection in host when the host is a a dendritic cell .
host - brucella interaction between macrophage and brucella
the process that is the part of the macrophage - brucella interaction and has macrophage as its agent .
a process that brucella and dendritic cell have effects upon each other during the course of brucellas establishing the infection and the dendritic cells responses in order to fight the infection .
a process that brucella and epithelial cell have effects upon each other during the course of brucellas establishing the infection and the epithelial cells responses in order to fight the infection .
the chemical action and protien bindings involved in smooth brucella lps interacting with marcophage lipif raft ,  which lead to the engulfment of smooth brucella into a macrophage .
the process of macrophage internalizing of smooth brucella ,  that is immediately happened after the smooth lps and macrophage lipid raft interaction process .
the biological process of macrophage internalizing brucella
the process of macrophage internalizing rough brucella .
the process of forming an early phagosome containing smooth brucella .
the process of forming a intermediate smooth brucella containing phagosome that will lead to formation of the intracellular replication niche of smooth brucella .
the process that reduce the ph of the smooth brucella containing phagosome ,  measured by the concentration of the hydrogen ion .
the process of smooth brucella containing phagosome membrane fused with the er membrane .
the replication of smooth brucella within macrophage .
the process in which smooth brucella enters a macrophage .
the process in which rough brucella enters a macrophage .
the process of replicated smooth brucella leaving the marcophage ,  and starts to invade other host cells inside host .
the process of forming an early phagosome containing rough brucella .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the arrangement of constituent parts of  phagosome containing rough brucella within a macrophage .
the creation of a phagolysosome from a phagosome that contains rough brucella and a lysosome .
the process of removal of intracellular brucella by a marcophage after it fuses with lysosome .
the protective disposition of the brucella when antimicrobial peptide is present ,  which normally initiate the killing bacteria process in other specices ,  which in virtue of brucella's intrcellular survival .
the protective disposition of brucella while exposed to high level of nitric oxide  ( no )  rich enviroment ,  or the highly reactive oxidant peroxynitrite ,  which is produced following interaction of no with superoxide anions .
a protective resistance of brucella that in virtue of brucella's survival when exposured to a low ph acidic enviroment ,  such as inside a  marcophage .
a biological process where smooth brucella resists an anticrobial peptide .
a biological process where smooth brucella resists an oxidative stress inside a brucella - containing vacuole  ( bcv ) 
any process that results in brucella's resistance to the nitrosative stress within macrophage .
a place holder for many processes that involved in the brucella's protecitve response to the acidified intracellular enviroment .
a role that inheres in a protein or a compound upon which enzyme catalyzes .
the brucella t4ss is composed of 11 brucella virb proteins .
three fluorescent oligonucleotide probes from the 16s rrna sequence of brucella are used to diagnose human brucellosis .
the disposition of brucella of using erythritol as carbon source ,  which is realized the the brucella erythritol catabolic process .
a process of establishing brucella infection in host when the host is a mouse .
a disposition of a pathogen becoming harmless or less virulent towards its host ,  when the pathogen is altered physically or genetically .
a process that a pthogen and its host have effects upon each other while the pathogens establishing the infection in the host and the hosts responses in order to fight the infection .
a process that brucella and hela cell have effects upon each other during the course of brucellas establishing the infection and the hela cell's responses in order to fight the infection .
a process that brucella and mouse have effects upon each other during the course of brucellas establishing the infection in mouse and the mouses defense responses .
the process of brucella stay alive and keep a significant ratio inside host cell .
a disposition of a pathogen becoming extremely severe or harmful towards its host ,  when the pathogen is altered physically or genetically .
the replication of brucella within hela cell
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the brucella's l life cycle ,  the set of processes by which brucella reproduces and spreads among hela cells .
brucella's chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a o - polysaccharide ,  a polymer of many  ( typically more than 10 )  monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically .
the increase in size or mass of brucella inside its host cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycerol ,  1 , 2 , 3 - propanetriol ,  a sweet ,  hygroscopic ,  viscous liquid ,  widely distributed in nature as a constituent of many lipids inside brucella .
the directed movement of brucella within host cell .
the brucella operon promoter that initiates virb operon's transcription .
a brucella virb promoter binding process when the binding molecule is vbjr .
the biological process that brucella's rica protein binding with human rabs protien .
a brucella virb promoter binding process when the binding molecule is ihf .
a brucella virb promoter binding process when the binding molecule is hutc .
a dimer of ihf alpha and ihf beta ,   a specific dna - binding protein complex that functions in genetic recombination as well as in translational and transcriptional control .
the brucella operon that contains 12 genes necessary for brucella type iv seretion system .
the brucella operon that contains the orfs for erya ,  eryb ,  eryc and eryd .
the biological process of brucella to utilize erythritol as its carbon resource when it grows inside its host cell ,  e .g .
brucella operon is a functioning unit of brucella genomic dna containing a cluster of genes or orf  ( open reading frame )  under the control of a single promoter .
the brucella promoter is the gene segment that serves as the initiation site where rna polymerase binds to and initiates the transcription of certain genes .
a biological process when caspase - 2 is activated .
the disposition of host cell that undergo programmed cell death triggered by brucella infection
a resistance disposition of host cell that in virtue of host cell's survival by not undergoing the programmed cell death when triggered by brucella infection .
a programmed cell death process happen in macrophage which begins when macrophage receives an internal  ( e .g .
a type of mcrophage cell death that is morphologically characterized by an increasingly translucent cytoplasm ,  swelling of organelles ,  minor ultrastructural modifications of the nucleus  ( specifically ,  dilatation of the nuclear membrane and condensation of chromatin into small ,  irregular ,  circumscribed patches )  and increased cell volume  ( oncosis )  ,  culminating in the disruption of the plasma membrane and subsequent loss of intracellular contents .
a process of establishing brucella infection in macrophage when the brucella is the rb51 vaccine strain .
a process of establishing brucella infection in macrophage when the brucella is a virulent strain .
a pathogen virulence process where the pathogen is brucella .
the intracellua reproduction of brucella's new individuals that contain some portion of their genetic material inherited from brucella .
a cell that bears pathogen host role
a continous treatment duration that includes 6 weeks of deoxycycline treatment .
a continous treatment duration that includes 2 weeks of streptomysin treatment .
a continous treatment duration that includes 3 weeks of streptomysin treatment .
the adaptive immune response stimulated by brucella protective antigen
the brucella protecitve antigen stimulated acquiref immune reponse that is mediated by t - cell
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene rbsk .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene mgtb .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene nodv .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene gltd .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene virb11 .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene virb10 .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene virb9 .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene virb8 .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene virb6 .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene virb5 .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene virb4 .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene virb3 .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene virb2 .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene virb1 .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene hemh .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene omp10 .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene gnd .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene vjbr .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene gtrb .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene deor .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene flgi .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene gntr .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene caib .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene nore .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene nord .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene narg .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene nrdh .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene wbpw .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene manb .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene oxyr .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene xfp .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene glpk .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene ssub .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene cydd .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene cydc .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene cydb .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene rbsc .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene pcs .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene aidb .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene pyrb .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene divk .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene ugpb .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene eryc .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene bra0692 .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene fbpa .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene sodc .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene rpir .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene gcvp .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene gcvt .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene xsea .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene zwf .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene nika .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene galcd .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene eryb .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene fdha .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene arag .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene dacf .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene cobw .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene dppa  ( not ortho to brume )  .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene znua .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene znuc .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene flge .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene motb .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene flif .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene rpsa .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene phea .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene pgm .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene ilvd .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene ndvb .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene glnd .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene cysi .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene meth .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene malk .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene hisd .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene pgi .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene pyrd .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene vsrb .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene baca .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene purd .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene aroc .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene exsa .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene purf .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene tldd .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene thrc .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene dsba .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene wbpl .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene wbkb .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene rfbd .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene pera .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene gmd .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene wbka .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene pmm .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene wbpz .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene feup .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene feuq .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene htra .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene lpsa .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene gale .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene spott .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene omp25 .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene purn .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene purm .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene glya .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene purl .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene tig .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene amic .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene nifs .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene arti .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene wbda .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene glna .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene cysk .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene uvra .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene lon .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene hfq .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene ntry .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene ntrc .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene ppid .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene upps .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene reca .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene rpoa .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene gloa .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene cobb .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene aspb .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene ilvc .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene miaa .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene serb .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene pnca .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene aspc .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene lysr .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene pth .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene leua .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene dsbb .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene alka .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene maca .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene dut .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene ansc .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene pure .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene pyc .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene livh .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene purh .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene leuc .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene rpls .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene omp19 .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene lysa .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene hpt .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene hisc .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene hisf .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene bvrr .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene bvrs .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene dnak .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene pmta .
a mutant of strain brucella suis 1330 that lacks an intact gene mutm .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis bv .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene meth .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene pgi .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene tig .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene uvra .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene miaa .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene aroc .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene aspc .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene baca .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene cysi .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene dut .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene glna .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene gloa .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene glya .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene gmd .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene hfq .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene hisc .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene hisd .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene hisf .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene hpt .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene ilvd .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene leua .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene leuc .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene lysa .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene ntrc .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene ntry .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene omp19 .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene pepn .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene pgm .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene phea .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene pth .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene purd .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene purf .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene purh .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene purm .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene purn .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene pyc .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene pyrd .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene reca .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene rfbd .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene rpls .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene rpoa .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene rpsa .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene flge .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene motb .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene ugpa .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene ugpb .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene znua .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene znuc .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene nrdh .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene pyrb .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene sodc .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene virb8 .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene xsea .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene narg .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene virb5 .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene virb3 .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene virb2 .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene omp10 .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene cydb .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene divk .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene flif .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene gcvp .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene gcvt .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene gltd .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene gnd .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene hemh .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis 16m that lacks an intact gene bmei0066 .
a mutant of strain brucella abortus s2308 that lacks an intact gene asp24 .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis 16m that lacks an intact gene bp26 .
a mutant of strain brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that lacks an intact gene pgk .
a processual entity that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
is a material entity that is created or changed during material processing .
a planned process which results in physical changes in a specified input material
a role borne by a material entity that is gained during a specimen collection process and that can be realized by use of the specimen in an investigation
a complementary nucleotide probe role which inheres in nucleic acid molecular entity and is realized by the use of the entity bearing the role to initiate chain elongation .
is double stranded dna that is the specified output of a polymerase chain reaction
pcr is the process in which a dna polymerase is used to amplify a piece of dna by in vitro enzymatic replication .
an objective specifiction that creates an specific output object from input materials .
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
a material entity that has the specimen role .
the use of enzymes to increase the number of molecules of a biomaterial
is a material entity that has the antigen role
a gene is a material entity that represents the entire dna sequence required for synthesis of a functional protein or rna molecule .
a disposition that a gene can be used as a blueprint for generating a new form of product such as protein .
a gene disposition that a gene can be used as a blueprint for generating a protein  ( i .e . ,  a gene encodes for a protein )  .
a gene disposition that represents the disposition of gene being "pseudo" ,  i .e . ,  the gene is a pseudogene .
a gene disposition that is "other" ,  i .e . ,  the gene is for a gene product that is not listed for another other gene type .
the genome of an organism of bacteria
the genome of an organism of brucella
the genome of an organism of brucella suis 1330
the genome of an organism of brucella melitensis bv .
the genome of an organism of brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308
a gene of an organism of bacteria
a gene of an organism of brucella
a gene of an organism of brucella suis 1330
a gene of an organism of brucella melitensis bv .
a gene of an organism of brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308
a gene of brucella suis 1330 that has a protein - coding gene disposition
a gene of brucella melitensis bv .
a gene of brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that has a protein - coding gene disposition
a gene of brucella suis 1330 that has a pseudo gene disposition
a gene of brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that has a pseudo gene disposition
a gene of brucella suis 1330 that has a other gene disposition
a representation that is either the output of a clinical history taking or a physical examination or an image finding ,  or some combination thereof .
a series of statements representing health - relevant qualities of a patient and of a patient's family .
a representation of the clinically significant bodily components and / or bodily processes of a human being that is inferred from the totality of relevant clinical findings .
a representation of an image that supports an inference to an assertion about some quality of a patient .
a representation of a quality of a specimen that is the output of a laboratory test and that can support an inference to an assertion about some quality of the patient .
a representation of a quality of a patient that is  ( 1 )  recorded by a clinician because the quality is hypothesized to be of clinical significance and  ( 2 )  refers to qualities obtaining in the patient prior to their becoming detectable in a clinical history taking or physical examination .
a quality of a patient that is observed by the patient or a processual entity experienced by the patient ,  either of which is hypothesized by the patient to be a realization of a disease .
a quality of a patient that is  ( a )  a deviation from clinical normality that exists in virtue of the realization of a disease and  ( b )  is observable .
a  ( combination of )  quality ( ies )  of an organism determined by the interaction of its genetic make - up and environment that differentiates specific instances of a species from other instances of the same species .
a quality of a patient ,  a material entity that is part of a patient ,  or a processual entity that a patient participates in ,  any one of which is observed in a physical examination and is deemed by the clinician to be of clinical significance .
a manifestation of a disease that is detectable in a clinical history taking or physical examination .
a manifestation of a disease that exists prior to the time at which it would be detected in a clinical history taking or physical examination ,  if the patient were to present to a clinician .
a clinically abnormal phenotype .
a clinically abnormal phenotype that is characteristic of a single disease .
a physical sign in which a non - zero value is standardly considered to be an indication that the organism is alive .
a disposition in an organism that constitutes an increased risk of the organism's subsequently developing the disease x .
a disposition  ( i )  to undergo pathological processes that  ( ii )  exists in an organism because of one or more disorders in that organism .
a predisposition to disease of type x whose physical basis is a constitutional abnormality in an organism's genome .
a disease whose physical basis is an acquired genetic disorder .
a disease whose physical basis is a constitutional genetic disorder .
homeostasis that is clinically abnormal for an organism of a given type and age in a given environment .
homeostasis of a type that is not clinically abnormal .
a quality which is an spatial arrangement or distribution of a ( n )  independent continuant ( s )  across a three dimensional region .
a configuration which deviates in some way from a canonical configuration for a particular organism .
a material entity which is clinically abnormal and part of an extended organism .
a disorder whose etiology involves  ( 1 )  a modification to the patient's genomic dna which leads to alterations in the normal expression pattern of the genome ,  but is  ( 2 )  not a change in the nucleotide sequence .
a disorder whose etiology involves an abnormality in the nucleotide sequence of an organism's genome .
a genetic disorder acquired by a single cell in an organism that leads to a population of cells within the organism bearing the disorder .
a genetic disorder inherited during conception that is part of all cells in the organism .
an interview in which a clinician elicits a clinical history from a patient or from a third party who is reporting on behalf of the patient .
a measurement assay that has as input a patient - derived specimen ,  and as output a result that represents a quality of the specimen .
a sequence of acts of observing and measuring qualities of a patient performed by a clinician ;  measurements may occur with and without elicitation .
a process in an organism that leads to a subsequent disorder .
a bodily process that is clinically abnormal .
the totality of all processes through which a given disease instance is realized .
a disease course that  ( a )  does not terminate in a return to normal homeostasis and  ( b )  would ,  absent intervention ,  fall within abnormal homeostatic range .
a disease course that  ( a )  does not terminate in a return to normal homeostasis and  ( b )  would ,  absent intervention ,  involve an increasing deviation from homeostasis .
a disease course that terminates in a return to normal homeostasis .
the representation of a conclusion of a diagnostic process .
a value for a quality reported in a lab report and asserted by the testing lab or the kit manufacturer to be normal based on a statistical treatment of values from a reference population .
todo: define ,  relate to disorder ,  and place in the ogms hierarchy .
an anatomical structure  ( fma )  is pathological whenever  ( 1 )  it has come into being as a result of changes in some pre - existing canonical anatomical structure ,   ( 2 )  through processes other than the expression of the normal complement of genes of an organism of the given type ,  and  ( 3 )  is predisposed to have health - related consequences for the organism in question manifested by symptoms and signs .
todo: define ,  relate to disorder ,  and place in the ogms hierarchy .
a pathological bodily process in which a canonical anatomical structure becomes a pathological anatomical structure .
a pathological bodily process in which matter is reorganized in such a way as to give rise to new pathological formations which take the place of entities existing earlier .
todo: define .
todo: define .
todo: define .
a pattern of signs and symptoms that typically co - occur .
an object aggregate consisting of an organism and all material entities located within the organism ,  overlapping the organism ,  or occupying sites formed in part by the organism .
a communication from a patient about something they perceive as being abnormal about their body or life .
a structurally anomalous part of an organism acquired during fetal development and present at birth  ( but not necessarily hereditary )  which is hypothesized to be harmful for the organism .
a processual entity whose completion is hypothesized  ( by a healthcare provider )  to alleviate the signs and symptoms associated with a disorder
a processual entity during which a patient participating in a disease course gradually returns to participating in a canonical life course .
a processual entity which has as parts all the processes in which a given organism is participant .
a hypothesis about the course of a disease .
a disease course with a rapid onset but typical unfolding of signs and symptoms after this rapid onset .
a process which is a response by an organism's tissues that is generally identified by swelling or localized pain
a social process that has at least one human participant and that includes as parts the treatment ,  diagnosis ,  or prevention of disease or injury -  - or the following of instructions of another human for treatment ,  diagnosis ,  or prevention -  - of a participant in the process
a temporally - connected health care process that has as participants an organization or person realizing the health care provider role and a person realizing the patient role .
todo
todo
todo
todo
a part of an organism that has undergone a change in structural integrity and has a higher chance of dysfunction or causing dysfunction in another structure .
a planned process that has the objective to reduce the risk of acquiring one or more disorders .
an interpretive process that has as input a clinical picture of a given patient and as output an assertion  ( diagnostic statement )  to the effect that the patient has a disease of such and such a type .
an amino acid chain that is produced de novo by ribosome - mediated translation of a genetically - encoded mrna .
a caspase - 1 - like protease that is a translation product of the human casp2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is encoded in the genome of brucella suis 1330 .
a protein that is encoded in the genome of brucella melitensis bv .
a protein that is encoded in the genome of brucella abortus bv .
a protein that is encoded in the genome of brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 .
a protein that is encoded in the genome of brucella ovis atcc 25840 .
a protein that is encoded in the genome of brucella canis atcc 23365 .
a protein that is encoded in the genome of brucella melitensis atcc 23457 .
suggested definition: a process by which a pathogen passes from one host organism to a second host organism of the same species .
indirect transmission is a transmission process during which the pathogen is indirectly transferred from a reservoir ,  source or host to another host by intermediary vehicles ,  vectors or as airborne dust particles .
lower ,  narrow portion of the uterus where it joins with the top end of the vagina .
an exocrine gland which secretes bile and functions in metabolism of protein and carbohydrate and fat ,  synthesizes substances involved in the clotting of the blood ,  synthesizes vitamin a ,  detoxifies poisonous substances ,  stores glycogen ,  and breaks down worn - out erythrocytes [ go ]  .
a paired organ which has the production of urine as its primary function .
flexible tissue found in the hollow interior of bones .
a vaccine is a processed material with the function that when administered ,  it prevents or ameliorates a disorder in a target organism by inducing or modifying adaptive immune responses specific to the antigens in the vaccine .
a brucella abortus vaccine that expresses cu / zn sod with dna plasmid pcdna .
brucella abortus vaccine rb51 is a brucella abortus vaccine that is licensed in the usa since 1992 .
a live attenuated brucella abortus vaccine that is licensed and used in many countries .
a vaccine that protects against brucella that causes brucellosis in animals and humans .
an organismal quality that indicates an organism  ( e .g . ,  human )  is immunized against a disease .
a b . melitensis vaccine that is recombinant b . melitensis rev .
a b . melitensis vaccine that is composed of live brucella melitensis attenuated mutant delivered using a microsphere delivery system .
a brucella subunit vaccine that uses recombinant brucella melitensis 16m p39 ,  a putative periplasmic binding protein .
protective antigen is an antigen that stimulates protective immunity when used in vivo .
vaccine preparation is a manufacturing process to produce a vaccine .
a b . melitensis vaccine that is recombinant b . melitensis rev .
a brucella vaccine against infection wtih b . suis
an orally administrable brucellosis vaccine that was was developed in china .
a b . abortus vaccine that is recombinant b . abortus strain 19 vaccine with the p39 gene deletion .
a b . abortus vaccine that uses a conjugate vaccine format
a b . abortus vaccine that uses a recombinant vector .
live attenuated brucella vaccine is a live attenuated vaccine that protects against a brucella infection .
live attenuated brucella vaccine is a live attenuated vaccine that protects against a brucella abortus infection .
live attenuated brucella vaccine is a live attenuated vaccine that protects against a brucella melitensis infection .
live attenuated brucella vaccine is a live attenuated vaccine that protects against a brucella melitensis infection .
b . abortus l7 / l12 is a b . abortus subunit vaccine using l7 / l12 that is formed by recombinant human serum albumin  ( has )  - l7 / l12 fusion protein .
b . melitensis bp26 and omp31 deletion vaccine is a brucella melitensis vaccine that has double deletions of bp26 and omp31 .
b . abortus l7 / l12 fused to mbp is a b . abortus subunit vaccine using l7 / l12 that uses recombinant l7 / l12 fused on maltose binding protein mbp .
b . abortus bls - l7 / l12 is a b . abortus subunit vaccine using l7 / l12 that is made as a recombinant bls - l7 / l12 fusion protein vaccine .
