an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
a continuant that is a bearer of quality and realizable entity entities ,  in which other entities inhere and which itself cannot inhere in anything .
an occurrent that has temporal proper parts and for some time t ,  p s - depends_on some material entity at t .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
a continuant that inheres in or is borne by other entities .
a continuant that is dependent on one or other independent continuant bearers .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
a 2d surface of an anatomical continuant .
a straight line through space ,  intersecting an anatomical entity .
an axis that extends through an organism from head end to opposite end of body or tail .
an axis that extends through an organism or organism part from the part of the organism or organism part attached to a substrate  ( basal )  to the furthest from the attachment  ( apical )  .
an axis that extends from the point of attachment of a structure  ( proximal )  to the  point furthest away from the plane of attachment  ( distal )  .
an axis that is approximately perpendicular to the anterior - posterior axis and that extends through the horizontal plane of the body .
an axis that bisects an organism from left to right sides of body ,  through a sagittal plane .
anatomical plane that divides body into anterior and posterior parts .
anatomical plane that divides bilateral body into dorsal and ventral parts .
anatomical region that overlaps the anterior and dorsal regions of a body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the anterior and ventral regions of a body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the posterior and lateral regions of the body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the anterior and lateral regions of a body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the posterior and dorsal regions of the body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the posterior and ventral regions of a body or body part .
an anatomical region bounded by a plane perpendicular to an axis through the middle .
an anatomical region that is the entire part of an anatomical structure anterior to a transverse plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
an anatomical region that is the entire part of an anatomical structure posterior to a transverse plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
anatomical side that is located on the apical end of an organism or structure .
anatomical side that is located on the basal end of an organism or structure .
an anatomical region that is the entire part of an anatomical structure dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
an anatomical region that is the entire part of an anatomical structure ventral to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same horizontal plane .
a subdivision of an anatomical compartment .
anatomical region anteriorly located on the body or body part .
anatomical region posteriorly located on the body or body part .
anatomical region located on the apical end on the body or body part .
anatomical region located basally on the body or body part .
anatomical region dorsally located on the body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the dorsal and lateral regions of a body or body part .
anatomical region laterally located on the body or body part .
anatomical region ventrally located on the body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the ventral and lateral regions of a body or body part .
an anatomical axis that extends from the center of the body outwards or externally .
an axis that extends from the oral opening to the furthest point in an organism that is directly opposite .
anatomical surface that is located on the anterior side of the body or body part .
anatomical surface that is located on the posterior side of the body or body part .
anatomical surface that is located on the apical side of the body or body part .
anatomical surface that is located on the basal side of the body or body part .
anatomical surface that located on the dorsal side of the body or body part .
anatomical surface that located on the lateral side of the body or body part .
anatomical surface that is located on the ventral side of the body or body part .
a flat 2d plane intersecting an anatomical continuant ,  dividing it into two adjacent portions .
anatomical plane that divides a bilateral body into left and right parts ,  not necessarily of even size .
an axis that extends from the center of organism to one or other side .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
material anatomical entity that is a single connected structure with inherent 3d shape generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
a one dimensional ,  immaterial anatomical entity .
a non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions .
the maintenance of the structure and integrity of the mitochondrial genome ;  includes replication and segregation of the mitochondrial chromosome .
the production of new individuals that contain some portion of genetic material inherited from one or more parent organisms .
the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the mitotic spindle .
the formation of a double membrane - bounded structure ,  the autophagosome ,  that occurs when a specialized membrane sac ,  called the isolation membrane ,  starts to enclose a portion of the cytoplasm .
the cell cycle process in which replicated homologous chromosomes are organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two sets during the mitotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle 'gap' phase which is the interval between the completion of dna segregation by mitosis and the beginning of dna synthesis .
the cell cycle phase ,  following g1 ,  during which dna synthesis takes place as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle 'gap' phase which is the interval between the completion of dna synthesis and the beginning of dna segregation by mitosis .
a cell cycle phase during which nuclear division occurs ,  and which is comprises the phases: prophase ,  metaphase ,  anaphase and telophase and occurs as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle phase which is the first stage of m phase of mitosis and during which chromosomes condense and the two daughter centrioles and their asters migrate toward the poles of the cell .
the cell cycle phase ,  following prophase ,  during which chromosomes become aligned on the equatorial plate of the cell as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle phase during which chromosomes separate and migrate towards the poles of the spindle the as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle phase which follows anaphase during m phase of mitosis and during which the chromosomes arrive at the poles of the cell and the division of the cytoplasm starts .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription mediated by rna polymerase ii .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the microtubule spindle during a meiotic cell cycle .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
the cell cycle phase which is the first stage of prophase i in meiosis ,  and during which the chromosomes first become visible .
the cell cycle phase which follows leptotene during prophase i of meiosis ,  and during which each chromosome pairs with its homolog ;  the two become aligned and crossing over may occur .
the cell cycle phase which follows zygotene during prophase i of meiosis ,  and during which crossing over occurs between a chromatid in one partner and another chromatid in the homologous chromosome .
the cell cycle phase which follows pachytene during prophase i of meiosis ,  during which the homologous chromosomes begin to separate and the synaptonemal complex dissolves .
the cell cycle phase which follows diplotene during prophase i of meiosis ,  the separation of homologous chromosomes is complete and crossing over has occurred .
progression through the phases of the mitotic cell cycle ,  the most common eukaryotic cell cycle ,  which canonically comprises four successive phases called g1 ,  s ,  g2 ,  and m and includes replication of the genome and the subsequent segregation of chromosomes into daughter cells .
a cell cycle phase during which nuclear division occurs ,  and which is comprises the phases: prophase ,  metaphase ,  anaphase and telophase .
the division of a cell nucleus into two nuclei ,  with dna and other nuclear contents distributed between the daughter nuclei .
a vacuole that is maintained at an acidic ph and which contains degradative enzymes ,  including a wide variety of acid hydrolases .
the cell cycle process in which sister chromatids are organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna transcribed from the mitochondrial genome and occurring in the mitochondrion .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways involving retinoids ,  any member of a class of isoprenoids that contain or are derived from four prenyl groups linked head - to - tail .
blood vessel formation when new vessels emerge from the proliferation of pre - existing blood vessels .
cell motility due to movement of eukaryotic cilia or bacterial - type flagella or archaeal - type flagella .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or direction of cell growth .
any process in which external signals modulate the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell growth ,  the irreversible increase in size of a cell over time .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a blood vessel over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a process that results in a parallel arrangement of microtubules .
a conditioned aversion to a specific chemical compound as a result of that compound being coupled with a noxious stimulus .
the formation of the acrosome from the spermatid golgi .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand .
a programmed cell death process observed in bacteria and filamentous fungi and leading to spontaneous death by lysis .
any process in an organism that results in the killing of its own cells or those of another organism ,  including in some cases the death of the other organism .
any process mediated by an organism that results in the death of cells in the host organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups into an amino acid in a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate of addition of phosphate groups to amino acids within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups to amino acids within a protein .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the vasculature over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the series of events that restore integrity to damaged tissue that contribute to an inflammatory response .
an immune response mediated by cells expressing specific receptors for antigen produced through a somatic diversification process ,  and allowing for an enhanced secondary response to subsequent exposures to the same antigen  ( immunological memory )  .
any process of the immune system that can potentially contribute to an immune response .
the process of regulating the proliferation and elimination of myeloid cells such that the total number of myeloid cells within a whole or part of an organism is stable over time in the absence of an outside stimulus .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a leukocyte resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an inflammatory response .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a myeloid leukocyte resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a myeloid cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
a change in morphology and behavior of a macrophage resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
a change in morphology and behavior of a lymphocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the change in morphology and behavior of a natural killer cell resulting from exposure a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
a change in morphology and behavior of a leukocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
any process involved in the development or functioning of the immune system ,  an organismal system for calibrated responses to potential internal or invasive threats .
an inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus ,  which can be include any number of t cell or b cell epitopes .
an acute inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a leukocyte .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a myeloid leukocyte .
an inflammatory response resulting in cell death or dysfunction mediated by activation of the classical complement pathway or induction of effector cell phagocytosis ,  cytolysis mechanisms via complement or fc receptors following the binding of antibodies to cell surface antigens on a target cell ,  or mediated by the direct binding of antibody to cellular receptors .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a lymphocyte .
an immune response mediated by lymphocytes expressing specific receptors for antigen produced through a somatic diversification process that includes somatic recombination of germline gene segments encoding immunoglobulin superfamily domains .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organismal system whose objective is to provide calibrated responses by an organism to a potential internal or invasive threat ,  over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
an inflammatory response to an exogenous environmental antigen or an endogenous antigen initiated by the adaptive immune system .
inflammation which comprises a rapid ,  short - lived ,  relatively uniform response to acute injury or antigenic challenge and is characterized by accumulations of fluid ,  plasma proteins ,  and granulocytic leukocytes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune effector process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune effector process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune effector process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of lymphocyte mediated immunity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of lymphocyte mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of lymphocyte mediated immunity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell mediated immunity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell mediated immunity .
the controlled release of a peptide from a cell or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response based on somatic recombination of immune receptors built from immunoglobulin superfamily domains .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response based on somatic recombination of immune receptors built from immunoglobulin superfamily domains .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response based on somatic recombination of immune receptors built from immunoglobulin superfamily domains .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of hypersensitivity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of hypersensitivity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of hypersensitivity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immunoglobulin mediated immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immunoglobulin mediated immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immunoglobulin mediated immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of type ii hypersensitivity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of type ii hypersensitivity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of type ii hypersensitivity .
a developmental process in which a progressive change in the state of some part of an organism specifically contributes to its ability to form offspring .
a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the renal system .
the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cilium .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cilium movement ,  the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cilium .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cilium movement ,  the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cilium .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cilium movement ,  the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cilium .
a molecular process that can be carried out by the action of a single macromolecular machine ,  usually via direct physical interactions with other molecular entities .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any nucleic acid .
any molecular function by which a gene product interacts selectively and non - covalently with dna  ( deoxyribonucleic acid )  .
combining with a steroid hormone and transmitting the signal within the cell to initiate a change in cell activity or function .
catalysis of a biochemical reaction at physiological temperatures .
combining with an extracellular or intracellular signal and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to initiate a change in cell activity or state as part of signal transduction .
combining with an extracellular signal and transmitting the signal across the membrane by activating an associated g - protein ;  promotes the exchange of gdp for gtp on the alpha subunit of a heterotrimeric g - protein complex .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with one or more specific sites on a receptor molecule ,  a macromolecule that undergoes combination with a hormone ,  neurotransmitter ,  drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function .
enables the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells .
enables the transfer of dicarboxylic acids from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of organic acids from one side of a membrane to the other .
the selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric ,  interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein or protein complex  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  .
a location ,  relative to cellular compartments and structures ,  occupied by a macromolecular machine when it carries out a molecular function .
the space external to the outermost structure of a cell .
that part of a multicellular organism outside the cells proper ,  usually taken to be outside the plasma membranes ,  and occupied by fluid .
the rigid or semi - rigid envelope lying outside the cell membrane of plant ,  fungal ,  most prokaryotic cells and some protozoan parasites ,  maintaining their shape and protecting them from osmotic lysis .
the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
a material entity of anatomical origin  ( part of or deriving from an organism )  that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
a small ,  dense body one or more of which are present in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells .
all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures
a spherical to rod shaped organelle that generates the majority of a cell's supply of atp via cellular respiration .
the double lipid bilayer enclosing the mitochondrion and separating its contents from the cell cytoplasm ;  includes the intermembrane space .
the region between the inner and outer lipid bilayers of the mitochondrial envelope .
the gel - like material ,  with considerable fine structure ,  that lies in the matrix space ,  or lumen ,  of a mitochondrion .
the digestive component of the cell .
a closed structure ,  found only in eukaryotic cells ,  that is completely surrounded by unit membrane and contains liquid material .
the volume enclosed within the vacuolar membrane .
network of interconnected ,  flattened ,  and / or tubular membrane ,  known as cisternae .
the volume enclosed by the membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum .
endoplamic reticulum that does not contain ribosomes ,  which synthesizes lipids ,  phospholipids ,  and steroids .
network of interconnected ,  flattened ,  and / or tubular membrane ,  known as cisternae .
a compound membranous cytoplasmic organelle of eukaryotic cells ,  consisting of flattened ,  ribosome - free vesicles arranged in a more or less regular stack .
any vesicle associated with the golgi complex and involved in mediating transport within the golgi or between the golgi and other parts of the cell .
the network of interconnected tubular and cisternal structures located at the convex side of the golgi apparatus ,  which abuts the endoplasmic reticulum .
an intracellular non - membrane - bounded organelle comprising a matrix of coalesced lipids surrounded by a phospholipid monolayer .
the array of microtubules and associated molecules that forms between opposite poles of a eukaryotic cell during mitosis or meiosis and serves to move the duplicated chromosomes apart .
the part of the cytoplasm that does not contain organelles but which does contain other particulate matter ,  such as protein complexes .
a multiribosomal structure representing a linear array of ribosomes held together by messenger rna .
any of the various filamentous elements that form the internal framework of cells ,  and typically remain after treatment of the cells with mild detergent to remove membrane constituents and soluble components of the cytoplasm .
the membrane surrounding a cell that separates the cell from its external environment .
a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface and of some cytoplasmic parts .
the region of a cell that lies just beneath the plasma membrane and often ,  but not always ,  contains a network of actin filaments and associated proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates .
any cellular metabolic process involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleotides .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a purine nucleotide ,  a compound consisting of nucleoside  ( a purine base linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a purine nucleotide ,  a compound consisting of nucleoside  ( a purine base linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
any cellular metabolic process involving deoxyribonucleic acid .
the covalent alteration of one or more nucleotide sites in dna ,  resulting in a change in its properties .
the addition of alkyl groups to many positions on all four bases of dna .
the covalent transfer of a methyl group to either n - 6 of adenine or c - 5 or n - 4 of cytosine .
any process in which dna and associated proteins are formed into a compact ,  orderly structure .
the cellular synthesis of rna on a template of dna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription mediated by rna polymerase ii .
the synthesis of rna from a dna template by rna polymerase ii  ( rnap ii )  ,  originating at an rna polymerase ii promoter .
the synthesis of rna from a mitochondrial dna template ,  usually by a specific mitochondrial rna polymerase .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the process of introducing a phosphate group on to a protein .
a protein modification process that results in the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid ,  e .g .
a protein glycosylation process in which a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit is added to a protein via the n4 atom of peptidyl - asparagine ,  the omega - n of arginine ,  or the n1' atom peptidyl - tryptophan .
the hydrolysis of proteins into smaller polypeptides and / or amino acids by cleavage of their peptide bonds .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving compounds derived from amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving isoprenoid compounds ,  isoprene  ( 2 - methylbuta - 1 , 3 - diene )  or compounds containing or derived from linked isoprene  ( 3 - methyl - 2 - butenylene )  residues .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving terpenoids ,  any member of a class of compounds characterized by an isoprenoid chemical structure and including derivatives with various functional groups .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aromatic compounds ,  any organic compound characterized by one or more planar rings ,  each of which contains conjugated double bonds and delocalized pi electrons ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving coenzymes ,  any of various nonprotein organic cofactors that are required ,  in addition to an enzyme and a substrate ,  for an enzymatic reaction to proceed .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any phosphorylated nucleoside .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of atp ,  adenosine 5' - triphosphate ,  a universally important coenzyme and enzyme regulator .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a folic acid - containing compound ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving vitamins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a diverse group of vitamins that are soluble in water .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving biotin ,  cis - tetrahydro - 2 - oxothieno ( 3 , 4 - d ) imidazoline - 4 - valeric acid ;  the  (  +  )  enantiomer is very widely distributed in cells and serves as a carrier in a number of enzymatic beta - carboxylation reactions .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving thiamine  ( vitamin b1 )  ,  a water soluble vitamin present in fresh vegetables and meats ,  especially liver .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving of any of a diverse group of vitamins that are soluble in organic solvents and relatively insoluble in water .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of the vitamin a compounds ,  retinol ,  retinal  ( retinaldehyde )  and retinoic acid ,  all of which are derivatives of beta - carotene .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element sulfur or compounds that contain sulfur ,  such as the amino acids methionine and cysteine or the tripeptide glutathione .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element phosphorus or compounds that contain phosphorus ,  usually in the form of a phosphate group  ( po4 )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the phosphate group ,  the anion or salt of any phosphoric acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic or inorganic compounds that contain nitrogen .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  or cellular components  ( such as complexes and organelles )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter ,  pore or motor protein .
the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of anions ,  atoms or small molecules with a net negative charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of dicarboxylic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the process in which a drug is transported across a membrane .
the transport of substances that occurs outside cells .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of ions at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of metal ions at the level of a cell .
the directed movement of proteins in a cell ,  including the movement of proteins between specific compartments or structures within a cell ,  such as organelles of a eukaryotic cell .
the evagination of a membrane ,  resulting in formation of a vesicle .
the process in which vesicles are directed to specific destination membranes .
the cellular catabolic process in which cells digest parts of their own cytoplasm ;  allows for both recycling of macromolecular constituents under conditions of cellular stress and remodeling the intracellular structure for cell differentiation .
a programmed cell death process which begins when a cell receives an internal  ( e .g .
the breakdown of structures such as organelles ,  proteins ,  or other macromolecular structures during apoptosis .
the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cell or subcellular component without the involvement of an external agent such as a transporter or a pore .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
reactions ,  triggered in response to the presence of a foreign body or the occurrence of an injury ,  which result in restriction of damage to the organism attacked or prevention / recovery from the infection caused by the attack .
the immediate defensive reaction  ( by vertebrate tissue )  to infection or injury caused by chemical or physical agents .
any immune system process that functions in the calibrated response of an organism to a potential internal or invasive threat .
a defense response that is mediated by cells .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle within a cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the nucleus .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion ;  includes mitochondrial morphogenesis and distribution ,  and replication of the mitochondrial genome as well as synthesis of new mitochondrial components .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrial membrane ,  either of the lipid bilayer surrounding a mitochondrion .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any cellular process that depends upon or alters the microtubule cytoskeleton ,  that part of the cytoskeleton comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
a microtubule - based process that results in the movement of organelles ,  other microtubules ,  or other cellular components .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vacuole .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions in the vacuole or between a vacuole and its surroundings .
the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the spindle ,  the array of microtubules and associated molecules that forms between opposite poles of a eukaryotic cell during dna segregation and serves to move the duplicated chromosomes apart .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the microtubule spindle during a mitotic cell cycle .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle during a meiotic cell cycle in males .
the formation of the spindle during meiosis ii of a meiotic cell cycle in males .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle during a meiotic cell cycle in females .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle during meiosis ii of a meiotic cell cycle in females .
the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
the cell cycle process in which chromatin structure is compacted prior to and during mitosis in eukaryotic cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitosis .
the cell cycle phase which is the first stage of meiosis i and during which chromosomes condense and the two daughter centrioles and their asters migrate toward the poles of the cell .
the cell cycle phase ,  following prophase i ,  during which chromosomes become aligned on the equatorial plate of the cell as part of meiosis i .
the cell cycle phase during which chromosomes separate and migrate towards the poles of the spindle the as part of meiosis i .
the cell cycle phase which follows anaphase i of meiosis and during which the chromosomes arrive at the poles of the cell and the division of the cytoplasm starts .
the second nuclear division of meiosis ,  in which the two chromatids in each chromosome are separated ,  resulting in four daughter nuclei from the two nuclei produced in meiosis ii .
the cell cycle phase which is the first stage of meiosis ii and during which chromosomes condense and the two daughter centrioles and their asters migrate toward the poles of the cell .
the cell cycle phase ,  following prophase ii ,  during which chromosomes become aligned on the equatorial plate of the cell as part of meiosis ii .
the cell cycle phase during which chromosomes separate and migrate towards the poles of the spindle the as part of meiosis ii .
the cell cycle phase which follows anaphase ii of meiosis and during which the chromosomes arrive at the poles of the cell and the division of the cytoplasm starts .
a cell cycle process by which the cell nucleus divides as part of a meiotic cell cycle in the male germline .
a cell cycle process comprising the steps by which a cell progresses through male meiosis ii ,  the second meiotic division in the male germline .
a cell cycle process by which the cell nucleus divides as part of a meiotic cell cycle in the female germline .
the cell cycle process in which the second meiotic division occurs in the female germline .
any process that mediates interactions between a cell and its surroundings .
the attachment of a cell ,  either to another cell or to an underlying substrate such as the extracellular matrix ,  via cell adhesion molecules .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell adhesion .
the cellular process in which a signal is conveyed to trigger a change in the activity or state of a cell .
a series of molecular signals that proceeds with an activated receptor promoting the exchange of gdp for gtp on the alpha - subunit of an associated heterotrimeric g - protein complex .
any process that mediates the transfer of information from one cell to another .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
the generation and maintenance of gametes in a multicellular organism .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an immature germ cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure  ( gamete )  .
the developmental process by which male germ line stem cells self renew or give rise to successive cell types resulting in the development of a spermatozoa .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a spermatid over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the assembly and organization of the sperm flagellar axoneme ,  the bundle of microtubules and associated proteins that forms the core of the eukaryotic sperm flagellum ,  and is responsible for movement .
the specialization of the spermatid nucleus during the development of a spermatid into a mature male gamete competent for fertilization .
generation of the female gamete ;  specialised haploid cells produced by meiosis and along with a male gamete takes part in sexual reproduction .
the union of male and female gametes to form a zygote .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progress through the mitotic cell cycle .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of nervous tissue over time ,  from its formation to its mature state .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the central nervous system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the brain over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a developmental process that is a deterioration and loss of function over time .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the elimination by an organism of the waste products that arise as a result of metabolic activity .
the sequential process in which the multiple coagulation factors of the blood interact ,  ultimately resulting in the formation of an insoluble fibrin clot ;  it may be divided into three stages: stage 1 ,  the formation of intrinsic and extrinsic prothrombin converting principle ;  stage 2 ,  the formation of thrombin ;  stage 3 ,  the formation of stable fibrin polymers .
the stopping of bleeding  ( loss of body fluid )  or the arrest of the circulation to an organ or part .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a visual stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the sequence of reactions within a cell required to convert absorbed photons into a molecular signal .
the sequence of reactions within a cell required to convert absorbed photons from visible light into a molecular signal .
the sequence of reactions within a cell required to convert absorbed photons from uv light into a molecular signal ;  ultraviolet radiation is electromagnetic radiation with a wavelength in the range of 10 to 400 nanometers .
the series of events required for an organism to receive an auditory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory chemical stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive an olfactory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of animals  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli ,  via a mechanism that involves nervous system activity .
the acquisition and processing of information and / or the storage and retrieval of this information over time .
any process in an organism in which a relatively long - lasting adaptive behavioral change occurs as the result of experience .
the activities involved in the mental information processing system that receives  ( registers )  ,  modifies ,  stores ,  and retrieves informational stimuli .
the memory process that deals with the storage ,  retrieval and modification of information received a short time  ( up to about 30 minutes )  ago .
the memory process that deals with the storage ,  retrieval and modification of information a long time  ( typically weeks ,  months or years )  after receiving that information .
the behavioral interactions between organisms for the purpose of mating ,  or sexual reproduction resulting in the formation of zygotes .
the pairwise union of individuals for the purpose of sexual reproduction ,  ultimately resulting in the formation of zygotes .
the act of sexual union between male and female ,  involving the transfer of sperm .
the specific behavior of an organism that recur with measured regularity .
any biological process in an organism that recurs with a regularity of approximately 24 hours .
the specific movement from place to place of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli .
behavior associated with the intake of food .
the behavior of an organism in response to a visual stimulus .
behavior that is dependent upon the sensation of chemicals .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a transcription factor ,  a protein required to initiate or regulate transcription .
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
any biological process that results in permanent cessation of all vital functions of a cell .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of g protein - coupled receptor signaling pathway .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of cell proliferation .
the activity of binding selectively and non - covalently to and distorting the original structure of dna ,  typically a straight helix ,  into a bend ,  or increasing the bend if the original structure was intrinsically bent due to its sequence .
learning by associating a stimulus  ( the cause )  with a particular outcome  ( the effect )  .
any process in an organism in which a relatively long - lasting adaptive behavioral change occurs in response to  ( repeated )  exposure to an olfactory cue .
the asymmetric division of cells to produce two daughter cells with different developmental potentials .
enables the transfer of a negatively charged ion from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of organic anions from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of folic acid  ( pteroylglutamic acid )  from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process in an organism in which a change in behavior of an individual occurs in response to repeated exposure to a visual cue .
catalysis of the activation of small proteins ,  such as ubiquitin or ubiquitin - like proteins ,  through the formation of an atp - dependent high - energy thiolester bond .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  including the breakdown of carbon compounds with the liberation of energy for use by the cell or organism .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ;  typically the energy - requiring part of metabolism in which simpler substances are transformed into more complex ones .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleoside ,  a nucleobase linked to either beta - d - ribofuranose  ( a ribonucleoside )  or 2 - deoxy - beta - d - ribofuranose ,   ( a deoxyribonucleoside )  ,  e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleotide ,  a nucleoside that is esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the glycose moiety ;  may be mono -  ,  di -  or triphosphate ;  this definition includes cyclic nucleotides  ( nucleoside cyclic phosphates )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleosides .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any ribonucleoside ,  a nucleoside in which purine or pyrimidine base is linked to a ribose  ( beta - d - ribofuranose )  molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of purine nucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of purine nucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a purine ribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of ribonucleoside  ( a purine base linked to a ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a purine ribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of ribonucleoside  ( a purine base linked to a ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a ribonucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a ribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a ribonucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a ribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any one of a family of organic molecules consisting of a purine or pyrimidine base covalently bonded to a sugar ribose  ( a ribonucleoside )  or deoxyribose  ( a deoxyribonucleoside )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleotides ,  any nucleoside that is esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the glycose moiety ;  may be mono -  ,  di -  or triphosphate ;  this definition includes cyclic - nucleotides  ( nucleoside cyclic phosphates )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine ribonucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of purine ribonucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a ribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a ribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine ribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of purine ribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving cobalamin  ( vitamin b12 )  ,  a water - soluble vitamin characterized by possession of a corrin nucleus containing a cobalt atom .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a ribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of ribonucleoside  ( a base linked to a ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a ribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of ribonucleoside  ( a base linked to a ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a rigid yet dynamic structure surrounding the plasma membrane that affords protection from stresses and contributes to cell morphogenesis ,  consisting of extensively cross - linked glycoproteins and carbohydrates .
a lipid bilayer that forms the outermost membrane of the cell envelope ;  enriched in polysaccharide and protein ;  the outer leaflet of the membrane contains specific lipopolysaccharide structures .
the region of a virus ,  bacterial cell ,  mitochondrion or chloroplast to which the nucleic acid is confined .
the controlled release of proteins from a cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the cell - cell signaling process in which single - celled organisms carry out coordinated responses by monitoring their own population density ,  and often also that of other microbes ,  by producing small ,  diffusible ,  signal molecules ,  detecting the concentration of these molecules ,  and triggering a signal transduction pathway when a certain threshold is reached .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to physical parameters involved in energy generation ,  such as light ,  oxygen ,  and oxidizable substrates .
a chlorophyll - containing plastid with thylakoids organized into grana and frets ,  or stroma thylakoids ,  and embedded in a stroma .
the double lipid bilayer enclosing a plastid and separating its contents from the rest of the cytoplasm ;  includes the intermembrane space .
the proteinaceous ground substance of plastids .
unstacked thylakoids that connect the grana stacks through the stroma .
sac - like membranous structures  ( cisternae )  in a chloroplast combined into stacks  ( grana )  and present singly in the stroma  ( stroma thylakoids or frets )  as interconnections between grana .
any member of a family of organelles found in the cytoplasm of plants and some protists ,  which are membrane - bounded and contain dna .
the precursor of other plastids .
the union of gametes of opposite sexes during the process of sexual reproduction to form a zygote .
the space enclosed by the double membrane of a chloroplast but excluding the thylakoid space .
the space enclosed by the double membrane of a proplastid .
a membranous cellular structure that bears the photosynthetic pigments in plants ,  algae ,  and cyanobacteria .
the series of events in which an external stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which an  ( non - living )  abiotic stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a light stimulus  ( in the form of photons )  is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a visible light stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which an ultraviolet radiation  ( uv light )  stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a biotic stimulus ,  one caused or produced by a living organism ,  is received and converted into a molecular signal .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which anatomical structures are generated and organized .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a series of molecular signals mediated by the detection of a hormone .
the series of molecular signals initiated upon sensing of blue light by photoreceptor molecule ,  at a wavelength between 400nm and 470nm .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of asymmetric cell division .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an embryo from its formation until the end of its embryonic life stage .
the cascade of biological processes occurring in plants beginning when the pollen lands on the female reproductive organs of a plant and continuing up to ,  but not including ,  fertilization ,  as defined by sperm - egg cell fusion .
morphogenesis of an animal organ .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a tissue over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
the double lipid bilayer enclosing the chloroplast and separating its contents from the rest of the cytoplasm ;  includes the intermembrane space .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which a relatively unspecialized immature germ cell acquires the specialized features of a mature female gamete .
the series of molecular signals initiated upon sensing by photoreceptor molecules of red light or far red light .
the series of molecular signals initiated upon sensing of far red light by a photoreceptor molecule .
compaction of chromatin structure prior to meiosis in eukaryotic cells .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the series of molecular signals initiated upon sensing of red light by a photoreceptor molecule .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular defense response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular defense response .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the endomembrane system .
the infolding of a membrane .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that stops or reduces the rate of peptidase activity ,  the hydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
the process in which a gene's sequence is converted into a mature gene product or products  ( proteins or rna )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling receptor activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagy .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagy .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of autophagy .
any process that modulates the rate or frequency of platelet activation .
any process that decreases the rate or frequency of platelet activation .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that modulates a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that increases the rate or frequency of platelet activation .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression after the production of an rna transcript .
the activation of endogenous cellular processes that result in the death of a cell as part of its development .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter as a result of a uv damage stimulus .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter as a result of a uv damage stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion .
the cellular component assembly that is part of the initial shaping of the component during its developmental progression .
any process that modulates the rate or frequency of cell death .
any process that increases the rate or frequency of cell death .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidase activity ,  the hydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of magnesium ions within an organism or cell .
the movement of organelles or other particles from one location in the cell to another along microtubules ,  driven by motor activity .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of neuron projection development .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of neuron projection development .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of neuron projection development .
a process which begins when a cell receives an internal or external signal and activates a series of biochemical events  ( signaling pathway )  .
a collection of membranous structures involved in transport within the cell .
the lipid bilayer surrounding any membrane - bounded vesicle in the cell .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a vesicle transporting substances from the endoplasmic reticulum to the golgi .
a subcellular organelle of plant cells surrounded by 'half - unit' or a monolayer membrane instead of the more usual bilayer .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron maturation ,  the process leading to the attainment of the full functional capacity of a neuron .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron maturation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron maturation .
an electron dense network of proteins within and adjacent to the postsynaptic membrane of an asymmetric ,  neuron - neuron synapse .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the directed movement of proteins into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
enables the transfer of an ion from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of an inorganic molecular entity from the outside of a cell to the inside of the cell across a membrane .
the part of the cytoskeleton  ( the internal framework of a cell )  composed of microtubules and associated proteins .
the directed movement of organic anions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of folic acid  ( pteroylglutamic acid )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of a drug ,  a substance used in the diagnosis ,  treatment or prevention of a disease ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving pantothenate ,  the anion of pantothenic acid ,  the amide of beta - alanine and pantoic acid .
a lipid bilayer along with all the proteins and protein complexes embedded in it an attached to it .
a process that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
the process in which a cell irreversibly increases in size over time by accretion and biosynthetic production of matter similar to that already present .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vesicle .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of excitation of rhodopsin by a photon and the events that convert the absorbed photons into a cellular response .
an immune response mediated by immunoglobulins ,  whether cell - bound or in solution .
the cellular chemical reactions and pathways involving rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving diterpenoid compounds ,  terpenoids with four isoprene units .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carotenes ,  hydrocarbon carotenoids .
a cellular transport process in which transported substances are moved in membrane - bounded vesicles ;  transported substances are enclosed in the vesicle lumen or located in the vesicle membrane .
the major inducible pathway for the general turnover of cytoplasmic constituents in eukaryotic cells ,  it is also responsible for the degradation of active cytoplasmic enzymes and organelles during nutrient starvation .
any process ,  such as recognition of nutrient depletion ,  that activates or increases the rate of macroautophagy to bring cytosolic macromolecules to the vacuole / lysosome for degradation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of macroautophagy .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of macroautophagy .
the process in which double - stranded rnas silence cognate genes .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into a molecule ,  usually with the formation of a phosphoric ester ,  a phosphoric anhydride or a phosphoric amide .
the cell cycle process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets during the meiotic cell cycle in a female .
the inactivation of gene expression by a posttranscriptional mechanism .
any process carried out at the cellular level that results in either long - term transcriptional repression via action on chromatin structure or rna mediated ,  post - transcriptional repression of gene expression .
the directed movement of substances or organelles within the cytosol .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of angiogenesis .
catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
catalysis of the joining of two substances ,  or two groups within a single molecule ,  with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in atp or a similar triphosphate .
catalysis of the joining of two molecules via a carbon - sulfur bond ,  with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in atp or a similar triphosphate .
catalysis of the joining of two molecules ,  or two groups within a single molecule ,  via a carbon - nitrogen bond ,  with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in atp or a similar triphosphate .
catalysis of the ligation of an acid to an amino acid via a carbon - nitrogen bond ,  with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in atp or a similar triphosphate .
interacting selectively and non - covalently ,  in a ligand dependent manner ,  with a nuclear receptor protein .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a drug ,  a substance used in the diagnosis ,  treatment or prevention of a disease ;  as used here antibiotic substances  ( see antibiotic metabolism )  are considered to be drugs ,  even if not used in medical or veterinary practice .
the self - renewing division of a stem cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
any organism in which another organism ,  especially a parasite or symbiont ,  spends part or all of its life cycle and from which it obtains nourishment and / or protection .
the specific behavior of an organism that is associated with reproduction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any cellular process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a painful stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of aromatic compounds ,  any substance containing an aromatic carbon ring .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organophosphates ,  any phosphate - containing organic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ribose phosphate ,  any phosphorylated ribose sugar .
any process involved with the carrying out of an immune response by a b cell ,  through ,  for instance ,  the production of antibodies or cytokines ,  or antigen presentation to t cells .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state at the level of the cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving isoprenoids .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl  ( cooh )  groups or anions  ( coo -  )  .
catalysis of the transfer of atg12 from one protein to another via the reaction x - atg12  +  y  -  -  >  y - atg12  +  x ,  where both x - atg12 and y - atg12 are covalent linkages .
catalysis of the activation of the small ubiquitin - related modifier apg12 ,  through the formation of an atp - dependent high - energy thiolester bond .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide or isopeptide bonds within small proteins such as ubiquitin or ubiquitin - like proteins  ( e .g .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of apg8 ,  a small ubiquitin - related modifier .
catalysis of the transfer of a ubiquitin - like from one protein to another via the reaction x - ulp  +  y  -  -  >  y - ulp  +  x ,  where both x - ulp and y - ulp are covalent linkages .
the external membrane of gram - negative bacteria or certain organelles such as mitochondria and chloroplasts ;  freely permeable to most ions and metabolites .
a reproduction process that creates a new organism by combining the genetic material of two gametes ,  which may come from two organisms or from a single organism ,  in the case of self - fertilizing hermaphrodites ,  e .g .
the biological process in which new individuals are produced by either a single cell or a group of cells ,  in the absence of any sexual process .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for an anatomical structure ,  cell or cellular component to attain its fully functional state .
generation of cells within the nervous system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rhodopsin - mediated signaling .
the cellular process that ensures successive accurate and complete genome replication and chromosome segregation .
one of the distinct periods or stages into which the cell cycle is divided .
the initial attachment of a membrane or protein to a target membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of a cell to another cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of cell adhesion to another cell .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of cell adhesion to another cell .
a behavioral process involved in the cycle from wakefulness through an orderly succession of sleep states and stages that occurs on an approximately 24 hour rhythm .
a cellular process that results in the breakdown of a cellular component .
a process ,  occurring at the cellular level ,  that is involved in the reproductive function of a multicellular organism .
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals by one or two organisms .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of anatomical structure morphogenesis .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a cellular component .
the attachment of a cell or organism to a substrate ,  another cell ,  or other organism .
enables the transfer of a substance ,  usually a specific substance or a group of related substances ,  from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transmembrane transporter activity .
a process in which the transfer of one or more phosphate groups to a substrate transmits a signal to the phosphorylated substrate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression as a consequence of a process in which a signal is released and / or conveyed from one location to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the entirety of a process in which information is transmitted within a biological system .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the process in which a signal is secreted or discharged into the extracellular medium from a cellular source .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of cations at the level of a cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
formation of a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
a cellular component that forms a specialized region of connection between two or more cells or between a cell and the extracellular matrix .
a thylakoid that is derived from and attached to ,  but not necessarily continuous with ,  the plasma membrane ,  and is not enclosed in a plastid .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the myeloid and lymphoid derived organ / tissue systems of the blood and other parts of the body over time ,  from formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of any cell of the myeloid leukocyte ,  megakaryocyte ,  thrombocyte ,  or erythrocyte lineages .
the change in morphology and behavior of a natural killer cell in response to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
any of the vesicles of the constitutive secretory pathway ,  which carry cargo from the endoplasmic reticulum to the golgi ,  between golgi cisternae ,  from the golgi to the er  ( retrograde transport )  or to destinations within or outside the cell .
a vesicle with a coat formed of the copii coat complex proteins .
small membrane - bounded organelle formed by pinching off of a coated region of membrane .
a small subcellular vesicle ,  surrounded by a membrane ,  that is formed from the golgi apparatus and contains a highly concentrated protein destined for secretion .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of a cell to another cell or to the extracellular matrix .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
a series of progressive ,  overlapping events triggered by exposure of the platelets to subendothelial tissue .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a neuron .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood coagulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood coagulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood coagulation .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an extracellular matrix .
the process in which a myeloid precursor cell acquires specializes features of an erythrocyte .
the progressive compaction of dispersed interphase chromatin into threadlike chromosomes prior to mitotic or meiotic nuclear division ,  or during apoptosis ,  in eukaryotic cells .
alterations undergone by nuclei at the molecular and morphological level as part of the execution phase of apoptosis .
the compaction of chromatin during apoptosis .
combining with estrogen and transmitting the signal within the cell to trigger a change in cell activity or function .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or direction of cell growth .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or direction of cell growth .
a structure that lies outside the plasma membrane and surrounds the entire cell or cells .
an envelope that surrounds a bacterial cell and includes the cytoplasmic membrane and everything external ,  encompassing the periplasmic space ,  cell wall ,  and outer membrane if present .
any process involved in the controlled movement of a flagellated sperm cell .
the cytoplasm of a host cell .
any process in which an organism enters and maintains a periodic ,  readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity .
any series of molecular signals initiated by a ligand binding to an receptor located within a cell .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is changed .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is increased .
the directed movement of a symbiont's proteins within a cell of the host organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a transport vesicle .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a cytoplasmic vesicle .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a vesicle associated with the golgi apparatus .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a coated vesicle .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a secretory granule .
the directed movement of substances along cytoskeletal fibers such as microfilaments or microtubules within a cell .
the release of a mature ovum / oocyte from an ovary .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleotides .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleotides .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleotides .
a nonmembrane - bound oligomeric protein complex that participates in bidirectional transport of molecules  ( cargo )  along axonemal microtubules .
a structure lying external to one or more cells ,  which provides structural support ,  biochemical or biomechanical cues for cells or tissues .
any process in which rna molecules inactivate expression of target genes .
the dna metabolic process in which micronuclear - limited sequences ,  internal eliminated sequences  ( ies )  and breakage eliminated sequences  ( bes )  are removed from the developing macronucleus  ( anlage )  of a ciliate .
regulated cleavage of the developing macronuclear genome at a limited number of chromosome breakage sites  ( cbs )  .
a membrane that is one of the two lipid bilayers of an organelle envelope or the outermost membrane of single membrane bound organelle .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a neuron projection over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a pseudopodium ,  a temporary protrusion or retractile process of a cell ,  associated with cellular movement .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell killing ,  the process in which a cell brings about the death of another cell ,  either in the same or a different organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell killing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell killing .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell projections .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell projections .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell projections .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
a vesicle found in the cytoplasm of a cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a localization process that acts on a protein complex ;  the complex is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process in an organism that results in the killing of cells of another organism ,  including in some cases the death of the other organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a neurophysiological process ,  an organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the nervous system .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a neurophysiological process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a neurophysiological process .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a double membrane structure enclosing an organelle ,  including two lipid bilayers and the region between them .
either of the lipid bilayers that surround a chloroplast and form the chloroplast envelope .
the region between the inner and outer lipid bilayers of an organelle envelope .
the enclosed volume within a sealed membrane or between two sealed membranes .
a multilayered structure surrounding all or part of a cell ;  encompasses one or more lipid bilayers ,  and may include a cell wall layer ;  also includes the space between layers .
any thylakoid within a plastid .
the volume enclosed by the nuclear inner membrane .
any small ,  fluid - filled ,  spherical organelle enclosed by membrane .
a compartment that consists of a lumen and an enclosing membrane ,  and is part of an organelle .
self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another in a behavioral context ;  the aspect of locomotory behavior having to do with movement .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving mitochondrial dna .
the assembly of a bleb ,  a cell extension caused by localized decoupling of the cytoskeleton from the plasma membrane and characterized by rapid formation ,  rounded shape ,  and scarcity of organelles within the protrusion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an extracellular stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an extracellular stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to an extracellular stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to nutrient levels .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to nutrient levels .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to nutrient levels .
the process in which a methyl group is covalently attached to a molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
a type of synapse occurring between an axon and a dendritic spine or dendritic shaft .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that modulates the activity of a transporter .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of a transporter .
any process that activates or increases the activity of a transporter .
any process that modulates the activity of an ion transporter .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of an ion transporter .
any process that activates or increases the activity of an ion transporter .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within the golgi apparatus of a cell or between the golgi and its surroundings .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within the endoplasmic reticulum of a cell or between the endoplasmic reticulum and its surroundings .
any biological process ,  occurring at the level of a multicellular organism ,  pertinent to its function .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an integrated living unit: an anatomical structure  ( which may be a subcellular structure ,  cell ,  tissue ,  or organ )  ,  or organism over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
the biological process in which new individuals are produced by one or two multicellular organisms .
the directed movement of a protein from one location to another within a lipid bilayer .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving monocarboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one carboxyl  ( cooh )  group or anion  ( coo -  )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of natural killer cell activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of natural killer cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of natural killer cell activation .
all of the contents of a plasma membrane bounded cell projection ,  excluding the plasma membrane surrounding the projection .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any cellular process that depends upon or alters the microtubule cytoskeleton .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the spindle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the mitotic spindle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of organic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of organic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of organic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell .
the process in which cellular structures ,  including whole cells or cell parts ,  are generated and organized .
a stable assembly of two or more macromolecules ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving tetrapyrroles ,  natural pigments containing four pyrrole rings joined by one - carbon units linking position 2 of one pyrrole ring to position 5 of the next .
any process in which a macromolecule is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a chromosome .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation during mitosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation during mitosis .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a progesterone receptor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a secretory granule .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within an organelle .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a secretory granule in a t cell .
a homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a carbohydrate within an organism or cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid in the cytosol .
the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid in the endoplasmic reticulum .
the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid in any compartment of the golgi apparatus .
any process in which an organism modulates a change in the state or activity of a host cell or organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process in which an organism modulates a change in state or activity of a host cell or organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process in which an organism modulates a change in state or activity of a host cell or organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process in which an organism modulates a change in state or activity of a host cell or organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any constituent part of a host cell .
any constituent part of the living contents of a host cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the host cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  as found in host cells ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death in the host ,  where programmed cell death proceeds by apoptosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process of regulating the production and elimination of erythrocytes within an organism .
the attachment of a cell to a second cell of the identical type via adhesion molecules .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of homotypic cell - cell adhesion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of homotypic cell - cell adhesion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of homotypic cell - cell adhesion .
a process in which an ion is transported across a membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amides .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amides .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amides .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nucleobase - containing small molecule: a nucleobase ,  a nucleoside ,  or a nucleotide .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location at the level of a cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving various organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
the assembly and organization of an axoneme ,  the bundle of microtubules and associated proteins that forms the core of cilia  ( also called flagella )  in eukaryotic cells and is responsible for their movements .
learning to anticipate future events on the basis of past experience with the consequences of one's own behavior .
behavior directed towards society ,  or taking place between members of the same species .
any process of posttranscriptional gene inactivation  ( silencing )  mediated by small rna molecules that may trigger rna  ( often mrna )  degradation or negatively regulate mrna translation .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a tube are generated and organized .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a nuclear hormone receptor ,  a ligand - dependent receptor found in the nucleus of the cell .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a steroid hormone receptor .
the increase in size or mass of an entire multicellular organism ,  as opposed to cell growth .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a tube over time ,  from its initial formation to a mature structure .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which a vitamin is transported across a membrane .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of blood vessel formation when new vessels emerge from the proliferation of pre - existing blood vessels and contribute to the series of events that restore integrity to damaged vasculature .
the process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components within the cell ,  which become activated themselves to further propagate the signal and finally trigger a change in the function or state of the cell .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location within the extracellular region .
the bidirectional movement of large protein complexes along microtubules within a cilium that contributes to cilium assembly .
the process in which an organism effects a change in the structure or processes of another organism .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a protein ,  in a second organism .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process in which dna and associated proteins are formed into a compact ,  orderly structure within a nucleoid .
compaction of dna in a bacterial nucleoid into a compact structure .
receiving a signal and transmitting it in the cell to initiate a change in cell activity .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the growth of all or part of an organism so that it occurs at its proper speed ,  either globally or in a specific part of the organism's development .
self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of growth of the body of an organism so that it reaches its usual body size .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of growth of an organism to reach its usual body size .
the first few specialized divisions of an activated animal egg .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of growth of an organism to reach its usual body size .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic nuclear division ,  the process in which the nucleus of a diploid cell divides twice forming four haploid cells ,  one or more of which usually function as gametes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression ;  the process is mitotically or meiotically heritable ,  or is stably self - propagated in the cytoplasm of a resting cell ,  and does not entail a change in dna sequence .
a membrane - bounded organelle as it is found in the host cell in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
the behavior of an organism in response to an odor .
the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
the bidirectional movement of large protein complexes along microtubules within a cilium ,  mediated by motor proteins .
the self - renewing division of a germline stem cell to produce a daughter stem cell and a daughter germ cell ,  which will divide to form the gametes .
a change in morphology and behavior of a macrophage resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation .
either of the lipid bilayers that surround a plastid and form the plastid envelope .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving terpenes ,  any of a large group of hydrocarbons that are made up of isoprene  ( c5h8 )  units which may be cyclic ,  acyclic or multicyclic ,  saturated or unsaturated ,  and may contain various functional groups .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways involving one of a family of organic molecules consisting of a purine base covalently bonded to a sugar ribose  ( a ribonucleoside )  or deoxyribose  ( a deoxyribonucleoside )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rapid eye movement  ( rem )  sleep .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the duration or quality of sleep ,  a readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity that occurs periodically in many animals .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the duration or quality of rapid eye movement  ( rem )  sleep .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the duration or quality of non - rapid eye movement  ( nrem )  sleep .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups into a molecule .
any process that stops ,  prevents or decreases the rate of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to an external stimulus .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to light .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving vitamin e ,  tocopherol ,  which includes a series of eight structurally similar compounds .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any purine nucleoside ,  one of a family of organic molecules consisting of a purine base covalently bonded to a sugar ribose  ( a ribonucleoside )  or deoxyribose  ( a deoxyribonucleoside )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any ribonucleoside ,  a nucleoside in which purine or pyrimidine base is linked to a ribose  ( beta - d - ribofuranose )  molecule .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a tooth or teeth over time ,  from formation to the mature structure ( s )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of a tooth or teeth .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of a tooth or teeth .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of a tooth or teeth .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for a neuron to attain its fully functional state .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any compound containing pteridine  ( pyrazino ( 2 , 3 - dipyrimidine )  )  ,  e .g .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of glucose within an organism or cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in the behavior of an organism as a result of deprivation of water .
the region of a chloroplast to which the dna is confined .
the region of a mitochondrion to which the dna is confined .
the region of a plastid to which the dna is confined .
the region of a proplastid to which the dna is confined .
a process in which planktonically growing microorganisms grow at a liquid - air interface or on a solid substrate under the flow of a liquid and produce extracellular polymers that facilitate matrix formation ,  resulting in a change in the organisms' growth rate and gene transcription .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving thiamine  ( vitamin b1 )  ,  and compounds derived from it .
the cycle from wakefulness through an orderly succession of sleep states and stages that occurs on an approximately 24 hour rhythm .
a stage in the circadian sleep cycle during which dreams occur and the body undergoes marked changes including rapid eye movement ,  loss of reflexes ,  and increased pulse rate and brain activity .
all sleep stages in the circadian sleep / wake cycle other than rem sleep .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the circadian sleep / wake cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a circadian rhythm .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a circadian rhythm behavior .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a circadian rhythm behavior .
the specific behavior of an organism relating to the intake of food ,  any substance  ( usually solid )  that can be metabolized by an organism to give energy and build tissue .
the specific behavior of an organism relating to the intake of liquids ,  especially water .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur ,  the nonmetallic element sulfur or compounds that contain sulfur .
the directed movement of an amide ,  any compound containing one ,  two ,  or three acyl groups attached to a nitrogen atom ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
enables the transfer of an amide ,  any compound containing one ,  two ,  or three acyl groups attached to a nitrogen atom ,  from one side of a membrane to the other .
the directed movement of a xenobiotic ,  a compound foreign to living organisms ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
enables the directed movement of a xenobiotic from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of cell death by apoptotic process .
a prolongation or process extending from a cell .
a prolongation or process extending from a nerve cell ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency or rate of macrophage activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of macrophage activation .
any process that stimulates ,  induces or increases the rate of macrophage activation .
the covalent transfer of a methyl group to c - 5 of cytosine that contributes to the epigenetic regulation of embryonic gene expression .
the covalent transfer of a methyl group to c - 5 of cytosine that contributes to the establishment of dna methylation patterns in the gamete .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of structures in the space external to the outermost structure of a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell death by apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell death by apoptotic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that activates or increases the activity of an enzyme .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of an enzyme .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
an electrically insulating fatty layer that surrounds the axons of many neurons .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring outside the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
the internal volume enclosed by the membranes of a particular organelle ;  includes the volume enclosed by a single organelle membrane ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding .
any process that stops or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
a series of molecular signals mediated by a steroid hormone binding to a receptor .
the covalent alteration of one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological macromolecule ,  resulting in a change in its properties .
the covalent attachment of a glycosyl residue to one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological macromolecule .
the covalent attachment of a methyl residue to one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological macromolecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any oxoacid ;  an oxoacid is a compound which contains oxygen ,  at least one other element ,  and at least one hydrogen bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
the region of a bacterial cell to which the dna is confined .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an amide ,  any derivative of an oxoacid in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter as a result of a stimulus indicating the organism is under stress .
modulation of the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from a dna template as a result of a stimulus indicating the organism is under stress .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving dicarboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing two carboxyl  ( cooh )  groups or anions  ( coo -  )  .
the space within a host but external to the plasma membrane of host cells ,  e .g .
that space within the plasma membrane of a host cell .
a cell within a host organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of symbiosis ,  an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
any process in which macromolecules aggregate ,  disaggregate ,  or are modified ,  resulting in the formation ,  disassembly ,  or alteration of a protein complex .
any process in which an organism activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of enzyme activity in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process in which the symbiont activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of host enzyme activity .
the process in which a symbiont organism effects a change in the structure or processes of its host organism .
a process in which planktonically growing microorganisms of the same species grow at a liquid - air interface or on a solid substrate under the flow of a liquid and produce extracellular polymers that facilitate matrix formation ,  resulting in a change in the organisms' growth rate and gene transcription .
a process in which microorganisms of the same species attach to and grow on an inanimate surface such as a rock or pipe ,  and produce extracellular polymers that facilitate attachment and matrix formation ,  resulting in an alteration in the phenotype of the organisms with respect to growth rate and gene transcription .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent transfer of a methyl group to either n - 6 of adenine or c - 5 or n - 4 of cytosine .
obsolete .an interaction with the host organism mediated by a substance that is released by the other organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a system process ,  a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of excretion ,  the elimination by an organism of the waste products that arise as a result of metabolic activity .
the alteration by a symbiont organism of the functioning of a host neurophysiological process ,  an organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of neurological system .
any process in which a symbiont organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell ,  in its host organism .
the process in which a symbiont organism modulates the anion transport ,  the directed movement of anions ,  atoms or small molecules with a net negative charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  of its host organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of anions ,  atoms or small molecules with a net negative charge into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the process in which a symbiont organism effects a change in its host's cell cycle through direct interactions with the host cell macromolecular machinery .
the process in which a symbiont organism stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of its host's progression through its cell cycle via direct interactions with the host cell macromolecular machinery .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular component biogenesis ,  a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vacuole .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular component biogenesis ,  a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vacuole .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
the increase in size or mass of an organism occurring when the organism is in a symbiotic interaction .
the progression of an organism from an initial condition to a later condition ,  occurring when the organism is in a symbiotic interaction .
obsolete .a secondary organism with which the first organism is interacting .
a cell of a secondary organism with which the first organism is interacting .
any constituent part of a secondary organism with which the first organism is interacting .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving those compounds which are formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a specific protein ,  rather than of proteins in general ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving small molecules ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of small molecules ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
the process in which an organism effects a change in the function of proteins in a second organism .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the function of proteins in a second organism .
a process in which an organism has a negative effect on the functioning of the second organism's cells .
a process carried out by gene products in an organism that enable the organism to engage in a symbiotic relationship ,  a more or less intimate association ,  with another organism .
any process in which an organism has an effect on an organism of a different species .
obsolete .any constituent part of the extracellular matrix ,  the structure lying external to one or more cells ,  which provides structural support for cells or tissues ;  may be completely external to the cell  ( as in animals )  or be part of the cell  ( as often seen in plants )  .
obsolete .any constituent part of the extracellular region ,  the space external to the outermost structure of a cell .
obsolete .any constituent part of an organelle ,  an organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
obsolete .any constituent part of the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
obsolete .any constituent part of a membrane ,  a double layer of lipid molecules that encloses all cells ,  and ,  in eukaryotes ,  many organelles ;  may be a single or double lipid bilayer ;  also includes associated proteins .
obsolete .any constituent part of the cell wall ,  the rigid or semi - rigid envelope lying outside the cell membrane of plant ,  fungal ,  and most prokaryotic cells ,  maintaining their shape and protecting them from osmotic lysis .
obsolete .any constituent part of the nucleus ,  a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
obsolete .any constituent part of a mitochondrion ,  a semiautonomous ,  self replicating organelle that occurs in varying numbers ,  shapes ,  and sizes in the cytoplasm of virtually all eukaryotic cells .
obsolete .any constituent part of the cytoskeleton ,  a cellular scaffolding or skeleton that maintains cell shape ,  enables some cell motion  ( using structures such as flagella and cilia )  ,  and plays important roles in both intra - cellular transport  ( e .g .
obsolete .any constituent part of the golgi apparatus ,  a compound membranous cytoplasmic organelle of eukaryotic cells ,  consisting of flattened ,  ribosome - free vesicles arranged in a more or less regular stack .
obsolete .any constituent part of the endoplasmic reticulum ,  the irregular network of unit membranes ,  visible only by electron microscopy ,  that occurs in the cytoplasm of many eukaryotic cells .
obsolete .any constituent part of cytoplasmic vesicle ,  a vesicle formed of membrane or protein ,  found in the cytoplasm of a cell .
obsolete .any constituent part of a chloroplast ,  a chlorophyll - containing plastid with thylakoids organized into grana and frets ,  or stroma thylakoids ,  and embedded in a stroma .
obsolete .any constituent part of a plastid ,  a member of a family of organelles found in the cytoplasm of plants and some protists ,  which are membrane - bounded and contain dna .
obsolete .any constituent part of a thylakoid ,  a sac - like vesicle that bears the photosynthetic pigments in photosynthetic organisms .
obsolete .any constituent part of a vacuole ,  a closed structure ,  found only in eukaryotic cells ,  that is completely surrounded by unit membrane and contains liquid material .
obsolete .any constituent part of a cilium ,  a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
obsolete .any constituent part of the cytoplasm ,  all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
obsolete .any constituent part of cytosol ,  that part of the cytoplasm that does not contain membranous or particulate subcellular components .
obsolete .a constituent part of an intracellular organelle ,  an organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
obsolete .any constituent part of a nucleolus ,  a small ,  dense body one or more of which are present in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells .
obsolete .any constituent part of a synapse ,  the junction between a nerve fiber of one neuron and another neuron or muscle fiber or glial cell .
obsolete .any constituent part of the plasma membrane ,  the membrane surrounding a cell that separates the cell from its external environment .
obsolete .any constituent part of an external encapsulating structure ,  a structure that lies outside the plasma membrane and surrounds the entire cell .
obsolete .any constituent part of a cell projection ,  a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
obsolete .any constituent part of a cell ,  the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
a process in which an organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death in a second organism .
a process in which an organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptosis in a second organism .
the tooth development process in which the teeth enter the mouth and become visible .
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals ,  involving another organism .
the specific behavior of an organism that is associated with reproduction involving another organism of the same or different species .
a multicellular organism process which involves another multicellular organism of the same or different species .
the process of adding or removing a methyl group from one or more nucleotides within an dna molecule .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level which involves another organism of the same or different species .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore ,  involving more than one organism .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cilium ,  a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
a distinct period or stage in a biological process or cycle .
a membrane raft that is part of the plasma membrane .
any of the small  ( 10 - 200 nm )  ,  heterogeneous ,  highly dynamic ,  sterol -  and sphingolipid - enriched membrane domains that compartmentalize cellular processes .
the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets during m phase of the meiotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle process in which sister chromatids are organized and then physically separated and randomly apportioned to two sets during the second division of the meiotic cell cycle .
the process in which voltage - gated ion channels become localized to distinct subcellular domains in the neuron .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sleep ;  a readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity that occurs periodically in many animals .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of non - rapid eye movement sleep .
the junction between a nerve fiber of one neuron and another neuron ,  muscle fiber or glial cell .
a change in morphology and behavior of a leukocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the rhythm of the locomotor activity of an organism during its 24 hour activity cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation ,  the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and functional features .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of myeloid cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of myeloid cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of myeloid cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of erythrocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of erythrocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of erythrocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of spermatid nuclear differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of spermatid nuclear differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of spermatid nuclear differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a cilium .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of g protein - coupled receptor signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of g protein - coupled receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of angiogenesis .
any process that activates or increases angiogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of asymmetric cell division .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of asymmetric cell division .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell adhesion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving isoprenoid .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving isoprenoid .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of mitosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of growth ,  the increase in size or mass of all or part of an organism .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of growth ,  the increase in size or mass of all or part of an organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of progression through the mitotic cell cycle .
any cellular process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any cellular process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that activates or increases the duration or quality of sleep ,  a readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity that occurs periodically in many animals .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleosides .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleosides .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleotides .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleotides .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic development .
any process that activates or increases the duration or quality of rapid eye movement  ( rem )  sleep .
any process that activates or increases the duration or quality of non - rapid eye movement  ( nrem )  sleep .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving atp ,  adenosine triphosphate ,  a universally important coenzyme and enzyme regulator .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any ribonucleoside ,  a nucleoside in which purine base is linked to a ribose  ( beta - d - ribofuranose )  molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any purine ribonucleoside ,  a nucleoside in which purine base is linked to a ribose  ( beta - d - ribofuranose )  molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of ribose phosphate ,  any phosphorylated ribose sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
a change in morphology and behavior of a lymphocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving folic acid ,  pteroylglutamic acid .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a large enclosure of aggregated pigment ,  typically bacteriochlorophyll c  ( bchl c )  ,  that acts as a light - harvesting antenna structure and is characteristic of green photosynthetic bacteria  ( e .g .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell or a tissue .
the directed movement of substances within a cell .
the directed movement of carboxylic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
enables the transfer of carboxylic acids from one side of a membrane to the other .
the directed movement of a cell or organism towards a source of light .
the directed movement of a cell or organism away from a source of light .
a simple form of learning whereby the repeated presence of a stimulus leads to a change in the probability or strength of the response to that stimulus .
a decrease in a behavioral response to a repeated stimulus .
an increased in a behavioral response to a repeated stimulus .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of the response to osmotic stress .
the activity of a gene product that interacts with a receptor to effect a change in the activity of the receptor .
the cell membranes and intracellular regions in a plant are connected through plasmodesmata ,  and plants may be described as having two major compartments: the living symplast and the non - living apoplast .
a form of programmed cell death that is accompanied by the formation of autophagosomes .
the self - renewing division of a somatic stem cell ,  a stem cell that can give rise to cell types of the body other than those of the germ - line .
the multiplication or reproduction of fibroblast cells ,  resulting in the expansion of the fibroblast population .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of multiplication or reproduction of fibroblast cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of multiplication or reproduction of fibroblast cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of multiplication or reproduction of fibroblast cells .
the directed movement of substances into ,  out of or within the golgi apparatus ,  mediated by vesicles .
the process in which vesicles are directed to specific destination membranes during transport to ,  from or within the golgi apparatus ;  mediated by the addition of specific coat proteins ,  including copi and copii proteins and clathrin ,  to the membrane during vesicle formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or destination of vesicle - mediated transport to ,  from or within the golgi apparatus .
generation of the male gamete ;  specialised haploid cells produced by meiosis and along with a female gamete takes part in sexual reproduction .
the volume enclosed by the membranes of the rough endoplasmic reticulum .
the volume enclosed by the membranes of the smooth endoplasmic reticulum .
the creation of two or more organelles by division of one organelle .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for a cell to attain its fully functional state .
the complete process of formation and maturation of an ovum or female gamete from a primordial female germ cell .
any process pertinent to the generation and maintenance of rhythms in the physiology of an organism .
the specific behavior of an organism that recurs with a regularity of approximately 24 hours .
development of a tissue or tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions .
the process in which the anatomical structures of blood vessels are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a spermatid over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of whole living organisms  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of whole living organisms  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of any organ involved in hematopoiesis  ( also known as hemopoiesis )  or lymphoid cell activation over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to a stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell ,  where the increase in size or mass has the specific outcome of the progression of the organism over time from one condition to another .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an oocyte over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to its specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process ,  occurring above the cellular level ,  that is pertinent to the reproductive function of a multicellular organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of developmental growth .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of developmental growth .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of developmental growth .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of an anatomical structure from unspecified parts .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a neuron over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process in which nerve cells are generated .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organismal system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an anatomical structure from an initial condition to its mature state .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cell over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
any process involved in the controlled self - propelled movement of a cell that results in translocation of the cell from one place to another .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of the steady - state number of cells within a population of cells .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a chemical .
the multiplication or reproduction of epithelial cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of epithelial cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of epithelial cell proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response ,  the immediate defensive reaction  ( by vertebrate tissue )  to infection or injury caused by chemical or physical agents .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurogenesis ,  the generation of cells in the nervous system .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurogenesis ,  the generation of cells within the nervous system .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurogenesis ,  the generation of cells within the nervous system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that modulates the activity of an enzyme .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of whole living organisms  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of ions within an organism or cell .
the part of the circadian sleep / wake cycle where the organism is asleep .
the process in which a fluid solution ,  or part of it ,  changes into a solid or semisolid mass .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of coagulation ,  the process in which a fluid solution ,  or part of it ,  changes into a solid or semisolid mass .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of coagulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of coagulation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell activation ,  the change in the morphology or behavior of a cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of activation .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of neurological system .
any process that modulates the levels of body fluids .
the operation of the mind by which an organism becomes aware of objects of thought or perception ;  it includes the mental activities associated with thinking ,  learning ,  and memory .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the series of events involved in sensory perception in which a sensory stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events involved in visual perception in which a light stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a gustatory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required to receive a bitter taste stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory light stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory mechanical stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events in which a light stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal as part of the sensory perception of light .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription as part of a meiotic cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription involved in the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription as part of a meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur or compounds containing sulfur .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur or compounds containing sulfur .
any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported ,  tethered to or otherwise maintained in a specific location .
the directed movement of vitamins into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of a cofactor into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a cofactor ,  a substance that is required for the activity of an enzyme or other protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a cofactor .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a cofactor .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a cofactor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a coenzyme .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a coenzyme .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a coenzyme .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle ,  the array of microtubules and associated molecules that serves to move duplicated chromosomes apart .
the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the spindle .
the lengthening of the distance between poles of the spindle during a meiotic cell cycle .
any process that localizes a substance or cellular component .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multicellular organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of a multicellular organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  any of the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of the cellular defense response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of chromosomes ,  structures composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins that carries hereditary information .
the process resulting in division and partitioning of components of a cell to form more cells ;  may or may not be accompanied by the physical separation of a cell into distinct ,  individually membrane - bounded daughter cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the physical partitioning and separation of a cell into daughter cells .
the cell cycle 'gap' phase which is the interval between the completion of dna segregation  ( usually by mitosis or meiosis )  and the beginning of dna synthesis .
the cell cycle 'gap' phase which is the interval between the completion of dna synthesis and the beginning of dna segregation  ( usually by mitosis or meiosis )  .
the cell cycle phase ,  following g1 ,  during which dna synthesis takes place .
progression through the phases of the meiotic cell cycle ,  in which canonically a cell replicates to produce four offspring with half the chromosomal content of the progenitor cell via two nuclear divisions .
the cell cycle phase ,  following metaphase ,  during which the chromosomes separate and migrate towards the poles of the spindle .
the cell cycle phase ,  following prophase or prometaphase in higher eukaryotes ,  during which chromosomes become aligned on the equatorial plate of the cell .
the cell cycle phase which is the first stage of m phase of meiosis and mitosis and during which chromosomes condense and the two daughter centrioles and their asters migrate toward the poles of the cell .
the cell cycle phase following cytokinesis which begins with g1 phase ,  proceeds through s phase and g2 phase and ends when prophase of meiosis or mitosis begins .
the cell cycle phase which follows anaphase during m phase of mitosis and meiosis and during which the chromosomes arrive at the poles of the cell and the division of the cytoplasm starts .
a cell cycle phase during which nuclear division occurs ,  and which is comprises the phases: prophase ,  metaphase ,  anaphase and telophase and occurs as part of a meiotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle phase which begins after cytokinesis and ends when meiotic prophase begins .
the cell cycle phase following cytokinesis which begins with g1 phase ,  proceeds through s phase and g2 phase and ends when mitotic prophase begins .
the cell cycle 'gap' phase which is the interval between the completion of dna segregation by meiosis and the beginning of dna synthesis .
the cell cycle 'gap' phase which is the interval between the completion of dna synthesis and the beginning of dna segregation by meiosis .
the cell cycle phase ,  following g1 ,  during which dna synthesis takes place as part of a meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ligase activity ,  the catalysis of the ligation of two substances with concomitant breaking of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ligase activity ,  the catalysis of the ligation of two substances with concomitant breaking of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of ligase activity ,  the catalysis of the ligation of two substances with concomitant breaking of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a receptor for hormones .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progression through the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of progression through the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within the cytoplasm of a cell or between mitochondria and their surroundings .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within the smooth endoplasmic reticulum of a cell or between the smooth endoplasmic reticulum and its surroundings .
the series of events in which a stimulus is received by a cell or organism and converted into a molecular signal .
any process in which an organelle is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
a cellular localization process whereby a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within a cell including the localization of substances or cellular entities to the cell membrane .
any process in which a mitochondrion or mitochondria are transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within the cell .
any process in which a vesicle or vesicles are transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process ,  occuring in a cell ,  that localizes a substance or cellular component .
the directed movement of a vesicle to a specific location .
the directed movement of an organelle to a specific location .
any process in which a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within a membrane .
any process in which a cell is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
any process in which an organism has an effect on an organism of the same species .
a biological process which involves another organism of the same or different species .
obsolete .any process in which an organism has a behavioral effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the killing by an organism of cells in another organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the killing by an organism of cells in another organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the killing by an organism of cells in another organism .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell division .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell division .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear division ,  the partitioning of the nucleus and its genetic information .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear division ,  the partitioning of the nucleus and its genetic information .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear division ,  the partitioning of the nucleus and its genetic information .
the process in which an organism effects a change in the structure or processes of a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
a process in which an organism has a negative effect on the functioning of the second organism's cells ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process mediated by an organism that results in the death of cells in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the sensory perception of pain ,  the series of events required for an organism to receive a painful stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sensory perception ,  the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nervous system development ,  the origin and formation of nervous tissue .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nervous system development ,  the origin and formation of nervous tissue .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nervous system development ,  the origin and formation of nervous tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome segregation ,  the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome segregation ,  the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome segregation ,  the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process in which an organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within the cell or cells of the host organism .
any process in which an organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death in the host organism .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death in the host organism .
any process in which an organism activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death in the host organism .
obsolete .an interaction with a second organism mediated by a substance secreted by the first organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
obsolete .an interaction with the host organism mediated by a substance secreted by the other  ( symbiont )  organism .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of host enzyme activity .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of host protease activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a protein .
the process in which an organism effects a change in the function of a host protein via a direct interaction .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the functional activity of host proteins .
obsolete .the process in which a community of single - celled organisms of different species monitors population density by detecting the concentration of small diffusible signal molecules .
obsolete .the process in which single - celled organisms of the same species monitor population density by detecting the concentration of small ,  diffusible signal molecules .
obsolete .the process in which a community of single - celled organisms living in intimate contact with a host organism monitors population density by detecting the concentration of small diffusible signal molecules .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a higher level of a physical stimulus involved in energy generation ,  such as light ,  oxygen ,  and oxidizable substrates .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a lower level of a physical stimulus involved in energy generation ,  such as light ,  oxygen ,  and oxidizable substrates .
the process in which an organism effects a change in host enzyme activity .
the process in which an organism effects a change in host peptidase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a protein .
any process in which an organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death in the host ,  where programmed cell death proceeds by apoptosis .
any process in which an organism activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death in the host ,  where programmed cell death proceeds by apoptosis .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protease activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a protein ,  in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
the process in which an organism effects a change in peptidase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a protein ,  in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of enzyme activity in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
the process in which an organism effects a change in enzyme activity in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the functional activity of proteins in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
the process in which an organism effects a change in the function of proteins in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process in which an organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within the cell or cells of a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process in which an organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process in which an organism activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process in which an organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death by apoptosis in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidase activity ,  the hydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of phosphate ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of metal ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of zinc ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of transition metal ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of cations within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of anions within an organism or cell .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a chemical at the level of the cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of monovalent inorganic anions within an organism or cell .
the process in which a solute is transported across a lipid bilayer ,  from one side of a membrane to the other .
the cellular chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleobase - containing small molecule: a nucleobase ,  a nucleoside ,  or a nucleotide .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein glycosylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the glycosylation of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the glycosylation of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of epithelial cell proliferation ,  contributing to the restoration of integrity to a damaged tissue following an injury .
blood vessel formation when new vessels emerge from the proliferation of pre - existing blood vessels and contribute to the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
the regulation of body fluids process in which parasympathetic nerves stimulate the bladder wall muscle to contract and expel urine from the body .
a compound molecular function in which an effector function is controlled by one or more regulatory components .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inactivation of gene expression by a posttranscriptional mechanism .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inactivation of gene expression by a posttranscriptional mechanism .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inactivation of gene expression by a posttranscriptional mechanism .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the microtubule spindle during a mitotic cell cycle .
the series of events in which information about the density of cells in a population is received and converted into a molecular signal .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the behavior associated with the intake of food .
the assembly of a cilium ,  a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ovulation ,  the release of a mature ovum / oocyte from an ovary .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ovulation ,  the release of a mature ovum / oocyte from an ovary .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ovulation ,  the release of a mature ovum / oocyte from an ovary .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an oocyte over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to its specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
any process that increases the rate or extent of the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an oocyte over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to its specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
any process that decreases the rate or extent of the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an oocyte over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to its specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
cell motility due to the motion of one or more eukaryotic cilia .
movement of cilia mediated by motor proteins that contributes to the movement of a cell .
any process that modulates the rate frequency or extent of cilium movement involved in ciliary motility .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a head from an initial condition to its mature state .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in a specific location within or in the membrane of a cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of fertilization .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cell projection assembly .
any process that decreases the rate or frequency of cell death .
the increase in size or mass of an anatomical structure that contributes to the structure attaining its shape .
any apoptotic process that contributes to the shaping of an anatomical structure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of chromosome condensation ,  the progressive compaction of dispersed interphase chromatin into threadlike chromosomes prior to mitotic or meiotic nuclear division ,  or during apoptosis ,  in eukaryotic cells .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of vesicle - mediated transport ,  the directed movement of substances ,  either within a vesicle or in the vesicle membrane ,  into ,  out of or within a cell .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of microtubule - based movement ,  the movement of organelles ,  other microtubules and other particles along microtubules ,  mediated by motor proteins .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of a response to cytokine stimulus .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of a response to cytokine stimulus .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of a response to cytokine stimulus .
any process that regulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of gene silencing by rna .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of gene silencing by rna .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of gene silencing ,  the transcriptional or post - transcriptional process carried out at the cellular level that results in long - term gene inactivation .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of gene silencing ,  the transcriptional or post - transcriptional process carried out at the cellular level that results in long - term gene inactivation .
a process which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a membrane .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
blood vessel formation when new vessels emerge from the proliferation of pre - existing blood vessels and contribute to the series of events that restore integrity to damaged vasculature .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of blood vessel formation when new vessels emerge from the proliferation of pre - existing blood vessels and contribute to the series of events that restore integrity to damaged vasculature .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of blood vessel formation when new vessels emerge from the proliferation of pre - existing blood vessels and contribute to the series of events that restore integrity to damaged vasculature .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a cilium .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a sequence - specific dna binding rna polymerase ii transcription factor ,  any of the factors that interact selectively and non - covalently with a specific dna sequence in order to modulate transcription .
isoenergetic transfer of a ubiquitin - like protein  ( ulp )  from one protein to another via the reaction x - scp  +  y  -  >  y - scp  +  x ,  where both the x - scp and y - scp linkages are thioester bonds between the c - terminal amino acid of scp and a sulfhydryl side group of a cysteine residue .
isoenergetic transfer of atg12 from one protein to another via the reaction x - atg12  +  y  -  >  y - atg12  +  x ,  where both the x - atg12 and y - atg12 linkages are thioester bonds between the c - terminal amino acid of atg12 and a sulfhydryl side group of a cysteine residue .
catalysis of the transfer of a ubiquitin - like protein  ( ulp )  to a substrate protein via the reaction x - ulp  +  s  -  -  >  x  +  s - ulp ,  where x is either an e2 or e3 enzyme ,  the x - ulp linkage is a thioester bond ,  and the s - ulp linkage is an isopeptide bond between the c - terminal glycine of ulp and the epsilon - amino group of lysine residues in the substrate .
catalysis of the transfer of atg12 to a substrate protein via the reaction x - atg12  +  s  -  -  >  x  +  s - atg12 ,  where x is either an e2 or e3 enzyme ,  the x - atg12 linkage is a thioester bond ,  and the s - atg12 linkage is an isopeptide bond between the c - terminal amino acid of atg12 and the epsilon - amino group of lysine residues in the substrate .
the membrane invagination process by which an autophagosomal membrane surrounds an object that will be degraded by macroautophagy .
any process in which an organism acquires a novel neuromuscular action or movement as the result of experience .
the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the mitotic spindle during mitotic prophase .
a cellular process involving delivery of a portion of the cytoplasm to lysosomes or to the plant or fungal vacuole that does not involve direct transport through the endocytic or vacuolar protein sorting  ( vps )  pathways .
a process that coontributes to the second meiotic division .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
any process that starts or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation during mitosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial gene expression .
the series of events involved in the perception of pain in which a stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of macromolecules to form a protein - containing complex .
any process that modulates a measurable attribute of any biological process ,  quality or function .
any process that modulates a qualitative or quantitative trait of a biological quality .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane and occurring outside the cell .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds formed between l - amino acids .
an organelle lumen that is part of an intracellular organelle .
a vesicle that is released into the extracellular region by fusion of the limiting endosomal membrane of a multivesicular body with the plasma membrane .
the covalent attachment and further modification of carbohydrate residues to a substrate molecule .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process of chromosome organization that is involved in a meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein to a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
the adhesion of one platelet to one or more other platelets via adhesion molecules .
any process in which a macromolecule is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location at the level of a cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an organelle .
a cellular process that results in a change in the spatial configuration of a dna molecule .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process in which a protein is transported from one specific location in the extracellular region to another ,  or maintained in a specific extracellular location .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for an anatomical structure to attain its fully functional state .
the directed movement of organic substances into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the directed movement of nitrogen - containing compounds into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the part of a cell encompassing the cell cortex ,  the plasma membrane ,  and any external encapsulating structures .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an extracellular vesicular exosome ,  a membrane - bounded vesicle that is released into the extracellular region by fusion of the limiting endosomal membrane of a multivesicular body with the plasma membrane .
the directed movement of modified amino acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
enables the transfer of modified amino acids from one side of a membrane to the other .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cardiovascular system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the circulatory system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the memory process that deals with the storage ,  retrieval and modification of information received at a time ago that is intermediate between that of short and long term memory  ( 30min  -  7hrs in drosophila melanogaster )  .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of divalent cations at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of divalent inorganic anions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of trivalent inorganic anions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of divalent cations within an organism or cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a purine - containing compound ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a purine - containing compound ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a pyrimidine - containing compound ,  i .e .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process in which a symbiont organism increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagy in the host cell .
any process in which a symbiont organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagy in the host cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism involving those compounds formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to stress .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular response to stress .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of fertilization .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process in which mitochondrial dna and associated proteins are formed into a compact ,  orderly structure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of spindle assembly .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the microtubule spindle .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the red or far - red signaling pathway ,  the series of molecular signals initiated upon sensing by photoreceptor molecules of red light or far red light .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the red or far - red signaling pathway ,  the series of molecular signals initiated upon sensing by photoreceptor molecules of red light or far red light .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the red or far - red signaling pathway ,  the series of molecular signals initiated upon sensing by photoreceptor molecules of red light or far red light .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid in any compartment of the golgi apparatus .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid in any compartment of the golgi apparatus .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid in any compartment of the golgi apparatus .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
any cellular metabolic process involving nucleic acids .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle that contributes to the process of meiosis .
mitotic bipolar spindle assembly begins with spindle microtubule nucleation from the separated spindle pole body ,  includes spindle elongation during prometaphase ,  and is complete when all kinetochores are stably attached the spindle ,  and the spindle assembly checkpoint is satisfied .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another in a behavioral context ;  the aspect of locomotory behavior having to do with movement .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another in a behavioral context ;  the aspect of locomotory behavior having to do with movement .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another in a behavioral context ;  the aspect of locomotory behavior having to do with movement .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of olfactory learning .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of platelet aggregation .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of platelet aggregation .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the biosynthesis of deoxyribose phosphate ,  the phosphorylated sugar 2 - deoxy - erythro - pentose .
enables the transfer of a vitamin from one side of a membrane to the other .
the immediate defensive reaction by vertebrate tissue to injury caused by chemical or physical agents .
a process in which planktonically growing microorganisms aggregate and grow on solid substrates under the flow of a liquid and produce extracellular polymers that facilitate attachment and matrix formation ,  resulting in a change in the organisms' growth rate and gene transcription .
a process in which planktonically growing microorganisms of the same species aggregate and grow on solid substrates under the flow of a liquid and produce extracellular polymers that facilitate attachment and matrix formation ,  resulting in a change in the organisms' growth rate and gene transcription .
all of the contents of a cilium ,  excluding the plasma membrane surrounding the cilium .
a specialized area of membrane on either the presynaptic or the postsynaptic side of a synapse ,  the junction between a nerve fiber of one neuron and another neuron or muscle fiber or glial cell .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an organic cyclic compound ,  any molecular entity that contains carbon arranged in a cyclic molecular structure .
a series of molecular signals which triggers the apoptotic death of a cell .
a stage of the apoptotic process that starts with the controlled breakdown of the cell through the action of effector caspases or other effector molecules  ( e .g .
the temporary recovery of response to a stimulus when a novel stimulus is added .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
obsolete .any constituent part of the smooth endoplasmic reticulum  ( also called smooth er ,  or ser )  .
obsolete .any constituent part of a neuron ,  the basic cellular unit of nervous tissue .
the cellular synthesis of rna on a template of nucleic acid  ( dna or rna )  .
any vesicle that is part of the intracellular region .
the docking of a cytosolic centriole / basal body to the plasma membrane via the ciliary transition fibers .
the process in which vesicles formed at the trans - golgi network are directed to the plasma membrane surrounding the base of the cilium ,  including the ciliary pocket ,  mediated by molecules at the vesicle membrane and target membrane surfaces .
any process involved in the controlled movement of a sperm cell .
the assembly and secretion of an extracellular exosome ,  a membrane - bounded vesicle that is released into the extracellular region by fusion of the limiting endosomal membrane of a multivesicular body with the plasma membrane .
examples include the outer membranes of double membrane bound organelles such as mitochondria as well as the bounding membranes of single - membrane bound organelles such as lysosomes .
a membrane that is a part of a larger membrane .
a membrane that is a  ( regional )  part of the plasma membrane .
the attachment of one cell to another cell via adhesion molecules .
the clustering together of unicellular organisms in suspension form aggregates .
the binding by a cell - adhesion protein on the cell surface to an extracellular matrix component ,  to mediate adhesion of the cell to the external substrate or to another cell .
the binding by a cell - adhesion protein on the cell surface to an extracellular matrix component ,  to mediate adhesion of the cell to another cell .
the process in which an anion is transported across a membrane .
the clustering together and adhesion of initially separate cells to form an aggregate .
one of the distinct periods or stages into which the meiotic cell cycle is divided .
one of the distinct periods or stages into which the mitotic cell cycle is divided .
a meiotic cell cycle phase prior to a during which some part of meiosis i nuclear division or the proceeding cytokinesis occurs .
a meiotic cell cycle phase that occurs after meiosis i  ( the first meiotic nuclear division )  .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of inorganic ions within an organism or cell .
a molecular function that modulates the activity of a gene product or complex .
a compartment that consists of a lumen and an enclosing membrane ,  and is part of the golgi apparatus .
the part of a synapse that is part of the post - synaptic cell .
any protein complex that is part of a membrane .
any protein complex that is part of the plasma membrane .
a protein complex that is part of a mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a system process ,  a multicellular organismal process carried out by the renal system .
any lipid bilayer that completely encloses some structure ,  and all the proteins embedded in it or attached to it .
the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of nuclear chromosomes ,  is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
a distinct  region of the endoplasmic reticulum
the directed movement of a protein along a microtubule ,  mediated by motor proteins .
a membrane region with a lipid composition that is distinct from that of the membrane regions that surround it .
a synapse in which pre and post - synaptic cells are neurons .
any vesicle - mediated transport that occurs in a synapse
a network of proteins adjacent to the postsynaptic membrane .
a network of proteins adjacent to the postsynaptic membrane forming an electron dense disc .
a microtubule - based process that results in the transport of organelles ,  other microtubules ,  or other cellular components .
a microtubule - based process that results in the transport of proteins .
a cytoplasmic ,  membrane bound vesicle that is capable of fusing to the plasma membrane to release its contents into the extracellular space .
any  ( proper )  part of the cytosol of a single cell of sufficient size to still be considered cytosol
the region of the cytosol consisting of all cytosol that is part of the postsynapse .
cell - cell signaling to ,  from or within a synapse .
any  ( proper )  part of the cytoplasm of a single cell of sufficient size to still be considered cytoplasm \ "
the portion of the cytoskeleton contained within the postsynapse .
a network of proteins within and adjacent to the postsynaptic membrane .
any signal release from a synapse .
the complete extent of cell cortex that underlies some some region of the plasma membrane
obsolete .any transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter process that negatively_regulates single organismal cell - cell adhesion
obsolete .any transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter process that regulates transport
obsolete .any transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter process that regulates meiotic nuclear division
obsolete .any transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter process that regulates carbohydrate metabolic process
obsolete .any transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter process that positively_regulates purine nucleotide biosynthetic process
obsolete .any transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter process that positively_regulates meiotic nuclear division
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response to wounding .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response to wounding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response to wounding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving cobalamin  ( vitamin b12 )  ,  a water - soluble vitamin characterized by possession of a corrin nucleus containing a cobalt atom .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cobalamin metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cobalamin metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of animal organ morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of animal organ morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle formation  ( spindle phase one )  .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle formation  ( spindle phase one )  .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle formation  ( spindle phase one )  .
a part of a cellular organism that is either an immaterial entity or a material entity with granularity above the level of a protein complex but below that of an anatomical system .
a prolongation or process extending from a cell and that is bounded by plasma membrane ,  e .g .
formation of a prolongation or process extending and that is bounded by plasma membrane ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of plasma membrane bounded cell projection assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of plasma membrane bounded cell projection assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of plasma membrane bounded cell projection assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of plasma membrane bounded cell projections .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a plasma membrane bounded prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
obsolete .any constituent part of a plasma membrane bounded cell projection ,  a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
all of the contents of a plasma membrane bounded neuron projection ,  excluding the plasma membrane surrounding the projection .
one of the two nuclear divisions that occur as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
a mitotic cell cycle process comprising the steps by which the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell divides ;  the process involves condensation of chromosomal dna into a highly compacted form .
the attachment of one cell to another cell via adhesion molecules as a result of an extracellular stimulus .
the process in which a mitochondrial gene's sequence is converted into a mature gene product or products  ( proteins or rna )  .
the process by which an organelle membrane interacts with another membrane via molecular tethers that physically bridge the two membranes and attach them to each other .
catalytic activity that acts to modify a protein .
the assembly and secretion a set of components to form an extracellular vesicule ,  a membrane - bounded vesicle that is released into the extracellular region .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a dna - binding transcription factor ,  a protein that interacts with a specific dna sequence  ( sometimes referred to as a motif )  within the regulatory region of a gene to modulate transcription .
any process in which a symbiont organism decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagy in the host cell .
the directed movement of some substance from a cell ,  into the extracellular region .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemostasis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemostasis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemostasis .
any regulation of signal transduction that takes place in the extracellular region .
any negative regulation of signal transduction that takes place in extracellular region .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of execution phase of apoptosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of execution phase of apoptosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of execution phase of apoptosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process in which plastidial dna and associated proteins are formed into a compact ,  orderly structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of single - species biofilm formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of single - species biofilm formation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of single - species biofilm formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of single - species biofilm formation on inanimate substrate .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of single - species biofilm formation on inanimate substrate .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of single - species biofilm formation on inanimate substrate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna interference .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna interference .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna interference .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide biosynthetic processes .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide biosynthetic processes .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide biosynthetic processes .
obsolete .a negative regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that results in negative regulation of cell - cell adhesion .
obsolete .a negative regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that results in regulation of transport .
obsolete .a regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that results in regulation of carbohydrate metabolic process .
obsolete .a positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that results in positive regulation of purine nucleotide biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to salt stress .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to salt stress .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to salt stress .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate derivative .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrate derivative .
any gene expression that is involved in extracellular matrix organization .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nucleoside phosphate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of flagellated sperm motility .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of flagellated sperm motility .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasculature development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasculature development .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic cyclic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic cyclic compound .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with heterocyclic compound .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of tetrapyrrole metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of tetrapyrrole metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of tetrapyrrole metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to alcohol .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to alcohol .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to alcohol .
any positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in cellular response to chemical stimulus .
the addition or removal of methyl groups to dna that contributes to the epigenetic regulation of embryonic gene expression .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organonitrogen compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organonitrogen compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic hydroxy compound .
a response that results in a state of tolerance to ketone .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycosyl compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycosyl compound .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle assembly .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of platelet aggregation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vitamin a metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial dna metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial dna metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial dna metabolic process .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cilium assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cilium assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cilium - dependent cell motility .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cilium - dependent cell motility .
any regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in spermatogenesis .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of flagellated sperm motility .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of organelle assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of organelle assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of organelle assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic spindle elongation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic spindle elongation .
any apoptotic process that is involved in blood vessel morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome condensation .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
a localization which involves another organism .
a cellular localization which involves another organism .
obsolete .an intracellular transport which involves another organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to water deprivation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
any apoptotic process that is involved in anatomical structure development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle elongation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle elongation .
any microtubule cytoskeleton organization that is involved in mitosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagosome assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycoprotein metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycoprotein metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycoprotein metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to wounding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to wounding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to wounding .
a process that is part of the meiotic cell cycle .
a process that is part of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of extracellular matrix organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of extracellular matrix organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of extracellular matrix organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription occuring in the mitochondrion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription occuring in the mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleus organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic chromosome condensation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic chromosome condensation .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell maturation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell maturation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell maturation .
any rna interference that is involved in olfactory learning .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of extracellular vesicular exosome assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of extracellular vesicular exosome assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of extracellular vesicular exosome assembly .
any vesicle that is part of the extracellular region .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cilium .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cilium .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cilium .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic transport .
modulation of host cell motility by a symbiont of that host .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of asexual reproduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of asexual reproduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of asexual reproduction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemopoiesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemopoiesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemopoiesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transport .
the process in which an organic acid is transported across a membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transmembrane transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transmembrane transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transmembrane transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of eating behavior .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of eating behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of eating behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasculature development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sensory perception of pain .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sensory perception of pain .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotor rhythm .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotor rhythm .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotor rhythm .
any g protein - coupled receptor signaling pathway that is involved in social behavior .
any positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in neuron differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagic cell death .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagic cell death .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagic cell death .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bleb assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bleb assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bleb assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretory granule organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretory granule organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretory granule organization .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sensory perception of bitter taste .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sensory perception of bitter taste .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sensory perception of bitter taste .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of somatic stem cell division .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of somatic stem cell division .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of somatic stem cell division .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an atg1 / ukl1 kinase complex .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of protein localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of protein localization .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an autophagosome .
the process in which carboxylic acid is transported across a membrane .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane invagination .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane invagination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane invagination .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic chromosome condensation .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a ciliary transition zone .
the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cilium  ( aka flagellum )  that contributes to the movement of a flagellated sperm .
any intracellular signal transduction that is involved in positive regulation of cell growth .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of fertilization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna methylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna methylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome condensation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of spindle assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of spindle assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to gamma radiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to gamma radiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to gamma radiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of atg1 / ulk1 kinase complex assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of atg1 / ulk1 kinase complex assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of atg1 / ulk1 kinase complex assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of oogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of oogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of oogenesis .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process by which a callus is formed at a wound site .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular transport in the host organism .
the process by which the rods of the retina gradually become fully responsive to dim light when no longer exposed to bright light .
the associative learning process by which an animal learns and remembers an association between a neutral ,  unchanging environment and a putatively rewarding ,  internal state produced by a xenobiotic or drug .
a macromolecular complex containing both protein and rna molecules .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of multicellular organismal development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of animal organ morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to red or far red light .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of stem cell division .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to water deprivation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell motility .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell motility .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell motility .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cilium - dependent cell motility .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood vessel morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of feeding behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of feeding behavior .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling receptor activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling receptor activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to x - ray .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to x - ray .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to x - ray .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagosome assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagic vacuole assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to dna damage stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to dna damage stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to dna damage stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to drug .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to drug .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to drug .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to gamma radiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to gamma radiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to gamma radiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome organization .
a disposition  ( i )  to undergo pathological processes that  ( ii )  exists in an organism because of one or more disorders in that organism .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities
a quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to move freely .
a composite chromatic quality composed of hue ,  saturation and intensity parts .
a single physical entity inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's quantities or relative ratios of subparts .
a quality inhering in a substance by virtue of the amount of the bearer's there is mixed with another substance .
a quality that is the extent of space between two entities .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to undergo sexual reproduction in order to differentiate the individuals or types involved .
a quality of a single physical entity inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's size or shape or structure .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ratios of distances between its features  ( points ,  edges ,  surfaces and also holes etc )  .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
the number of entities of this type that are part of the whole organism .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical magnitude .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the distance between two points .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the proportion of the bearer's amount of matter .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer that has mass near a gravitational body .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's placement which is defined by the angle between the bearer and an axis ,  or the angle between the bearer and another object .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial location relative to other objects in the vicinity .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative position ,  shape ,  arrangements and connectivity of an organism's various parts ;  the pattern underlying its form .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence per unit time .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of the bearer's disposition to survive and develop normally or the number of surviving individuals in a given population .
a mobility quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to move freely .
a mobility quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being incapable to move freely .
a distance which is greater relative to the normal or average .
a distance which is lesser relative to the normal or average .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population that only produces gametes that can be fertilised by male gametes .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population whose sex organs contain only male gametes .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having parallel chains in undulate fashion on the border .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or being marked by a curve or smoothly rounded bend .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being such that every part of the surface or the circumference is equidistant from the center .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's deviation from normal or average .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting no deviation from normal or average .
a quality denoting the lack of an entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's existence .
an amount which is relatively high .
a length quality which is relatively large .
a length quality which is relatively small .
a weight which is relatively high .
a weight which is relatively low .
an increased size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting enlargement of a cell or constituent group of cells  ( for example ,  organ )  .
a decreased size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting reduced size of a cell or constituent group of cells  ( for example ,  organ )  .
a size quality which is relatively high .
a size quality which is relatively low .
a volume which is relatively high .
a volume which is relatively low .
a width which is relatively small .
a width which is relatively large .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer whose structure deteriorates or is lost over time due to an active pathological process .
a increased size quality inhering in an organ or tissue by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting increased number of cells .
a decreased size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting reduced number of cells within an organ or tissue .
a rate which is relatively low .
a rate which is relatively high .
a 3 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of 3 - dimensional space it occupies .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the distance from one side of an object to another side which is opposite .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a sharp or tapered end or point .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being oval with two axes of symmetry ,  as produced by a conical section .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's rate of change of momentum .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting concentration .
a concentration which is higher relative to the normal or average .
a concentration which is lower relative to the normal or average .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being narrow ,  with the two opposite margins parallel .
a quality which inheres in an process .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a physical quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with electromagnetic radiation .
an em radiation quality in which the em radiation is within the fiat range of the spectrum visible deemed to be light .
a biological sex quality inhering in an organism or a population with both male and female sexual organs in one individual .
a shape quality that obtains by virtue of the bearer having inward facing edges ;  having a surface or boundary that curves or bulges outward ,  as the exterior of a sphere .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's number of homologous sets of chromosomes in the nucleus or primary chromosome - containing compartment of the cell ,  each set essentially coding for all the biological traits of the organism .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing more than two homologous sets of chromosomes .
a polyploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing three homologous sets of chromosomes .
a polyploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing four homologous sets of chromosomes .
a polyploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing six homologous sets of chromosomes .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing an integral multiple of the monoploid number ,  possibly excluding the sex - determining chromosomes .
a monadic quality of continuant that exists at the cellular level of organisation .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's number of nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having no nucleus .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one nucleus .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having thin ,  tail - like projections extending outwards from the cell body .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's terminating in a point or edge .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's condition before death .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the cessation of the bearer's life .
a structural quality which is held by a bearer when the latter exhibits an excessive accumulation of extracellular fluid .
a position which is relatively high .
a positional which is relatively low .
the number of parts of a particular type that the bearer entity has .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a processual part as specified by the additional entity .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having additional processual parts .
a mass which is lower than normal or average .
a mass which is higher than normal or average .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processual parts .
a surface shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a degree of bending .
a curvature which is relatively high .
a curvature which is relatively low .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in one dimension .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in three dimensions .
a quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with radiation .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting disturbance of its smoothness or regularity .
a shape quality in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's curving inward .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being abnormal and having a destructive effect on living tissue .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having three angles .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical expression of sexual characteristics .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having more than one nucleus .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being narrowly triangular ,  wider at the apex and tapering toward the base .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting cells .
a cellularity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of more than one cell .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
an amount which is relatively low .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
a quality of physical entities inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a physical part as specified by the additional entity .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n and has_part  >  0 of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
the bearer of this quality has_part  >  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
surface shape that refers to the inward or outward curvature of the surface .
a shape that inheres in a 2 dimensional entity ,  such as a cross section or projection of a 3 dimensional entity .
a complete three dimensional shape in which for every line connecting pair of points on the object is within the object .
a complete three dimensional shape in which there is a line connecting pair of points on the object that lies outside the object .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer exhibiting deterioration of its structure .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer whose structure which does not deteriorate .
a shape inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being elongated and cylindrical .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being arranged like rays or radii ;  radiating from a common center .
having extra or fewer parts .
a displaced angular placement quality inhering in a body part by virtue of the bearer's movement away from the medial plane of the body .
a displaced angular placement quality inhering in a body part by virtue of the bearer's movement closer the medial plane of the body .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved towards the middle .
an angular placement quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being changed in position in relation to another entity .
a quality which inheres in a molecular entity ,  a single molecule ,  atom ,  ion ,  radical etc .
a concave 3 - d shape that inheres in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's nearly )  symmetric shape wide at its ends and narrow in the middle ,  resembling the figure of number 8 .
a force which relative high .
a force which is relative low .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or lacking of substances produced by living organisms that have a color resulting from selective color absorption .
a degree of pigmentation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having substances produced by living organisms that have a color resulting from selective color absorption .
a degree of pigmentation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking substances produced by living organisms that have a color resulting from selective color absorption .
a degree of pigmentation quality that is relatively high .
a degree of pigmentation quality that is relative low .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a point .
a shape that inheres in a 3 dimensional entity .
a mobility which is relative high .
a mobility which is relative low .
a quality that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a shape constituting a transition between a rectangle and a circle ;  a closed curve ,  of which the circle and ellipse are special cases ,  whose parametric equation is x = a .cos2 / rt ,  y = b .cos2 / rt
a quality inhering in a process by virtue of that process having two or more organisms as participants .
a quality inhering in a process by virtue of that process having exactly one organism as a participant .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one or more nucleus .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed along the longitudinal or anterior - posterior axis .
absence due to a degenerative process .
a shape that is in the form of a plug ,  being tube - like and expanded on one end .
a structural quality which is held by a bearer where a localized pathological or traumatic structural change ,  damage ,  deformity ,  or discontinuity of tissue ,  organ ,  or body part is present .
a stage of smed embryonic development ,  0  -  2 days post - egg capsule deposition at 20c .
a stage of smed embryonic development defined by a unique gene expression signature and morphology ,  2  -  3 days post - egg capsule deposition at 20c .
a stage of smed embryonic development defined by a unique gene expression signature and morphology ,  2  -  4 days post - egg capsule deposition at 20c .
a stage of smed embryonic development defined by a unique gene expression signature and morphology ,  3  -  5 days post - egg capsule deposition at 20c .
a stage of smed embryonic development defined by a unique gene expression signature and morphology ,  5 - 7 days post - egg capsule deposition at 20c .
a stage of smed embryonic development defined by a unique gene expression signature and morphology ,  7  -  9 days post - egg capsule deposition at 20c .
a stage of smed embryonic development defined by a unique gene expression signature and morphology ,  9  -  11 days post - egg capsule deposition at 20c .
a stage of smed embryonic development defined by a unique gene expression signature and morphology ,  13  -  15 days post - egg capsule deposition at 20c .
a heterogeneous subpopulation of neoblasts with enriched expression of soxp - 1 and soxp - 2 thought to contain both pluripotent stem cells and tissue - specific progenitors .
neoblasts and post - mitotic ,  differentiating daughters coexpressing pou2 - 3 ,  six1 / 2 - 2 ,  sal1 ,  eya and osr , required for maintenance and regeneration of protonephridial cell types .
neoblasts and their differentiating daughters implicated in maintenance and regeneration of different tissues in the nervous system .
musculature surrounding internal organs of the body .
an abundant neoblast subclass consisting of p53 +  ,  zfp1 +  progenitors required for maintenance and regeneration of epidermal cell type ( s )  .
an epithelial cell lacking cilia .
a plicate and protrusible organ that is the sole point of entry and exit for the triclad gut .
bipolar photoreceptor neurons with dendritic projections into the optic cup and axons that innervate the underlying brain .
post - mitotic ,  mesenchymally and epidermally located progenitors downstream of the category 3 cells .
progenitor neoblasts implicated in the maintenance and regeneration of muscle fibers .
excretory organs consisting of flame cells ,  proximal tubules ,  and distal tubules connected to a mesenchymal collecting duct .
organisms sharing a specified genotype or karyotype .
post - mitotic ,  ciliated epidermal cells .
an innervated ,  muscular pump that ingests yolk cells into the gut cavity .
asexual animal strains that reproduce solely through fission followed by whole body regeneration .
the nervous system is an organ system containing predominantly neuron and glial cells .
the planarian triclad gut contains a central anterior gut branch connected to two posterior gut branches arranged around the pharynx .
strains of cross - fertilizing hemaphrodites that reproduce sexually and do not undergo fission .
post - mitotic ,  mesenchymally located epidermal progenitors downstream of the zeta neoblasts .
a single cell layer of extraembryonic ,  post - mitotic ectodermal cells bounding the embryo .
the median line /  plane of bilateral symmetry along the anteroposterior axis .
non - neuronal ,  pigmented cells arrayed along the proximal side of the optic cup .
the median line / plane of bilateral symmetry along the anteroposterior axis on the dorsal surface of the animal .
mitotically active zeta neoblasts and their post - mitotic descendants which undergo progressive differentiation and outward directed movement through the mesenchyme prior to incorporation into the epidermis ,  where terminal differentiation occurs .
a single cell layer of post - mitotic epithelial cells containing ciliated and non - ciliated cell types forming the exterior surface of the animal .
post - mitotic ,  mesenchymally located epidermal progenitors downstream of the category 2 cells .
an organ that detects light .
the median line /  plane of bilateral symmetry along the anteroposterior axis on the ventral surface of the animal .
an abundant neoblast subclass ,  exhibiting enriched expression of gata456a ,  hnf4 ,  prox - 1 and nkx2 .2 ,  implicated in maintenance and regeneration of the definitive gut .
stage 3 - 5 embryo hemisphere centered around the pole opposite the embryonic pharynx .
the single ,  central gut branch of the triclad gut anterior to the pharynx .
region along the edge of the animal where the dorsal and ventral surfaces meet .
the planarian brain ,  consisting of two bilaterally symmetric lobes occupying a ventral position in the head .
body wall muscle fibers arrayed around the dorsoventral axis .
pluripotent piwi - 1 +  stem cells that self - renew ,  form expanding colonies and produce differentiating daughters that contribute to multiple organ systems .
non - ciliated tubules associated with the distal tubules ,  which cross the basement membrane and terminate in the dorsal epidermis .
body wall muscle fibers arrayed diagonally along the anteroposterior axis .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs devoted to the ingestion ,  digestion ,  and assimilation of food and the discharge of residual wastes .
sinusoidal ,  non - ciliated tubules connected to proximal tubules within the parenchyma .
single cell layer of dorsal ,  post - mitotic ,  epithelial cells containing the dorsal stripe .
ciliated epithelial cells along the dorsal midline .
turbellarian  ( freshwater flatworm )  embryos that undergo a modified form of cleavage due to separation of oocyte and yolk .
a cryptic digestive system in stage 3 - 6 embryos comprised of temporary embryonic cell types and organs ,  including the embryonic pharynx and primitive gut cells .
dispersed ,  phagocytic gut cells that appear during stage 4 and ultimately generate a honeycomb - like lattice surrounding the central gut cavity in stage 5 embryos .
the parenchymal space between the gut cavity and the primitive ectoderm containing undifferentiated blastomeres in stage 3 - 5 embryos .
visceral muscle surrounding the gut .
attachment between the triclad gut and the proximal end of the pharynx .
a multicellular anatomical structure that is associated with an embryo and derived from the zygote from which it develops ,  but which does not contribute to the embryo proper or to structures that are part of the same organism after embryogenesis .
terminal structure of protonephridia unit ;  consists of flame cells .
terminal structure of the protonephridia unit ,  capping the proximal tubules .
the single cell layer columnar epithelial lining of the intestine .
secretory cells that release digestive enzymes into the lumen of the intestine .
cavity encompassed by the embryonic digestive tract ,  prior to formation of the branched defintive gut .
inner most body wall muscle fibers arrayed along the anteroposterior axis .
absorptive digestive cells that engulf food particles for intracellular digestion .
body wall muscle fibers arrayed along the anteroposterior axis .
the sole point of entry and exit for the triclad planarian flatworm gut .
a female germ cell that has entered meiosis .
a portion of the eye containing pigment cells and dendritic projections from photoreceptor neurons .
stage 3 - 5 embryo hemisphere centered around the embryonic pharynx .
body wall muscle fibers arrayed along the anteroposterior axis .
muscles that are present through the mesenchyme ,  inclusing dorsal - ventral muscles ,  intestinal muscles and pharynx muscles .
a major division of the nervous system that contains nerves which connect the central nervous system  ( cns )  with sensory organs ,  other organs ,  muscles ,  blood vessels and glands .
an epithelial structure housing the pharynx ,  connected to the esophagus and mouth .
the primary gut branches of the triclad gut lateral and posterior to the pharynx and pharyngeal pouch .
a phagocytic cell closely associated with the embryonic pharynx .
ciliated epithelial cells form tubules ,  generating coiled ,  branching units terminating in flame bulbs .
the renal system is an anatomical system that maintains fluid balance and contributes to electrolyte balance ,  acid / base balance ,  and disposal of nitrogenous waste products .
gut branches ,  originating from and connected to the primary gut branches ,  that extend laterally towards the body edge .
a mature male germ cell that develops from a spermatid .
fused yolk cells surrounding blastomeres undergoing dispersed cleavage during stages 1 and 2 .
gut branches originating from and connected to the secondary gut branches .
ovo +  neoblasts and post - mitotic eye progenitors that simultaneously migrate and differentiate into photoreceptor neurons and non - neuronal pigment cup cells comprising the optic cup .
single cell layer of ventral ,  post - mitotic ,  heavily ciliated epithelial cells
the pair of closely united ventral longitudinal nerves with their segmental ganglia that is characteristic of many elongate invertebrates  ( as earthworms )  [ bto ]  .
diploid cell resulting from the fusion of male and female gametes at fertilization .
the basic cellular unit of nervous tissue .
a cell that is usually found in a two - dimensional sheet with a free surface .
a mature contractile cell ,  commonly known as a myocyte .
the central nervous system is the core nervous system that serves an integrating and coordinating function .
straight or curved rod - like structures within the epidermal cells ,  oriented with long axis at right angles to the epidermal surface ,  that are discharged into mucous secretions .
a cell that specializes in controlled release of one or more substances .
an epithelial cell that has cilia .
an extraembryonic cell ,  produced by somatic vitellogenic glands in adult hermaphrodites ,  that provides nutrition to the developing embryo .
foxa1 +  neoblasts and their post - mitotic ,  differentiating daughters required for maintenance and regeneration of the pharynx .
ciliated epithelial cells that assemble into proximal tubules .
multicellular anatomical structure that consists of many cells of one or a few types ,  arranged in an extracellular matrix such that their long - range organisation is at least partly a repetition of their short - range organisation .
multicellular ,  connected anatomical structure that has multiple organs as parts and whose parts work together to achieve some shared function .
nonciliated epithelial cells that assemble into protonephridial distal tubules .
anatomical entity that comprises the organism in the early stages of growth and differentiation that are characterized by cleavage ,  the laying down of fundamental tissues ,  and the formation of primitive organs and organ systems .
anatomical structure that is part of an embryo .
nonciliated epithelial cells that assemble into collecting ducts .
a post - mitotic ,  terminally differentiated cell type found in planarian embryos ,  juveniles and / or adult animals .
a cycling neoblast and / or post - mitotic cell that is primed or irreversibly committed to a tissue - specific differentation program
a relatively undifferentiated cell that retains the ability to divide and proliferate throughout life to provide progenitor cells that can differentiate into specialized cells .
a mature sexual reproductive cell having a single set of unpaired chromosomes .
a cell of the embryo .
the sensory system subserving the sense of vision .
anatomical system that overlaps the nervous system and is responsible for receiving and processing sensory information .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with reproduction .
ciliated epithelial cells that assemble into the oviduct .
ciliated epithelial cells comprising the sperm ducts .
piwi - 1 +  ,  nkx1 - 1 +  progenitor neoblasts required for specification of circular muscle fibers .
primordia are populations of contiguous cells that are morphologically distinct and already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue .
a cell specialized to transduce mechanical stimuli and relay that information centrally in the nervous system .
piwi - 1 +  ,  myod +  ,  snail - 1 +  progenitor neoblasts required for specification and creation of longitudinal muscle fibers .
cells expressing nanos that are located ventrally in the location that the ovaries form .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of of schmidtea mediterranea or any other flatworm of the class turbellaria .
the regrowth of a lost or destroyed body part ,  such as an organ or tissue .
prog - 2 - 5 positive granules that range in size from 0 .5um to 1um present in epithelia and epithelia progenitor cells .
compartment along the anteroposterior axis closer to the head rather than the tail ,  from the head margin to the esophagus .
three dimensional compartment along the dorsoventral axis that is above the anteroposterior axis ,  containing the eyes .
three dimensional compartment along the anteroposterior axis that is closer to the tail rather than the head ,  from the anterior boundary of the pharyngeal pouch to the tip of the tail .
compartment along the dorsoventral axis that is below the anteroposterior axis .
the passageway connecting the genital atrium to the copulatory bursa .
the gonopore ,  a component of the copulatory apparatus ,  is an opening located on the ventral side of the animal posterior to the pharynx .
a gonad containing female germline stem cells which fuel oocyte production .
ciliated tubes adjacent to the ventral nerve cords ,  adjoining the tuba and the bursal canal ,  that transport fertilized oocytes to the genital atrium .
a rounded protuberance ,  connected to the seminal vesicles ,  responsible for transferring semen into a mating partner's bursal canal .
a network of tubes that transport sperm from the testes to the seminal vesicles .
a gonad containing male germline stem cells which fuel sperm production .
primitive ectoderm cells differentiate from the blastomere population ,  exit the cell cycle and interact to boud the embryo during stage 2 .
a sexually immature member of the schmidtea mediterranea sexuallly reproducing biotype .
products of the reproductive system include gametes ,  zygotes ,  yolk cells and egg capsules .
a proteinaceous ,  semi - permeable shell housing yolk cells and one or more embryos .egg capsules are anchored to a substrate via a stalk .
reproductive organ that produces and releases eggs  ( ovary )  or sperm  ( testis )  .
cells coexpressing piwi - 1 and nanos that are required for male gonad formation .
gh4 +  ,  nanos +  cells residing at the testis periphery that self - renew and give rise to differentiating daughters that will ultimately produce haploid sperm .
an euploid male germ cell of an early stage of spermatogenesis .
a tektin - 1 +  male germ cell that develops from spermatogonia .
a male germ cell that develops from the haploid secondary spermatocytes .
a piwi - 1 +  ,  nanos +  cell residing in the ovary that self - renews and give rise to oogonial cells that differentiate into oocytes .
glands surrounding the genital atrium that are required for production of the proteinaceous egg capsule shell and stalk .
1 .a gamete  ( as an egg or sperm cell )  or one of its antecedent cells .
a male germ cell is a germ cell that supports male gamete production .
female germ cell is a germ cell that supports female gamete production .
a sperm storage organ located immediately posterior to the ovary ,  at the anterior end of the oviduct .
glands surrounding the oviducts which produce yolk cells .
accessory reproductive structures involved in copulation ,  egg capsule development and laying .
an organ that receives and stores sperm from mating partners .
glandular pouches adjoining the sperm ducts which produce seminal fluid .
a cyst of 8 interconnected spermatocytes undergoes meiosis ,  producing 32 haploid round spermatids .
spermatids expressing protein kinase a undergoing morphogenic changes to make mature sperm .
an undifferentiated germ cell that proliferates rapidly and gives rise to oocytes .
any collection of muscles that is part of a body wall  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
pharynx muscle fibers running anteroposterior  ( proximal to distal )  .
anatomical space enclosed by the pharynx inner epithelium .
an anatomical space that is surrounded by a digestive tract .
the orifice that connects the mouth to the exterior of the body .
anatomical space between the pharynx and the epithelial cells comprising parapharyngeal pouch .
the apical surface of the single layered epidermis that is in contact with the environment .
the basal surface of the epidermis in direct contact with the basal lamina .
the surface of the gastrodermis in contact with the gut lumen .
the epithelial surface lining the interior of the pharynx ,  facing the lumen .
epithelial surface covering the outside of the pharynx .
the surface of the parapharyngeal pouch facing the pharynx .
anatomical structure which is a subdivision of a whole adult or juvenile organism ,  consisting of components of multiple anatomical systems .
the head is the anterior - most division of the body  [ go ]  .
region of the juvenile or adult animal between the posterior end of the cephalic ganglia and the anterior end of the pharynx .
region of the animal lateral to and surrounding the pharynx .
caudal region ,  beginning at the mouth and ending at posterior pole .
medial region of the tail ;  the parenchymal space between the posterior primary gut branches .
anatomical structure which is a subdivision of a whole developing /  embryonic organism ,  consisting of components of multiple anatomical systems .
an anatomical structure that has more than one cell as a part .
total musculature of the planarian body .
a heterogeneous population of pluripotent ,  somatic adult stem cells and lineage primed progenitors that are required for maintenance and regeneration of all cell types in planaria ,  including the germline .
a part of an epithelial cell .
anatomical structure that performs a specific function or group of functions .
a decussation of the diencephalon where the fibers of the optic nerve cross
a bundle of nerve fibers connecting the two cephalic ganglia .
nerve branches that extend from the lateral side of each cephalic ganglia lobe .
a cell that performs a sensory function .
neurons that express choline acetyltransferase .
neurons that express glutamine decarboxylase .
plexus of nerves located in the pharynx comprised of inner and outer wall rings .
plexus of nerves located just between the epidermis and the body wall musculature .
plexus of nerves that innervate the body wall musculature .
a thin net of single nerve fibers located around the gut .
a cluster of neurites that is part of a nervous system and forms a network of dendrites and axons where synapses are present and in which neuronal somata do not occur .
heavily ciliated epidermal cells covering the outer surface of the pharynx shaft .
pharynx muscle fibers thar run circumferentially about the pharynx and lie just beneath the outer longitudinal pharynx muscles .
pharynx muscle fiber that runs circumferentially about the pharynx and lies just beneath the inner logitudinal pharynx muscle fibers .
pharynx muscle fibers running anteroposterior which lie beneath both the inner circular muscle fibers and the apical ,  ciliated portion of the epithium lining the lumenal surface .
pharynx muscle fibers running anteroposterior which lie just underneath the apical ,  cilaited portion of the outer epithelium .
pharynx muscle fibers that run radially ,  connecting the outer muscle fibers and epithelia with their inner counterparts .
the total musculature within the pharynx .
ring of the pharynx nerve plexus that is proximal to the lumen .
ring of the pharynx nerve plexus that is proximal to the exterior surface .
neurons that express the neurotransmitter serotonin .
a neuron that expresses the neurotransmitter dopamine .
neurons that express the biogenic amine octopamine .
anatomical system that has as its parts cells and glands devoted to the discharge of substances such as mucus .
specialized insunk epithelial cells located in the mesenchyme that participate in mucus secretion .
the opening by which the gland cells secrete mucus to the exterior of the animal .
one of two distinct histochemical classes of gland cells ,  these can be found throughout the body but primarily form clusters of subepidermal marginal adhesive glands along the dorsoventral border of the animal .
one of two distinct histochemical classes of gland cells ,  these are found near the ventral mesenchyme ,  the pharynx and in the dorsal region of the head .
anatomical junction where subdivisions of two or more neural trees interconnect with one another to form a network through which nerve fibers of the constituent nerve trees become regrouped ;  together with other nerve plexuses ,  nerves and ganglia ,  it constitutes the peripheral nervous system .
any of the nerve fiber tracts that span the longitudinal fissure between the cerebral and / or cerebellar hemispheres of the brain
a regenerating tissue composed of a proliferative mass of undifferentiated progenitor cells from which new differentiated structures arise .
a cell projection supported by an assembly of actin filaments .
thin cylindrical membrane - covered projections on the surface of an animal cell containing a core bundle of actin filaments .
extended zone of intimate apposition between two cells containing one or more types of intercellular junctions .
a cell junction that forms a connection between two or more cells in a multicellular organism ;  excludes direct cytoplasmic junctions such as ring canals .
any constituent part of the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
any constituent part of the cytoplasm ,  all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
any constituent part of cytoplasmic vesicle ,  a vesicle formed of membrane or protein ,  found in the cytoplasm of a cell .
any constituent part of a membrane ,  a double layer of lipid molecules that encloses all cells ,  and ,  in eukaryotes ,  many organelles ;  may be a single or double lipid bilayer ;  also includes associated proteins .
any constituent part of the plasma membrane ,  the membrane surrounding a cell that separates the cell from its external environment .
any constituent part of the nucleus ,  a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
the ordered and organized complex of dna ,  protein  ( histones )  ,  and sometimes rna ,  that forms the chromosome .
a compact and highly condensed form of chromatin .
a dispersed and relatively uncompacted form of chromatin .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane .
a group of axons linking two or more neuropils and having a common origin ,  termination
a cell whose function is determined by its response to an electric signal .
a cell that initiates an electrical signal and passes that signal to another cell .
an enclosed ,  cable - like bundle of axons in the peripheral nervous system originating in a nerve root in the central nervous system  ( or a condensed nervous structure )  connecting with peripheral structures .
a fasciculated bundle of neuron projections  ( go:0043005 )  ,  largely or completely lacking synapses .
a neuron which conveys sensory information centrally from the periphery .
a type of interneuron that has two neurites ,  usually an axon and a dendrite ,  extending from opposite poles of an ovoid cell body .
a neuron that has an axon which crosses the midline .
a neuron which sends impulses peripherally to activate muscles or secretory cells .
a motor neuron that is capable of directly inducing muscle contraction .
most generally any neuron which is not motor or sensory .
any neuron having a sensory function ;  an afferent neuron conveying sensory impulses .
an efferent neuron that passes from the central nervous system or a ganglion toward or to a muscle and conducts an impulse that causes or inhibits movement .
neuronal cells which synthesize ,  store and release neurohormones .
sympathetic neurons are part of the sympathetic nervous system and are primarily adrenergic producing the neurotransmitter noradrenalin along with other neuropeptides .
neuron with one neurite that extends from the cell body .
neuron with an axon and two or more dendrites .
cells that are in close proximity to neurons .
any neuron that is part of a central nervous system .
any neuron that is part of a peripheral nervous system .
a neruon whose cell body is within an autonomic ganglion .
a neruon whose cell body is within an autonomic ganglion .
acellular anatomical structure that consists of a thin sheet of fibrous proteins that underlie and support the cells of an epithelium .
rhabdites that are located basally to the epidermis ,  in the mesenchyme .
a cell junction at which anchoring proteins  ( cadherins or integrins )  extend through the plasma membrane and are attached to actin filaments .
finger - like processes at the terminal pore of adhesive gland cells around the marginal adhesive zone .
a wound resulting in two or more separate tissue fragments .
a branch of the triclad gut located anterior to the pharynx .
the anterior - medial region of the head margin .
a chamber formation in an organ .
a sense organ located along the dorsolateral head margin .
the long process of a neuron that conducts nerve impulses ,  usually away from the cell body to the terminals and varicosities ,  which are sites of storage and release of neurotransmitter .
the bundle of microtubules and associated proteins that forms the core of cilia  ( also called flagella )  in eukaryotic cells and is responsible for their movements .
a membrane - tethered ,  short cylindrical array of microtubules and associated proteins found at the base of a eukaryotic cilium  ( also called flagellum )  that is similar in structure to a centriole and derives from it .
region of the cephalic ganglia innervated by the optic nerve  ( posterior - projecting photoreceptor neuron fasiculated axons )  .
an enlarged portion of the seminal vesicle ,  comprised of secretory epithelial cells ,  that connects to the ejaculatory duct within the penis papilla .
irradiation - sensitive ,  mesenchymal cells that are absent from the head region anterior to the eyes and the pharynx .
the portion of a cell bearing surface projections such as axons ,  dendrites ,  cilia ,  or flagella that includes the nucleus ,  but excludes all cell projections .
one of two bilaterally symmetric structures comprising the planarian brain .
a central nervous system neuron located within the planarian brain .
amputation carried out by application of chemicals .
amputation of the phaynx ,  including the esophagus ,  by treatment with sodium azide .
any neuron that capable of some detection of chemical stimulus involved in sensory perception .
a membrane - less ,  cytoplasmic ribonucleoprotein granule present in neoblasts and germ cells implicated in post - transcriptional regulation .
a structure composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins  ( e .g .
under the microscope chromosomes appear as thin ,  thread - like structures .
epithelium bearing vibratile cilia on the free surface .
a bundle of nerve fibers crossing from one side to the other side of the brain or spinal cord .
a wound or cleft resulted from tissue separation into parts or laid open or penetrated with a sharp edge or instrument .
a neuron projection that has a short ,  tapering ,  morphology .
a muscle cell that runs in the transverse plane that connects the dorsal and ventral sides of the animal .
a premeiotic female germ cell  ( i .e . ,  a diploid female germline stem cell or transit amplifying oogonial cell )  .
a premeiotic male germ cell  ( i .e . ,  a spermatogonial stem cell or transit amplifying spermatogonial cell )  .
a cryptic digestive cavity comprised of phagocytic embryonic gut cells .
an epithelial cell of the integument  ( the outer layer of an organism )  .
rhabdites located within epidermal cells .
the lipid bilayer surrounding the endoplasmic reticulum .
the black pigment that gives non - neuronal pigment cells of the optic cup their characteristic color .
a cell involved in the elimination of metabolic and foreign toxins ,  and in maintaining the ionic ,  acid - base and water balance of biological fluids .
a form of asexual reproduction resulting in self - amputation of posterior tissue ,  generating an anterior fragment and a fission fragment .
planarian undulipodia consisting of spermatazoa cell posterior protrusions .
a cell - cell junction composed of pannexins or innexins and connexins ,  two different families of channel - forming proteins .
a chamber where egg capsules are formed .
a clonally - related group of interconnected spermatogonial or oogonial cells ,  enveloped by somatic gonadal cells .
stem cell that is the precursor of gametes .
cytoplasmic bead - like structures of animal cells ,  visible by electron microscope .
a breach of the epidermis made with a defined edge or point .
epithelial cells lining the inside of the pharynx .
gland or secretory cells sandwiched between muscle and epidermal layers in the pharynx .
a cell junction that forms a connection between two or more cells in a multicellular organism ;  excludes direct cytoplasmic junctions such as ring canals .
an amputation performed with a transverse ,  oblique or longitudinal cut .
a breach of the epidermis and optionally down into other structures though an insult with a knife or other instrument ,  such that the movement includes the z direction and one or more of the x y direction .
the cavity or channel within a tube or tubular organ such as a blood vessel or the intestine .
zone present along the lateral dorsoventral boundary that sits just underneath the animal ,  in contact with substrates .
any neuron that is capable of some detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception .
subset of dorsal - ventral muscle cells located in the medial body region .
a germ cell undergoing meiosis .
a tissue - specific ,  membrane - bounded cytoplasmic organelle within which melanin pigments are synthesized and stored .
a secreted ,  mucin - rich extracellular substance coating the epidermal surface of the animal implicated in gliding locomotion ,  substrate adhesion ,  innate immunity and predator avoidance .
the external opening and terminus of a protonephridium made by a terminal cell .
cell appendage of the neuron which includes the axon and the dendrite .
a neuron that produces and releases neuropeptides at chemical synapses .
differentiating ,  immature epidermal cells lacking cilia .
the double lipid bilayer enclosing the nucleus and separating its contents from the rest of the cytoplasm ;  includes the intermembrane space ,  a gap of width 20 - 40 nm  ( also called the perinuclear space )  .
the inner ,  i .e .lumen - facing ,  lipid bilayer of the nuclear envelope .
the outer ,  i .e .cytoplasm - facing ,  lipid bilayer of the nuclear envelope ;  continuous with the endoplasmic reticulum of the cell and sometimes studded with ribosomes .
the portion of the nuclear lumen proximal to the inner nuclear membrane .
parenchymal cells that synthesize and contain brown ommonchrome pigment .
a neuron projection bundle that connects the retina or its analog in the eye with the brain .
heavily ciliated ,  insunk epithelial cells bounding the outside of the pharynx .
a cell that engulfs large particles or cells via invagination of the plasma membrane and creation of a phagosome .
the distal - most end of the pharnyx containing an opening to the pharynx lumen .
a pigment cell is a cell that contains pigment granules .
a small ,  subcellular membrane - bounded vesicle containing pigment and / or pigment precursor molecules .
an amputation of tissue ,  usually though the whole depth of the animal encompassing both dorsal and ventral sides ,  often made with a biopsy punch .
a breach of the epidermis made with a defined edge or point .
an anatomical space that is an opening ,  usually at the end of a canal or duct ,  on the surface of the integument or the lining of an internal anatomical space .
a haploid gamete undergoing terminal differentiation .
a specialized area of membrane facing the presynaptic membrane on the tip of the nerve ending and separated from it by a minute cleft  ( the synaptic cleft )  .
a diploid germline stem cell or transit amplifying germ cell that has not committed to undergoing meiotic dna replication ,  reductive divisions or terminal differentiation .
the part of a synapse that is part of the presynaptic cell .
terminal inflated portion of the axon ,  containing the specialized apparatus necessary to release neurotransmitters .
a secretory organelle ,  typically 50 nm in diameter ,  of presynaptic nerve terminals ;  accumulates in high concentrations of neurotransmitters and secretes these into the synaptic cleft by fusion with the 'active zone' of the presynaptic plasma membrane .
the largest branch of the triclad intestine .
four large phagocytic cells associated with the embryonic pharynx .
gut branches originating from and connected to the tertiary gut branches .
an organ involved in reproduction
any anatomical structure that is part of the reproductive system .
the light sensing structure consisting of photoreceptor neuron dendrites that project into the optic lumen and show close associations with eumelanin - containing pigment cup cells .
the dendritic process of a bipolar photoreceptor neuron that projects into the optic cup lumen and senses light .
a tubular structure that transports secreted or excreted substances .
one of the cells of the body that compose the tissues ,  organs ,  and parts of that individual other than the germ cells .
a non - germline cell within the ovary or testis .
a presumptive progenitor cell that expresses both pan - neoblast markers and pro - differentiation gene ( s )  ,  frequently developmental transcription factors ,  implicated in lineage commitment and tissue - specific differentiation programs .
a thin ,  flexible rod that anchors an egg capsule to a solid substrate .
a wound produced by non - autonomous physical means .
the narrow gap that separates the presynaptic and postsynaptic membranes ,  into which neurotransmitter is released .
a secretory organelle ,  typically 50 nm in diameter ,  of presynaptic nerve terminals ;  accumulates in high concentrations of neurotransmitters and secretes these into the synaptic cleft by fusion with the 'active zone' of the presynaptic plasma membrane .
a proteinaceous scaffold found between homologous chromosomes during meiosis .
the posterior - medial region of the tail margin .
the terminal region of a linear chromosome that includes the telomeric dna repeats and associated proteins .
a cell - cell junction  in invertebrates that seals cells together in an epithelium in a way that prevents even small molecules from leaking from one side of the sheet to the other .
a piece of tissue removed from the lateral margin at any given point that extendes interiorly to more medial structures .
an injury that breaches the epidermis .
a sorted cell population enriched for irradiation - sensitive ,  cycling cells  ( 4n cells ,  with high levels of hoescht 33342 staining )  with scant cytoplasm  ( low levels of calcein - am staining )  .
a heterogeneous sorted cell population of unstained planarian cells with similar size and complexity to irradiation - sensitive ,  cycling cells contained in the x1 gate .
a sorted cell population containing irradiation - sensitive and irradiation - insensitive cells ,  characterized by weak hoescht 33342 and calcein - am staining .
a sorted cell population of irradiation - insensitive cells that contains a variety of post - mitotic ,  differentiated cell types .
posterior to the pharynx .
adjacent to blastema ,  or proximal to blastema .
a fragment derived from a spontaneous or induced fission event .
the avascular cellular layers that cover body surfaces and cavities and may form glands .
the triclad planarian gut is serially bifrucated into connected lumens where each bifrucation is a branch .
organ that is associated with an embryo and derived from the zygote from which it develops ,  but which does not contribute to the embryo proper or to structures that are part of the same organism after embryogenesis .
this is a manufactured term ,  that serves the purpose of allow the parts of a chromosome to have an is_a path to the root .
an event or occurrence that causes damage to a tissue or organ .
structural element of a chromosome ,  for example ,  a telomere and a centromere
a longitudinal fragment containing the preexisting midline and medial structures .
a longitudinal fragment lacking a midline and medial structures .
a piece of tissue isolated from the body .
a region bounded by any sagittal plane though the animal and the left or right side of the animal .
an intentional wound produced by non - autonomous chemical means .
a wound resulting from the removal of tissue ,  usually though the whole depth of the animal encompassing both dorsal and ventral sides ,  often made with a biopsy punch .
a wound resulting from the removal of a piece of tissue from the lateral margin at any given point that extends interiorly to more medial structures .
a fragment that has undergone wound healing and is undergoing tissue replacement and morphallaxis .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is in the sagittal plane .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is in the parasagittal plane ,  which runs longitudinally ,  and is never medial .
an anatomical entity consisting of a single or a few multinucleated structures
cytoplasmic part which forms a distinctive granular particle ,  which may or may not be visible using light microscopy .
any number of cells from dissociated planarian tissue sorted via a facs sorter for any parameter .
cells isolated from dissociated planarian tissue .
an epithelial monolayer lining the pharynx pouch cavity .
epithelial surface lining the sperm duct .
a loosely organized collection of connective tissue and cells ,  including neoblasts and their immediate progeny ,  located in the space outside of the organs between the body wall musculature and the gut .
the dorsal region of the tail .
cell which is part of the testis
cell which is part of the ventral epidermis
cell which is part of the visual system
cell which is part of the eye
cell which is part of the enteric musculature
cell which is part of the dorsal region of the epidermis
cell which is part of the adhesion gland
cell which is part of the body wall musculature
cell which is part of the gastrodermis
cell which is part of the anterior pole
neuron which is part of the pharynx
epithelial cell which is part of the pharynx
muscle cell which is part of the pharynx
epithelial cell which is part of the pharynx pouch
pigment granule which is part of the eumelanin
pigment granule which is part of the ommochrome pigment cell
cell which is part of the parenchyma
neoblast undergoing mitotic g1 phase
neoblast undergoing mitotic s phase
neoblast undergoing mitotic g2 phase
neoblast undergoing mitotic prophase
neoblast undergoing mitotic metaphase
neoblast undergoing mitotic anaphase
neoblast undergoing mitotic telophase
spermatogonial stem cell undergoing mitotic g1 phase
spermatogonial stem cell undergoing mitotic s phase
spermatogonial stem cell undergoing mitotic g2 phase
spermatogonial stem cell undergoing mitotic prophase
spermatogonial stem cell undergoing mitotic metaphase
spermatogonial stem cell undergoing mitotic anaphase
spermatogonial stem cell undergoing mitotic telophase
oogonial stem cell undergoing mitotic g1 phase
oogonial stem cell undergoing mitotic s phase
oogonial stem cell undergoing mitotic g2 phase
oogonial stem cell undergoing mitotic prophase
oogonial stem cell undergoing mitotic metaphase
oogonial stem cell undergoing mitotic anaphase
oogonial stem cell undergoing mitotic telophase
spermatogonium undergoing mitotic g1 phase
spermatogonium undergoing mitotic s phase
spermatogonium undergoing mitotic g2 phase
spermatogonium undergoing mitotic prophase
spermatogonium undergoing mitotic metaphase
spermatogonium undergoing mitotic anaphase
spermatogonium undergoing mitotic telophase
oogonial cell undergoing mitotic g1 phase
oogonial cell undergoing mitotic s phase
oogonial cell undergoing mitotic g2 phase
oogonial cell undergoing mitotic prophase
oogonial cell undergoing mitotic metaphase
oogonial cell undergoing mitotic anaphase
oogonial cell undergoing mitotic telophase
germ cell cyst undergoing mitotic g1 phase
germ cell cyst undergoing mitotic s phase
germ cell cyst undergoing mitotic g2 phase
germ cell cyst undergoing mitotic prophase
germ cell cyst undergoing mitotic metaphase
germ cell cyst undergoing mitotic anaphase
germ cell cyst undergoing mitotic telophase
spermatocyte undergoing meiotic s phase
spermatocyte undergoing meiotic g1 phase
spermatocyte undergoing meiotic g2 phase
spermatocyte undergoing meiotic prophase i
spermatocyte undergoing leptotene
spermatocyte undergoing zygotene
spermatocyte undergoing pachytene
spermatocyte undergoing diplotene
spermatocyte undergoing diakinesis
spermatocyte undergoing meiotic metaphase i
spermatocyte undergoing meiotic anaphase i
spermatocyte undergoing meiotic telophase i
spermatocyte undergoing meiosis ii cell cycle phase
spermatocyte undergoing meiotic prophase ii
spermatocyte undergoing meiotic metaphase ii
spermatocyte undergoing meiotic anaphase ii
spermatocyte undergoing meiotic telophase ii
this primordium develops into cephalic ganglia
this primordium develops into eye
this primordium develops into pharynx
this primordium develops into optic cup
this primordium develops into testis
this primordium develops into gonad
lumen which is part of the protonephridia
lumen which is part of the testis
lumen which is part of the ovary
lumen which is part of the flame cell
a progenitor cell that gives rise to one or more of the cell type ( s )  in the nervous system .
a progenitor cell that gives rise to one or more of the cell type ( s )  in the dorsal epidermis .
a progenitor cell that gives rise to optic cup cells of the eye .
a progenitor cell that gives rise to one or more of the cell type ( s )  in the epidermis .
a fragment derived from a prepharyngeal amputation encompassing the head .
a fragment derived from pre -  and post - pharyngeal amputations ,  encompassing the pharynx and parapharyngeal region .
a fragment derived from a postpharyngeal amputation encompassing the tail .
a fragment derived from two prepharyngeal amputations ,  removing the head and posterior regions of the animal .
a fragment derived from two postpharyngeal amputations ,  removing the anterior region and the tail tip .
a fragment encompassing all or part of the anterior region of the animal .
a fragment encompassing all or part of the posterior region of the animal .
a fragment derived from an amputation parallel to or along any edge ,  which overlaps the lateral region ,  dorso - lateral region ,  ventro - lateral region ,  antero - lateral margin ,  lateral margin ,  ventro - lateral margin ,  postero - lateral margin ,  dorso - lateral margin ,  antero - lateral region ,  postero - lateral region .
a fragment derived from an amputation parallel to the midline .
a 3d piece of tissue ,  usually though the whole depth of the animal encompassing both dorsal and ventral sides ,  often made with a biopsy punch .
a piece of tissue removed from the lateral margin at any given point that extendes interiorly to more medial structures .
the dorsal region of a fragment derived from a prepharyngeal amputation encompassing the head .
the ventral region of a fragment derived from a prepharyngeal amputation encompassing the head .
the anterior region of a fragment derived from a prepharyngeal amputation encompassing the head .
the posterior region of a fragment derived from a prepharyngeal amputation encompassing the head .
the dorsal region of a fragment derived from pre -  and post - pharyngeal amputations ,  encompassing the pharynx and parapharyngeal region .
the ventral region of a fragment derived from pre -  and post - pharyngeal amputations ,  encompassing the pharynx and parapharyngeal region .
the anterior region of a fragment derived from pre -  and post - pharyngeal amputations ,  encompassing the pharynx and parapharyngeal region .
the posterior region of a fragment derived from pre -  and post - pharyngeal amputations ,  encompassing the pharynx and parapharyngeal region .
the dorsal region of a fragment derived from a postpharyngeal amputation encompassing the tail .
the ventral region of a fragment derived from a postpharyngeal amputation encompassing the tail .
the anterior region of a fragment derived from a postpharyngeal amputation encompassing the tail .
the posterior region of a fragment derived from a postpharyngeal amputation encompassing the tail .
the dorsal region of a fragment derived from two prepharyngeal amputations ,  removing the head and posterior regions of the animal .
the ventral region of a fragment derived from two prepharyngeal amputations ,  removing the head and posterior regions of the animal .
the anterior region of a fragment derived from two prepharyngeal amputations ,  removing the head and posterior regions of the animal .
the posterior region of a fragment derived from two prepharyngeal amputations ,  removing the head and posterior regions of the animal .
the dorsal region of a fragment derived from two postpharyngeal amputations ,  removing the anterior region and the tail tip .
the ventral region of a fragment derived from two postpharyngeal amputations ,  removing the anterior region and the tail tip .
the anterior region of a fragment derived from two postpharyngeal amputations ,  removing the anterior region and the tail tip .
the posterior region of a fragment derived from two postpharyngeal amputations ,  removing the anterior region and the tail tip .
the dorsal region of a fragment encompassing all or part of the anterior region of the animal .
the ventral region of a fragment encompassing all or part of the anterior region of the animal .
the anterior region of a fragment encompassing all or part of the anterior region of the animal .
the posterior region of a fragment encompassing all or part of the anterior region of the animal .
the dorsal region of a fragment encompassing all or part of the posterior region of the animal .
the ventral region of a fragment encompassing all or part of the posterior region of the animal .
the anterior region of a fragment encompassing all or part of the posterior region of the animal .
the posterior region of a fragment encompassing all or part of the posterior region of the animal .
the dorsal region of a fragment derived from an amputation parallel to or along any edge ,  which overlaps the lateral region ,  dorso - lateral region ,  ventro - lateral region ,  antero - lateral margin ,  lateral margin ,  ventro - lateral margin ,  postero - lateral margin ,  dorso - lateral margin ,  antero - lateral region ,  postero - lateral region .
the ventral region of a fragment derived from an amputation parallel to or along any edge ,  which overlaps the lateral region ,  dorso - lateral region ,  ventro - lateral region ,  antero - lateral margin ,  lateral margin ,  ventro - lateral margin ,  postero - lateral margin ,  dorso - lateral margin ,  antero - lateral region ,  postero - lateral region .
the anterior region of a fragment derived from an amputation parallel to or along any edge ,  which overlaps the lateral region ,  dorso - lateral region ,  ventro - lateral region ,  antero - lateral margin ,  lateral margin ,  ventro - lateral margin ,  postero - lateral margin ,  dorso - lateral margin ,  antero - lateral region ,  postero - lateral region .
the posterior region of a fragment derived from an amputation parallel to or along any edge ,  which overlaps the lateral region ,  dorso - lateral region ,  ventro - lateral region ,  antero - lateral margin ,  lateral margin ,  ventro - lateral margin ,  postero - lateral margin ,  dorso - lateral margin ,  antero - lateral region ,  postero - lateral region .
the dorsal region of a fragment derived from an amputation parallel to the midline .
the ventral region of a fragment derived from an amputation parallel to the midline .
the anterior region of a fragment derived from an amputation parallel to the midline .
the posterior region of a fragment derived from an amputation parallel to the midline .
the dorsal region of a piece of tissue removed from the lateral margin at any given point that extendes interiorly to more medial structures .
the ventral region of a piece of tissue removed from the lateral margin at any given point that extendes interiorly to more medial structures .
the anterior region of a 3d piece of tissue ,  usually though the whole depth of the animal encompassing both dorsal and ventral sides ,  often made with a biopsy punch .
the posterior region of a 3d piece of tissue ,  usually though the whole depth of the animal encompassing both dorsal and ventral sides ,  often made with a biopsy punch .
the anterior region of a piece of tissue removed from the lateral margin at any given point that extendes interiorly to more medial structures .
the posterior region of a piece of tissue removed from the lateral margin at any given point that extendes interiorly to more medial structures .
a fully formed ,  sexually mature organism that reproduces through cross - fertilization .
asexually reproducing schmidtea mediterranea exist as constitutive adults ,  undergoing successive cycles of fission and whole animal regeneration .
dmd - 1 +  expressing somatic cells within the testis that promote male gsc maintenance .
ophis +  somatic cells  ( gh4 -  ,  nanos -  )  in the ovary that may provide trophic support to female germline stem cells and differentiating oogonia .
axis that runs from the oral pole and to the aboral pole of the spherical embryo  ( stage 3 through early stage 6 )  .
the apical surface of the single layered primitive ectoderm that is in contact with the environment .
the surface of the primitive gut cells in contact with the embryonic wall .
the surface of phagocytic embryonic gut cells in contact with ingested yolk cells .
the epithelial cell surface lining the embryonic pharynx lumen .
an undifferentiated ,  cycling embryonic cell in stage 1 - 5 embryos that expresses piwi - 1 ,  numerous adult asexual neoblast enriched genes ,  and early embryo enriched genes .
post - mitotic ,  terminally differentiated cells which ,  give rise to temporary embryonic tissues .
a neuronal cell innervating the embryonic pharynx .
differentiated radial muscle cell present in the embryonic pharynx .
foxa1 +  epithelial cell contained in the embryonic pharynx .
differentiated muscle cell present in a circular muscle fiber of the embryonic pharynx .
portion of the sexual biotype body plan immediately posterior to the parapharyngeal region ,  and immediately anterior to the tail .
epithelia associated with the pharynx organ .
connected anatomical system that forms a barrier between an animal and its environment .
anatomical space enclosed by the oviduct epithelium .
anatomical space enclosed by the sperm duct epithelium .
ciliated epithelium lining the oviduct .
ciliated epithelium lining the sperm duct .
anatomical space enclosed by tuba .
anatomical plane which divides the body into right and left parts .
any of the numerous similar discrete openings in the nuclear envelope of a eukaryotic cell ,  where the inner and outer nuclear membranes are joined .
axis that runs along the long axis of the animal from anterior  ( head )  to posterior  ( tail )  .
axis that runs along the short axis of the animal ,  perpendicular to the anteroposterior axis ,  running from the dorsal  ( back )  side of the animal to the ventral  ( belly )  side of the animal .
axis perpendicular to both the anteroposterior and dorsoventral axis that runs from the left side of the animal ,  through the medial region  ( center )  and out to the right side .
axis that runs from the center of the body ,  starting at the anteroposterior axis and out to the lateral  ( left ,  right ,  dorsal or ventral )  surface of the animal .
axis that starts at the distal part of an appendage ,  closest to the body ,  and runs to the proximal part of an appendage ,  farthest from the body .
distinct anterior cluster of muscle cells located at the midline which express notum ,  follistatin ,  zic - 1 ,  and foxd .
distinct posterior cluster of muscle cells located at the midline which express wnt1 .
a non - neuronal cell of the nervous system .
a biological tissue mass of nerve cell bodies .
heavily ciliated epidermal cells covering the inner surface of the pharynx shaft .
pharynx muscle fibers running circumferentially about the pharynx .
groupings of specialized epithelial cells located along the dorsal ventral margin .
specialized epithelial cell located along the dorsoventral margin that surrounds the viscid and releasing gland cells .
a specialized insunk epithelial cell that is part of the adhesion glands which is responsible for production and excretion of the viscid substance allowing adherence to a substrate .
specialized insunk epithelial cell that is part of the adhesion gland which is responsible for production of releasing substance .
a subset of trpa +  neurons ,  located medially in the cephalic ganglia ,  whose formation is dependent on function of runt - 1 and ap2 .
a subset of sensory neurons located along the dorsal head margin .
piwi - 1 +  ,  runt - 1 +  ,  ap2 +  progenitor neoblasts required for production of trpa +  neurons .
piwi - 1 +  ,  foxd +  ,  prep +  progenitor neoblasts required for formation of the anterior pole .
axon tracts from ganglia that cross the midline ,  connecting the two ventral nerve cords .
piwi - 1 +  ,  lhx1 / 5 - 1 +  ,  pitx +  progenitor neoblasts required for specification of tph +  serotonergic neurons .
piwi - 1 +  ,  klf +  progenitor neoblasts required for production of cintillo +  sensory neurons .
a population of piwi - 2 +  ,  ston - 2 +  ,  elav - 2 +  ,  ptprd - 9 +  and msi - 1 +  progenitors that give rise to one or more neuronal  ( pc - 2 +  ,  synapsin +  )  lineages .
a nerve extending laterally from the ventral nerve cord that innervates the submuscular plexus .
piwi - 1 +  ,  pax3 / 7 +  progenitor neoblasts implicated in the production of dbh +  ventral midline neurons .
a lumen enclosed by the embryonic pharynx epithelial cells through which yolk cells are transported into the embryonic gut cavity .
nerve plexus surrounding the testis .
transverse anatomical plane ,  located approximately 1 - 2 mm from the posterior extremity of an adult animal ,  at which fission occurs .
nerve plexus surrounding the ovary .
abnormality of cytoplasmic vesicle part .
abnormality of medial - lateral axis of the whole animal .
abnormality of oviduct lumen .
abnormality of category 4 cell .
abnormality of zygote .
abnormality of male primordial germ cell .
abnormality of yolk cell .
abnormality of fission plane .
abnormality of central nervous system neuron .
abnormality of pharynx musculature .
abnormality of collecting duct .
abnormality of nucleolus .
abnormality of outer longitudinal muscle cell .
abnormality of tail stripe .
abnormality of smed sexual biotype .
abnormality of rough endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormality of renal system .
abnormality of brain commissure .
abnormality of oviduct .
abnormality of primitive ectoderm surface .
abnormality of neoblast .
abnormality of reproductive system product .
abnormality of pharynx inner longitudinal muscle cell .
abnormality of tail .
abnormality of prepharyngeal region .
abnormality of extracellular organelle .
abnormality of distal tubule epithelial cell .
abnormality of proximal tubule .
abnormality of organ .
abnormality of pigment cup cell .
abnormality of glial cell .
abnormality of eye .
abnormality of goblet cell .
abnormality of gastrodermis surface .
abnormality of bipolar neuron .
abnormality of pharynx .
abnormality of ventral epidermis .
abnormality of cintillo +  sensory neuron .
abnormality of pharynx lumen .
abnormality of sigma neoblast .
abnormality of inner longitudinal muscle cell .
abnormality of pharynx epithelium .
abnormality of extraembryonic cell .
abnormality of head .
abnormality of copulatory apparatus .
abnormality of intracellular non - membrane - bounded organelle .
abnormality of stage 1 .
abnormality of autonomic neuron .
abnormality of basal surface of the epidermis .
abnormality of embryonic gut cell .
abnormality of rhabdite .
abnormality of protonephridia .
abnormality of round spermatid .
abnormality of basal lamina of epithelium .
abnormality of mechanoreceptor cell .
abnormality of stage 6 .
abnormality of pharynx outer nerve plexus .
abnormality of peripheral nervous system neuron .
abnormality of embryonic digestive system .
abnormality of muscle cell .
abnormality of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormality of aboral hemisphere .
abnormality of cell - cell adhesion .
abnormality of nuclear pore .
abnormality of sensory cell .
abnormality of ribosome .
abnormality of gamma neoblast .
abnormality of posterior pole .
abnormality of oocyte .
abnormality of sperm duct epithelium .
abnormality of gamete .
abnormality of embryonic pharynx .
abnormality of cell - cell contact zone .
abnormality of releasing gland cell .
abnormality of testis somatic gonadal cell .
abnormality of bursal canal .
abnormality of lateral branch .
abnormality of dorsal stripe .
abnormality of embryonic structure .
abnormality of epidermal progenitor cell .
abnormality of chromatin .
abnormality of stage 4 .
abnormality of anchor cell .
abnormality of klf +  sensory neuron progenitor cell .
abnormality of optic chiasm .
abnormality of primitive ectoderm cell .
abnormality of oviduct epithelial cell .
abnormality of male germ cell .
abnormality of longitudinal muscle cell .
abnormality of oral opening .
abnormality of membrane - bounded organelle .
abnormality of spermatogonium .
abnormality of dorsal region of the epidermis .
abnormality of seminal vesicle .
abnormality of extraembryonic structure .
abnormality of stage 3 .
abnormality of adhesion gland .
abnormality of neural progenitor cell .
abnormality of yolk syncytium .
abnormality of plasma membrane .
abnormality of cytoplasmic part .
abnormality of unipolar neuron .
abnormality of cephalic ganglia .
abnormality of ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormality of sperm duct .
abnormality of anterior pole progenitor cell .
abnormality of anterior - posterior axis of the whole animal .
abnormality of plasma membrane part .
abnormality of embryonic pharynx circular muscle cell .
abnormality of submuscular nerve plexus .
abnormality of female primordial germ cell .
abnormality of photoreceptor neuron .
abnormality of asexual adult .
abnormality of gonad .
abnormality of ventral nerve cord .
abnormality of embryonic wall .
abnormality of testis nerve plexus .
abnormality of pharynx radial muscle cell .
abnormality of clonogenic neoblast .
abnormality of nuclear part .
abnormality of sensory system .
abnormality of gut .
abnormality of dorsal ventral margin of the whole animal .
abnormality of ovary .
abnormality of gabaergic neuron .
abnormality of electrically responsive cell .
abnormality of pharynx pouch .
abnormality of musculature system .
abnormality of actin - based cell projection .
abnormality of efferent neuron .
abnormality of embryonic pharynx lumen .
abnormality of non - membrane - bounded organelle .
abnormality of parapharyngeal region .
abnormality of oral hemisphere .
abnormality of electrically signaling cell .
abnormality of visual system .
abnormality of nervous system .
abnormality of nucleus .
abnormality of anatomical system .
abnormality of gland cell .
abnormality of bounding membrane of organelle .
abnormality of category 3 cell .
abnormality of gastrodermis .
abnormality of non ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormality of pharynx longitudinal muscle cell .
abnormality of left - right axis of the whole animal .
abnormality of trail cell .
abnormality of blastomere .
abnormality of oogonial cell .
abnormality of stage 8 .
abnormality of copulatory region .
abnormality of golgi apparatus .
abnormality of spermatid .
abnormality of definitive organism subdivision .
abnormality of vitelline gland .
abnormality of embryonic pharynx neuron .
abnormality of membrane .
abnormality of flame cell .
abnormality of cytoplasm .
abnormality of oral - aboral axis of the embryo .
abnormality of zeta neoblast .
abnormality of juvenile .
abnormality of central nervous system .
abnormality of pharynx inner circular muscle cell .
abnormality of motor neuron .
abnormality of apical surface of the epidermis .
abnormality of tuba .
abnormality of posterior primary gut branch .
abnormality of epithelial cell component .
abnormality of spermatogonial stem cell .
abnormality of ovary nerve plexus .
abnormality of midline .
abnormality of pharynx inner nerve plexus .
abnormality of parenchymal musculature .
abnormality of neuron projection bundle .
abnormality of anatomical region .
abnormality of category 2 cell .
abnormality of cell - cell junction .
abnormality of trpa +  central nervous system neuron .
abnormality of smooth endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormality of terminally differentiated cell .
abnormality of basophilic gland cell .
abnormality of primordium .
abnormality of euchromatin .
abnormality of proximal tubule epithelial cell .
abnormality of anterior pole .
abnormality of oviduct epithelium .
abnormality of testis .
abnormality of category 5 cell .
abnormality of stem cell .
abnormality of digestive system .
abnormality of viscid gland cell .
abnormality of germ cell .
abnormality of embryo .
abnormality of anterior commissure .
abnormality of acidophilic gland cell .
abnormality of tuba lumen .
abnormality of stage 5 .
abnormality of embryonic gut cavity .
abnormality of pharynx pouch epithelial surface .
abnormality of embryonic gut cell surface .
abnormality of vacuole .
abnormality of proximal - distal axis of the whole animal .
abnormality of sperm duct lumen .
abnormality of neuron associated cell  ( sensu nematoda and protostomia )  .
abnormality of progenitor cell .
abnormality of biotype .
abnormality of organelle .
abnormality of embryonic subdivision .
abnormality of neurosecretory neuron .
abnormality of epithelial cell .
abnormality of serotonergic neuron .
abnormality of muscle progenitor cell .
abnormality of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormality of distal tubule .
abnormality of copulatory bursa .
abnormality of esophagus .
abnormality of secondary gut branch .
abnormality of stage 2 .
abnormality of protonephridial progenitor cell .
abnormality of ventral midline .
abnormality of primtive gut cell surface .
abnormality of egg capsule .
abnormality of multipolar neuron .
abnormality of secretory cell .
abnormality of pharynx outer longitudinal muscle cell .
abnormality of penis papilla .
abnormality of trpa +  neural progenitor cell .
abnormality of interneuron .
abnormality of subepidermal nerve plexus .
abnormality of longitudinal muscle progenitor cell .
abnormality of microvillus .
abnormality of adult hermaphrodite .
abnormality of mitochondrion .
abnormality of enteric musculature .
abnormality of dorsal midline .
abnormality of ganglion .
abnormality of pharynx inner epithelium surface .
abnormality of sperm .
abnormality of serotonergic neural progenitor cell .
abnormality of nerve plexus .
abnormality of reproductive system .
abnormality of afferent neuron .
abnormality of neuropil .
abnormality of intestinal phagocyte .
abnormality of anterior primary gut branch .
abnormality of intracellular part .
abnormality of digestive tract lumen .
abnormality of cell .
abnormality of axon tract .
abnormality of peripheral nervous system .
abnormality of cell projection .
abnormality of commissural neuron .
abnormality of pax3 / 7 +  neural progenitor cell .
abnormality of tissue .
abnormality of intracellular organelle .
abnormality of secretory vesicle .
abnormality of optic cup .
abnormality of pharynx circular muscle cell .
abnormality of enteric neuron .
abnormality of embryonic cell .
abnormality of smed asexual biotype .
abnormality of integumental system .
abnormality of cement gland .
abnormality of secretory system .
abnormality of elongate spermatid .
abnormality of lysosome .
abnormality of membrane part .
abnormality of stage 7 .
abnormality of body wall musculature .
abnormality of dorsal - ventral axis of the whole animal .
abnormality of embryonic pharynx lumen epithelial surface .
abnormality of pharynx inner epithelium .
abnormality of circular muscle cell .
abnormality of intracellular membrane - bounded organelle .
abnormality of oogonial stem cell .
abnormality of octopaminergic neuron .
abnormality of gonopore .
abnormality of flame bulb .
abnormality of cholinergic neuron .
abnormality of visceral musculature .
abnormality of multicellular anatomical structure .
abnormality of tertiary gut branch .
abnormality of lateral nerve .
abnormality of pharynx outer circular muscle cell .
abnormality of transverse commissure .
abnormality of sensory neuron .
abnormality of gastrodermal plexus .
abnormality of cell junction .
abnormality of primitive gut cell .
abnormality of ectolecithal embryo .
abnormality of epidermis .
abnormality of nu neoblast .
abnormality of ovarian somatic gonadal cell .
abnormality of sperm duct epithelial cell .
abnormality of primitive ectoderm .
abnormality of pharynx outer epithelium .
abnormality of female germ cell .
abnormality of collecting duct epithelial cell .
abnormality of mouth .
abnormality of circular muscle progenitor cell .
abnormality of embryonic pharynx epithelial cell .
abnormality of pharynx pouch cavity .
abnormality of spermatocyte .
abnormality of pharynx progenitor cell .
abnormality of excitatory motor neuron .
abnormality of neuron .
abnormality of diagonal muscle cell .
abnormality of nerve .
abnormality of sympathetic neuron .
abnormality of secretory pore .
abnormality of blastema .
abnormality of embryonic pharynx radial muscle cell .
abnormality of organelle membrane .
abnormality of pharynx outer epithelium surface .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the primitive ectoderm surface ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the gastrodermis surface ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the basal surface of the epidermis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the apical surface of the epidermis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pharynx pouch epithelial surface ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the embryonic gut cell surface ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the primtive gut cell surface ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pharynx inner epithelium surface ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the embryonic pharynx lumen epithelial surface ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pharynx outer epithelium surface ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any structural anomaly in the shape of the ventral region of the whole animal .
any structural anomaly that causes ventral region of the whole animal to be curled shaped .
any structural anomaly that causes head to be pointed shaped .
any structural anomaly that causes head to be columnar shaped .
skinny or decreased width of the head .
any structural anomaly that causes tail to be pointed shaped .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the head ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tail ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any structural anomaly in the shape of the head .
any structural anomaly in the shape of the tail .
a deviation from the normal size of the head .
a deviation from the normal size of the tail .
skinny or decreased width of the tail .
an abnormal head with a lesion that is star shaped .
an abnormal head with a lesion that is circular .
an abnormal head with a lesion that is linear .
an abnormal tail with a lesion that is star shaped .
an abnormal tail with a lesion that is circular .
an abnormal tail with a lesion that is linear .
increased distance between eye and eye .
decreased distance between eye and eye .
abnormal distance between eye and eye .
an abnormal head with one or more lesions .
an abnormal tail with one or more lesions .
absence of eye .
any structural anomaly that causes there to be an abnormal number eye .
decreased or loss of pigmentation of eye .
complete loss of pigmenation of the eye .
decreased length or shortening of the tail .
longer ,  increased length of ,  head
longer ,  increased length of ,  tail
increased width of head .
increased width of tail .
any structural anomaly that causes there to be an abnormal number head .
the presence of an increased number of head .
absence of head .
any structural anomaly that causes there to be an abnormal number tail .
the presence of an increased number of tail .
absence of tail .
abnormal degree of pigmentation of the eye .
abnormal degree of pigmentation of the epidermis .
decreased or loss of pigmentation of epidermis .
the presence of a reduced number of eye .
the presence of a reduced number of head .
complete loss of pigmenation of the epidermis .
the presence of a reduced number of tail .
the presence of an increased number of eye .
abnormality of whole organism .
abnormality of regeneration .
abnormality of hyman vesicle .
abnormality of anterior region of the whole animal .
abnormality of dorsal region of the whole animal .
abnormality of posterior compartment of the whole animal .
abnormality of ventral region of the whole animal .
abnormality of heterochromatin .
abnormality of adenal rhabdite .
abnormality of adherens junction .
abnormality of adhesive papilla .
abnormality of amputation .
abnormality of anterior gut branch .
abnormality of anterior tip .
abnormality of antrum .
abnormality of auricle .
abnormality of axon .
abnormality of axoneme .
abnormality of basal body .
abnormality of brain visual center .
abnormality of bulbar cavity .
abnormality of category 1 cell .
abnormality of cell body .
abnormality of cephalic ganglia lobe .
abnormality of cephalic ganglia neuron .
abnormality of chemical amputation .
abnormality of chemical pharynx amputation .
abnormality of chemosensory neuron .
abnormality of chromatoid body .
abnormality of chromosome .
abnormality of chromosome arm .
abnormality of ciliated epithelium .
abnormality of cilium .
abnormality of commissure .
abnormality of cut .
abnormality of dendrite .
abnormality of dorsal - ventral muscle cell .
abnormality of early female germ cell .
abnormality of early male germ cell .
abnormality of embryonic gut .
abnormality of epidermal cell .
abnormality of epidermal rhabdite .
abnormality of er membrane .
abnormality of eumelanin .
abnormality of excretory cell .
abnormality of extracellular matrix .
abnormality of extracellular space .
abnormality of fission .
abnormality of flagellum .
abnormality of gap junction .
abnormality of genital atrium .
abnormality of germ cell cyst .
abnormality of germline stem cell .
abnormality of glycogen granule .
abnormality of incision .
abnormality of pharynx inner epidermal cell .
abnormality of inner zone of gland cells .
abnormality of intercellular junction .
abnormality of linear amputation .
abnormality of linear incision .
abnormality of lipid droplet .
abnormality of lumen .
abnormality of marginal adhesive zone .
abnormality of mechanosensory neuron .
abnormality of medial muscle cell .
abnormality of meiotic germ cell .
abnormality of melanosome .
abnormality of mucus .
abnormality of nephridiopore .
abnormality of neurite .
abnormality of neuropeptidergic neuron .
abnormality of non - ciliated epidermis .
abnormality of nuclear envelope .
abnormality of nuclear inner membrane .
abnormality of nuclear lumen .
abnormality of nuclear outer membrane .
abnormality of nuclear periphery .
abnormality of ommochrome pigment cell .
abnormality of optic nerve .
abnormality of pharynx outer epidermal cell .
abnormality of phagocytic cell .
abnormality of pharynx tip .
abnormality of pigment cell .
abnormality of pigment granule .
abnormality of plug amputation .
abnormality of point incision .
abnormality of pore .
abnormality of post - meiotic germ cell .
abnormality of postsynaptic cell .
abnormality of premeiotic germ cell .
abnormality of presynaptic cell .
abnormality of presynaptic terminal .
abnormality of presynaptic vesicle .
abnormality of primary gut branch .
abnormality of primitive gut .
abnormality of quarternary gut branch .
abnormality of reproductive organ .
abnormality of reproductive structure .
abnormality of rhabdome .
abnormality of rhabdomere .
abnormality of secretory duct .
abnormality of secretory granule .
abnormality of somatic cell .
abnormality of somatic gonadal cell .
abnormality of specialized neoblast .
abnormality of stalk .
abnormality of surgical wound .
abnormality of synapse .
abnormality of synaptic cleft .
abnormality of synaptic vesicle .
abnormality of synaptonemal complex .
abnormality of tail tip .
abnormality of telomere .
abnormality of septate junction .
abnormality of wedge amputation .
abnormality of wound .
abnormality of x1 cell .
abnormality of x1 ( fs )  cell .
abnormality of x2 cell .
abnormality of xins cell .
abnormality of post - pharyngeal region .
abnormality of post - blastema region .
abnormality of fission fragment .
abnormality of epithelium .
abnormality of gut branch .
abnormality of extraembryonic organ .
abnormality of chromosome_part .
abnormality of perturbation .
abnormality of chromosomal_structural_element .
abnormality of thick fragment .
abnormality of thin fragment .
abnormality of fragment .
abnormality of longitudinal region .
abnormality of chemical wound .
abnormality of plug wound .
abnormality of wedge wound .
abnormality of regenerating fragment .
abnormality of sagittal orientation .
abnormality of parasagittal orientation .
abnormality of syncytium .
abnormality of intracellular granule .
abnormality of facs sorted cell population .
abnormality of derived cell population .
abnormality of pharynx pouch epithelium .
abnormality of sperm duct epithelial surface .
abnormality of parenchyma .
abnormality of testis cell .
abnormality of ventral epidermis cell .
abnormality of visual system cell .
abnormality of eye cell .
abnormality of enteric muscle cell .
abnormality of dorsal epidermis cell .
abnormality of adhesion gland cell .
abnormality of body wall muscle cell .
abnormality of gastrodermal cell .
abnormality of anterior pole cell .
abnormality of pharynx neuron .
abnormality of pharynx epithelial cell .
abnormality of pharynx muscle cell .
abnormality of pharynx pouch epithelial cell .
abnormality of melanin pigment granule .
abnormality of ommochrome pigment granule .
abnormality of parenchymal cell .
abnormality of g1 phase neoblast .
abnormality of s phase neoblast .
abnormality of g2 phase neoblast .
abnormality of prophase neoblast .
abnormality of metaphase neoblast .
abnormality of anaphase neoblast .
abnormality of telophase neoblast .
abnormality of g1 phase spermatogonial stem cell .
abnormality of s phase spermatogonial stem cell .
abnormality of g2 phase spermatogonial stem cell .
abnormality of prophase spermatogonial stem cell .
abnormality of metaphase spermatogonial stem cell .
abnormality of anaphase spermatogonial stem cell .
abnormality of telophase spermatogonial stem cell .
abnormality of g1 phase oogonial stem cell .
abnormality of s phase oogonial stem cell .
abnormality of g2 phase  oogonial stem cell .
abnormality of prophase  oogonial stem cell .
abnormality of metaphase oogonial stem cell .
abnormality of anaphase oogonial stem cell .
abnormality of telophase  oogonial stem cell .
abnormality of g1 phase spermatogonium .
abnormality of s phase spermatogonium .
abnormality of g2 phase spermatogonium .
abnormality of prophase spermatogonium .
abnormality of metaphase spermatogonia .
abnormality of anaphase spermatogonia .
abnormality of telophase spermatogonium .
abnormality of g1 phase oogonial cell .
abnormality of s phase oogonial cell .
abnormality of g2 phase oogonial cell .
abnormality of prophase oogonial cell .
abnormality of metaphase oogonial cell .
abnormality of anaphase oogonial cell .
abnormality of telophase oogonial cell .
abnormality of g1 phase germ cell cyst .
abnormality of s phase germ cell cyst .
abnormality of g2 phase germ cell cyst .
abnormality of prophase germ cell cyst .
abnormality of metaphase germ cell cyst .
abnormality of anaphase germ cell cyst .
abnormality of telophase germ cell cyst .
abnormality of meiotic s phase spermatocyte .
abnormality of meiotic g1 phase spermatocyte .
abnormality of meiotic g2 phase spermatocyte .
abnormality of meiotic prophase i spermatocyte .
abnormality of leptotene stage spermatocyte .
abnormality of zygotene stage spermatocyte .
abnormality of pachytene stage spermatocyte .
abnormality of diplotene stage spermatocyte .
abnormality of diakinesis stage spermatocyte .
abnormality of meiotic metaphase 1 stage spermatocyte .
abnormality of meiotic anaphase i stage spermatocyte .
abnormality of meiotic telophase i spermatocyte .
abnormality of meiosis ii stage spermatocyte .
abnormality of meiotic prophase ii spermatocyte .
abnormality of meiotic metaphase 2 spermatocyte .
abnormality of meiotic anaphase ii spermatocyte .
abnormality of meiotic telophase ii spermatocyte .
abnormality of cephalic ganglia primordium .
abnormality of eye primordium .
abnormality of pharynx primordium .
abnormality of pigment cup primordium .
abnormality of testis primordium .
abnormality of gonad primoridium .
abnormality of protonephridial lumen .
abnormality of testis lumen .
abnormality of ovary lumen .
abnormality of flame cell lumen .
abnormality of cephalic ganglia progenitor cell .
abnormality of dorsal epidermis progenitor cell .
abnormality of optic cup progenitor cell .
abnormality of ventral epidermis progenitor cell .
abnormality of head fragment .
abnormality of trunk fragment .
abnormality of tail fragment .
abnormality of prepharyngeal fragment .
abnormality of postpharyngeal fragment .
abnormality of anterior fragment .
abnormality of posterior fragment .
abnormality of lateral fragment .
abnormality of longitudinal fragment .
abnormality of plug fragment .
abnormality of wedge fragment .
complete wasting  ( loss )  of head tissue that was once present .
complete wasting  ( loss )  of tail tissue that was once present .
decreased or reduced ability to move whole organism .
longer ,  increased length of ,  whole organism
increased or increasing of pigmentation of eye .
increased or increasing of pigmentation of epidermis .
anomaly in the ability to move whole organism .
any structural anomaly that causes epithelium to be ruffled shaped .
any structural anomaly that causes head to be hourglass - shaped shaped .
any structural anomaly that causes tail to be hourglass - shaped shaped .
any structural anomaly that causes head to be curved medial shaped .
any structural anomaly that causes tail to be curved medial shaped .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid in the whole organism .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid in the head .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid in the tail .
small ,  underdeveloped eye .
an abnormal whole organism with one or more lesions .
an abnormal post - pharyngeal region with one or more lesions .
complete loss of pigmenation of the head .
decreased or loss of pigmentation of head .
increased or increasing of pigmentation of head .
abnormal degree of pigmentation of the head .
any structural anomaly that causes dorsal region of tail to be curled shaped .
an anomaly in inchworming behavior .
slower ,  decreased speed of ,  whole organism
faster ,  increased speed of ,  whole organism
anomaly in the complete lack of the ability to move of whole organism .
a material entity consisting of multiple components that are causally integrated .
a non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions .
material anatomical entity that is a single connected structure with inherent 3d shape generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
a life cycle stage that starts with fertilization and ends with the fully formed embryo .
a spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of the life cycle of an organism .
a stage at which the organism is a single cell produced by means of sexual reproduction .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
anatomical structure which is a subdivision of a whole organism ,  consisting of components of multiple anatomical systems ,  largely surrounded by a contiguous region of integument .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
anatomical space which contains portions of one or more body substances and is bounded by the internal surface of one maximally connected anatomical structure .
non - material anatomical entity of zero dimension ,  which forms a boundary of an anatomical line or surface .
an anatomical structure that is undergoing regeneration .
an anatomical structure that connects two structures
an anatomical plane that bisects a zone of weakness in an appendage .
x ventral_to y iff x is further along the dorso - ventral axis than y ,  towards the front .
