an agent ,  stimulus ,  activity ,  or event that causes stress or tension on an organism and interacts with an exposure_receptor during an exposure event .
an entity  ( e .g . ,  a human ,  human population ,  or a human organ )  that interacts with an exposure stressor during an exposure event .
an interaction between an exposure stressor and an exposure_receptor .
entity that results from the interaction between and exposure_receptor and an exposure stressor during an exposure event .
a exposure transport path is the course an agent takes from the source to the target .
an agent of biological origin .
an agent of chemical origin .
an exposure stressor that is a change in the distributions ,  abundance and relations of organisms and their interactions with the environment .
an agent as a source of energy that may cause injury or disease  ( e .g . ,  noise ,  vibration ,  radiation ,  temperature extremes )  .
an agent that interferes with one's psychological development in and interaction with a social environment .
a transport path that allows a stressor to interact with a receptor via air .
a mechanical agent applied to biological systems ,  such as humans ,  animals ,  plants ,  organs ,  and cells
an ecological perturbation that results from the deterioration of  an ecological or environmental area that is inhabited by a particular species of animal ,  plant or other type of organism .
an ecological perturbation that is acidic water ,  usually ph 2 .5 to 4 .5 ,  which poisons the ecosystem and adversely affects plants ,  fishes ,  and mammals .
an ecological pertubation that is any significant change in measures of climate  ( such as temperature ,  precipitation ,  or wind )  lasting for an extended period  ( decades or longer )  .
a psychosocial agent that is a situation in which the level of living of an individual ,  family ,  or group is below the standard of the community .
where something is available or from where it originates .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial location relative to other objects in the vicinity .
substances or processes that originate outside of an organism or a system .
a location that is happening or arising or located inside some limits ,  or especially ,  some surface .
an exogenous location that is happening or arising or located outside
substances or processes that originate within an organism or a system .
the act of taking something through an established and usually routine set of procedures to convert it from one form to another .
a process occurring in living organisms .
a systematic series of mechanical or chemical operations that produce or manufacture something .
the exposure process of producing food ,  feed ,  fiber and other desired products by cultivation of certain plants or raising domesticated animals  ( livestock )  .
an exposure transport path involving the interaction of an exposure_receptor with an exposure stressor via water .
an exposure transport path involving the interaction of an exposure_receptor with an exposure stressor via soil .
the earth ,  all of the organisms living on it ,  and all of the environmental factors ,  which act on the organisms .
merged definition: \  \ ntarget definition: an exposure_receptor that is the global ecological system integrating all living beings and their relationships ,  including their interaction with the elements of the lithosphere ,  hydrosphere and atmosphere . \  \ n -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  \  \ nsource definition: an exposure_receptor that is the part of the environment that is made or modified by humans for use in human activities and human habitats .
an exposure_receptor that is a group of homo sapiens inhabiting a given area .
an individual attribute that is the usual or principal work or business of an individual .
the individual attribute that is the genes and their composition that are characteristic of an individual or population .
a individual attribute that is a particular period in the life of an organism .
the condition of an organism in all aspects  ( e .g . ,  functional or metabolic efficiency )  .
an individual attribute human society and its modes of organization .
a social characteristic about or relating to the arts and manners favored or practiced by a group .
the act or process of imparting or acquiring knowledge .
being or characteristic of a single thing or person .
the individual attribute describing the structure of a living organism .
anatomical structure ,  which consists of the maximal set of organ parts so connected to one another that together they constitute a unit of macroscopic anatomy ,  structurally distinct from other such units .
anatomical structure ,  which consists of similarly specialized cells and intercellular matrix ,  aggregated according to genetically determined spatial relationships .
anatomical structure that consists of a cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane ;  together with other cells and intercellular matrix ,  it constitutes tissues .
substances made up of atoms ,  such as proteins ,  nucleic acids ,  lipids and carbohydrates that are produced only by living organisms .
human - made surroundings that provide the setting for human activity ,  ranging in scale from personal shelter and buildings to neighborhoods and cite ,  and can often include their supporting infrastructure ,  such as water supply or energy networks .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence .
a physical quality ,  which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the number of the bearer's repetitive actions in a particular time .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by breaks or interruptions .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being uninterrupted in time ,  sequence ,  substance ,  or extent .
amount of time during which an event persists .
the way people or other living organisms come into contact with a stressor .
the process of taking a material  ( e .g . ,  stressor )  into the mouth or body .
the process of drawing in by breathing .
the process of one material  ( absorbent )  being retained by another  ( absorbate )  .
the extraction of certain materials from a carrier into a liquid  ( usually ,  but not always a solvent )  .
a method of putting liquid into the body with a syringe and a hollow needle that punctures the skin .
superficial fascia .
the contractile tissue of animals and is derived from the mesodermal layer of embryonic germ cells .
body substance which consists of plasma and blood cells .
a planned process with the objective to produce information about some evaluant .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer possessing or displaying a distinctive feature in type or degree or effect or force .
a unit of measurement is a standardized quantity of a physical quality .
a measurement is an information entity that is a recording of the output of a measurement such as produced by an instrument .
an exposure quality in which events occur in sequence .
a substance used as an indicator of a biological state .
a representation .
a representation of a particular system or subject matter that may only be drawn on paper ,  described in words ,  or imagined in the mind .
a representation of a particular system or subject matter that can be computed .
a representation of a particular system or subject matter that is computer - derived .
the total quantity or strength of a substance administered at one time .
a disease is a pattern of abnormal functioning ,  or abnormal localization of normal functioning ,  and / or abnormal localization of constituents when compared to other members of that species .
a symptom is a perceived change in function ,  sensation ,  loss ,  disturbance or appearance reported by a patient indicative of a disease .
an exposure medium is a substance through which something else is transmitted or carried during an exposure .
the end result of a manufacturing process ;  anything that is produced .
the act or fact of interfering so as to modify .
of or relating to space or components within space .
an attribute describing some aspect of an individual or human population .
the protocol for an assay .
of ,  or relating to ,  the area in which an individual or population lives ,  primarily describing the dwelling or shelter used for housing and the location immediately surrounding it
the external elements and conditions which surround ,  influence ,  and affect the life and development of an organism or population .
the origination of a stressor from the location of the principal work or business of an individual .
a drug product that contains one or more active and / or inactive ingredients ;  it is intended to treat ,  prevent or alleviate the symptoms of disease .
the customary allowance of food and drink taken by a person or an animal from day to day ,  particularly one especially planned to meet specific requirements of the individual ,  including or excluding certain items of food ;  a prescribed course of eating and drinking in which the amount and kind of food ,  as well as the times at which it is to be taken ,  are regulated for therapeutic purposes or selected with reference to a particular state of health .
a collective generic term that refers here to a wide variety of dependencies ,  areas of special sovereignty ,  uninhabited islands ,  and other entities in addition to the traditional countries or independent states .
a region ,  district or division of a country ;  a tract ;  a portion a state ,  especially one remote from the capital .
an area or portion of something with more or less definite boundaries designed or specified according to some established biological ,  administrative ,  economic ,  demographic ,  etc .
one of the fifty states which is a member of the federation known as the united states of america .
the assemblage of traits or outward appearance of an individual .
how long something or someone has existed ;  elapsed time since birth .
other conditions with the power to have an effect on health status .
consumption of liquids containing ethanol ,  including the behaviors associated with drinking the alcohol .
a general indicator of the body fat an individual is carrying based upon the ratio of weight to height .
the customary allowance of food and drink taken by a person or an animal from day to day ,  particularly one especially planned to meet specific requirements of the individual ,  including or excluding certain items of food ;  a prescribed course of eating and drinking in which the amount and kind of food ,  as well as the times at which it is to be taken ,  are regulated for therapeutic purposes or selected with reference to a particular state of health .
the genetic constitution of an organism or cell ,  as distinct from its expressed features or phenotype .
any form of exercise or movement .
an arbitrary classification of a taxonomic group that is a division of a species .
the assemblage of physical properties or qualities by which male is distinguished from female ;  the physical difference between male and female ;  the distinguishing peculiarity of male or female .
a person who belongs to the sex that normally produces ova .
a person who belongs to the sex that normally produces sperm .
an indication of a person's current tobacco and nicotine consumption as well as some indication of smoking history .
characteristics of a person such as education and occupation ,  used to describe the person's position in stratification systems ,  access to services ,  etc .
an adult who has smoked 100 cigarettes in his or her lifetime and who currently smokes cigarettes .
a person who was not smoking at the time of the interview but has smoked at least 100 cigarettes in their life .
a person who was not smoking at the time of the interview and has smoked less than 100 cigarettes in their life .
a person who was not smoking at the time of the interview and has smoked less than 100 cigarettes in their life .
persons who are not yet adults .
a group of individuals ,  identified by a common characteristic .
study subjects who serve as controls  ( i .e . ,  lack the characteristics of a disease or phenotype )  in a research study as compared to study subjects with a disease or phenotype as indicated .
an unborn or unhatched vertebrate in the later stages of development showing the main recognizable features of the mature being .
a young child between one month and two years of age or between birth and one month of age .
persons including soldiers involved with the armed forces .
a female parent .
human females who are pregnant .
persons who are observed ,  analyzed ,  examined ,  investigated ,  experimented upon ,  or / and treated in the course of a particular study .
study subjects with a disease or phenotype as indicated .
study subjects who exhibit characteristics of a specific genotype in a research study .
former members of the armed services .
a person performing a job or service for another person or a business firm on a full -  or part - time basis and who receives payment for this work .
a person having origins in any of the black racial groups of africa .
denotes a person having origins in any indigenous people of alaska and their descendants and who maintains tribal affiliation ,  or community or cultural attachment .
denotes a person having origins in one of the indigenous peoples of north america ,  who lived on the continent prior to the european colonization .
a person having origins in any of the original peoples of the far east ,  southeast asia ,  or the indian subcontinent ,  including for example ,  cambodia ,  china ,  india ,  japan ,  korea ,  malaysia ,  pakistan ,  the philippine islands ,  thailand ,  and vietnam .
a person having origins in the original peoples of the indian sub - continent .
a person of central or south american culture or origin .
a term sometimes used interchangeably with mexican - american to denote an american citizen of mexican decent .
a person having origins in any of the original peoples of china .
a person of cuban culture or origin ,  regardless of race .
denotes a person from or of cuba or an american citizen of cuban descent .
denotes the inhabitants of the dominican republic ,  a person from there ,  or their descendants elsewhere .
a person having origins in any of the original peoples of the philippine islands .
denotes inhabitants of guam ,  an island in the north pacific ocean ,  about three - quarters of the way from hawaii to the philippines ,  south of the northern mariana islands .
a person of cuban ,  mexican ,  puerto rican ,  south or central american ,  or other spanish culture or origin ,  regardless of race .
a general term for a group of culturally similar indigenous peoples inhabiting the arctic regions of canada ,  greenland ,  russia and the united states .
a person having origins in any of the original peoples of japan .
a person having origins in any of the original peoples of korea .
a person of cuban ,  mexican ,  puerto rican ,  south or central american ,  or other spanish culture or origin ,  regardless of race .
denotes a person from or of mexico .
denotes an american citizen of mexican descent .
a person having origins in any of the original peoples of hawaii .
a person of non - specified racial ,  cultural ,  or geographic origins .
a person having origins in the original peoples of the pacific islands ,  but not guam ,  hawaii ,  the mariana islands or samoa .
a person of puerto rican descent .
a person having origins in any of the original peoples of samoa .
a person having origins in any of the original peoples of vietnam .
a person having origins in any of the original peoples of europe ,  the middle east ,  or north africa .
for continuants: c part_of c' if and only if: given any c that instantiates c at a time t ,  there is some c' such that c' instantiates c' at time t ,  and c *part_of* c' at t . for processes: p part_of p' if and only if: given any p that instantiates p at a time t ,  there is some p' such that p' instantiates p' at time t ,  and p *part_of* p' at t .  ( here *part_of* is the instance - level part - relation . ) 
a route by which an exposure to a pregnant female causes an outcome in the fetus that might be observed long after birth
