a spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of the life cycle of an organism .
temporal interval that defines mouse life from prenatal stage until late adult stage .
prenatal stage that starts with fertilization and ends with a fully formed embryo ,  before undergoing last development during the fetal stage .
embryonic stage defined by a one - cell embryo  ( fertilised egg )  with zona pellucida present .
embryonic stage consisting of division of cells in the early embryo .
embryonic cleavage stage defined by a dividing 2 - 4 cells egg .
embryonic cleavage stage defined by a dividing 4 - 16 cells egg ,  early to fully compacted morula .
embryonic stage that is an early stage of embryonic development in animals and is produced by cleavage of a fertilized ovum ,  with formation of a central fluid - filled cavity called the blastocoel .
embryonic blastula stage defined by a dividing 16 - 40 cells egg ,  with early evidence of the blastocoelic cavity .
embryonic blastula stage defined by a zona free blastocyst  ( zona pellucida absent )  .
embryonic blastula stage during which the blastocyst attaches ,  with first evidence of embryonic endoderm cells covering the blastocoelic surface of the inner cell mass .
embryonic blastula stage defined by implantation and formation of the egg cylinder resulting from the rapid increase in the number of inner cell mass cells .
embryonic blastula stage during which the egg cylinder differentiates into embryonic and extra - embryonic regions ,  and the pro - amniotic cavity appears .
embryonic stage defined by complex and coordinated series of cellular movements that occurs at the end of cleavage .
embryonic gastrula stage during which gastrulation starts with first evidence of mesoderm and visible embryonic axis .
embryonic gastrula stage during which the primitive streak bulges into the pro - amniotic cavity and forms the amniotic fold ;  the exocoelom appears ;  the allantoic bud first appears ,  gastrulation continues and the node becomes visible .
embryonic stage defined by formation of a tube from the flat layer of ectodermal cells known as the neural plate .
embryonic stage called presomite stage and defined by the formation of the neural plate .
embryonic stage at which the ectoderm ,  endoderm ,  and mesoderm develop into the internal organs of the organism .
organogenesis stage during which first somites become visible .
organogenesis stage defined by the turning of the embryo ;  initiated in embryos with 6 - 8 pairs of somites and usually completed in embryos with 14 - 16 pairs of somites .
organogenesis stage during which the rostral extremity of the neural tube closes in embryos with usually about 15 - 18 somite pairs .
organogenesis stage during which the posterior neuropore forms and the condensation of the forelimb bud becomes apparent near the 8th - 12th somite pairs .
organogenesis stage during which the posterior neuropore closes and the hind limb bud becomes visible at the level of the 23rd - 28th somites .
organogenesis stage defined by the deepening of the lens pit and the first appearance of the physiological umbilical hernia .
organogenesis stage during which the lens vesicle gradually closes and the nasal pits start to form .
organogenesis stage during which the lens vesicle becomes completely closed and detached from the ectoderm ,  and peripheral margins of the eye become well defined .
organogenesis stage during which the handplate develops angles corresponding to the future digits ,  and tongue and brain vesicles are clearly visible .
organogenesis stage during which the digit widths and locations can be discerned ,  and the pinna rapidly develops and forms a crest at right angles to the head .
organogenesis stage during which the fingers are clearly visible and the long bones of the limbs are present .
mouse life cycle that follows the embryonic development stage and during which further organogenesis and histogenesis occur .
prenatal stage that starts with the fully formed embryo and ends at birth .
fetal stage during which the toes separate and hair follicles are present in the cephalic region but not at the periphery of the vibrissae .
fetal stage during which the umbilical hernia disappears and there is a corresponding increase in the size of the peritoneal sac .
fetal stage during which the thickened skin forms wrinkles and the subcutaneous veins are less visible .
fetal stage defined by long whiskers and during which the eyes are barely visible through the closed eyelids .
stage that refers to the newborn mouse ,  aged e19 - 20 ,  p0 .
postnatal development that covers the period after the ts27 stage  ( p0 - p3 first days of life )  and continuing to adulthood .
immature stage that refers to a mouse which is over 1 week and under 6 weeks old .
immature stage that refers to a mouse which is over 4 weeks and under 7 weeks old .
mouse developmental stage that refers to a mouse which is over 5 weeks old .
mouse life cycle that starts with fertilization and ends with birth .
mouse developmental stage that covers the period from birth until 5 weeks old .
early immature stage that refers to the newborn mouse which is over 1 and under 8 days old .
premature stage that refers to a mouse which is over 7 days and under 15 days old .
premature stage that refers to a mouse which is over 14 days and under 22 days old .
premature stage that refers to a mouse which is over 21 days and under 29 days old .
premature stage that refers to a mouse which is over 28 days and under 36 days old .
premature stage that refers to a mouse which is over 35 days and under 43 days old .
early stage that refers to a mouse which is over 42 days and under 50 days old .
early adult stage that refers to a mouse which is over 49 days and under 57 days old .
2 month - old stage that refers to a mouse which is over 56 days and under 64 days old .
2 month - old stage that refers to a mouse which is over 63 days and under 71 days old .
2 month - old stage that refers to a mouse which is over 70 days and under 78 days old .
2 month - old stage that refers to a mouse which is over 77 days and under 85 days old .
3 month - old stage that refers to a mouse which is over 84 days and under 92 days old .
3 month - old stage that refers to a mouse which is over 91 days and under 99 days old .
3 month - old stage that refers to a mouse which is over 98 days and under 106 days old .
3 month - old stage that refers to a mouse which is over 105 days and under 113 days old .
mature stage that refers to a adult mouse which is over 6 weeks and under 7 months old .
early adult stage that refers to a mouse which is over 2 and under 3 months old .
early adult stage that refers to a mouse which is over 3 and under 4 months old .
early adult stage that refers to a mouse which is over 4 and under 5 months old .
4 month - old stage that refers to a mouse which is over 112 days and under 120 days old .
4 month - old stage that refers to a mouse which is over 119 days and under 127 days old .
4 month - old stage that refers to a mouse which is over 126 days and under 134 days old .
4 month - old stage that refers to a mouse which is over 133 days and under 141 days old .
early adult stage that refers to a mouse which is over 5 and under 6 months old .
4 month - old stage that refers to a mouse which is over 140 days and under 148 days old .
5 month - old stage that refers to a mouse which is over 147 days and under 155 days old .
5 month - old stage that refers to a mouse which is over 154 days and under 162 days old .
5 month - old stage that refers to a mouse which is over 161 days and under 169 days old .
5 month - old stage that refers to a mouse which is over 168 days and under 176 days old .
late adult stage that refers to a mouse which is over 7 and under 15 months old .
late adult stage that refers to a mouse which is over 15 months old .
early adult stage that refers to a mouse which is over 6 and under 7 months old .
middle aged stage that refers to a mouse which is over 7 and under 8 months old .
middle aged stage that refers to a mouse which is over 8 and under 9 months old .
middle aged stage that refers to a mouse which is over 9 and under 10 months old .
middle aged stage that refers to a mouse which is over 10 and under 11 months old .
middle aged stage that refers to a mouse which is over 11 and under 12 months old .
middle aged stage that refers to a mouse which is over 12 and under 13 months old .
middle aged stage that refers to a mouse which is over 13 and under 14 months old .
middle aged stage that refers to a mouse which is over 14 and under 15 months old .
aged adult stage that refers to a mouse which is over 15 and under 16 months old .
aged adult stage that refers to a mouse which is over 16 and under 17 months old .
aged adult stage that refers to a mouse which is over 17 and under 18 months old .
aged adult stage that refers to a mouse which is over 18 and under 19 months old .
aged adult stage that refers to a mouse which is over 19 and under 20 months old .
aged adult stage that refers to a mouse which is over 20 months old .
mouse developmental stage that covers the period from birth until late adulthood .
embryonic neurula stage during which the neural plate formation occurs and the allantoic bud elongates  .
embryonic neurula stage during which the neural plate formation occurs and the head folds are formed while the neural groove becomes visible .
embryonic neurula stage during which the neural plate formation occurs and the head folds continue to enlarge while the foregut pocket begins to form .
immature stage that covers the period from birth until end of the first week .
mature stage that refers to an adult mouse which is over 7 months old .
6 month - old stage that refers to a mouse which is over 175 days and under 183 days old .
6 month - old stage that refers to a mouse which is over 182 days and under 190 days old .
6 month - old stage that refers to a mouse which is over 189 days and under 197 days old .
6 month - old stage that refers to a mouse which is over 196 days and under 204 days old .
6 month - old stage that refers to a mouse which is over 203 days and under 211 days old .
theiler developmental stage 9 defined by advanced endometrial reaction and during which the egg - cylinder stage advances with the first evidence of an embryonic axis .
theiler developmental stage 9 defined by advanced endometrial reaction and during which the first mesodermal cells are produced by gastrulation late in this stage .
theiler developmental stage 10 during which the tissue at the posterior end of the primitive streak bulges into the pro - amniotic cavity and forms the amniotic fold .
theiler developmental stage 10 during which small cavities coalesce to form a single cavity in the mesoderm of the posterior amniotic fold ,  the exocoelom .
theiler developmental stage 10 during which the allantoic bud first appears ,  gastrulation continues and the node becomes visible .
theiler developmental stage 12 defined by unturned embryo with first appearance of somite pairs 1 - 4 and during which the allantois extends further into the exocoelom .
theiler developmental stage 12 defined by unturned embryo with first appearance of somite pairs 5 - 7 and during which neural closure occurs in the region of the 4th and 5th somites ,  extending in both directions from this site .
mouse developmental stage that refers to a sexually mature adult mouse which is over 6 weeks old .
embryonic neurula stage during which the neural plate formation occurs and the amniotic cavity is sealed off into three distinct cavities  -  the amniotic cavity ,  the exocoelom and the ectoplacental cleft .
mouse developmental stage that covers the period from p4 starting at ts28 until 5 weeks old .
count of number of weeks intervening between the start of the stage and the time of birth according to a reference model .
premature stage that refers to the newborn mouse which is over 4 days and under 8 days old .
