phase in which cells are loaded onto a carrier ,  substrate or threedimensional material .
experimental phase aimed to amplify the number of cell in culture ,  through their doubling .
property that is typical of a specific scaffold ,  depending not only on the material but even on the shape ,  the size ,  the structure etc .
anatomical structure that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
property that reveals the reaction ,  either elastic or plastic ,  of a metal to an applied stress .
experimental environment where cells are expanded .
property of materials ,  biological tissues or other objects ,  and their specific structural features .
tissue grown on substitute material .
cell culture where the cells derive from a fresh tissue source .
mass per unit volume .
measure of the stiffness of an elastic material and is a quantity used to characterize materials .
the shape of the pores in the material .
percentage of pore space .
a round ,  flattened ,  platelike structure .
ability of a material to absorb energy when it is deformed elastically ,  and release that energy upon unloading .
a symmetrical three - dimensional shape ,  either solid or hollow ,  contained by six equal squares .
measure of the void  ( i .e . ,   \ "empty \ " )  spaces in a material ,  and is a fraction of the volume of voids over the total volume ,  between 0 and 1 ,  or as a percentage between 0 and 100% .
liquid or gel designed to support the growth of microorganisms or cells .
liquid or gel designed to expand cells .
population of cells cultured in vitro that are descended through one or more generations  ( and possible sub - cultures )  from a single primary culture which was originally derived from part of an organism .
a methodical procedure carried out with the goal of verifying ,  falsifying ,  or establishing the validity of a hypothesis .
the magnitude of a quantity ,  such as length or mass ,  relative to a unit of measurement .
a study design that is done in a test environment ,  such as a culture dish ,  using an established cell culture procedure .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer that has mass near a gravitational body .
the pores in the material considered collectively .
geometrical description of the part of that space occupied by the object ,  as determined by its external boundary ,  abstracting from location and orientation in space ,  size ,  and other properties such as colour ,  content ,  and material composition .
a study design that is conducted entirely in a living organism ,  e .g .
a medical device manufactured to replace a missing biological structure ,  support a damaged biological structure ,  or enhance an existing biological structure .
an substitute material implant out of the original place .
a substitute material implant in the original place .
the tissue which binds together and is the support of the various structures of the body .
ceramic materials not included in the ceramic list .
eveluation of the biochemical ,  molecular ,  mechanical events activated within the cell when cultured on a material .
range of physical ,  mental ,  and behavioral characteristics distinguishing between masculinity and femininity .
a non - drug substance suitable for inclusion in systems which augment or replace the function of bodily tissues or organs .
an essential or inherent property of a system or of a material itself or within .
material's property that can be discerned without changing the chemical identity of the sample and that can be used to characterize matter and energy and their interactions .
material's property that becomes evident during a chemical reaction .
property of a molecular entity to be attracted to ,  and tends to be dissolved by ,  water .
ability of a material to perform with an appropriate host response in a specific situation .
property of a molecular entity that is repelled from a mass of water .
property of a material that ,  upon placement within the organism ,  starts to dissolve  ( resorbed )  and ,  in some cases ,  is slowly replaced by advancing tissue  ( such as bone )  .
stability of a molecule at high temperatures .
it measures a material's ability to conduct an electric current .
property of a material to conduct heat .
a temporal measurement of the time period elapsed since an identifiable point in the life cycle of an organism .
duration of the cellular expansion phase .
amount of used cells .
a length quality which is equal to the length of any straight line segment that passes through the center of a circle and whose endpoints are on the circular boundary .
it gives an indication of the median or mean size of the pores on a membrane surface .
studies about the mechanical behavior of materials ,  especially their motion and deformation under the action of forces ,  temperature changes ,  phase changes ,  and other external or internal agents .
it is the relative abundance of each pore size in a representative volume .
investigation of biomolecules ,  which are molecules that are involved in the maintenance and metabolic processes of all living organisms .
the measurement of the extent of something along its greatest dimension .
the distance from the base of something to the top .
a piece of material measured along its smaller dimension or its crosswise grain .
a solid geometric figure with straight parallel sides and a circular or oval section .
a three - dimensional surface ,  all points of which are equidistant from a fixed point .
very high - resolution type of scanning probe microscopy ,  with demonstrated resolution on the order of fractions of a nanometer ,  more than 1000 times better than the optical diffraction limit .
technique used to study and characterize materials .
microtomography uses a similar technique as x - ray tomography systems used in medicine  ( ct scans )  but with much finer resolution .
a laboratory technique based on the pcr ,  which is used to amplify and simultaneously quantify a specific dna molecule based on the use of complementary probes / primers .
microscopy technique whereby a beam of electrons is transmitted through an ultra thin specimen ,  interacting with the specimen as it passes through .
gene expression microarray technology measures the relative activity of previously identified target genes and provide the gene expression profiling ,  which is the measurement ,  at once ,  of the activation of thousands of genes ,  to create a global picture of cellular function .
measuring method consisting of turning elements in a sample into ions ,  isolating them according to the ratio between the mass and charge numbers and detecting it electrically .
histofluorescence  ( fluorescence of the tissues under exposure to ultraviolet rays following the injection of a fluorescent substance or as a result of a natural fluorescing substance )  accomplished by injection of antibody labeled with fluorochrome .
study of the microscopic anatomy of cells and tissues of plants and animals .
method using an antibody coupled with some colouring agent to detect a specific protein within a tissue sample .
electron microscope that produces images of a sample by scanning it with a focused beam of electrons .
investigations about the form and structure of organisms and their specific features .
cartilage cells .they make the structural components of cartilage .
skeletogenic cell that secretes osteoid ,  is capable of producing mineralized  ( hydroxyapatite )  matrix ,  is located adjacent to or within osteoid tissue ,  and arises from the transformation of a preosteoblast cell .
a special adult stem cell ,  which is a multipotent stem cell ,  that can be found in bone marrow and can produce all cell types of bone ,  cartilage ,  fat ,  blood ,  and connective tissues .
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
amount of cells per volume of medium used .
affymetrix is a us company that manufactures dna microarrays .
time when the substitue material is within the host .
a specialized ,  fibrous connective tissue ,  forming most of the temporary skeleton of the embryo ,  providing a model in which most of the bones develop ,  and constituting an important part of the growth mechanism of the organism .
the soft ,  fatty ,  vascular tissue that fills most bone cavities and is the source of red blood cells and many white blood cells .
connective tissue in which fat is stored and which has the cells distended by droplets of fat .
a role which inheres in an organism or part thereof from which any part including cell ,  organ or tissue is removed with the intention that the donated part will be placed into another organism and / or cultured in vitro .
organism for the implant .
solid ,  jelly - like material that can have properties ranging from soft and weak to hard and tough .
metal materials not included in the previous list .
steel alloy with a minimum of 10 .5% [ 1 ]  to 11% chromium content by mass .
other polymeric materials not included in the previous list .
hyphenated technique ,  combining the separation power of liquid chromatography  ( lc )  ,  an analytical chromatographic technique for separating ions or molecules dissolved in a solvent ,  with the detection power of mass spectrometry ( ms )  ,  a technique to separate gas phase ions according their m / z  ( mass to charge ratio )  value .
chemical element with symbol ti and atomic number 22 .
chemical compound of aluminium and oxygen with the chemical formula al2o3 .
non - metallic structural material that combines hardness ,  reduced fragility ,  and chemical inertness with high chemical stability in aggressive environments throughout a wide temperature range .
subset of the thermoplastic polyethylene ,  characterized by extremely long chains ,  with a molecular weight usually between 2 and 6 million .
gel material not listed among the gels .
polycrystalline material produced through controlled crystallization of base glass .
family of bioactive glasses ,  composed of sio2 ,  na2o ,  cao and p2o5 in specific proportions .
calcium salt of phosphoric acid with the chemical formula ca3 ( po4 ) 2 .
athermoplastic aliphatic polyester derived from renewable resources .
chemical compound with the formula cao .
chemical compound with the formula caco3 .
very soft sulfate mineral composed of calcium sulfate dihydrate ,  with the chemical formula caso4·2h2o .
the collection of material entities and their qualities that are located near a live organism ,  tissue or cell and can influence its growth .
anatomical structure ,  that consists of similar cells and intercellular matrix ,  aggregated according to genetically determined spatial relationships .
natural tissue located within the organism in the natural site .
tissue that has been extracted from the organism .
the hard form of connective tissue that constitutes the majority of the skeleton of most vertebrates ;  it consists of an organic component  ( the cells and matrix )  and an inorganic ,  or mineral ,  component ;  the matrix contains a framework of collagenous fibers and is impregnated with the mineral component ,  chiefly calcium phosphate  ( 85 per cent )  and calcium carbonate  ( 10 per cent )  ,  which imparts the quality of rigidity to bone .
group of naturally occurring proteins found in animals ,  especially in the flesh and connective tissues of vertebrates .
an aminoglycan consisting of beta -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - linked d - glucosamine residues .
inorganic ,  nonmetallic solid prepared by the action of heat and subsequent cooling .
name given to a family of minerals containing calcium ions  ( ca2 +  )  together with orthophosphates  ( po43 -  ) 
element ,  compound ,  or alloy that is a good conductor of both electricity and heat .
a nucleic acid microarray assay that uses the genechip system as the platform  for analyzing complex genetic information .
a mixture ,  which is composed of macromolecules of different kinds and which may be differentiated by composition ,  length ,  degree of branching etc .
the effect / reaction / interaction / response of a given agent ,  such as a biomaterial or drug ,  upon a living organism or on living tissue .
it refers to any material that once placed in the human body has minimal interaction with its surrounding tissue .
maximum stress that a material can withstand while being stretched or pulled before failing or breaking .
it measures the substance's resistance to uniform compression .
the affymetrix protocol first steps are rna isolation and conversion to cdna and crna .
dat files contain raw image data ;  cel files contain information about the expression levels of the individual probes ;  chp files contain information about probe sets ;  exp files contain information about experimental conditions and protocols .
illumina ,  inc . is a us company that develops ,  manufactures and markets integrated systems for the analysis of genetic variation and biological function .
in illumina's beadarray technology each bead is covered with hundreds of thousands of copies of a specific oligonucleotide that act as the capture sequences in one of illumina's assays .
illumina beadchip gene expression summary file contains the expression levels for each bead type on the arrays on the beadchip .
other gene expression microarray techniques not included in the previous list .
it stains nucleic acids blue and polysaccharides purple .
family of polyvalent basic dyes used to stain acidic polysaccharides such as glycosaminoglycans in cartilages and other body structures ,  some types of mucopolysaccharides ,  sialylated glycocalyx of cells etc .
three - colour staining protocol able to distinguish cells from surrounding connective tissue .
staining methods not listed before .
static mode operation where the static tip deflection is used as a feedback signal .
the tip of the cantilever does not contact the sample surface .
the cantilever is driven to oscillate up and down at near its resonance frequency by a small piezoelectric element mounted in the afm tip holder similar to non - contact mode .
mechanical test  where balanced inward  (  \ "pushing \ " )  forces are applied to different points of a material or structure .
materials science test in which a sample is subjected to a controlled tension until failure .
used to define a material's ability to resist deformation under load .
mechanical test  where an applied torque generate a twisting of the material .
test not included in the previous list .
the illumina gene expression microarray system uses total rna as starting material  ( minimum of 250ng of total rna at a minimum concentration of 25ng / ul )  .
the direct method is a one - step staining method and involves a labeled antibody  ( e .g .
the indirect method involves an unlabeled primary antibody  ( first layer )  that binds to the target antigen in the tissue and a labeled secondary antibody  ( second layer )  that reacts with the primary antibody .
tissue fixation in formalin  ( an aqueous solution containing formaldehyde )  in order to prevent it from decaying or degeneration and to examine it clearly under a microscope for histological ,  pathological or cytological studies .
a histology technique that involves the staining of cells with a blue nuclear stain ,  hemalum followed by counterstaining with eosin ,  which stains eosinophilic structures in various shades of red ,  pink and orange .
an immunoglobulin complex that is secreted into extracellular space and found in mucosal areas or other tissues or circulating in the blood or lymph .
stained tissue are studied to define and examine: bulk tissues  ( for example muscle fibers or connective tissue )  ,  cell populations  ( i .e .
biological staining is used to mark cells in flow cytometry ,  and to flag proteins or nucleic acids in tissues .
naturally occurring mineral form of calcium apatite with the formula ca5 ( po4 ) 3 ( oh )  .
mass spectrometers coupled in series .
ms / ms output file containing mass spectra ,  which show peaks due to the masses of the various ions produced by the fragmentation process .
the protocol depends on the ion source different requirements for volume ,  concentration ,  and composition of the analyte solution .
materials made from two or more constituent materials with significantly different physical or chemical properties ,  that when combined ,  produce a material with characteristics different from the individual components .
a connective tissue cell which secretes an extracellular matrix rich in collagen and other macromolecules .
nucleic acid reagent that is a short strand of nucleic acid that serves as a starting point for dna or rna synthesis .
quantification can be relative or absolute .
nucleotidyltransferases that catalyze the addition of deoxyribonucleotide residues to the end of a dna .
immunologic method used for detecting or quantifying immunoreactive substances .
a gel matrix through which molecules are separated ,  usually by size or charge ,  under the influence of an electrical field .
procedure to identify and quantify proteins .
a multistep process in which a mixture of rna is separated by gel electrophoresis ,  that is ,  separation of ionic solutes based on differences in rate of migration in an applied electric field using a semisolid colloid such as agarose or acrylamide as the support medium ,  followed by transfer to a membrane such as nitrocellulose or nylon and detection of specific rnas by hybridization of a tagged or labelled polynucleotide ,  usually a single dna fragment with a specific ,  known sequence .
a standard procedure to identify dna fragments containing specific gene sequences .
image of the matrix gel containing the separated target molecules  ( proteins or nucleic acids )  .
any of the various methods that use a dye ,  reagent ,  or other material for producing coloration in tissues or microorganisms for microscopic examination .
tissues that ,  under exposure to ultraviolet rays ,  produce fluorescence .
biodegradable polyester prepared by ring opening polymerization of caprolactone using a catalyst such as stannous octoate .
high - resolution image acquired from afm technology .
the stress applied to fracture a specimen .
the strain applied to fracture a specimen .
measure of the amount of torque that a radial shaft can sustain during its rotation in a mechanical system .
maximum stress that a material can withstand while being stretched or pulled before failing or breaking .
maximum strain that a material can withstand while being stretched or pulled before failing or breaking .
polyether compound whose structure is h -  ( o - ch2 - ch2 ) n - oh .
anionic polysaccharide distributed widely in the cell walls of brown algae ,  where through binding with water it forms a viscous gum .
gel obtained from chitosan ,  a linear polysaccharide composed of randomly distributed beta -  ( 1 - 4 )  - linked d - glucosamine  ( deacetylated unit )  and n - acetyl - d - glucosamine  ( acetylated unit )  ,  made by treating shrimp and other crustacean shells with the alkali sodium hydroxide .
translucent ,  colorless ,  brittle  ( when dry )  ,  flavorless solid substance ,  derived from collagen obtained from various animal by - products .
gel based on dextran ,  a complex ,  branched glucan  ( polysaccharide made of many glucose molecules )  composed of chains of varying lengths  ( from 3 to 2000 kilodaltons )  .
gel deriving from polyethylene glycol ,  produced by the interaction of ethylene oxide with water .
material whose components are chitosan and alginate .
material whose components are collagen and hydroxyapatite .
material whose components are hydroxyapatite and polycaprolactone .
material whose components are chitosan and collagen .
material whose components are collagen and polycaprolactone .
composite material not listed among the composite materials .
polymer prepared starting from glycolic acid by means of polycondensation or ring - opening polymerization .
polymer for tissue engineering applications composed by polylysine ,  used to confer endothelial cell attachment properties to the poloxamine - based polymer ,  and acrylate ,  which makes it photo - cross - linkable .
copolymer synthesized by means of random ring - opening co - polymerization of two different monomers ,  the cyclic dimers  ( 1 , 4 - dioxane - 2 , 5 - diones )  of glycolic acid and lactic acid .
dataset of physical parameters about mechanical tests performed ,  such as the applied intensity and velocity of strain .
high - resolution image acquired from sem technique .
high - resolution image of tem acquisition .
high - resolution 2d image from x - ray technology .
wavelength of the radiation  ( usually coming from a laser line )  used to stimulate fluorescence in the measured object .
material property consisting in becoming soft when heated and hard when cooled .
mechanical parameter for brittle material ,  defined as a material's ability to resist deformation under load .
it first aims at fixing samples ,  then at dehydrating them ,  through a ethanols scale ,  and finally at coating samples with gold / palladium alloy .
it aims at fixing samples ,  dehydrating and including them into resin  ( infiltration and embedding )  .
form of polylactide ,  having lactic acid a chiral nature ,  and it is the product resulting from polymerization of l , l - lactide .
it is a pcr real time preceded by a reverse transcription step  ( reverse transcription step = an rna strand is reverse transcribed into its dna complement using the enzyme reverse transcriptase ) 
network of fibers that hold cells together .
extracellular signaling molecule involved in control of target cell proliferation ,  cell survival ,  and cell differentiation .
measurable characteristic related to the concentration of growth factors .
it defines the organism species the growth factor comes from .
it defines the specific isoform of the growth factor .
most adult stem cells are lineage - restricted  ( multipotent )  and are generally referred to by their tissue origin e .g .
embryonic stem  ( es )  cells are cells derived from the inner cell mass of the early embryo that can be propagated indefinitely in the primitive undifferentiated state while remaining pluripotent .
material whose components are silicon ,  tricalcium phosphate and hydroxyapatite .
a continuous protein fiber consisting primarily of fibroids .
a titanium molecular entity that has formula o2ti .
material whose components are polycaprolactone ,  collagen and hydroxyapatite .
material whose components are polycaprolactone and tricalcium phosphate .
functionalized material .a blend of corn starch with polycaprolactone used to produce three - dimensional fibre meshes scaffolds ,  coupled with a calcium silicate solution for the in situ functionalization with si - oh groups .
material whose components are collagen and polylactic - co - glycolic acid .
material whose components are polycaprolactone and polylactic - co - glycolic acid .
ceramic material where ca ,  sr ,  zn and si ions have been incorporated .
baghdadite scaffolds were coated in polycaprolactone and nanoparticles of bio - glass .
fibroblast - like cells characterized by collagen production but also possessing some osteoblastic features .
functionalization is employed for surface modification of industrial materials in order to achieve desired surface properties .
material whose components are bioglass ,  collagen and phosphatidylserine .
a group of thermoplastic or thermosetting polymers containing polyisocyanate .
material whose components are collagen and glycosaminoglycan
material whose components are calcium - phosphate based ceramic and chitosan .
cell derived from bone .
multipotent stem cells of mesenchymal origin isolated from umbilical cord blood .
mouse embryo / fetus calvaria fibroblasts ;  established from the calvaria of an embryo / fetus c57bl / 6 mouse ;  described to differentiate to osteoblasts and to produce collagen .
level of connection between pores .
addition of functional groups / peptides / proteins / molecules / growth factors onto the surface of a material by chemical synthesis methods .
alteration of the the surface topography of a material ,    producing microscale and nanoscale features in a well - controlled manner with nanocoating ,  film deposition ,  or in situ surface modifications at nanoscale level ,  with the aim to improve the material performances .
the procedure used to obtain something from a mixture or compound by chemical or physical or mechanical means .
the condition of an organism in all aspects  ( e .g . ,  functional or metabolic efficiency )  .
the percentage of cells plated  ( seeded ,  inoculated )  which attach to the surface of the culture vessel within a specified period of time .
it determines whether a product or compound will have any toxic effect due to leachables on living cells .
technique using an instrument system for making ,  processing ,  and displaying one or more measurements on individual cells obtained from a cell suspension .
cell derived from trabecular  ( or cancellous ,  or spongy )  bone .
cell derived from cortical bone .
primary human marrow stromal cells  ( mscs )  cultured from adult bone marrow  ( bm )  mononuclear cells  ( mncs )  .
multipotent stem cells obtained from dental pulp .
they are known to be able to transform into liver ,  nerve ,  muscle and kidney cells .
procedure addressed to ensure the quality of the cells .
homo sapiens  ( human )  bone ,  osteosarcoma cell line ;  established from a 14 year old caucasian male .
biocement fabricated by using the mixed powders of magnesium oxide  ( mgo )  and calcium dihydrogen phosphate  ( ca ( h2po4 ) 2·h2o )  .
process that induces a non - hydrosoluble polymer to become hydrosoluble in physiological conditions .
experimental environment where cells are cultured onto  \ nthe material .
cell of a malignant neoplasm of the bone - forming tissues .
material is put in the culture medium for a predefined period of time .
cells are seeded onto the material and observed under microscope to identify possible toxic effects .
the set of behaviors that characterize a material on its chemical - physical nature .
the reduction of a chemical compound to one less complex ,  as by splitting off one or more groups .
process of removal of a polymer or its degradation products through the cellular activity  ( phagocytosis )  .
