deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected spore color .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected morphology of the standing slug  ( finger )  .
increase in length of the slug .
decrease in relative or proportionate dimensions of the slug .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during autophagy .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of autophagy .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of autophagy .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during post - transciptional gene silencing by rna .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected morphology of the fruiting body .
complete inability for post - transciptional gene silencing by rna .
reduction in level of modification of post - transciptional gene silencing by rna .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during microrna processing .
complete inability for microrna processing .
increase in level of microrna processing .
reduction in level of microrna processing .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during transitive rna interference .
complete inability for transitive rna interference .
complete inability for culmination .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during rna interference .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during production of sirna involved in rna interference .
complete inability for production of sirna involved in rna interference .
complete inability for exocytosis .
development cannot progress past the mound stage .
complete inability for phagosome re - neutralization .
complete inability for formation of the stalk .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of resistance to n - phenylthiourea .
complete inability to form slugs during development .
complete inability for endocytosis .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of sporulation .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during secretion of a substance .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during contractile vacuole discharge .
complete inability for contractile vacuole discharge .
increase in extend ,  amount ,  or degree of the number of tips .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of contractile vacuole discharge .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of contractile vacuole discharge .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during plasma membrane organization and biogenesis .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to a chemical stimulus .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to  n - phenylthiourea .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during membrane ruffling .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of membrane ruffling .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected during sdf production ,  peptides that promote terminal spore differentiation .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during phosphatidylinositol metabolism .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during phosphatidylinositol biosynthesis .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of phosphatidylinositol biosynthesis .
increase in amount or accumulation of  phosphatidylinositol biosynthesis .
complete inability for the production of  phosphatidylinositol .
complete inability to respond to hypo - osmotic stress .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of the response to hypo - osmotic stress .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of the response to hypo - osmotic stress .
decrease in relative or proportionate dimensions of the contractile vacuole .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected localization to the cell cortex .
complete inability to localize to the cell cortex .
increase in amount or accumulation at the cell cortex .
reduction in amount or accumulation at the cell cortex .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected localization to the cell surface .
complete inability to localize to the cell surface .
increase in amount or accumulation on the cell surface .
reduction in amount or accumulation on the cell surface .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected localization to coated pits .
complete inability to localize to coated pits .
increase in amount or accumulation at coated pits .
reduction in amount or accumulation at coated pits .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected localization to the cytoplasm .
complete inability to localize to the cytoplasm .
increase in amount or accumulation in the cytoplasm .
reduction in amount or accumulation in the cytoplasm .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected localization to the microtubule organizing center .
complete inability to localize to the microtubule organizing center .
increase in amount or accumulation at the microtubule organizing center .
reduction in amount or accumulation at the microtubule organizing center .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected localization to the microtubules .
complete inability to localize to the microtubules .
reduction in amount or accumulation at the microtubules .
reduction in relative or proportionate dimensions of the fruiting body .
increase in amount or accumulation at the microtubules .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected localization to the nuclear envelope .
complete inability to localize to the nuclear envelope .
increase in amount or accumulation at the nuclear envelope .
reduction in amount or accumulation at the nuclear envelope .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected localization to the nucleus .
complete inability to localize to the nucleus .
increase in amount or accumulation in the nucleus .
reduction in amount or accumulation in the nucleus .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected localization to the plasma membrane .
complete inability to localize to the plasma membrane .
reduction in amount or accumulation at the plasma membrane .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during endocytosis .
increase in amount or accumulation at the plasma membrane .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected localization to pseudopodia .
complete inability to localize to pseudopodia .
reduction in amount or accumulation at pseudopodia .
increase in amount or accumulation at pseudopodia .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected localization to the nucleolus .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during differentiation of prestalk a cells .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of chemotaxis rate during the locomotory response to a chemical concentration gradient .
complete inability to localize to the nucleolus .
increase in amount or accumulation in the nucleolus .
quantitative increase in aggregates .
reduction in amount or accumulation in the nucleolus .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during localization of a protein to the nucleolus .
complete inability to localize a protein to the nucleolus .
reduction in amount or accumulation of a protein to the nucleolus .
increase in amount or accumulation of a protein at the nucleolus .
increase in amount or accumulation of cytosolic glucose .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of cell - cell adhesion .
complete inability to localize to a cellular compartment or structure .
increase in relative or proportionate dimensions of the aggregate .
reduction in amount or accumulation at a certain cellular location .
increase in amount or accumulation at a certain cellular location .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during substrate adhesion - dependent cell spreading .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of cell motility .
complete inability for substrate adhesion - dependent cell spreading .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of substrate adhesion - dependent cell spreading .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of substrate adhesion - dependent cell spreading .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during cell - cell recognition .
reduction in extent ,  amount or accumulation of cytosolic glucose .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during cell - cell self recognition .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of cgmp pulse in response to camp .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of camp pulse in response to camp .
complete inability to perform cell - cell self recognition .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of cgmp pulse in response to camp .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected social cooperation during aggregation .
reduction in social cooperation during development .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of resistance to the flavonoid naringenin .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of camp pulse in response to camp .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of secretion of counting factor  ( cf )  .
increase in amount or accumulation of basal f - actin .
increase in amount or accumulation of actin - binding protein .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of assembly of myosin ii .
reduction in amount or accumulation of actin - binding protein .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of myosin ii assembly .
reduction in amount or accumulation of basal f - actin .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of cell - cell adhesion .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of sexual fusion .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of the slime trail .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of  chemotaxis towards a decreasing chemical concentration .
no phenotypic difference has been reported compared to wild type .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of  chemotaxis towards a decreasing chemical concentration .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of spore viability .
complete inability for negative chemotaxis .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected activity in the directed movement of a motile cell  towards a lower concentration of a signal .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of cell motility .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during cytokinesis .
complete inability for chemorepellant activity .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during actin filament organization .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of  chemorepellant activity .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of  chemorepellant activity .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during development .
development cannot progress past the tipped mound stage .
late onset or slower progression through aggregation .
late onset or slower progression through the formation of the tip .
reduction in relative or proportionate dimensions of the aggregate .
development cannot progress past the loose mound stage .
increase in relative or proportionate dimensions of the slug .
late onset or slower progression through culmination .
late onset or slower progression through development .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected morphology of the spore .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the regulation of chemorepellant activity .
having a relative long stalk .
reduction in relative or proportionate dimensions of the sorus .
early onset or faster progression through development .
development cannot progress past the slug stage during development .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of prestalk cell differentiation .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of differentiation into prespore cells .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of cell proliferation .
obsolete .
early onset or faster progression of spores through germination .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of differentiation into prespore cells .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of differentiation into prestalk 0 cells .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the positive regulation of chemorepellant activity .
early onset or faster progression through tip formation .
complete inability for slugs to migrate .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of astral microtubules .
reduction in extent of astral microtubules .
decreased tolerance of the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events towards nocodazole .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during cell - substrate adhesion .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of phagocytosis .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the negative regulation of chemorepellant activity .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of differentiation into prestalk cells .
complete inability for differentiation of prestalk 0 cells .
complete inability for dif production .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of differentiation into stalk cells .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of  protein kinase a activity .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of gtp - gamma - s - stimulated guanylyl cyclase activity .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the activation of adenylate cyclase .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of gtp - gamma - s - stimulated guanylyl cyclase activity .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of glycogen synthase kinase 3 activity .
quantitative increase in microtubule - organizing centers .
reduction in amount or accumulation of extracellular counting factor component ( s )  .
early onset or faster progression through aggregation .
increase in relative or proportionate length of the slug .
decrease in relative or proportionate width of the slug .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to osmotic stress .
late onset or slower progression through the formation of the slug .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the cellular response to nitrogen starvation .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during macroautophagy .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of cell - substrate adhesion .
early onset or faster progression through sporulation .
decreased tolerance of the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events in spores towards hydrogen peroxide .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected morphology of the spore coat .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to light .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to temperature changes .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of slug migration .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of differentiation into prestalk a cells .
complete inability of the regulation of chemorepellant activity .
complete inability of the positive regulation of chemorepellant activity .
complete inability of the negative regulation of chemorepellant activity .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected morphology of the endosome .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of cell death .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of spore germination .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected organization and biogenesis of the contractile vacuole .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during mitosis .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of aneuploidity .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected morphology of a cell .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of cell death .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during introduction and uptake of foreign genetic material  ( dna or rna )  .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of dna mediated transformation .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of dna mediated transformation .
complete inability for dna mediated transformation .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during dna repair .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during single - strand break dna repair .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during double - strand break dna repair .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of double strand break dna repair .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of single - strand break repair of dna .
complete inability for double strand break dna repair .
complete inability for single - strand break repair of dna .
increased tolerance of the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events in double - strand break repair .
increased tolerance of the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events in single - strand break repair of dna .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during regulation of  the electric potential existing across the mitochondrial membrane arising from charges in the membrane itself and from the charges present in the media on either side of the membrane .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during positive regulation of  the electric potential existing across the mitochondrial membrane arising from charges in the membrane itself and from the charges present in the media on either side of the membrane .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during negative regulation of  the electric potential existing across the mitochondrial membrane arising from charges in the membrane itself and from the charges present in the media on either side of the membrane .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the locomotory response guided by increasing chemical concentration of calcium .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the locomotory response to potassium - dependent  camp chemotaxis .
complete inability for chemotaxis in response to potassium - dependent camp chemotaxis .
complete inability for chemotaxis in response to calcium .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during defense response to bacterium .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of cell sorting to prestalk region during the slug stage .
complete inability for prestalk cell differentiation in response to dif - 1 .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of differentiation into prestalk 0 cells .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected morphology of the nucleus .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during cell motility .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during myosin ii organization .
increase in relative or proportionate dimensions of the basal disc .
quantitative increase in tubular mitochondria .
quantitative reduction in mitochondria .
quantitative increase in mitochondria .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of production of sdf - 1 or sdf - 2 ,  peptides that promote terminal spore differentiation .
complete inability for the production of sdf - 1 or sdf - 2 ,  peptides that promote terminal spore differentiation .
increased tolerance of the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events in the presence of dna damaging agents .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of the  defense response to bacterium .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree for defense response to bacterium .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events defense response to fungus .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of the defense response to fungus .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree for defense response to fungus .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during defense response to gram - positive bacterium ,  often after infection .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of the defense response to gram - positive bacterium ,  often after infection .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree for defense response to gram - positive bacterium ,  often after infection .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events defense response to gram - negative bacterium ,  often after infection .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of the defense response to gram - negative bacterium ,  often after infection .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of the defense response to gram - negative bacterium ,  often after infection .
complete inability for defense response to gram - positive bacterium ,  often after infection .
complete inability for defense response to gram - negative  bacterium ,  often after infection .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected binding of a protein .
complete absence of protein binding .
a reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of binding to a protein .
increased in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of binding a protein .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected binding  a lipid .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of gene expression .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of gene expression .
complete inability for cells to proliferate .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of actin bundle formation .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of membrane ruffling .
complete inability to down - regulate growth pahse genes during development .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected sorting to the prestalk region .
complete inability for the production of sdf - 1 ,  a  peptide that promotes terminal spore differentiation .
complete inability for the production of sdf - 2 ,  a  peptide that promotes terminal spore differentiation .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of production of sdf - 1 ,  a  peptide that promotes terminal spore differentiation .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of production of sdf - 2 ,  a  peptide that promotes terminal spore differentiation .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected during mpbd production ,  a polyketide .
complete inability for the production of mpbd ,  a polyketide .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of production of mpbd ,  a polyketide .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected during the response to mpbd .
complete inability for the response to mpbd .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected during the response to sdf - 1 .
complete inability for the response to sdf - 1 ,  a  peptide that promotes terminal spore differentiation .
complete inability to form a tip during development .
development cannot progress past the tight mound stage .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected binding  a polysaccharide .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected binding  of cellulose .
complete absence of cellulose binding .
a reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of binding to cellulose .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected binding of a cyclic nucleotide .
a reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of binding to a lipid .
complete absence of lipid binding .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected binding  a small molecule .
complete absence of small molecule binding .
a reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of binding to a small molecule .
complete absence of camp binding .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected binding to folic acid .
a reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of binding to folic acid .
increased in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of binding to folic acid .
complete absence of folic acid binding .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the locomotory response to an electrical field .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of electrotaxis rate during the locomotory response to an electrical field .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of  electrotaxis rate during the locomotory response to an electrical field .
complete inability of  electrotaxis in response to an electrical field .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected during the response to sdf - 2 .
complete inability for the response to sdf - 2 ,  a  peptide that promotes terminal spore differentiation .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected plasma membrane organization during endocytosis .
decrease from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected plasma membrane organization during endocytosis .
complete inability for activation of gtpase activity .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of activation gtpase activity .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of activation of  gtpase activity .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of protein kinase activity .
complete absence of protein kinase activity .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of protein kinase activity .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during calcium signaling .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during macropinocytosis .
complete inability to perform macropinocytosis .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of macropinocytosis .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during endosomal transport .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during endocytic recycling .
complete inability of endocytic recycling .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of endocytic recycling .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of endocytic recycling .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to camp .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of  response to camp .
reduction in the response to camp .
complete inability to respond to camp .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to nocodazole .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of resistance to nocodazole .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of macropinocytosis .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected expression of prestalk genes .
early onset or faster progression in the expression of prestalk genes .
prestalk gene expression occurring in an abnormal position or in an unusual manner or form .
late onset or slower progression in the expression of prestalk genes .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of prestalk gene expression .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected expression of prespore genes .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of prespore gene expression .
late onset or slower progression in the expression of prespore genes .
complete inability to form pseudopods .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of formation of filopodia .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of suppression of lateral pseudopods .
reduction in relative or proportionate dimensions of the cell .
decreased tolerance of the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events towards tmb - 8 .
obsolete .
having a relative short stalk .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected morphology of the sorus .
complete inability for cytokinesis .
complete inability for division of prespore cells .
complete inability for vacuolation .
increase in relative or proportionate dimensions of the sorus .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected sorus color .
obsolete .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of cell polarity .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of cell - substrate adhesion .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of cell proliferation .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of phosphorylation of protein kinase b .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during cytoskeleton organization .
obsolete .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of endocytosis .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of chemotaxis rate during the locomotory response to a chemical concentration gradient .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of resistance to cisplatin .
increase in amount or accumulation of intracellular camp .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of expression of prestalk genes .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of expression of prespore genes .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of phagocytosis .
increase in relative or proportionate dimensions of the cell .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of f - actin polymerization in response to chemoattractant .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of resistance to carboplatin .
decreased tolerance of the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events towards carboplatin .
decreased tolerance of the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events towards cisplatin .
increased tolerance of the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events towards heat .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during cell - cell adhesion .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during organization of the microtubule cytoskeleton .
decreased tolerance of the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events towards heat .
prespore gene expression occurring in an abnormal position or in an unusual manner or form .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of the camp - induced ca2 +  influx .
late onset or slower progression of camp - induced ca2 +  influx .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of theca2 +  - induced ca2 +  influx .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of the infection rate by legionella pneumophila .
complete inability for sporulation .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of the resistance to hydrogen peroxide .
decreased tolerance of the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events towards uv light .
decreased tolerance of the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events towards mitomycin c  ( mmc )  .
reduction in extent ,  amount or accumulation of fatty acid .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected process of vesicle coat assembly .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of pinocytosis .
the cell cycle cannot complete .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during glycogen metabolism .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of secretion of lysosomal enzyme .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during pinosome maturation .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of actin nucleation on plasma membranes .
a specific requirement for uracil to grow or divide .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of resistance to 5 - fluoroorotic acid .
a specific requirement for thymidine to grow or divide .
increase in amount or accumulation of extracellular counting factor component ( s )  .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of secretion of lysosomal enzyme .
increase in amount or accumulation of intracellular counting factor component ( s )  .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of migration of slugs .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected mound color .
increase in amount or accumulation of myosin .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of pinocytosis .
obsolete .
quantitative reduction in aggregates .
quantitative increase in peripheral cells during sexual reproduction .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of macrocysts size .
complete inability to localize a protein to the nucleus .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of accumulation of cgmp .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of cgmp .
increase in amount or accumulation of phosphorylated actin .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during actin phosphorylation .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of f - actin polymerization .
reduction in amount or accumulation of hydrogen ions in the cell .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of filopodium formation .
early onset or faster progression in the expression of prespore genes .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected localization to contractile vacuole .
complete inability for camp - induced ca2 +  influx .
complete inability for chemotaxis .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected localization of a protein .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the regulation of protein modification .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of cell polarity .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of formation of lateral pseudopod .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of resistance to the drug bisphosphonate .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during formation of aggregation during macrocyst formation .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of traction of lateral pseudopods .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of formation of lateral pseudopods .
decreased tolerance of the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events in the presence of dna damaging agents .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during camp signaling .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of phosphorylation of actin .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected process of streaming .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during aggregation .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of resistance to the antibiotic spectinomycin .
complete inability for cells to sort to the prestalk region during the slug stage .
late onset or slower progression in the response to camp .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of cytosolic ca2 +  response .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of uptake of extracellular calcium .
complete inability for a defense response to a  bacterium .
complete inability for streaming .
complete inability for translocation of crac  ( daga )  from the cytoplasm to the plasma membrane in response to a stimulus .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the adaptation of adenylate cyclase .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of cytosine methylation in genomic dna .
quantitative reduction in vacuoles .
complete inability to form autophagic vacuoles .
complete inability for cell - substrate adhesion .
decreased size of pinosomes .
quantitative increase in pinosomes .
early onset or faster progression through culmination .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of sporulation .
late onset or slower progression through development in the presence of tmb - 8 .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during stalk morphogenesis .
complete inability for differentiation of prestalk cells .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during sporulation .
complete inability for differentiation into stalk cells .
complete inability for differentiation of prespore cells .
complete inability to localize to the contractile vacuole .
having a relative thick stalk .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected localization to contractile vacuole membrane .
complete inability for differentiation into stalk cells in vitro .
complete inability to localize to the contractile vacuole membrane .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of chemotaxis in response to camp .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of chemotaxis in response to folate .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of cell sorting to the prestalk region during the slug stage .
increase in relative or proportionate length of the cell cycle .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of prestalk cell differentiation in response to dif - 1 .
complete inability for methylation of histone h3 at lysine 4 .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of endocytosis .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of differentiation into stalk cells .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of post - transciptional gene silencing by rna .
increase in relative or proportionate dimensions of the contractile vacuole .
quantitative increase in contractile vacuoles .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during anaphase .
reduction in amount or accumulation of intracellular glycogen .
increase in amount or accumulation of intracellular glutamate .
increase in amount or accumulation of extracellular ammonia .
reduction in amount or accumulation of intracellular pteridine .
increase in relative or proportionate dimensions of the pseudopod .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of the infection rate by legionella pneumophila .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of the infection rate by mycobacterium avium .
complete inability to transport iron .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of transport of iron .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during differentiation of stalk cells .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected morphology of the culminant .
having a relative thin stalk .
complete inability to perform phagocytosis .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of formation of pseudopods .
complete inability to form a functional contractile vacuole .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected establishment of contractile vacuole localization .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during contractile vacuole attachment to the plasma membrane involved in discharge .
complete inability for contractile vacuole tethering involved in discharge .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during contractile vacuole dissociation from plasma membrane after discharge .
complete inability of contractile vacuole dissociation from plasma membrane after discharge .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during pore formation ,  part of contractile vacuole discharge .
complete inability for pore formation ,  part of contractile vacuole discharge .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during homotypic fusion of endocytic vesicles to form or add to an early endosome .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of homotypic fusion of endocytic vesicles to form or add to an early endosome .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of homotypic fusion of endocytic vesicles to form or add to an early endosome .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during endoplasmic reticulum organization .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during endoplasmic reticulum membrane organization .
quantitative increase in endoplasmic reticulum membrane accumulation .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected storage of lipids .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected formation of lipid droplets .
reduction in amount or accumulation of lipid droplets .
increase in amount or accumulation of lipid droplets .
complete inability to form lipid droplets .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during double - strand break repair of dna via homologous recombination .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of double strand break repair of dna via homologous recombination .
complete inability for double strand break repair of dna via homologous recombination .
increased tolerance of the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events in double - strand break repair of dna via homologous recombination .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during double - strand break repair of dna  via nonhomologous end joining .
complete inability for double strand break repair of dna via nonhomologous end joining .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of double strand break repair of dna via nonhomologous end joining .
increased tolerance of the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events in double - strand break repair of dna nonhomologous end joining .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected sorting when mixed with cheater cells .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of resistance towards cheater cells compared to wild type .
decreased tolerance of the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events towards  cheater cells compared to wild type .
complete resistance to cheating when mixed with cheater cells .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events when determining the mating type of a cell .
complete inability for determining the mating type of a cell .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to decreased oxygen levels .
increased tolerance of the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events in the presence of decreased oxygen levels .
decreased tolerance of the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events in the presence of  decreased oxygen levels .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of the response to gram - positive bacterium as a food source .
complete inability for cells to respond to gram - positive bacteria as a food source .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of the response to gram - negative bacterium as a food source .
complete inability for a response to gram - negative bacteria as a food source .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to bacteria .
complete inability for a response to bacteria as a food source .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of the response to bacteria as a food source .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of typically cortical actin wave formation .
reduction of the time span a spore is viable after sporulation .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected during the initiation of development .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected morphology of organelles .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to stimulus .
obsolete .deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during cellular physiological processes .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during cellular metabolism .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during phagocytosis .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during pinocytosis .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during cellular processes .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during localization .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during formation of macrocysts .
reduction in amount or accumulation of intracellular camp .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during stalk formation .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during cell differentiation .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during slug formation .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during culmination .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the regulation of fruiting body formation .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the regulation of aggregate size .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the regulation of stalk cell differentiation .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during negative regulation of stalk cell differentiation .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during positive regulation of stalk cell differentiation .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during differentiation of prestalk cells .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during differentiation of prestalk 0 cells .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during differentiation of prespore cells .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during ion transport .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during pseudopod formation .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during filopodium formation .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during establishment and / or maintenance of cell polarity .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during protein secretion .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to abiotic stimulus .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to biotic stimulus .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected morphology of the macrocyst .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the cellular response to stress .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to heat .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to oxidative stress .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during signal transduction during development .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during camp signaling during aggregation .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the cellular response to starvation .
obsolete .deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to drug .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected process of vacuole organization and biogenesis .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during  cellular component organization or biogenesis .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during organelle organization and biogenesis .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during cell adhesion .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to dna damaging agents .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during spore germination .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during transport .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during cell projection biogenesis .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during bleb formation .
complete inability to form blebs .
complete inability for chemotaxis during aggregation .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of bleb formation .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of bleb formation .
increase in extend ,  amount ,  or degree of the number of tips in the culminant .
increase in extend ,  amount ,  or degree of the number of tips in the mound .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of f - actin polymerization .
complete inability to polymerize actin into f - actin .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of activation of a protein kinase .
complete inability for chemotaxis to camp during aggregation .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of activation of protein kinases .
complete inability for activation of protein kinases .
complete inability for activation of myosin light chain kinase upon stimulus .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of activation of myosin light chain kinase .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of activation of myosin light chain kinase .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected morphology of the vacuole .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to hyperosmotic stress .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to hypo - osmotic stress .
late onset or slower progression in the response to hyperosmotic stress .
early onset or faster progression in the response to hyperosmotic stress .
early onset or faster progression in the response to hypo - osmotic stress .
late onset or slower progression in the response to hypo - osmotic stress .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the osmosensory signaling pathway .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of differentiation into prestalk a cells .
complete inability for differentiation of prestalk a cells .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during slug migration .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected morphology of the mitochondrion .
quantitative decrease in tubular mitochondria .
complete inability for aggregation .
quantitative decrease in spherical mitochondria .
quantitative increase in spherical mitochondria .
quantitative decrease in rod - shaped mitochondria .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during vegetative growth .
quantitative increase in rod - shaped mitochondria .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of chemotaxis in response to camp .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of chemotaxis in response to folate .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected during the response to differentiation inducing factor .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of the response to dif .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of response to dif .
complete inability for response to dif .
late onset or slower progression in the response to dif .
early onset or faster progression in the response to dif .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected in the production of dif .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of production of dif .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of dif production .
late onset or slower progression in the production of dif .
early onset or faster progression in the production of dif .
complete inability for chemotaxis in response to camp .
complete inability for chemotaxis in response to folate .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of culminants ,  resulting in fewer fruiting bodies .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of culminants ,  resulting in more fruiting bodies .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected activity of a catalyst .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of activity of lysosomal enzyme .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of activity of lysosomal enzyme .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to lithium .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to valproic acid .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during exocytosis .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of exocytosis .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of exocytosis .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected expression of genes .
complete inability for expression of genes .
late onset or slower progression in the expression of genes .
early onset or faster progression in the expression of genes .
gene expression occurring in an abnormal position or in an unusual manner or form .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during signal transduction .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the regulation of protein kinase activity .
complete inability for activation of protein kinase b .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to an external stimulus .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the locomotory response to a chemical concentration gradient .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of phototaxis .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of thermotaxis .
complete inability for phototaxis .
complete inability for thermotaxis .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of phototaxis .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of thermotaxis .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of the response to an external stimulus .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of the response to external stimulus .
complete inability to respond to an external stimulus .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of activation of adenylate cyclase .
complete inability to activate adenylate cyclase upon stimulus .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of activation of  adenylate cyclase .
complete inability for f - actin polymerization in response to chemoattractants .
increased in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of f - actin polymerization in response to chemoattractants .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the regulation of the activity of a gtpase .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of positive regulation of gtpase activity .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of positive regulation of gtpase activity .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the regulation of the activity of a ras gtpase .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the regulation of the activity of a rac gtpase .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the regulation of the activity of a rab gtpase .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the regulation of the activity of a ran gtpase .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the regulation of the activity of a rap gtpase .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of positive regulation of rab gtpase activity .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of positive regulation of rab gtpase activity .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of positive regulation of rac gtpase activity .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of positive regulation of rac gtpase activity .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of positive regulation of ran gtpase activity .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of positive regulation of ran gtpase activity .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of positive regulation of rap gtpase activity .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of positive regulation of rap gtpase activity .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of positive regulation of ras gtpase activity .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of positive regulation of ras gtpase activity .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during macromolecule biosynthesis .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during cellulose biosynthesis .
complete inability for cellulose biosynthesis .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of cellulose biosynthesis .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of cellulose biosynthesis .
complete inability for the production of superoxide .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of production of superoxide .
increase in amount or accumulation of superoxide .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during differentiation of prestalk b cells .
complete inability for differentiation of prestalk b cells .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of differentiation into prestalk b cells .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of differentiation into prestalk b cells .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the locomotory response to camp .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the locomotory response to folate  ( folic acid )  .
late onset or slower progression through cytokinesis .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during contractile ring contraction during cytokinesis .
deviation from normal ,  usual ,  or expected molecular function .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of ras guanyl - nucleotide exchange factor activity .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during formation of aspidocytes .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of differentiation into aspidocytes .
decrease in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of differentiation into aspidocytes .
complete inability for differentiation of aspidocytes .
decrease in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of formation of pseudopods .
reduction in relative or proportionate dimensions of the pseudopod .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of f - actin polymerization in the area closest to the direction of movement in a motile cell .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of f - actin polymerization in the area closest to the direction of movement in a motile cell .
late onset or slower progression during pseudopod formation .
decrease in relative or proportionate dimensions of the spore .
increase in relative or proportionate dimensions of the spore .
decrease in amount or accumulation of intracellular myo - inositol .
increase in amount or accumulation of intracellular myo - inositol .
increase in amount or accumulation of intracellular 2 , 3 - bisphosphoglycerate .
reduction in amount or accumulation of intracellular 2 , 3 - bisphosphoglycerate .
complete inability for macroautophagy .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of macroautophagy .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of macroautophagy .
quantitative increase in autophagosomes .
quantitative reduction in autophagosomes .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during infection of dictyostelium by a microorganism .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of the infection rate by a microorganism .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of the infection rate by a microorganism .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of the infection rate by mycobacterium avium .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of the infection rate by cryptococcus neoformans .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of the infection rate by cryptococcus neoformans .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of decreased actin - dependent atpase activity .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of increased actin - dependent atpase activity .
increased in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of f - actin filament sliding .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to nutrients .
increase in relative or proportionate dimensions of the endosome .
decrease in relative or proportionate dimensions of the endosome .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected morphology of the lysosome .
decrease in relative or proportionate dimensions of the lysosome .
increase in relative or proportionate dimensions of the lysosome .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during translation .
complete inability for translation .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of translation .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of translation .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of calcium - dependentcell - cell adhesion .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of calcium - independentcell - cell adhesion .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of calcium - dependent cell - cell adhesion .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of calcium - independent cell - cell adhesion .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during localization within the cell .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected localization of an organelle within the cell .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected localization of the golgi apparatus .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected localization of the nucleus .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected localization of the centrosome .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during phagolysosome formation .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of phagolysosome formation .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the locomotory response guided by increasing chemical concentration gradient .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the locomotory response towards a decreasing chemical concentration .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected during the cellular response to extracellular stimulus .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to prestarvation factor  ( psf )  found in conditioned media  ( cm )  .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the detection of prestarvation factor  ( psf )  found in conditioned media  ( cm )  .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of 3' , 5' - cyclic - amp phosphodiesterase activity .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of 3' , 5' - cyclic - gmp phosphodiesterase activity .
complete inability for protein secretion .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of protein secretion .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of protein secretion .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during mitochondrion organization .
decrease in amount or accumulation of intracellular atp .
increase in amount or accumulation of intracellular atp .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during lysosome organization and biogenesis .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during post - lysosome organization and biogenesis .
complete inability for cell motility .
reduction in the ability for localization of crac  ( daga )  from the cytoplasm to the plasma membrane in response to a stimulus .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected level of proteins .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of protein expression .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of protein expression .
complete elimination of protein expression .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during camp wave formation .
complete inability for camp wave formation .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during protein amino acid methylation .
complete inability for protein methylation .
complete inability for c - terminal protein amino acid methylation .
complete inability to establish cell polarity .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of activation of protein kinase b .
complete inability for activation of map kinase upon stimulus .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of activation of a map kinase .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of activation of a map kinase .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected binding .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of catalysis by an enzyme .
a reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of catalysis by an enzyme .
a reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of binding .
increased in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of binding to camp .
a reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of binding to camp .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the adaptation of a signaling pathway .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during autophagic cell death .
complete inability for autophagic cell death .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of autophagic cell death .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of autophagic cell death .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during regular cell death .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during non - apoptotic programmed cell death .
complete inability non - apoptotic programmed cell death .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of non - apoptotic programmed cell death .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of non - apoptotic programmed cell death .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of pseudopod retraction .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of uropod retraction .
complete inability for phagocytosis .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during engulfment of attached ,  recognized ,  external material .
complete inability of engulfment of attached ,  recognized ,  external material .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of engulfment of attached ,  recognized ,  external material .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during vacuolation .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of autophagic vacuole formation .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of 3' , 5' - cyclic - amp phosphodiesterase activity .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of 3' , 5' - cyclic - gmp phosphodiesterase activity .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of adenylate cyclase activity .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of  protein kinase a activity .
redution in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of ras guanyl - nucleotide exchange factor activity .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of adenylate cyclase activity .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of glycogen synthase kinase 3 activity .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of guanylyl cyclase activity .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of guanylyl cyclase activity .
complete absence of catalytic activity .
complete absence of 3' , 5' - cyclic - amp phosphodiesterase activity .
complete absence of 3' , 5' - cyclic - gmp phosphodiesterase activity .
complete absence of actin - dependent atpase activity .
complete absence of adenylate cyclase activity .
complete absence of glycogen synthase kinase 3 activity .
complete absence of guanylyl cyclase activity .
complete absence of gtp - gamma - s - stimulated guanylyl cyclase activity .
complete absence of lysosomal enzyme activity .
complete absence of protein kinase a activity .
complete absence of ras guanyl - nucleotide exchange factor activity .
complete absence of protein kinase b activity .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of protein kinase b activity .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of protein kinase b activity .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the regulation of a catalytic activity .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the regulation of the activity of adenylate cyclase .
complete inability to produce a cgmp pulse upon camp stimulation .
complete inability to produce a camp pulse upon camp stimulation .
complete inability to activate rab gtpase activity .
complete inability to activate rac gtpase activity .
complete inability to activate ran gtpase activity .
complete inability to activate rap gtpase activity .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the activation of the activity of a gtpase .
complete inability to activate ras gtpase activity .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected activity of peptidyl - proline 4 - dioxygenase .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of peptidyl - proline 4 - dioxygenase activity .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of peptidyl - proline 4 - dioxygenase activity .
complete absence of peptidyl - proline 4 - dioxygenase activity .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected during protein modification .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected during peptidyl - proline modification .
increase in level of modification of proline residues on a peptide .
reduction in level of modification of proline residues on a peptide .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected during peptidyl - proline hydroxylation .
complete inability for peptidyl - proline modification .
increase in level of hydroxylation of proline residues on a peptide .
reduction in level of hydroxylation of proline residues on a peptide .
complete inability for peptidyl - proline  hydroxylation .
increase in level of modification of a protein .
reduction in level of modification of a protein .
complete inability for protein modification .
reduction in amount or accumulation of extracellular camp .
increase in amount or accumulation of extracellular camp .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected activity catalase .
complete absence of catalase activity .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of catalase activity .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of catalase activity .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during  localization of a protein from the cytoplasm to the plasma membrane .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during localization of a protein to the nucleus .
increase in amount or accumulation of a protein at a certain location .
reduction in amount or accumulation of a protein at a certain location .
complete inability for secretion of lysosomal enzyme .
reduction in amount or accumulation of a protein in the nucleus .
increase in amount or accumulation of a protein in the nucleus .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during phosphorylation of a protein .
increase in amount or accumulation of phosphorylation of a protein .
reduction in amount or accumulation of phosphorylation of a protein .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during tyrosine phosphorylation of a protein .
increase in amount or accumulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of a protein .
reduction in amount or accumulation of threonine phosphorylation of a protein .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during serine phosphorylation of a protein .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during threonine phosphorylation of a protein .
reduction in amount or accumulation of serine phosphorylation of a protein .
increase in amount or accumulation of serine phosphorylation of a protein .
reduction in amount or accumulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of a protein .
increase in amount or accumulation of threonine phosphorylation of a protein .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected during the formation of the basal disc .
reduction in relative or proportionate dimensions of the basal disc .
complete absence of the basal disc .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected during the formation of the outer basal disc .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected during the formation of the inner basal disc .
complete absence of the outer basal disc .
complete absence of the inner basal disc .
reduction in relative or proportionate dimensions of the inner basal disc .
reduction in relative or proportionate dimensions of the outer basal disc .
increase in relative or proportionate dimensions of the inner basal disc .
increase in relative or proportionate dimensions of the outer basal disc .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected morphology of the lower cup .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected morphology of the upper cup .
complete inability to form a lower cup .
complete inability to form an upper cup .
increase in relative or proportionate dimensions of the lower cup .
reduction in relative or proportionate dimensions of the lower cup .
increase in relative or proportionate dimensions of the upper cup .
reduction in relative or proportionate dimensions of the upper cup .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of chemotaxis in response to arachidonic acid .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of chemotaxis in response to arachidonic acid .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during cellular homeostasis .
increase in amount or accumulation of intracellular glycogen .
increase in amount or accumulation of hydrogen ions in the cell .
reduction in amount or accumulation of extracellular ammonia .
reduction in amount or accumulation of intracellular ammonia .
increase in amount or accumulation of intracellular ammonia .
reduction in extent ,  amount or accumulation of extracellular glucose .
increase in amount or accumulation of extracellular glucose .
reduction in extent ,  amount or accumulation of extracellular pteridine .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of cytochrome c oxidase activity .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of cytochrome c oxidase activity .
complete absence of cytochrome c oxidase activity .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during crac  ( daga )  protein localization from the cytoplasm to the plasma membrane in response to a stimulus .
increase in the ability for localization of crac  ( daga )  from the cytoplasm to the plasma membrane in response to a stimulus .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during localization of a protein to the cytoplasm .
increase in amount or accumulation of a protein in the cytoplasm .
reduction in amount or accumulation of a protein in the cytoplasm .
complete inability to localize a protein to the cytoplasm .
complete inability to localize a protein to a cellular compartment or structure .
complete inability to localize a protein to the plasma membrane .
reduction in the ability for localization of a protein from the cytoplasm to the plasma .
increase in the ability for localization of a protein from the cytoplasm to the plasma membrane .
extended duration for camp wave formation .
shortened duration for camp wave formation .
complete inability to localize a protein to the to microtubules .
complete inability to localize a protein to the microtubule organizing center .
reduction in amount or accumulation of a protein to the microtubule organizing center .
reduction in amount or accumulation of a protein at the microtubules .
increase in amount or accumulation of a protein at the microtubules .
increase in amount or accumulation of a protein to the microtubule organizing center .
complete inability to localize a protein to coated pits .
reduction in amount or accumulation of a protein to coated pits .
increase in amount or accumulation of a protein to coated pits .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during localization of a protein to coated pits .
complete absence of phosphoinositide binding .
complete absence of phosphatidylinositol - 4 , 5 - bisphosphate binding .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to conditioned medium factor  ( cmf )  found in conditioned media  ( cm )  .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during localization of a protein to pseudopodia .
reduction in amount or accumulation of a protein in pseudopodia .
increase in amount or accumulation of a protein in pseudopodia .
increase in relative or proportionate dimensions of the fruiting body .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during cell separation during cytokinesis .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected cell cycle event .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected during spindle organization .
early onset or faster progression through spindle elongation .
reduction in spindle stabilization .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during sister chromosome segragation ,  resulting in an abnormal number of chromosomes .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected morphology of the nuclear envelope .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected morphology of the perinuclear space .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during centrosome organization .
quantitative increase in centrosomes .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during localization of a protein to the nuclear envelope .
complete inability to localize a protein to the nuclear envelope .
reduction in amount or accumulation of a protein at the nuclear envelope .
increase in amount or accumulation of a protein in the nuclear envelope .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during tip formation .
late onset or slower progression through sporulation .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the gamma - aminobutyric acid signaling pathway .
complete absence of histone deacetylase activity .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of histone deacetylase activity .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of histone deacetylase activity .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during necrotic cell death .
complete inability for necrotic cell death .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of necrotic cell death .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of necrotic cell death .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events when committing cells for a specific fate in their normal environment .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree when committing cells for a specific fate in their normal environment .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events when determining cells for a specific fate regardless of its environment .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree when determining cells for a specific fate regardless of its environment .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during f - actin polymerization .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during f - actin depolymerization .
complete inability to depolymerize actin into f - actin .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of f - actin depolymerization .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of f - actin depolymerization .
complete inability for protein phosphorylation .
complete inability for actin phosphorylation .
complete inability for protein serine phosphorylation .
complete inability for protein threonine phosphorylation .
complete inability for protein tyrosine phosphorylation .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected regulation of the intracellular ph level .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to cisplatin .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during dna repair .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during double - strand break repair via homologous recombination .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the locomotory response to camp in response to dif - 1 .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the locomotory response to camp in response to dif - 2 .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the regulation of the locomotory response .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the regulation of the locomotory response to camp in response to dif - 1 .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the regulation of the locomotory response to camp in response to dif - 2 .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during microtubule nucleation .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of microtubule nucleation .
increase in amount or rate of microtubule nucleation .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during centromere complex assembly .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of response to lithium .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of response to lithium .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during inositol phosphate metabolism .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during glucose catabolism .
increase in amount or accumulation of intracellular 2 , 3 - bisphosphoglycerate .
complete inability for methylation of histone h3 at lysine 79 .
complete inability for methylation of a lysine in histone h3 .
complete inability for methylation of histone h3 at lysine 9 .
complete inability of cell - cell adhesion .
complete inability of calcium - dependent cell - cell adhesion .
complete inability of calcium - independent cell - cell adhesion .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during organization of the actin cytoskeleton .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during organization of the cortical actin cytoskeleton .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events in the maintenance of the cortical actin cytoskeleton .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected during spindle stabilization .
increase in spindle stabilization .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected during spindle elongation .
late onset or slower progression of the spindle elongation .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during phagosome maturation .
complete inability for phagosome acidification .
early onset or faster progression of phagosome acidification .
late onset or slower progression of phagosome acidification .
late onset or slower progression of phagosome re - neutralization .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during mitochondrion distribution .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during intracellular distribution of mitochondria .
reduction in relative or proportional dimensions of the phagolysosome .
increase in relative or proportional dimensions of the phagolysosome .
complete inability to localize a protein to the cell surface .
reduction in amount or accumulation of a protein on the cell surface .
increase in amount or accumulation of a protein to the cell surface .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected stabilization of proteins .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of protein stabilization .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of protein stabilization .
complete elimination of protein stabilization .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the response to cation stress .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected response triggered in response to the presence of a foreign body or the prevention / recovery from an infection .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected response to the presence of a microorganism that acts to protect the cell .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during localization of a protein to the cell cortex .
complete inability to localize a protein to the cell cortex .
reduction in amount or accumulation of a protein to the cell cortex .
increase in amount or accumulation of a protein to the cell cortex .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during localization of a protein to the cell surface .
complete inability to localize a protein pseudopodia .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during localization of a protein to the microtubule organizing center .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during localization of a protein to the microtubules .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during mitochondrial fusion .
quantitative reduction of mitochondrial fusion .
quantitative increase in mitochondrial fusion .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during mitochondrial fission .
quantitative reduction of mitochondrial fission .
quantitative increase in mitochondrial fission .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the cellular response to fluid shear stress .
decreased tolerance of  the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the cellular response to fluid shear stress .
increased tolerance of  the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the cellular response to fluid shear stress .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected during chromatin assembly .
increase in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of differentiation into prestalk u cells .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of differentiation into prestalk u cells .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during differentiation of prestalk u cells .
complete inability for differentiation of prestalk u cells .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the regulation of vegetative growth .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the negative regulation of vegetative growth .
complete inability to negatively regulate vegetative growth .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during the positive regulation of vegetative growth .
complete inability to positively regulate vegetative growth .
quantitative increase in lysosomal ph .
reduction in extent ,  amount ,  or degree of phagosomal proteolysis .
deviation from the normal ,  usual ,  or expected events during nucleus organization .
