an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
b is an independent continuant = def .
a continuant  that is either dependent on one or other independent continuant  bearers or inheres in or is borne by other entities .
p is a process = def .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
a realizable entity  the manifestation of which brings about some result or end that is not essential to a continuant  in virtue of the kind of thing that it is but that can be served or participated in by that kind of continuant  in some kinds of natural ,  social or institutional contexts .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a clade and ,  at some point in its life - cycle ,  consists of more than one cell .
material anatomical entity that is a member of an individual species or is a viral or viroid particle .
an individual member of a clade .
heterotroph that acquires nutrition from a symbiont
a symbiotroph that reduces the fitness ,  survival ,  or growth of its symbiont ,  often called a host
a self - contained constructed feature used by one or more households as a home ,  such as a house ,  apartment ,  mobile home ,  houseboat or other 'substantial' structure .
a shrubland biome which is densely vegetated by dwarf or short mangroves  ( and associates )  that are generally less than 6 meters in height ,  is tidally influenced ,   is located in tropical or subtropical areas .
the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of animals  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli ,  via a mechanism that involves nervous system activity .
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
behavior directed towards society ,  or taking place between members of the same species .
any process in which an organism has an effect on an organism of a different species .
any process in which an organism has an effect on an organism of the same species .
a biological process which involves another organism of the same or different species .
a data item is an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
the curation status of the term .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
a measurement datum is an information content entity that is a recording of the output of a measurement such as produced by a device .
the reason for which a term has been deprecated .
a denotator type indicates how a term should be interpreted from an ontological perspective .
an ontology module that comprises only of asserted axioms local to the ontology ,  excludes import directives ,  and excludes axioms or declarations from external ontologies .
an ontology module that is intended to be directly edited ,  typically managed in source control ,  and typically not intended for direct consumption by end - users .
an ontology module that is intended to be the primary release product and the one consumed by the majority of tools .
an ontology module that consists entirely of axioms that connect or bridge two distinct ontology modules .
a subset ontology module that is intended to be imported from another ontology .
an ontology module that is extracted from a main ontology module and includes only a subset of entities or axioms .
a subset ontology that is intended as a whitelist for curators using the ontology .
an ontology module that is intended for usage in analysis or discovery applications .
a subset ontology that is largely comprised of a single layer or strata in an ontology class hierarchy .
a subset of an ontology that is intended to be excluded for some purpose .
an imported ontology module that is derived from an external ontology .
a subset ontology that is crafted to either include or exclude a taxonomic grouping of species .
an ontology module that contains axioms generated by a reasoner .
an ontology module that is automatically generated ,  for example via a sparql query or via template and a csv .
an ontology module that is automatically generated from a template specification and fillers for slots in that template .
a subset ontology that is designed for basic applications to continue to make certain simplifying assumptions ;  many of these simplifying assumptions were based on the initial version of the gene ontology ,  and have become enshrined in many popular and useful tools such as term enrichment tools . \ n \ nexamples of such assumptions include: traversing the ontology graph ignoring relationship types using a naive algorithm will not lead to cycles  ( i .e .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
the number of entities of this type that are part of the whole organism .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence per unit time .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting no deviation from normal or average .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's existence .
an amount which is relatively high .
a rate which is relatively low .
a rate which is relatively high .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a physical quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of some influence is exerted by the bearer's mass per unit size .
a physical quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting density .
a quality which inheres in an process .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a biological sex quality inhering in a population of multiple sexes .
a quality inhering in a population by virtue of the proportion of its members that are ill at a given time .
the number of parts of a particular type that the bearer entity has .
a density which is higher relative to the normal or average .
a density which is lower relative to the normal or average .
an amount which is relatively low .
a quality that inheres in an entire population or part of a population .
a quality that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a material entity that consists of two or more organisms ,  viruses ,  or viroids .
a collection of organisms ,  all of the same species ,  that live in the same place .
a multi - species collection of organisms of at least two different species ,  living in a particular area .
a quality that inheres in a population of organisms .
a quality that inheres in a community .
a process that has as primary participant a population .
the rate of birth of a population of organisms .
the rate of death of a population of organsisms .
the rate of growth of a population .
the maximum number of individuals that can be supported in  a population that is growing according to logistic growth .
the number of different species represented in an ecological community .
a process that leads to a change in the number of individuals  ( positive or negative )  in a population .
a population process that leads to an increase in the numbers of individuals in a population following a logistic  ( s - shaped )  curve .
a population growth process that leads to an exponential increase in the number of individuals in a population .
a collection of organisms that has as parts every organism of a species and no organisms of any other species .
a material entity that has as parts two or more organisms ,  viruses ,  or viroids of the same species and no members of any other species .
the number of different species that are represented in a given community ,  weighted by their abundance .
a domestic group ,  or a number of domestic groups linked through descent  ( demonstrated or stipulated )  from a common ancestor ,  marriage ,  or adoption .
a population process that ultimately leads to the death of all individuals in a population .
a process that ultimately leads to the death of all individuals in a population .
a quality of an ecological community that reflects how close in abundance all species in a community are .
an organismal entity that consists of one or more people who live in the same dwelling and also share at meals or living accommodation ,  and may consist of a single family or some other grouping of people .
a collection of organisms of the same species that has as members only humans .
a collection of organisms of the same species whose members are all either genealogically related to each other or have mated with each other .
a collection of organisms that consists of two or more organisms from at least two species .
a material entity that is one or more organisms ,  viruses or viroids .
a material entity that is one or more organisms ,  viruses or viroids .
a collection of organisms of the same species whose members are all either genealogically related to each other or have mated with each other .
a type of social behavior in which a collection of humans intentionally gathers together on a temporary basis to engage socially .
a human social event in which humans living in the same area or neighborhood gather to carry out activiites relevent to the people living in the area .
a human social gathering in which the intention is to have a good time .
a human social gathering at which each participant is expected to bring food to share .
a human social gathering at which two people are married .
a human social gathering at which the key participant is an expectant parent and other guests bring presents for the soon to be born baby .
an ecological community which is composed primarily of dwarf or short mangroves ,  often populations of laguncularia racemosa ,  avicennia germinans ,  sarcocornia pacifica ,  or batis maritima .
a physical object quality that is inhered in a material entity that is too small to be viewed by the unaided eye .
a collection of organisms consisting of two or more microbes .
a multi - species collection of organisms that consists of two or more microbes from at least two species .
a single - species collection of organisms that consists of two or more microbes of the same species and no members of any other species .
a population of organisms consisting of only microbes of the same species ,  that live in the same place .
an ecological community which is composed primarily of dwarf or short mangroves ,  often populations of laguncularia racemosa ,  avicennia germinans ,  sarcocornia pacifica ,  or batis maritima .
a physical object quality that is inhered in a material entity that is too small to be viewed by the unaided eye .
a collection of organisms consisting of two or more microbes .
a multi - species collection of organisms that consists of two or more microbes from at least two species .
a single - species collection of organisms that consists of two or more microbes of the same species and no members of any other species .
a population of organisms consisting of only microbes of the same species ,  that live in the same place .
a count data item of the number of steps in the line of descent from a common ancestor for a multicellular organism .
an increased mass density of a population of organisms such that the density of organisms in an area is increased beyond sustainable levels .
a quality of a human population such that the density humans in an area is increased beyond sustainable levels .
a collection of organisms that has as members every organism of a taxon and no organisms of any other equal or higher ranked taxon .
an organism or virus or viroid that is a microbe and a parasite .
a microbial population of parasites that is defined by shared features such as genetic markers reflecting a common origin and distinguishing the population from other related parasite populations .
a community species diversity metric that accounts for both the abundance and evenness of the species present quantified via the following formula: the negative sum of ,  the product of the proportion of species i relative to the total number of species  ( pi )  multiplied by the natural logarithm of this proportion  ( ln pi )  .
a community species diversity metric that is quantified via the following formula: the reciprocal of the sum of squared proportion of species i relative to the total number of species  ( pi )  .
a community species diversity metric that is quantified via the following formula: the sum of squared proportion of species i relative to the total number of species  ( pi )  .
a collection of organisms that consists of exactly two organism ,  viruses ,  or viroids that are interacting with each other .
a pair of interacting  organisms that consists of exactly two organism ,  viruses ,  or viroids of the same species that are interacting with each other .
a population which is participating in a migration process .
a population process during which a population moves from one area to another .
a population migration during which a population of humans moves from one area to another with the intention of settling permanently in the new location .
a migratory population of humans ,  travelling with the intention of settling in a new area .
an ecological community which is composed of co - existing populations of microbial organisms that interact ,  directly or indirectly ,  such that they impact one another's ecological fitness .
q1 reciprocal_of q2 if and only if : q1 and q2 are relational qualities and a phenotype e q1 e2 mutually implies a phenotype e2 q2 e .
any process evolved to enable an interaction with an organism of a different species .
any process in which an organism has an effect on an organism of the same species .
a household in which the majority of the income of its members is derived from agricultural activities .
an organism that is part of a polyphyletic group of mostly photosynthetic eukaryotes  encompassing green plants excluding embriophyta  ( land plants )  .
a community species diversity that is the mean species diversity at a site or within a specific habitat .
a community species diversity that is the ratio between regional and local species diversity .
a community species diversity that is the total species diversity in a landscape .
the density of seedlings in an ecological community or population ,  often measured as the number of seedlings per area .
the density of plants in a population or organisms  ( a single species )  ,  often measured as the number of plants per area .
the density of plants in an ecological community  ( multiple species )  ,  often measured as the number of plants per area .
the density of seedlings in a population or organisms  ( a single species )  ,  often measured as the number of seedlings per area .
the density of seedlings in an ecological community  ( multiple species )  ,  often measured as the number of plants per area .
a count is a data item denoted by an integer and represented the number of instances or occurences of an entity
