cells with transitional morphology at boundary zone between embryonic and extraembryonic endoderm .
the nephric duct  ( nd )   ( syn: mesonephric duct ,  wolffian duct )   ( ts14 - ts24 )  .
the cloacal membrane  ( clmem )   ( ts16 - ts20 )  is the part of the cloaca where the two different epithelia of the surface ectoderm  ( of the embryo )  and cloacal epithelium are in direct contact with each other .
the urorectal septum  ( urs )   ( ts19 - ts27 )  is the mesenchyme located between the hindgut  ( dorsal )  and urogenital sinus  ( ventral )   ( ts19 - 21 )  and later the colon / rectum and bladder / urethra .
the urogenital membrane  ( ts19 - ts26 )  is comprised of the urethral plate epithelium  ( cloacal endoderm - derived )  and the surface ectoderm / skin  ( ectoderm - derived )  ,  where these two different epithelia are in direct contact .
the urogenital sinus  ( ugs )   ( ts18 - ts28 )  is the epithelial lined cavity seen extending from the anterior cloaca .
the genital tubercle  ( gt )  is a medial swelling seen at the level of the hind limb buds ,  adjacent to the cloaca and posterior / caudal to the urogenital sinus  ( ugs )  .
the phallic urethra of male  ( phur )   ( syn: external urethra of male )   ( ts21 - ts24 )  is part of the genital tubercle of male and part of the urethra of male .
the genital tubercle of male  ( gt )   ( syn: penis anlage )  is a medial swelling seen at the level of the hind limb buds ,  adjacent to the cloaca and posterior / caudal to the urogenital sinus  ( ugs )  .
the bladder  ( bl )   ( ts22 - ts28 )  is comprised of urothelium of bladder  ( subdivided into layers and cell types )  ,  lamina propria of bladder  ( subdivided into layers )  ,  detrusor muscle of bladder and surrounded by an outer layer of bladder  ( subdivided into serosa of bladder or adventitia of bladder )  .
the labial fold  ( ts24 - ts27 )  .
the genital tubercle of female  ( gt )   ( syn: clitoris anlage )  is a medial swelling seen at the level of the hind limb buds ,  adjacent to the cloaca and posterior / caudal to the urogenital sinus  ( ugs )  .
the ductus deferens  ( dd )   ( syn: vas deferens )   ( ts24 - ts28 )  derives from nephric duct of male  ( ts23 )  .
the penis  ( ts25 - ts28 )  is comprised of glans penis  ( distally )  ,  penile body  ( proximally )  and surrounded by the prepuce .
the urethra of male  ( ts23 - ts28 )  .
the urethral fold of male  ( ts20 - ts27 )  is the mesenchyme adjacent to the epithelium of phallic urethra that is thought to fuse during internalization of the urethra in males ,  however whether or not this mesenchyme fuses is unclear .
the vagina  ( ts24 - ts28 )  .
the upper vagina  ( uv )   ( syn: mullerian vagina ,  upper part of vagina )   ( ts24 - ts27 )  is comprised of epithelium ,  lamina propria ,  muscle and adventitia .
the glans penis  ( glp )   ( syn: penile glans )   ( ts25 - ts28 )  is the distal part of the penis .
the prepuce of male  ( pce )   ( ts24 - ts28 )  is the external part of the penis that completely surrounds the glans penis .
the pelvic urethra of male  ( plur )   ( ts23 - ts28 )  is part of urethra of male .
the sinovaginal bulb  ( svb )   ( syn: sinus vagina ,  vaginal bulb ,  lower vagina )   ( ts24 - ts27 )  is comprised of epithelium ,  lamina propria ,  muscle ,  adventita and developing vasculature .
the ejaculatory duct  ( ed )   ( ts24 - ts28 )  is comprised of epithelium ,  lamina propria and muscle of ejaculatory duct and surrounded by adventitia .
the glans of female genital tubercle  ( ts23 - ts24 )  is the distal part of the genital tubercle of female ,  comprised of skin and mesenchyme of glans of female genital tubercle .
the seminal vesicle  ( sv )   ( syn: vesicular gland ,  vesicular seminalis )   ( ts24 - ts28 )  .
the bulbourethral gland of male  ( bugl )   ( syn: cowper's gland )   ( ts23 - ts28 )  .
the prostate gland  ( pr )   ( ts24 - ts28 )  is part of the urethra of male and part of the male accessory gland .
the penile body  ( syn: body of penis ,  crus penis )   ( ts25 - ts28 )  is the proximal part of penis .
the scrotum  ( ts28 - 28 )  is located at the base of the penis and comprised of skin  ( epidermal layer of scrotum  ( comprised of basal layer and stratified layer )  ,  dermal layer of scrotum  ( comprised of hair follicle and sweat gland )  ,  septum of scrotum  ( syn: scrotal seam )  )  ,  vasculature and nerve of scrotum .
the cloaca  ( cl )   ( ts17 - ts20 )  is an epithelial lined cavity derived from endoderm ,  seen early in embryonic development and located at the posterior end of the embryo .
the cloacal epithelium  ( cle )   ( syn: cloacal endoderm )   ( ts17 - ts20 )  is derived from endoderm and lines the cloacal cavity .
the cloaca associated mesenchyme  ( clam )   ( ts17 - ts20 )  is the mesenchyme surrounding the cloacal epithelium of the cloaca ,  an epithelial lined cavity derived from endoderm ,  seen early in embryonic development located at the posterior end of the embryo .
the paramesonephric duct  ( pnd )   ( syn: mullerian duct )   ( ts19 )  .
the urothelium of bladder  ( ubl )   ( syn: epithelium of bladder )   ( ts22 - ts28 )  is the innermost layer of the bladder lining the bladder lumen ,  comprised of a stratified epithelium of three epithelial cell layers containing different epithelial cell types .
the detrusor muscle of bladder  ( dmbl )   ( syn: smooth muscle layer of bladder )   ( ts22 - ts28 )  is a thick layer comprised of irregularly oriented smooth muscle fibre bundles adjacent to the outer layer of bladder  ( serosa / adventitia of bladder )  .
the serosa of bladder  ( ts22 - ts28 )  .
the serosa of bladder fundus  ( ts22 - ts28 )  .
the vasculature of bladder  ( syn: blood vessel of bladder )   ( ts22 - ts28 )  .
the epithelium of pelvic urethra of male  ( ts23 - ts28 )  is the innermost layer of the pelvic urethra ,  a stratified epithelium lining the lumen .
the mesenchymal layer of pelvic urethra of male  ( mlplur )   ( ts23 - ts28 )  is located between the epithelium and muscle layers .
the muscle layer of pelvic urethra of male  ( muplur )   ( syn: muscularis propria of pelvic urethra of male )   ( ts23 - ts28 )  is the thicker layer of smooth muscle towards the outside of the pelvic urethra .
the urethra of female  ( ts23 - ts28 )  .
the pelvic urethra of female  ( plur )   ( syn: cranial urethra ,  internal urethra )   ( ts23 - ts28 )  is part of urethra of female .
the epithelium of pelvic urethra of female  ( ts23 - ts28 )  is the innermost layer of the pelvic urethra ,  a stratified epithelium lining the lumen .
the mesenchymal layer of pelvic urethra of female  ( mlplur )   ( ts23 - ts28 )  is located between the epithelium and muscle layers .
the muscle layer of pelvic urethra of female  ( muplur )   ( syn: muscularis propria of pelvic urethra of female )   ( ts23 - ts28 )  is the thicker layer of smooth muscle towards the outside of the pelvic urethra .
the adventitia of bladder  ( ts22 - ts28 )  .
the adventitia of bladder trigone  ( ts22 - ts28 )  .
the epithelium of upper vagina  ( syn: epithelial layer of upper part of vagina )   ( ts24 - ts27 )  .
the muscle of upper vagina  ( syn: muscular layer of upper part of vagina )   ( ts24 - ts27 )  is the smooth muscle layer of the upper vagina .
the epithelium of sinovaginal bulb:  ( syn: epithelium of lower vagina ,  vaginal bulb epithelium ,  vaginal plate )   ( ts24 - ts27 )  .
the muscle of sinovaginal bulb  ( syn: muscular layer of lower vagina )   ( ts24 - ts27 )  is marked by crabp1 e17  ( abler et al ,  2011 )  and alpha smooth muscle actin and gamma smooth muscle actin .
the genital tubercle mesenchyme of male  ( gtm )   ( ts20 - 20 )  is the mesenchyme of the genital tubercle surrounding the epithelium of phallic urethra of male .
the preputial swelling of male  ( pps )   ( syn: preputial fold of male ,  early prepuce of male )   ( ts21 - ts23 )  .
the glans of male genital tubercle  ( ts23 - ts24 )  is the distal part of the genital tubercle of male ,  comprised of skin and mesenchyme of glans of male genital tubercle .
the scrotal fold  ( scr fold )   ( ts24 - ts27 )  .
the genital tubercle mesenchyme of female  ( gtm )   ( ts20 - 20 )  is the mesenchyme of the genital tubercle surrounding the epithelium of phallic urethra of female .
the bulbar part of urethra of male  ( ts28 )  is the portion of male urethra that drains the bulbourethral glands and is positioned between the pelvic and penile portions of urethra .
the male urethral gland  ( ur gland )   ( ts27 - ts28 )  .
the female urethral gland  ( ur gland )   ( syn: skene's gland )   ( ts27 - ts28 )  .
the os penis  ( ts28 - 28 )  .
the anterior prostate gland  ( aprgl )   ( syn: coagulating gland )   ( ts28 )  .
the dorsal prostate gland  ( dprgl )   ( ts28 )  .
the lateral prostate gland  ( lprgl )   ( ts28 - 28 )  .
the ventral prostate gland  ( vprgl )   ( ts28 - 28 )  .
the corpus cavernosum of penile body  ( syn: corpora cavernosa ,  crus ,  crura )   ( ts28 )  .
the corpus cavernosum of glans penis  ( syn: corpora cavernosa plural )   ( ts25 - ts28 )  .
the adventitia of sinovaginal bulb  ( syn: adventitia of lower vagina )   ( ts24 - ts27 )  is the outer layer of the sinovaginal bulb .
the adventitia of upper vagina  ( syn: adventitia of upper part of vagina )   ( ts24 - ts27 )  is the outer layer of the upper vagina .
the dorsal genital swelling  ( dgs )   ( syn: anterior genital swelling ,  dorsal genital tubercle )   ( ts18 - ts19 )  is seen as a swelling on the surface of the embryo at the level of the hind limb buds ,  adjacent to the urogenital sinus and anterior / cranial to the ventrolateral genital swellings and cloaca .
the ventrolateral genital swelling  ( vlgs )   ( syn: lateral plate mesoderm buds ,  ventrolateral genital tubercle )   ( ts18 - ts19 )  is seen as paired lateral swellings on the surface of the embryo at the level of the hind limb buds ,  adjacent to the cloaca .
the lamina propria of bladder  ( lpbl )   ( ts22 - ts28 )  is the thick mesenchymal cell layer of the bladder located between the urothelium and the detrusor muscle of bladder .
the adventitia of ventral bladder neck  ( ts22 - ts28 )  .
the labial swelling  ( lsw )   ( ts22 - ts23 )  .
the epithelium of phallic urethra of male  ( ephur )   ( ts20 - ts24 )  is derived from cloacal endoderm and derived from the urethral plate epithelium  ( ts19 )  .
the epithelium of phallic urethra of female  ( ephur )   ( ts20 - ts24 )  is derived from cloacal endoderm and derived from the urethral plate epithelium  ( ts19 )  .
the preputial swelling of female  ( pps )   ( syn: preputial fold of female ,  early prepuce of female )   ( ts21 - ts23 )  .
the scrotal swelling  ( ssw )   ( ts22 - ts23 )  .
the glans penis skin  ( syn: surface epithelium of glans penis )   ( ts25 - ts28 )  .
the prepuce of female  ( pce )   ( ts24 - ts28 )  surrounds the glans clitoris and body of clitoris ,  but does not contain a preputial space .
the clitoris  ( ts25 - ts28 )  is comprised of glans clitoris  ( distally )  ,  body of clitoris  ( proximally )  and surrounded by the prepuce of female .
the body of clitoris  ( syn: clitoral body )   ( ts28 )  is the proximal part of the clitoris ,  contains epithelium ,  lamina propria ,  os clitoridis and part of the clitoral urethra .
the os clitoridis  ( ts28 - 28 )  is a tiny bone ,  variable in size  ( between 581 - 1840 um long ,  dependant on strain )  ,  located within the clitoris .
the glans clitoris  ( glcl )   ( syn: clitoral glans )   ( ts25 - ts28 )  is the distal part of the clitoris .
labia  ( ts28 - ts28 ) : located at the base of the clitoris and comprised of skin ,  gland ,  lamina propria ,  vasculature and nerve of labia .
the primitive bladder  ( pbl )   ( syn: cranial urogenital sinus )   ( ts19 - ts21 )  is the anterior / cranial part of the urogenital sinus ,  lined with urothelium ,  located anterior to the attachment point of the common nephric duct / nephric duct at the urogenital sinus ridge .
the urothelium of primitive bladder  ( upbl )   ( syn: epithelium of primitive bladder ,  epithelial layer of primitive bladder )   ( ts19 - ts21 )  is the urothelial layer lining the lumen of the primitive bladder ,  comprised of a stratified epithelium of different epithelial cell types depending on stage ,  a subpopulation of which expresses uroplakin .
the mesenchymal layer of primitive bladder  ( mpbl )   ( syn: primitive bladder mesenchyme )   ( ts19 - ts21 )  is the mesenchyme surrounding the urothelium of primitive bladder .
the caudal urogenital sinus  ( cugs )   ( syn: primitive pelvic urethra )   ( ts19 - ts20 )  is the posterior / caudal part of the urogenital sinus ,  including the urogenital sinus ridge ,  where the common nephric ducts / nephric ducts join the urogenital sinus .
the urethral fold  ( ts20 - ts27 )  is the mesenchyme adjacent to the epithelium of phallic urethra that is thought to fuse during internalization of the urethra in males ,  however whether or not this mesenchyme fuses is unclear .
the urethra  ( ts21 - ts28 )  links the bladder / primitive bladder to the outside of the embryo .
the pelvic urethra  ( plur )   ( ts21 - ts22 )  is comprised of epithelium of pelvic urethra  ( eplur ,  subdivided into urogenital sinus ridge  ( ugs ridge )  and rest of epithelium of pelvic urethra )  ,  mesenchymal layer of pelvic urethra  ( mlplur ;  divided into dorsal and ventral )  ,  nerve ,  developing vasculature ,  adventitia and from ts22 muscle layer  ( muplur ;  divided into dorsal and ventral )  .
the clitoral urethra  ( clur )   ( syn: external urethra of female )   ( ts25 - ts28 )  is comprised of epithelium of clitoral urethra .
the urethral plate epithelium of clitoral urethra  ( syn: distal urethral epithelium of female ,  urethral plate of female )   ( ts25 - ts26 )  is a bilaminar epithelium ,  which at ts20 is located along the ventral mid - line of the genital tubercle of male / female .
the urethral fold of female  ( ts20 - ts27 )  is the mesenchyme adjacent to the epithelium of phallic urethra that is thought to fuse during internalization of the urethra in males ,  however whether or not this mesenchyme fuses is unclear .
the prostatic urethra  ( prur )   ( ts28 - 28 )  is the sub - region of the urethra of male where the prostate glands enter the urethra .
the penile urethra  ( pnur )   ( syn: external urethra of male )   ( ts25 - ts28 )  is comprised of epithelium of penile urethra .
the epithelium of prostatic urethra  ( eprur )   ( ts28 )  is the innermost layer of the prostatic urethra ,  a stratified epithelium lining the lumen .
the mesenchymal layer of prostatic urethra  ( mlprur )   ( ts28 - 28 )  is the mesenchymal layer of the prostatic urethra located between the epithelium and muscle layers .
the muscle layer of prostatic urethra  ( muprur )   ( ts28 - 28 )  is the thick layer of muscle towards the outside of the prostatic urethra .
the muscle of vagina  ( ts24 - ts28 )  is the smooth muscle layer of the vagina .
the adventitia of vagina  ( ts24 - ts28 )  is the outer layer of the vagina .
the mesenchyme of urogenital sinus  ( mugs )  is the mesenchyme surrounding the urogenital sinus epithelium .
the proximal urethral meatus of male  ( prox ur me )   ( syn: proximal urethral opening of male ,  urethral duct of male )   ( ts21 - ts24 )  is the proximal opening in the epithelium of male phallic urethra .
the urethral plate epithelium of male  ( upe )   ( syn: distal urethral epithelium of male ,  urethral plate of male )   ( ts20 - ts26 in females ;  ts20 - ts24 in males )  is a bilaminar epithelium ,  which at ts20 is located  along the ventral mid - line of the genital tubercle of male / female .
the urethral tube epithelium of male  ( syn: proximal urethral epithelium of male )   ( ts21 - ts24 )  is the open ,  proximal part of the epithelium of phallic urethra of male that has canalised into a tube .
the epithelium of urogenital sinus  ( eugs )  is the epithelium lining the lumen ,  marked by cdh1  ( e - cadherin )  ,  osr1 and shh .
the urethral plate epithelium  ( upe )   ( syn: urethral plate )   ( ts19 )  is a bilaminar epithelial extension of the cloacal epithelium that grows out from the cloaca ,  between the ventrolateral genital swellings .
the pelvic ganglion  ( ts19 - ts28 ) : the pelvic ganglia provide autonomic innervation to the organs of the genitourinary system and lower bowel and are comprised of both sympathetic and parasympathetic neurons .
the urethral tube epithelium of female  ( syn: proximal urethral epithelium of female )  is the open ,  proximal part of the epithelium of phallic urethra of female that has canalised into a tube .
the proximal urethral meatus of female  ( prox ur me )   ( syn: proximal urethral opening of female ,  urethral duct of female )   ( ts21 - ts24 )  is the proximal opening in the epithelium of female phallic urethra  ( ts21 to ts24 )  .
the urethral plate epithelium of female  ( upe )   ( syn: urethral plate of female ,  distal urethral epithelium of female )   ( ts20 - ts26 in females ;  ts20 - ts24 in males )  ;  a bilaminar epithelium ,  which at ts20 is located  along the ventral mid - line of the genital tubercle of male / female .
the developing vasculature of primitive bladder  ( ts20 - ts21 )  .
the muscle layer of ventral pelvic urethra of male  ( ts23 - ts27 )  .
the muscle layer of dorsal pelvic urethra of male  ( ts23 - ts27 )  .
the muscle layer of ventral pelvic urethra of female  ( ts23 - ts27 )  .
the muscle layer of dorsal pelvic urethra of female  ( ts23 - ts27 )  .
the lamina propria of sinovaginal bulb  ( syn: mesenchyme of sinovaginal bulb )   ( ts24 - ts27 )  is located between the epithelial layer and the muscle .
the rhabdosphincter of male  ( syn: striated muscle layer of prostatic urethra )   ( ts28 - 28 )  is the striated muscle layer towards the outside of the prostatic urethra .
the lamina propria of upper vagina  ( syn: mesenchymal layer of upper part of vagina )   ( ts24 - ts27 )  is the connective tissue layer located between the epithelial layer and the muscular layer of the upper vagina .
the superficial cell layer of bladder urothelium  ( syn: luminal cell layer of bladder urothelium )   ( ts22 - ts28 )  is the epithelial layer of cells lining the bladder lumen ,  comprised of superficial cells and intermediate cells of bladder urothelium from ts22 - ts28 .
the basal cell layer of bladder urothelium  ( ts22 - ts28 )  is the cell layer at the base of the urothelium adjacent to the basement membrane ,  comprised of different cell types dependant on stage .
the smooth muscle layer of prostatic urethra  ( ts28 - 28 )  is the smooth muscle layer towards the outside of the prostatic urethra .
the mesenchymal pad of pelvic urethra of male  ( ts24 - ts27 )  .
the presumptive neural crest derivative of pelvic urethra of male  ( ts23 - ts27 )  .
the mesenchymal pad of pelvic urethra of female  ( ts24 - ts27 )  .
the presumptive neural crest derivative of pelvic urethra of female  ( ts23 - ts27 )  .
the submucosa of dorsal pelvic urethra of male  ( ts25 - ts28 )  is the mesenchymal layer located below the muscularis mucosa of pelvic urethra ,  between the muscularis mucosa and muscle layer of pelvic urethra ,  comprised of mesenchymal / fibroblastic cells .
the lamina propria of ventral pelvic urethra of male  ( syn: peri - epithelial mesenchymal layer of ventral pelvic urethra of male ,  sub - epithelial mesenchymal layer of ventral pelvic urethra of male )   ( ts25 - ts28 )  is the thin mesenchymal / fibroblastic / stromal cell layer of the pelvic urethra located immediately adjacent to the epithelium ,  between the epithelium and the muscularis mucosa .
the muscularis mucosa of dorsal pelvic urethra of female  ( ts25 - ts28 )  is a thin ,  discontinuous layer comprised of wisps of smooth muscle ,  located between the lamina propria and the submucosa .
the lamina propria of dorsal pelvic urethra of female  ( syn: peri - epithelial mesenchymal layer of dorsal pelvic urethra of female ,  sub - epithelial mesenchymal layer of dorsal pelvic urethra of female )   ( ts25 - ts28 )  .
the muscularis mucosa of ventral pelvic urethra of male  ( ts25 - ts28 )  is a thin ,  discontinuous layer comprised of wisps of smooth muscle ,  located between the lamina propria and the submucosa .
the submucosa of ventral pelvic urethra of male  ( ts25 - ts28 )  is the mesenchymal layer located below the muscularis mucosa of pelvic urethra ,  between the muscularis mucosa and muscle layer of pelvic urethra ,  comprised of mesenchymal / fibroblastic cells .
the submucosa of prostatic urethra  ( smprur )   ( ts28 - 28 )  is the mesenchymal layer located below the muscularis mucosa of prostatic urethra ,  between the muscularis mucosa and muscle layer of prostatic urethra ,  comprised of mesenchymal / fibroblastic cells .
the muscularis mucosa of prostatic urethra  ( mmprur )   ( ts28 - 28 )  is a thin ,  discontinuous layer comprised of wisps of smooth muscle ,  located between the lamina propria and the submucosa .
the lamina propria of prostatic urethra  ( lprur )   ( ts28 - 28 )  is the thin mesenchymal / fibroblastic / stromal cell layer of the prostatic urethra located immediately adjacent to the epithelium ,  between the epithelium and the muscularis mucosa .
the submucosa of ventral pelvic urethra of female  ( ts25 - ts28 )  is the mesenchymal layer located below the muscularis mucosa of pelvic urethra ,  between the muscularis mucosa and muscle layer of pelvic urethra ,  comprised of mesenchymal / fibroblastic cells .
the muscularis mucosa of ventral pelvic urethra of female  ( ts25 - ts28 )  is a thin ,  discontinuous layer comprised of wisps of smooth muscle ,  located between the lamina propria and the submucosa .
the lamina propria of ventral pelvic urethra of female  ( syn: peri - epithelial mesenchymal layer of ventral pelvic urethra of female ,  sub - epithelial mesenchymal layer of ventral pelvic urethra of female )   ( ts25 - ts28 )  .
the lamina propria of dorsal pelvic urethra of male  ( syn: peri - epithelial mesenchymal layer of dorsal pelvic urethra of male ,  sub - epithelial mesenchymal layer of dorsal pelvic urethra of male )   ( ts25 - ts28 )  is the thin mesenchymal / fibroblastic / stromal cell layer of the pelvic urethra located immediately adjacent to the epithelium ,  between the epithelium and the muscularis mucosa .
the muscularis mucosa of dorsal pelvic urethra of male  ( ts25 - ts28 )  is a thin ,  discontinuous layer comprised of wisps of smooth muscle ,  located between the lamina propria and the submucosa .
the submucosa of dorsal pelvic urethra of female  ( ts25 - ts28 )  is the mesenchymal layer located below the muscularis mucosa of pelvic urethra ,  between the muscularis mucosa and muscle layer of pelvic urethra ,  comprised of mesenchymal / fibroblastic cells .
the nerve of genital tubercle of female  ( ts22 - 24 )  .
the nerve of genital tubercle of male  ( ts22 - ts24 )  .
the bladder fundus  ( syn: bladder dome )   ( ts22 - ts28 )  is the rounded blind - end of the bladder .
the bladder trigone  ( syn: dorsal bladder neck )   ( ts22 - ts28 )  is the triangular - shaped dorsal region of the bladder neck located between the ureters and the opening of the pelvic urethra .
the nephric duct of female  ( nd )   ( syn: mesonephric duct of female ,  wolffian duct of female )   ( ts20 - ts24 )  .
the nephric duct of male  ( nd )   ( syn: mesonephric duct of male ,  wolffian duct of male )   ( ts20 - ts23 )  .
the paramesonephric duct of female  ( pnd )   ( syn: mullerian duct of female )   ( ts20 - ts23 )  .
the paramesonephric duct of male  ( pnd )   ( syn: mullerian duct of male )   ( ts20 - ts24 in males )  .
the lamina propria of vagina  ( ts24 - ts28 )  is the connective tissue layer located between the epithelial layer and the muscular layer of the vagina .
superficial cell of bladder urothelium  ( ts22 - 28 )   ( ts22 - 25 synonym: immature umbrella cells of bladder urothelium  ,  at ts26 synonym: umbrella cells of bladder urothelium ) : the urothelial cell type lining the bladder lumen .
the intermediate cell layer of bladder urothelium  ( syn: suprabasal cell layer of  bladder urothelium )   ( ts22 - ts28 )  is the 1 - 2 cell epithelial layer located between the superficial layer and the basal layers ,  comprised of intermediate cells of bladder urothelium at ts22 .
krt5 - expressing basal cell of bladder urothelium  ( syn: k5 - basal cells of bladder urothelium )   ( ts23 - ts28 ) : cells expressing krt5 ,  present in the basal and intermediate cell layers of the bladder urothelium .
the suburothelial lamina propria of bladder  ( sulpbl )   ( syn: suburothelial stroma of bladder ,  suburothelial mesenchyme of bladder ,  inner lamina propria of bladder )   ( ts22 - ts28 )  is a thin layer of mesenchymal  ( or stromal )  cells located immediately adjacent to the urothelium .
the outer lamina propria of bladder  ( olpbl )   ( syn: muscularis mesenchyme of bladder )   ( ts22 - ts28 )  is the outer mesenchymal layer or outer lamina propria layer of the bladder located adjacent to the detrusor muscle of bladder .
the outer layer of bladder  ( olbl )   ( ts22 - ts28 )  is the outermost layer of the bladder ,  subdivided into serosa of bladder  ( ts22 - ts28 )  and adventitia of bladder  ( ts22 - ts28 )  .
the bladder neck  ( ts22 - ts28 )  is the narrow open end of the bladder ,  located between the ureter orifices and the opening of the pelvic urethra .
the ventral bladder neck  ( ts22 - ts28 )  is the ventral region of the narrow open end of the bladder ,  located between the ureter orifices and the opening of the pelvic urethra  ( the dorsal region of the bladder neck is the bladder trigone )  .
undifferentiated epithelial cell of urothelium of primitive bladder  ( syn: endodermal epithelial cells of urothelium )    ( ts19 - ts20 ) : a very small number of these cells are present in the early embryonic urothelium of primitive bladder from ts19 - 20 .
intermediate cell of urothelium of primitive bladder  ( ics )   ( ts21 - ts21 ) : are defined by their expression pattern and location in the urothelium .
p - 0 cell of urothelium of primitive bladder  ( syn: transient urothelial progenitor cells )   ( ts19 - ts21 ) : a transient embryonic urothelial cell type of the primitive bladder .
the inner mesenchymal layer of primitive bladder  ( impbl )   ( syn: suburothelial mesenchyme of primitive bladder )   ( ts20 - ts21 )  is the inner zone of mesenchyme of the primitive bladder ,  immediately adjacent to the urothelium of primitive bladder .
the outer mesenchymal layer of primitive bladder  ( ompbl )   ( syn: peripheral mesenchyme of primitive bladder )   ( ts20 - ts21 )  is the outer zone of the mesenchyme of the primitive bladder adjacent to the serosa / adventitia of primitive bladder .
the muscle layer of primitive bladder  ( mupbl )   ( syn: smooth muscle layer of primitive bladder )   ( ts21 - 21 )  .
the outer layer of primitive bladder  ( ts20 - ts21 )  is the outermost layer of the bladder and is comprised of either a serosa or an adventitia .
the serosa of primitive bladder  ( spbl )   ( ts20 - ts21 )  .
the adventitia of primitive bladder  ( apbl )   ( ts20 - ts21 )  .
the primitive bladder - caudal urogenital sinus transition zone  ( syn: primitive bladder - caudal urogenital sinus junction )   ( ts19 - ts21 )  is comprised of epithelium and mesenchyme of primitive bladder - caudal urogenital sinus transition zone .
the urogenital sinus ridge  ( ugs ridge )   ( syn: sinus ridge )   ( ts19 - ts22 )  is part of the urogenital sinus  ( ts19 - ts21 )  ,  and part of the caudal urogenital sinus  ( ts19 - ts20 )  ,  then part of pelvic urethra  ( ts21 - ts22 )  .
the common nephric duct  ( cnd )   ( syn: common mesonephric duct ,  common wolffian duct )   ( ts19 - ts22 )  is the caudal portion of the paired epithelial nephric ducts ,  between the ureteric bud stalk / ureter attachment site  ( anterior / cranial end )  and the site of insertion into the urogenital sinus at the urogenital sinus ridge  ( posterior / caudal end )  .
the urogenital sinus ridge of female  ( ugs ridge )   ( ts23 - 23 )  is part of the epithelium of pelvic urethra of female  ( ts23 )  .
the lamina propria of pelvic urethra of female  ( lplur )   ( syn: peri - epithelial mesenchymal layer of pelvic urethra of female ,  sub - epithelial mesenchymal layer of pelvic urethra of female )   ( ts25 - ts28 )  is the thin mesenchymal / fibroblastic / stromal cell layer of the pelvic urethra located immediately adjacent to the epithelium ,  between the epithelium and the muscularis mucosa .
the muscularis mucosa of pelvic urethra of female  ( mmplur )   ( ts25 - ts28 )  is a thin ,  discontinuous layer comprised of wisps of smooth muscle ,  located between the lamina propria and the submucosa .
the submucosa of pelvic urethra of female  ( smplur )   ( ts25 - ts28 )  is the mesenchymal layer located below the muscularis mucosa of pelvic urethra ,  between the muscularis mucosa and muscle layer of pelvic urethra ,  comprised of mesenchymal / fibroblastic cells .
the anterior mesenchymal pad of female  ( ts24 - ts27 )  .
the dorsal mesenchymal pad of female  ( ts24 - ts27 )  .
the ventral mesenchymal pad of female  ( ts24 - ts27 )  .
the smooth muscle layer of pelvic urethra of female  ( ts28 - 28 )  is the smooth muscle layer towards the outside of the pelvic urethra .
the rhabdosphincter of female  ( syn: striated muscle layer of pelvic urethra of female )   ( ts28 )  is the striated muscle layer towards the outside of the pelvic urethra of female .
the adventitia of pelvic urethra of female  ( aplur )   ( ts23 - ts28 )  is the outer connective tissue layer of the pelvic urethra .
the urogenital sinus ridge of male  ( ugs ridge )   ( ts23 - 23 )  is part of the epithelium of pelvic urethra of male  ( ts23 )  .
the lamina propria of pelvic urethra of male  ( lplur )   ( syn: peri - epithelial mesenchymal layer of pelvic urethra of male ,  sub - epithelial mesenchymal layer of pelvic urethra of male )   ( ts25 - ts28 )  is the thin mesenchymal / fibroblastic / stromal cell layer of the pelvic urethra located immediately adjacent to the epithelium ,  between the epithelium and the muscularis mucosa .
the muscularis mucosa of pelvic urethra of male  ( mmplur )   ( ts25 - ts28 )  is a thin ,  discontinuous layer comprised of wisps of smooth muscle ,  located between the lamina propria and the submucosa .
the submucosa of pelvic urethra of male  ( smplur )   ( ts25 - ts28 )  is the mesenchymal layer located below the muscularis mucosa of pelvic urethra ,  between the muscularis mucosa and muscle layer of pelvic urethra ,  comprised of mesenchymal / fibroblastic cells .
the anterior mesenchymal pad of male  ( ts24 - ts27 )  .
the dorsal mesenchymal pad of male  ( ts24 - ts27 )  .
the ventral mesenchymal pad of male  ( ts24 - ts27 )  .
the adventitia of pelvic urethra of male  ( aplur )   ( ts23 - ts28 )  is the outer connective tissue layer of the pelvic urethra .
the ventral epithelial bud of female  ( veb )   ( ts24 - ts26 )  is part of urethra of female and part of the pelvic urethra of female .
the urethral gland of pelvic urethra of female  ( syn: skene's gland )   ( ts27 - ts28 )  .
the urethral gland of clitoral urethra  ( syn: skene's gland of clitoral urethra )   ( ts27 - ts28 )  .
the ventral epithelial bud of male  ( veb )   ( ts24 - ts26 )  is part of urethra of male ,  part of the pelvic urethra of male .
the verumontanum  ( ver )   ( syn: seminal colliculus )   ( ts24 - ts28 )  is the raised ,  dorsal portion of the male urethra where the prostate glands and orifices of the ejaculatory ducts enter the urethra .
the adventitia of prostatic urethra  ( ts28 )  is the outer connective tissue layer of the prostatic urethra .
the prostate bud  ( syn: prostatic bud ,  prostate gland bud )   ( ts24 - ts27 )  .
cord - like tendons connecting the papillary muscles to the leaflets of the mitral and tricuspid valves .
the tailgut  ( tg )   ( ts19 - 19 )  is a blind - ended ,  caudal / posterior epithelial extension from the cloacal epithelium .
the bladder - urethra transition zone  ( syn: bladder - urethra junction )   ( ts22 - ts28 )  is comprised of epithelium and mesenchyme of bladder - urethra transition zone .
the epithelium of bladder - urethra transition zone  ( ts22 - ts28 )  is the zone or region of the epithelium located where the bladder neck meets the urethra / pelvic urethra ,  marking the junction where these two different epithelia meet  ( urothelium of bladder and epithelium of pelvic urethra )  .
the mesenchyme of bladder - urethra transition zone  ( ts22 - ts28 )  is the mesenchyme surrounding the epithelium in the zone or region where the bladder neck meets the urethra / pelvic urethra .
the glandular ridge  ( ts28 - 28 )  is the ridge on the outside of the glans penis ,  encircles the distal glans penis .
the male urogenital mating protuberance  ( syn: mump )   ( ts28 - 28 )  is a tapered extension of the os penis ,  located at the distal end of the glans penis .
the male urogenital mating protuberance ridge groove  ( mump rg )   ( syn: mump ridge )   ( ts28 - 28 )  is a groove that encircles the distal glans penis and defines the boundary of the mump .
the corpus cavernosum glandis  ( syn: corpora cavernosa glandis )   ( ts28 )  .
the corpus cavernosum urethra  ( ts28 - 28 )  is the band of erectile tissue that runs ventral to the penile urethra .
the urethral seam  ( urseam )   ( syn: urethral raphe ,  ventral seam )   ( ts24 - ts28 )  .
the urethral gland of pelvic urethra of male  ( ts27 - ts28 )  .
the urethral gland of penile urethra  ( ts27 - ts28 )  .
the male urethral gland bud  ( ugbud )   ( ts24 - ts26 )  .
the bulbourethral gland of female  ( bugl )   ( syn: bartholin's gland )   ( ts23 - ts28 )  .
the phallic urethra of female  ( phur )   ( syn: external urethra of female )   ( ts21 - ts24 )  is part of the genital tubercle of female and part of the urethra of female .
the urethral meatus of penile urethra  ( syn: urethral opening of penile urethra ,  distal urethral opening of male )   ( ts25 - ts28 )  is the opening in the penile urethra ,  located near the distal tip of the penis .
the urogenital membrane of female  ( ts20 - ts26 )  is comprised of the urethral plate epithelium  ( cloacal endoderm - derived )  and the skin  ( ectoderm - derived )  ,  where the two different epithelia are in direct contact .
the urogenital membrane of male  ( ts20 - ts26 )  is comprised of the urethral plate epithelium  ( cloacal endoderm - derived )  and the skin  ( ectoderm - derived )  ,  where the two different epithelia are in direct contact .
the urethral tube epithelium of clitoral urethra  ( syn: proximal urethral epithelium of female )   ( ts25 - 25 )  is the open ,  proximal part of the epithelium of phallic urethra of female that has canalised into a tube .
the proximal urethral meatus of clitoral urethra  ( syn: proximal urethral opening of female )   ( ts25 - ts28 )  is the proximal opening in the epithelium of clitoral urethra .
the urethral meatus of clitoral urethra  ( syn: urethral opening of clitoral urethra ,  distal urethral opening of female )   ( ts27 - ts28 )  is the opening of the clitoral urethra ,  located within the clitoris .
