anatomical structure composed of a single cell .
the inner space within a tube .
a small cavity bounded by an epithelium .
a hole in a tissue .
a tissue whose predominant feature is extracellular matrix which may or may not be highly hydrated or calcified .
ossified structure that is predominantly extracellular matrix and forms part of the support system of the body .
bone that is preformed in cartilage .
bone that forms directly from mesenchyme .
an endochondral bone that forms within tendenous or ligamentous matrix .
dense connective tissue made primarily of type ii collagen .
a strap of predominantly extracellular matrix connecting two bones .
a strap of predominantly extracellular matrix connecting a muscle to a bone .
a sheet of extracellular matrix .
an anatomical group whose component structures share a common function .
multicellular anatomical structure with largely bona fide boundary that transduces some sensory stimulus to the nervous system .
fluid anatomical entity containing cells .
a multi - tissue structure that produces a secretion for use elsewhere in the body .
a gland that releases its secretion through a duct .
a gland that releases its secretion directly into the bloodstream ,  or equivalent for an invertebrate .
acellular anatomical structure whose predominant constituent is keratin .
acellular anatomical structure whose predominant constituent is chitin .
the region of the organism associated with the visceral organs .
the region of the body containing the brain and mouth .
the region of the body connecting the head and the body .
an external caudal extension of the body .
epithelium derived from mesenchyme .
an epithelial structure capable of allowing fluid flow .
an epithelial pouch with a single opening .
a group of connected epithelial tubes with a single portal .
a network of interlinking epithelial tubes .
a closed epithelium with a lumen .
a tissue composed of myoblasts or muscle cells .
tissue composed predominantly of neurons .
a structure whose morphology or state of differentiation will change during normal development .
a post - embryonic juvenile form which will undergo metamorphosis to become the adult .
an embryonic anatomical structure undergoing apoptosis .
an embryonic entity that displays a physiological function but whose strucuture is not yet fully formed .
embronic structure that contains stem cellsr that may contribute to its future development or maintenance or to its future development or maintenance of another tissue .
an embryonic anatomical entity that will turn into one or more other anatomical entities ,  perhaps with other anatomical entities ,  later in development .
a group of neurons ,  usually outside the cns ,  which relay neuronal signals .
a localised domain of predominantly neuronal tissue in the central nervous system .
a group of neurons that provides a nervous supply .
a complex of interconnecting nerves .
a fasciculated bundle of neuron projections ,  largely or completely lacking synapses .
a tissue composed of striated muscle cells .
a tissue composed of smooth muscle cells .
a tissue composed of cardiac muscle cells .
a ring of smooth muscle cells whose contraction closes the opening of the ring .
a ring of striated muscle cells whose contraction closes the opening of the ring .
a group of not - yet - terminally - differentiatied cells that can pack in three dimensions .
mesenchyme with little extracellular matrix .
cell condensation that is an aggregation of mesenchymal cells that are committed to differentiate into chondroblasts and chondrocytes .
a delimited region of dense mesenchyme within looser mesenchyme .
a delimited region of dense mesenchyme within looser mesenchyme whose cells are committed to become myoblasts .
a delimited region of dense mesenchyme within looser mesenchyme whose cells are committed to become chondroblasts .
mesenchyme whose cells are embedded in obvious amounts fo extracellular matrix .
mesenchymal cells that are migrating .
multi - tissue mesenchymal structure one of whose parts contains stem cells that can replace other parts .
the collection of structures that form the exxtenal covering of the organism .
a furrow or an incomplete tube .
a raised strip of tissue .
the rigid support system for the body .
that part of the conceptus that will form the organism .
anlagen are populations of contiguous cells ,  typically arranged in one plane ,  that are morphologically indistinct ,  but that already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue .
primordia are populations of contiguous cells that are morphologically distinct and already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue .
appendage of an animal used for locomotion or grasping .
multicellular anatomical structure with largely bona fide boundary that extends outwards from or is part of the organism surface and transduces some sensory stimulus to the nervous system .
a part of the body present only in a specific gender .
a part of the body present only in males .
a part of the body present only in females .
a part of the body present only in hermaphrodites .
a flexible joint between two bones that is made of unossified connective tissue .
the articular cartilage covering of the region of bone within a synoval joint .
cartilage that may provide the template for an endochondral bone or that may be a disinct entity in the skeleton .
the epithelial membrane between bone ends that forms the lateral borders of the synovial cavity and secretes synovial fluid .
a joint connecting two or more bones with cartilage at the bone ends and a synovial membrane that secretes synovial fluid conecting the bones and sealing the synovial cavity .
a component of the exoskeleton .
the cavity within the body that contains the visceral organs .
multi - tissue structure one of whose parts contains stem cells that can replace other parts .
an acellular fluid portion of organism substance that is produced by the organism for some non - waste purpose .
multi - tissue epithelial structure one of whose parts contains stem cells that can replace other parts .
non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions ,  that is demarcated by anatomical lines or points on the external or internal surfaces of anatomical structures .
organ or organ part that is attached to the body of an organism .
all the products of the fertilized egg .
the part of the conceptus that may be lost before birth or will be discarded at birth ,  or when the embryo becomes an independent organism .
an anatomical structure present in the larval form of an animal .
a head - associated surface sense organ .
a membranous structure with more than one cell type ,  one or more of which secretes mucus ,  that lines body passages which communicate with the exterior .
an anatomical structure that ,  as part of its normal physiology ,  undergoes regeneration .
a group of neurons that provides a nervous response from a tissue .
a group of neurons that provides a nervous signal to a tissue .
an anatomical entity consisting of a single or a few multinucleated structures .
an roughly circular indentation in a surface .
a roughly circular bulge in a surface .
an epithelium that extends its surface area by peripheral movement .
an epithelial tube that transports blood .
an epithelial tube that transports blood away from the heart .
an epithelial tube that transports blood towards the heart .
anatomical group whose component structures are arranged in a row .
the sum of all the anlagen and primordia that will develop into a single functional system .
the mesenchymal derivative of a somite that will migrate to surround the neural tube and form vertebrae .
a delimited region of osteoblasts representing the early stages of bone formation .
the bilaminar epithelium formed from the myotome and dermatome .
a volume that is mainly bounded but has an opening to another cavity or to the outside .
a cord of epithelial cells without a lumen and usually several cells thick .
a simple coherent tissue or a localized population of similar cells that are actively migrating .
a domain of columnar epithelium in an embryo that represents the early stage of the development of the epithelial component of a new anatomical structure .
a network of interlinked veins .
each of a set of hard ,  bony enamel - coated structures in the jaws of most vertebrates ,  used for biting and chewing .
an anatomical space with at least one opening to another space or the exterior .
an anatomical space with no opening to another space or to the exterior .
tissue that is predominantly made of fat cells .
a ganglion containing sensory neurons .
a ganglion that is part of the autonomic nervous system .
a localized group of blood capillaries .
an acellular structure typically composed of collagen ,  glycoproteins and glycosaminoglycans .
a flattened appendage on a marine animal .
a non - cellular substance released by a cell ,  gland or tissue .
excreta are bodily fluids consisting of waste matter ,  such as sweat or feces ,  discharged from the body .
an epithelium within an embryo or larva that is undergoing a major developmental change .
an embryonic or larval epithelium that is committed to form part of the nervous system .
an epithelium that is undergoing proliferation to provide large numbers of neuronal cells .
a neuroepithelium some of whose cells are undergoing terminal differentiation to become neuronal cells .
neuronal tissue composed predominantly of axons .
a neuronal tissue composed predominantly of nerve bodies and neuronal support cells .
an extended columnar domain of predominantly neuronal tissue in the central nervous system .
a compact group of cells differentiating to become a ganglion or a neuronal nucleus .
an epithelial ball that forms from paraxial mesoderm .
a mesenchyme - derived anatomical entity undergoing a transtion to become another structure .
a transitional population of migrating mesenchymal cells that derive from somites and that will become dermal cells .
a transitional population of migrating mesenchymal cells that derive from somites and that will become muscle cells .
a germ cell population that has not undergone meiosis .
a population of cells that are predominantly immature or mature germ cells .
a group of cells capable of regenerating themselves and also of producing one or more populations of differentiated cells .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
material anatomical entity that has inherent 3d shape and is generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
non - material anatomical entity of one dimension ,  which forms a boundary of an anatomical surface or is a modulation of an anatomical surface .
non - material anatomical entity of zero dimension ,  which forms a boundary of an anatomical line or surface .
non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions ,  that is demarcated by anatomical lines or points on the external or internal surfaces of anatomical structures .
anatomical group that is has as its parts distinct anatomical structures interconnected by anatomical structures at a lower level of granularity .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
anatomical structure that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
anatomical structure that is a direct part of the cell .
multi - tissue structure that is part of a compound organ .
multi - tissue structure that is not part of a compound organ .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
gonochoristic organism that can produce male gametes .
gonochoristic organism that can produce female gametes .
multi - cellular organism that can produce both male and female gametes .
anatomical structure which is a primary subdivision of whole organism .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
anatomical structure that is contiguous with the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells that will not contribute to the embryo .
anatomical structure ,  that consists of similar cells and intercellular matrix ,  aggregated according to genetically determined spatial relationships .
hermaphroditic organism that produces gametes first of one sex ,  and then later of the other sex .
hermaphroditic organism that produces both male and female gametes at the same time .
multi - cellular organism that has male and female sexes .
sequential hermaphroditic organism that produces gametes first of the male sex ,  and then later of the female sex .
sequential hermaphroditic organism that produces gametes first of the female sex ,  and then later of the male sex .
anatomical structure consisting of at least two non - overlapping organs ,  multi - tissue aggregates or portion of tissues or cells of different types that does not constitute an organism ,  organ ,  multi - tissue aggregate ,  or portion of tissue .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
anatomical space that is part of a cell .
multi - cellular organism that does not produce gametes .
cell that is an individual member of a species .
acellular anatomical structure that consists of a thin sheet of fibrous proteins that underlie and support the cells of an epithelium .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of cuboidal cells .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of columnar cells .
epithelium that consists of more than one layer of epithelial cells .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of squamous cells .
epithelium that consists of epithelial cells not arranged in one ore more layers .
compound organ that contains one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
epithelium that consists of a single layer of epithelial cells .
compound organ that does not contain macroscopic anatomical spaces .
a cell that is usually found in a two - dimensional sheet with a free surface .
a germline cell that contributes to the development of the oocyte by transferring cytoplasm directly to oocyte .
female germ cell is a germ cell that supports female gamete production .
a relatively undifferentiated cell that retains the ability to divide and proliferate throughout life to provide progenitor cells that can differentiate into specialized cells .
a cell that is within the developmental lineage of gametes and is able to pass along its genetic material to offspring .
a precursor cell with a limited number of potential fates .
a connective tissue cell which secretes an extracellular matrix rich in collagen and other macromolecules .
an immature cartilage - producing cell found in growing cartilage .
a bone - forming cell which secretes an extracellular matrix .
a classification of cells by their microscopic appearance .
an endothelial cell that lines the vasculature .
a cell which moves among different tissues of the body ,  via blood ,  lymph ,  or other medium .
a cell found predominately in the blood .
most generally any neuron which is not motor or sensory .
any neuron having a sensory function ;  an afferent neuron conveying sensory impulses .
a neruon whose cell body is within an autonomic ganglion .
a non - neuronal cell of the nervous system .
a neuroglial cell of ectodermal origin ,  i .e . ,  the astrocytes and oligodendrocytes considered together .
a class of large neuroglial  ( macroglial )  cells in the central nervous system  -  the largest and most numerous neuroglial cells in the brain and spinal cord .
a class of large neuroglial  ( macroglial )  cells in the central nervous system .
a central nervous system macrophage found in the parenchyma of the central nervous system .
a connective tissue cell that normally gives rise to other cells that are organized as three - dimensional masses .
a fat - storing cell found mostly in the abdominal cavity and subcutaneous tissue of mammals .
polymorphic cell that form cartilage .
a classification of cells by their primary end goal or behavior .
a cell that specializes in controlled release of one or more substances .
an endocrine cell that has the specialized function to produce and secrete hormones in response to neuronal signals .
a mature contractile cell ,  commonly known as a myocyte .
a somatic cell located in skeletal muscle .
a non - striated ,  elongated ,  spindle - shaped cell found lining the digestive tract ,  uterus ,  and blood vessels .
a cell whose function is determined by the generation or the reception of an electric signal .
a classification of cells by the number of their nuclei .
a cell with more than one nucleus .
a non - neuronal cell of the nervous system .
a mesenchymal cell in embryonic development found in a contracting mass and that gives rise to osteoprogenitors .
a cell whose function is determined by its response to an electric signal .
a classification of cells by the number of haploid genome equivalents of their nucleus or nuclei .
a connective tissue cell of an organ found in the loose connective tissue .
a cell from the outer syncytial layer of the trophoblast of an early mammalian embryo .
a neuron which conveys sensory information centrally from the periphery .
a neuron which sends impulses peripherally to activate muscles or secretory cells .
the basic cellular unit of nervous tissue .
the reproductive cell in multicellular organisms .
an epithelial cell that secretes cuticle .
an extracellular matrix secreting cell that secretes collagen .
a primordial germ cell is a diploid germ cell precursors that transiently exist in the embryo before they enter into close association with the somatic cells of the gonad and become irreversibly committed as germ cells .
muscle cell which has as its direct parts myofilaments organized into sarcomeres .
a myocyte located in the heart .
a cell of a hematopoietic lineage .
a cell containing at least one nucleus .
a cell that is part of the nervous system .
a cell of the supporting or framework tissue of the body ,  arising chiefly from the embryonic mesoderm and including adipose tissue ,  cartilage ,  and bone .
a cell of an organism that does not pass on its genetic material to the organism's offspring  ( i .e .
a myotube is a multinucleated cells that is formed when proliferating myoblasts exit the cell cycle ,  differentiate and fuse .
a glial cell that ensheathes axons of neuron in the peripheral nervous system and are necessary for their maintainance and function .
a glial cell that ensheathes axons of neuron in the peripheral nervous system and are necessary for their maintainance and function .
