a unit of measurement is a standardized quantity of a physical quality .
a unit which is a standard measure of the distance between two points .
a unit which is a standard measure of the amount of matter / energy of a physical object .
a unit which is a standard measure of the dimension in which events occur in sequence .
a unit which is a standard measure of the flow of electric charge .
an electric current unit current which is equal to one trillionth of an ampere or 10^ [  - 12 ]  a .
a unit which is a standard measure of the average kinetic energy of the particles in a sample of matter .
a unit which is a standardised quantity of an element or compound with uniform composition .
a unit which is a standard measure of the wavelength - weighted power emitted by a light source in a particular direction .
a length unit which is equal to the length of the path traveled by light in vacuum during a time interval of 1 / 299 792 458 of a second .
a length unit which is equal to 0 .0254 metres .
a length unit which is equal to 0 .0254 millimetres .
a length unit which is equal to 0 .3048 metres ,  or 12 inches .
a length unit which is equal to 0 .9144 metres ,  or 3 feet .
a length unit which is equal to 20 .1168 metres ,  66 feet ,  or 22 yards .
a length unit which is equal to 20 , 116 .8 metres ,  660 feet ,  or 10 chains .
a length unit which is equal to 1 , 609 .344 metres ,  or 8 furlongs .
a length unit which is equal to 3 miles ,  or 4 , 828 .032 metres
a maritime length unit is one used primarily at sea .
a maritime length unit which is equal to 6 .08 feet ,  or 1 .853184 metres
a maritime length unit which is equal to 608 feet ,  100 fathoms ,  or 185 .3184 metres
a maritime length unit which is equal to 6 , 080 feet ,  10 cables ,  or 1 , 853 .184 metres
a mass unit which is equal to the mass of the international prototype kilogram kept by the bipm at svres ,  france .
an imperial mass unit which is equivalent to 64 .798 , 91 milligrams .
an imperial mass unit which is equivalent to 1 .771 , 845 , 195 , 3125 grams ,  or 1 / 256 of 1 pound .
an imperial mass unit which is equivalent to 28 .349 , 523 , 125 grams ,  or 1 / 16 of 1 pound .
an imperial mass unit which is equivalent to 453 .592 , 37 grams .
an imperial mass unit which is equivalent to 6 , 350 .293 , 18 grams ,  or 14 pounds .
an imperial mass unit which is equivalent to 12 .700 , 586 , 36 kilograms ,  or 28 pounds .
an imperial mass unit which is equivalent to 50 .802 , 345 , 44 kilograms ,  112 pounds ,  or 8 stone .
an imperial mass unit which is equivalent to 1 , 016 .046 , 9088 kilograms ,  or 2 , 240 pounds .
a prefix in the metric system denoting a factor of one thousand .
a time unit which is equal to the duration of 9 192 631 770 periods of the radiation corresponding to the transition between the two hyperfine levels of the ground state of the caesium 133 atom .
an electric current unit which is equal to the constant current which ,  if maintained in two straight parallel conductors of infinite length ,  of negligible circular cross - section ,  and placed 1 m apart in vacuum ,  would produce between these conductors a force equal to 2 x 10^ [  - 7 ]  newton per meter of length .
a thermodynamic temperature unit which is equal to the fraction 1 / 273 .16 of the thermodynamic temperature of the triple point of water .
a substance unit which is equal to the amount of substance of a molecular system which contains as many elementary entities as there are atoms in 0 .012 kilogram of carbon 12 .
a luminous intensity unit which equal to the luminous intensity ,  in a given direction ,  of a source that emits monochromatic radiation of frequency 540 x 1012 hertz and that has a radiant intensity in that direction of 1 / 683 watt per steradian .
a length unit which is equal to one hundredth of a meter or 10^ [  - 2 ]  m .
a length unit which is equal to one thousandth of a meter or 10^ [  - 3 ]  m .
a length unit which is equal to one millionth of a meter or 10^ [  - 6 ]  m .
a length unit which is equal to one thousandth of one millionth of a meter or 10^ [  - 9 ]  m .
a length unit which is equal to 10  [  - 10 ]  m .
a length unit which is equal to 10^ [  - 12 ]  m .
a mass unit which is equal to one thousandth of a kilogram or 10^ [  - 3 ]  kg .
a mass unit which is equal to one thousandth of a gram or 10^ [  - 3 ]  g .
a mass unit which is equal to one millionth of a gram or 10^ [  - 6 ]  g .
a mass unit which is equal to one thousandth of one millionth of a gram or 10^ [  - 9 ]  g .
a mass unit which is equal to 10^ [  - 12 ]  g .
a mass unit which is equal to 10^ [  - 15 ]  g .
a temperature unit which is equal to one kelvin degree .
a time unit which is equal to one thousandth of a second or 10^ [  - 3 ]  s .
a time unit which is equal to one millionth of a second or 10^ [  - 6 ]  s .
a time unit which is equal to 10^ [  - 12 ]  s .
a time unit which is equal to 60 seconds .
a time unit which is equal to 3600 seconds or 60 minutes .
a time unit which is equal to 24 hours .
a time unit which is equal to 7 days .
a time unit which is approximately equal to the length of time of one of cycle of the moon's phases which in science is taken to be equal to 30 days .
a time unit which is equal to 12 months which in science is taken to be equal to 365 .25 days .
an electric current unit current which is equal to one thousandth of an ampere or 10^ [  - 3 ]  a .
an electric current unit current which is equal to one millionth of an ampere or 10^ [  - 6 ]  a .
a substance unit which is equal to one millionth of a mole .
a substance unit equal to a thousandth of a mol or 10^ [  - 3 ]  mol .
a substance unit equal to one thousandth of one millionth of a mole or 10^ [  - 9 ]  mol .
a substance unit equal to 10^ [  - 12 ]  mol .
a substance unit equal to 10^ [  - 15 ]  mol .
a substance unit equal to 10^ [  - 18 ]  mol .
a unit which is one of a particular measure to which all measures of that type can be related .
a unit which is a standard measure of the amount of a 2 - dimensional flat surface .
a unit which is a standard measure of the rate of change of velocity in either speed or direction .
a unit which is a standard measure of the rate of angular movement about an axis ;  the angle rotated in a given time .
a unit which is a standard measure of the rate of change of angular velocity .
a unit which represents a standard measurement of how much of a given substance there is mixed with another substance .
a density unit which is a standard measure of the mass of a substance in a given volume .
a unit which is a standard measure of the luminous intensity impinging on a given area .
a density unit which is a standard measure of the mass exerting an influence on a given area .
a unit which is a standard measure of the mass of a homogeneous substance containing 6 .02 x 1023 atoms or molecules .
a unit which is a standard measure of the volume of a homogeneous substance containing 6 .02 x 1023 atoms or molecules .
a unit which is a standard measure of the quantity of motion measured by the product of mass and velocity .
a unit which is a standard measure of the number of rotations in a given time .
a unit which is a standard measure of the volume of a given mass of substance  ( the reciprocal of density )  .
a unit which is a standard measure of the rate of movement .
a concentration unit which is a standard measure of the number of moles of a given substance per liter of solution .
a unit of concentration which expresses a concentration of 1 mole of solute per liter of solution  ( mol / l )  .
a unit of molarity which is equal to one thousandth of a molar or 10^ [  - 3 ]  m .
a unit of molarity which is equal to one millionth of a molar or 10^ [  - 6 ]  m .
a unit of molarity which is equal to one thousandth of one millionth of a molar or 10^ [  - 9 ]  m .
a unit of molarity which is equal to 10^ [  - 12 ]  m .
a concentration unit which is a standard measure of the number of moles of a given substance per kilogram of solvent .
a unit of concentration which expresses a concentration of a solution of 1 mole per kilogram of solvent  ( mol / kg )  .
a molality unit which is equal to one thousandth of a molal or 10^ [  - 3 ]  m .
a molality unit which is equal to one millionth of a molal or 10^ [  - 6 ]  m .
a molality unit which is equal to one thousandth of one millionth of a molal or 10^ [  - 9 ]  m .
a molality unit which is equal to 10^ [  - 12 ]  m .
a unit of molarity which is equal to 10^ [  - 15 ]  m .
a unit of concentration which highlights the chemical nature of salts .
a unit of concentration which is one gram equivalent of a solute per liter of solution .
a concentration unit which denotes the number of moles of solute as a proportion of the total number of moles in a solution .
an acceleration unit which is equal to the acceleration an object changing its velocity by 1meter / s over a time period that equals one second .
an angular unit acceleration which is equal to the angular acceleration of an object changing its angular velocity by 1rad / s over a time period that equals one second .
an angular unit velocity which is equal to about 9 .54930 rpm  ( revolutions per minute )  .
an area unit which is equal to an area enclosed by a square with sides each 1 meter long .
an area unit which is equal to an area of 10 , 000 square meters .
an area unit which is equal to an area of 25 .292 , 852 , 64 square meters ,  or 1 square rod .
an area unit which is equivalent to 1 furlong x 1 rod .
an area unit which is equivalent to 1 furlong x 1 chain .
an area unit which is equal to an area enclosed by a square with sides each 1 micrometer long .
an area unit which is equal to one ten thousandth of a square meter or 10^ [  - 4 ]  m^ [ 2 ]  .
an area unit which is equal to one millionth of a square meter or 10^ [  - 6 ]  m^ [ 2 ]  .
a mass unit density which is equal to mass of an object in kilograms divided by the volume in cubic meters .
a mass unit density which is equal to mass of an object in grams divided by the volume in cubic centimeters .
a luminance unit which is equal to a luminous intensity of one candela radiating from a surface whose area is one square meter .
an area density unit which is equal to the mass of an object in kilograms divided by the surface area in meters squared .
a molar mass unit which is equal to one kilogram of mass of one mole of chemical element or chemical compound .
a molar mass unit which is equal to one gram of mass of one mole of chemical element or chemical compound .
a molar volume unit which is equal to 1 cubic meter occupied by one mole of a substance in the form of a solid ,  liquid ,  or gas .
a molar volume unit which is equal to 1 cubic centimeter occupied by one mole of a substance in the form of a solid ,  liquid ,  or gas .
a momentum unit which is equal to the momentum of a one kilogram mass object with a speed of one meter per second .
a rotational frequency unit which is equal to the number complete turn in a period of time that equals to 1 second .
a specific volume unit which is equal to one cubic meter volume occupied by one kilogram of a particular substance .
a speed / velocity unit which is equal to the speed of an object traveling 1 meter distance in one second .
a speed / velocity unit which is equal to the speed of an object traveling 1 kilometer distance in one hour .
a speed / velocity unit which is equal to the speed of an object traveling 1 millimeter distance in one day .
a unit which is a standard measure of the amount of space occupied by any substance ,  whether solid ,  liquid ,  or gas .
a volume unit which is equal to the volume of a cube with edges one meter in length .
a volume unit which is equal to one millionth of a cubic meter or 10^ [  - 9 ]  m^ [ 3 ]  ,  or to 1 ml .
a volume unit which is equal to one thousandth of a liter or 10^ [  - 3 ]  l ,  or to 1 cubic centimeter .
an imperial volume unit which is equivalent to 28 .413 , 0625 millilitres .
an imperial volume unit which is equivalent to 142 .065 , 3125 millilitres .
an imperial volume unit which is equivalent to 568 .261 , 25 millilitres .
an imperial volume unit which is equivalent to 1 , 136 .5225 millilitres ,  or two pints .
an imperial volume unit which is equivalent to 4 , 546 .09 millilitres ,  or 8 pints .
a volume unit which is equal to one thousandth of a cubic meter or 10^ [  - 3 ]  m^ [ 3 ]  ,  or to 1 decimeter .
a volume unit which is equal to one thousand of a cubic meter or 10^ [  - 3 ]  m^ [ 3 ]  ,  or to 1 l .
a volume unit which is equal to one millionth of a liter or 10^ [  - 6 ]  l .
a volume unit which is equal to one thousandth of one millionth of a liter or 10^ [  - 9 ]  l .
a volume unit which is equal to 10^ [  - 12 ]  l .
a volume unit which is equal to 10^ [  - 15 ]  l .
a unit which is a standard measure of the number of repetitive actions in a particular time .
a frequency unit which is equal to 1 complete cycle of a recurring phenomenon in 1 second .
a unit which is a standard measure of the force is applied when a mass is accelerated .
a force unit which is equal to the force required to cause an acceleration of 1m / s2 of a mass of 1 kg in the direction of the force .
a unit which is a standard measure of the force applied to a given area .
a pressure unit which is equal to 6894 .757 pascal .
a pressure unit which is equal to the pressure or stress on a surface caused by a force of 1 newton spread over a surface of 1 m^ [ 2 ]  .
a unit which is a standard measure of the work done by a certain force  ( gravitational ,  electric ,  magnetic ,  force of inertia ,  etc )  .
an imperial gravitational unit which is equivalent to a mass that accelerates by 1ft / s² when a force of one pound  ( lbf )  is exerted on it .
a metric teaspoon is a unit of measurement of volume widely used in cooking recipes and pharmaceutic prescriptions .
a united states customary units teaspoon is a unit of measurement of volume widely used in cooking recipes and pharmaceutic prescriptions in america .
a metric tablespoon is a unit of measurement of volume widely used in cooking recipes and pharmaceutic prescriptions .
an australian metric tablespoon is a unit of measurement of volume used in australia for cooking recipes and pharmaceutic prescriptions .
a united states customary units tablespoon is a unit of measurement of volume widely used in cooking recipes and pharmaceutic prescriptions in america .
a metric cup is a unit of measurement of volume widely used in cooking recipes and pharmaceutic prescriptions .
a united states customary units cup is a unit of measurement of volume widely used in cooking recipes and pharmaceutic prescriptions in america .
a united states fda cup is a unit of measurement of volume used by the us federal department of agriculture as a nutritional serving measure .
an energy unit which is equal to the energy required when a force of 1 newton moves an object 1 meter in the direction of the force .
a unit of energy widely used in nutrition ,  equivalent to the amount of heat needed to cause one kilogram of water to rise in temperature by one degree celsius .
a unit which is a standard measure power or the rate of doing work .
a power unit which is equal to the power used when work is done at the rate of 1 joule per second .
a unit which is a standard measure of the luminous flux incident on a unit area .
an illuminance unit which is equal to the illuminance produced by 1 lumen evenly spread over an area 1 m^ [ 2 ]  .
a unit which is a standard measure of the flow of radiant energy .
a luminous flux unit which is equal to the luminous flux emitted into 1 steradian by a point source of 1 candela .
a unit which is a standard measure of the amount of the action of a catalyst .
a catalytic unit activity which is equal to the activity of a catalyst in moles per second ,  such as the amount of an enzyme needed to transform one mole of substrate per second .
a unit which is a standard measure of the figure or space formed by the junction of two lines or planes .
a unit which is a standard measure of the angle formed by two straight lines in the same plane .
a plane angle unit which is equal to the angle subtended at the center of a circle by an arc equal in length to the radius of the circle ,  approximately 57 degrees 17 minutes and 44 .6 seconds .
a unit which is a standard measure of the angle formed by three or more planes intersecting at a common point .
a solid angle unit which is equal to the solid angle subtended at the center of a sphere by an area on the surface of the sphere that is equal to the radius squared .
a unit which is a standard measure of the amount of radiation emitted by a given radiation source as well as the amount of radiation absorbed or deposited in a specific material by a radiation source .
a unit which is a standard measure of the transformation  ( disintegration )  rate of a radioactive substance .
a unit which is a standard measure of the energy imparted by ionizing radiation to unit mass of matter such as tissue .
a unit which is a standard measure of the expression of dose in terms of its biological effect .
a unit which is a standard measure of the quantity that expresses the ability of radiation to ionize air and thereby create electric charges which can be collected and measured .
an activity  ( of a radionuclide )  unit which is equal to the activity of a quantity of radioactive material in which one nucleus decays per second or there is one atom disintegration per second  ( dps )  .
an activity  ( of a radionuclide )  unit which is equal to the activity of a quantity of radioactive material in which there are 3 .7 x 10^ [ 10 ]  atom disintegration per second  ( dps )  .
an absorbed dose unit which is equal to the absorption of one joule of radiation energy by one kilogram of matter .
an absorbed dose unit which is equal to 0 .01 gray  ( gy )  .
an exposure unit which is equal to the amount of radiation required to liberate positive and negative charges of one electrostatic unit of charge in 1 cm^ [ 3 ]  of air at standard temperature and pressure  ( stp )  .
a dose equivalent unit which is equal to the absorption of one joule of radiation energy by one kilogram of matter .
a dose equivalent unit which is equal to one thousandth of a sievert or 10^ [  - 3 ]  sv .
a dose equivalent unit which is equal to one millionth of a sievert or 10^ [  - 6 ]  sv .
a dose equivalent unit which when multiplied by hundred is equal to one sievert or 1 sv .
an absorbed dose unit which is equal to one millionth of a gray or 10^ [  - 6 ]  gy .
an absorbed dose unit which is equal to one thousandth of a gray or 10^ [  - 3 ]  gy .
an absorbed dose unit which is equal to one thousandth of a millionth of a gray or 10^ [  - 9 ]  gy .
a dose equivalent unit which is equal to one thousandth of a millionth of a sievert or 10^ [  - 9 ]  sv .
an activity  ( of a radionuclide )  unit which is equal to one thousandth of a curie or 10^ [  - 3 ]  ci .
an activity  ( of a radionuclide )  unit which is equal to one millionth of a curie or 10^ [  - 6 ]  ci .
an activity  ( of a radionuclide )  unit which is equal to the activity of a quantity of radioactive material in which one nucleus decays per minute or there is one atom disintegration per minute .
an activity  ( of a radionuclide )  unit which is equal to the number of light emissions produced by ionizing radiation in one minute .
a time unit which is equal to one thousandth of one millionth of a second or 10^ [  - 9 ]  s .
a time unit which is equal to 100 years .
a time unit which represents the period over which the activity or concentration of a specified chemical or element falls to half its original activity or concentration .
an illuminance unit which is equal to the illuminance produced by 1 lumen evenly spread over an area 1 foot^ [ 2 ]  .
a unit which is a standard measure of the power of electromagnetic radiation at a surface ,  per unit area .
an irradiance unit which is equal to 1 watt of radiant power incident per one square meter surface area .
an irradiance unit which is equal to one einstein per square meter per second .
a unit which is a standard measure of the intensity of light .
a radiance unit which is equal to one watt of radiant power incident per steradian solid angle per one square meter projected area of the source ,  as viewed from the given direction .
a unit which is a standard measure of the intensity of electromagnetic radiation .
an irradiance unit which is equal to one microeinstein per square meter per second or 10^ [  - 6 ]  microeinstein / sm^ [ 2 ]  .
a unit which is a standard measure of the power of electromagnetic radiation through space or through a material medium in the form of electromagnetic waves .
a radiant intensity unit which is equal to one kilogram meter squared per second cubed per steradian .
a dimensionless concentration unit which denotes the mass of a substance in a mixture as a percentage of the mass of the entire mixture .
a dimensionless concentration unit which denotes the mass of the substance in a mixture as a percentage of the volume of the entire mixture .
a dimensionless concentration unit which denotes the volume of the solute in ml per 100 ml of the resulting solution .
a dimensionless concentration notation which describes the amount of one substance in another .
a dimensionless concentration notation which denotes the amount of a given substance in a total amount of 100 regardless of the units of measure as long as they are the same .
a dimensionless concentration notation which denotes the amount of a given substance in a total amount of 1000 regardless of the units of measure as long as they are the same .
a dimensionless concentration notation which denotes the amount of a given substance in a total amount of 1 , 000 , 000 regardless of the units of measure used as long as they are the same or 1 part in 10^ [ 6 ]  .
a dimensionless concentration notation which denotes the amount of a given substance in a total amount of 1 , 000 , 000 , 000 regardless of the units of measure as long as they are the same or 1 part in 10^ [ 9 ]  .
a dimensionless concentration notation which denotes the amount of a given substance in a total amount of 1 , 000 , 000 , 000 regardless of the units of measure used as long as they are the same or 1 part in 10^ [ 12 ]  .
a dimensionless concentration notation which denotes the amount of a given substance in a total amount of 1 , 000 , 000 , 000 , 000 regardless of the units of measure used as long as they are the same or 1 part in 10^ [ 15 ]  .
a mass unit density which is equal to mass of an object in grams divided by the volume in milliliter .
a mass unit density which is equal to mass of an object in kilograms divided by the volume in liters .
a mass unit density which is equal to mass of an object in grams divided by the volume in liters .
a mass unit density which is equal to mass of an object in milligrams divided by the volume in milliliters .
a concentration unit which is a standard measure of the number of units ,  as an agreed arbitrary amount ,  of a given substance per a specific volume of solution .
a unit per milliliter unit which is equal to one unit of an agreed arbitrary amount per one milliliter .
a unit per milliliter unit which is equal to one unit of an agreed arbitrary amount per one liter .
a concentration unit which is a standard measure of the mass of a substance in a given volume  ( density )  .
a catalytic unit activity which is equal to the amount of the enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of 1 micro mole of substrate per minute .
a unit which is a standard measure of the influence exerted by some mass .
a density unit which is a standard measure of the mass exerting an influence on a one - dimensional object .
an area density unit which is equal to the mass of an object in kilograms divided by one meter .
a plane angle unit which is equal to 1 / 360 of a full rotation or 1 .7453310^ [  - 2 ]  rad .
a unit which is a standard measure of physical quantity consisting of only a numerical number without any units .
a dimensionless ratio unit which denotes numbers as fractions of 100 .
a dimensionless unit which denoted an irrational real number ,  approximately equal to 3 .14159 which is the ratio of a circle's circumference to its diameter in euclidean geometry .
a dimensionless unit which denotes a simple count of things .
a dimensionless ratio unit which ,  given a pair of quantities a and b ,  for which b is a multiple of a ,  denotes b by giving the multiplier  ( coefficient )  c for a to result in b .
a dimensionless ratio unit which relates the part  ( the numerator )  to the whole  ( the denominator )  .
a dimensionless count unit which denotes the number of molecules .
a dimensionless percent unit which denotes the homogeneity of a biomaterial .
a dimensionless percent unit which denotes the density of an attached or monolayer culture  ( e .g . ,  cell culture )  .
a temperature unit which is equal to 5 / 9ths of a kelvin .
a dimensionless concentration notation which denotes the acidity of a solution in terms of activity of hydrogen ions  ( h +  )  .
a specific volume unit which is equal to one liter volume occupied by one kilogram of a particular substance .
a specific volume unit which is equal to a thousandth of a liter per kilogram or 10^ [  - 3 ]  l / kg .
a specific volume unit which is equal to one millionth of a liter per kilogram or 10^ [  - 6 ]  l / kg .
a concentration unit which denotes the average cell number in a given volume .
a unit of cell concentration which is equal to one cell in a volume of 1 milliliter .
a concentration unit which is a standard measure of the amount of the action of a catalyst in a given volume .
a catalytic  ( activity )  concentration unit which is equal to 1 katal activity of a catalyst in a given volume of one cubic meter .
a catalytic  ( activity )  concentration unit which is equal to 1 katal activity of a catalyst in a given volume of one thousandth of a cubic meter .
a specific concentration unit which is equal to 1 micromole in a given volume of one thousandth of a cubic meter .
a specific concentration unit which is equal to 1 micromole of a given substance per kilogram of solvent .
a dimensionless concentration unit which denotes the given volume of the solute in the total volume of the resulting solution .
a volume per unit volume unit which is equal to one millionth of a liter of solute in one cubic meter of solution .
a volume per unit volume unit which is equal to one millionth of a liter of solute in one liter of solution .
a mass density unit which is equal to mass of an object in grams divided by the volume in deciliters .
a volume unit which is equal to one tenth of a liter or 10^ [  - 1 ]  l .
a dimensionless count unit which a measure of viable bacterial numbers .
a dimensionless count unit which a measure of plague forming units in a given volume .
a concentration unit which a measure of viable bacterial numbers in a given volume .
a colony forming unit which a measure of viable bacterial numbers in one milliliter .
a concentration unit which a measure of plague forming units in a given volume .
a concentration unit which a measure of plague forming units in one milliliter .
an activity  ( of a radionuclide )  unit which is equal to the activity of a quantity of radioactive material in which one nucleus decays per second or there is one atom disintegration per second .
a unit which is a standard measure of the work done per unit charge as a charge is moved between two points in an electric field .
an electric potential difference unit which is equal to the work per unit charge .
a unit which is a standard measure of the quantity of unbalanced electricity in a body  ( either positive or negative )  and construed as an excess or deficiency of electrons .
an electrical charge unit which is equal to the amount of charge transferred by a current of 1 ampere in 1 second .
an independently to the base si units defined mass unit which is equal to one twelfth of the mass of an unbound atom of the carbon - 12 nuclide ,  at rest and in its ground state .
a mass unit which is equal to one thousand daltons .
an energy unit which is equal to the amount of electrical energy equivalent to a one - watt load drawing power for one hour .
an energy unit which is equal to 1 , 000 watt - hours .
a unit which is a standard measure of quantity of magnetism ,  taking account of the strength and the extent of a magnetic field .
a magnetic flux unit which is equal to the amount of flux that when linked with a single turn of wire for an interval of one second will induce an electromotive force of one volt .
a unit which is a standard measure of the strength of a magnetic field .
a magnetic flux density unit which is equal to one weber per square meter .
a magnetic flux unit which is equal to 3600 wb .
a magnetic flux unit which is equal to one thousand volt - hours .
a unit which is a standard measure of the amount of information .
an information unit which refers to a digit in the binary numeral system ,  which consists of base 2 digits  ( ie there are only 2 possible values: 0 or 1 )  .
an information unit which is equal to 8 bits .
an information unit which is equal to 1000 bytes .
an information unit which is equal to 1000 kb .
an information unit which is a standard measure of the detail an image holds .
an image resolution unit which is a standard measure of the amount of spatial detail in an image .
an image resolution unit which is a standard measure of the amount of contrast available in a pixel .
an image resolution unit which is a standard measure of the way luminance and chrominance may be sampled at different levels .
a spatial resolution unit which is a standard measure of the printing resolution ,  in particular the number of individual dots of ink a printer or toner can produce within a linear one - inch space .
a spatial resolution unit which is equal to a pixel size of one micrometer .
a spatial resolution unit which is a standard measure of the resolution of a computer display ,  related to the size of the display in inches and the total number of pixels in the horizontal and vertical directions .
a spatial resolution unit which is a standard measure of the number of pixels in one millimeter length or width of a digital image divided by the physical length or width of a printed image .
a count unit which contains one nucleotide .
an information unit which is equal to 1024 b .
an information unit which is equal to 1024 kib .
an electric potential difference unit which is equal to one thousandth of a volt or 10^ [  - 3 ]  v .
an electric potential difference unit which is equal to one thousand volts or 10^ [ 3 ]  v .
an electric potential difference unit which is equal to one millionth of a volt or 10^ [  - 6 ]  v .
an electric potential difference unit which is equal to one billionth of a volt or 10^ [  - 12 ]  v .
an electric potential difference unit which is equal to one trillionth of a volt or 10^ [  - 12 ]  v .
an electric potential difference unit which is equal to one million volts or 10^ [ 6 ]  v .
a unit which is a standard measure of the ability of a liguid to attraction of molecules at its surface as a result of unbalanced molecular cohesive forces .
a surface tension unit which is equal to one newton per meter .
a surface tension unit which is equal to one dyne per centimeter .
a unit which is a standard measure of the internal resistance of fluids to flow .
a viscosity unit which is equal to one pascale per second .
a viscosity unit which is equal to one dyne second per square centimeter .
a ratio unit which is an indicator of sound power per unit area .
a unit which is a standard measure of the estimate of the stochastic effect that a non - uniform radiation dose has on a human .
a unit which represents a standard measurement of the transmission of an entity through a medium .
a unit which represents a standard measurement of the movement of electrically charged particles through a transmission medium  ( electrical conductor )  .
an electrical mobility unit which is equal to one volt second per square centimeter .
a unit which represents a standard measurement of the spontaneous transfer of thermal energy through matter ,  from a region of higher temperature to a region of lower temperature .
an electrical conduction unit which is equal to a / v .
an electrical conduction unit which is equal to one thousandth of a siemen or 10^ [  - 3 ]  siemens .
an heat conduction unit which is equal to one watt divided by meter kelvin .
a non - si unit of energy  ( ev )  defined as the energy acquired by a single unbound electron when it passes through an electrostatic potential difference of one volt .
the electric field strength is a unit which is a measure of the potential difference between two points some distance apart .
the volt per meter is a unit of electric field strength equal to the a potential difference of 1 volt existing between two points that are 1 meter apart .
a dimensionless logarithmic unit assigned to a measure of absorbance of light through a partially absorbing substance ,  defined as  - log10 ( i / i_0 )  where i = transmitted light and i_0 = incident light .
a unit which is a standard measure of the volume of fluid which passes through a given surface per unit time  .
a volumetric flow rate unit which is equal to one microliter volume through a given surface in one minute .
a unit of pressure equal to the amount of fluid pressure one millimeter deep in mercury at zero degrees centigrade on earth .
a mass unit density which is equal to mass of an object in milligrams divided by the volume in liters .
a mass unit density which is equal to mass of an object in micrograms divided by the volume in millliters .
a mass unit density which is equal to mass of an object in nanograms divided by the volume in milliliters .
a mass unit density which is equal to mass of an object in nanograms divided by the volume in microliters .
a unit of mass concentration defined as the number of micrograms of a substance per 250 ml wheaton bottle .
a concentration unit which is a standard measure of the amount of a substance in a given container .
a unit which is equal to one microgram per disk ,  where a disk is some physical surface / container upon which the substance is deposited .
a unit which is equal to one nanomole per disk ,  where a disk is some physical surface / container upon which the substance is deposited .
a unit per milliliter unit which is equal to one thousandth of a unit of an agreed arbitrary amount per one milliliter .
a unit which represents a standard measurement occurrence of a process per unit time .
a rate unit which is equal to one over one nanomolar second .
a rate unit which is equal to one over one molar second .
an area density unit which is equal to the mass of an object in kilograms divided by the surface area in hectares .
a rate unit which is equal to one over one nanomolar .
a rate unit which is equal to one over one molar .
a prefix in the metric system denoting a factor of ten to the power of 24 .
a prefix in the metric system denoting a factor of one hundred .
a prefix in the metric system denoting a factor of ten to the power of 21 .
a prefix in the metric system denoting a factor of ten to the power of 18 .
a prefix in the metric system denoting a factor of ten to the power of 15 .
a prefix in the metric system denoting a factor of ten to the power of 12 .
a prefix in the metric system denoting a factor of ten to the power of 9 .
a prefix in the metric system denoting a factor of million .
a prefix in the metric system denoting a factor of one thousand .
a prefix in the metric system denoting a factor of ten .
a prefix in the metric system denoting a factor of one tenth .
a prefix in the metric system denoting a factor of one hundred .
a prefix in the metric system denoting a factor of 10 to the power of  - 6 .
a prefix in the metric system denoting a factor of 10 to the power of  - 9 .
a mass unit density which is equal to mass of an object in micrograms divided by the volume in liters .
a prefix in the metric system denoting a factor of 10 to the power of  - 12 .
a prefix in the metric system denoting a factor of 10 to the power of  - 15 .
a prefix in the metric system denoting a factor of 10 to the power of  - 18 .
a prefix in the metric system denoting a factor of 10 to the power of  - 21 .
a prefix in the metric system denoting a factor of 10 to the power of  - 24 .
a concentration unit which is a standard measure of the amount of a toxic or pharmaceutical substance administered to a recipient subject ,  expressed in terms of the size of the subject .
a dose unit which is equal to 1 milligram of a toxic or pharmaceutical substance per kilogram body weight of the recipient subject .
a dose unit which is equal to 1 milligram of a toxic or pharmaceutical substance per square meter of surface area of the recipient subject .
a concentration unit which is a standard measure of the amount of a toxic or pharmaceutical substance administered over time to a recipient subject ,  expressed in terms of the size of the subject .
a dosage unit which is equal to 1 milligram per day of a toxic or pharmaceutical substance per kilogram body weight of the recipient subject .
a derived unit which is a measure of relative light intensity ,  as typically measured by a luminometer ,  spectrophotometer ,  or fluorimeter in biological research applications .
a relative light unit which is a measure of relative luminescence intensity .
a relative light unit which is a measure of relative fluorescence intensity .
a unit used to indicate the clarity of water or other solutions or suspensions ,  as measured by the ability of the solution or suspension to scatter light of a defined wavelength range .
a unit of cell concentration which is equal to one cell in a volume of 1 microliter .
a unit of cell concentration which is equal to 1 cell in a well or discrete container of arbitrary volume .
1000 formazin turbidity units  ( fnu )  on the empirical formazin turbidity scale represents reflectance of insol .
a concentration unit which is a standard measure of the amount of radioactivity in a given volume .
a unit of radioactivity concentration which is equal to one curie in a volume of 1 liter .
a unit of radioactivity concentration which is equal to one micro curie in a volume of 1 liter .
a unit that is the ratio of concentration of two solutions of interest ,  typically with one solution derived from the other by the addition of solvent .
an area density unit which is equal to the mass of an object in tons divided by the surface area in hectares .
an area unit which is equal to an area enclosed by a square with sides each 1 angstrom long .
a frequency unit which is equal to one million hertz or 10^ [ 6 ]  v .
a unit used to express distances on a genetic map .
a unit of genetic map distance defined corresponding to an interval in which there is a 1% probability of x - irradiation induced breakage .
a unit equal to one thousand base pairs .
a unit equal to one million base pairs
a unit equal to one billion base pairs .
an information unit which is equal to 1000000000 bytes .
an information unit which is equal to 1000 gigabytes .
an area density unit which is equal to the mass of an object in grams divided by the surface area in meters squared .
