one of the large ,  unbroken masses of land into which the earth's surface is divided .
any geographic area greater than an individual country but smaller than a continent ,  used as a convenience reference .
a collective generic term that refers here to a wide variety of dependencies ,  areas of special sovereignty ,  uninhabited islands ,  and other entities in addition to the traditional countries or independent states .
population category defined using ancestry informative markers  ( aims )  based on genetic / genomic data
includes individuals who either self - report or have been described by authors as european ,  caucasian ,  white or one of the sub - populations from this region  ( e .g dutch )  .
includes individuals who either self - report or have been described by authors as south asian or one of the sub - populations from this region  ( e .g asian indian )  .
includes individuals who either self - report or have been described by authors as south east asian or one of the sub - populations from this region  ( e .g vietnamese )  .
includes individuals that either self - report or have been described as asian but there was not sufficient information to allow classification as east asian ,  central asian ,  south asian or south - east asian .
includes individuals who either self - report or have been described by authors as east asian or one of the sub - populations from this region  ( e .g chinese )  .
includes individuals that either self - report or have been described as african ,  but there was not sufficient information to allow classification as african american ,  afrocaribbean or sub - saharan african .
includes individuals who either self - report or have been described by authors as subsaharan african or one of the subpopulations from this region  ( e .g .
includes indigenous individuals of north ,  central and south america ,  descended from the original human migration into the americas from siberia .
includes individuals who either self - report or are described by authors as hispanic ,  latino ,  latin american or one of the sub - populations from this region .
includes individuals who self - report or were described by authors as middle eastern ,  north african ,  persian or one of the subpopulations from this region  ( e .g .
includes individuals who either self - report or have been described by authors as african american or afro - caribbean .
includes individuals that either self - report or have been described by authors as oceanian or one of the sub - populations from this region  ( e .g .
a population for which specific ancestry information is known but that does not fall into any of the defined ancestry categories
includes individuals who either self - report or have been described by authors as central asian .
a population with increased genetic homogeneity and reduced genetic variation due to cultural or geographic isolation
general characterisation of the ancestry of a population or individual
ancestry that is the result of cultural or geographic isolation .
ancestry which is an admixture of more than one defined ancestral population .
includes individuals who either self - report or have been described by authors as australian aboriginal .
includes native populations of alaska ,  siberia ,  and the aleutian archipelago .
population for which insufficient information is available to allocate it to a specific ancestral group or which contain individuals from a range of known ancestry categories ,  eg american
the esan people are one of the major ethnic groups in edo state ,  nigeria who speak the esan language .
the luhya are the second - largest ethnic group in kenya and are comprised of subgroups that speak a common bantu language .
the maasai are an indigenous african ethnic group of semi - nomadic people located in northern tanzania and kenya .
the mende people are one of the largest ethnic groups in sierra leone who speak a language of the mande branch of the niger - congo family .
native people residing in the arctic of alaska ,  northern canada ,  greenland ,  or eastern siberia
includes individuals with ethnic origins in the semitic people populating the arabian peninsula and other countries in the middle east and northern africa
