an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
b is an independent continuant = def .
p is a process = def .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
a role is particular behaviour which a material entity may exhibit .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
material anatomical entity that is a member of an individual species or is a viral or viroid particle .
any main group molecular entity that is gaseous at standard temperature and pressure  ( stp ;  0degreec and 100 kpa )  .
an environmental material primarily composed of dihydrogen oxide in its liquid form .
an elemental molecule consisting of two hydrogens joined by a single bond .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biological context .
hydroxides are chemical compounds containing a hydroxy group or salts containing hydroxide  ( oh (  -  )  )  .
a molecular entity that contains no carbon .
a molecule all atoms of which have the same atomic number .
any polyatomic entity that is an electrically neutral entity consisting of more than one atom .
a molecular entity all atoms of which have the same atomic number .
any p - block molecular entity containing a chalcogen .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms from any of groups 1 ,  2 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  and 18 of the periodic table .
an s - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an s - block element .
a main group molecular entity that contains one or more atoms of a p - block element .
hydrides are chemical compounds of hydrogen with other chemical elements .
any molecular entity consisting of more than one atom .
a molecular entity consisting of two or more chemical elements .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a chemical context .
any environmental contaminant that is resistant to environmental degradation through photolytic ,  biological or chemical processes .
any substance that is distributed in foodstuffs .
any minor or unwanted substance introduced into the environment that can have undesired effects .
any unwanted chemical in food .
an anthropogenic geographic feature is a geographic feature resulting from the influence of human beings on nature .
a primary administrative division of a country ,  such as a state in the united states .
a subdivision of a first - order administrative division .
a subdivision of a second - order administrative division .
a subdivision of a third - order administrative division .
a political association with effective dominion over a geographic area .
a geographical feature associated with water .
a marine water body which is constitutes the majority of an astronomical body's hydrosphere .
a large expanse of saline water usually connected with an ocean .
a body of water or other liquid of considerable size contained in a depression on a landmass .
a stream which ,  through permanent or seasonal flow processes ,  moves from elevated land towards lower elevations through a definite channel and empties either into a sea ,  lake ,  or another river or ends on land as bed seepage and evapotranspiration exceed water supply .
linear body of water flowing on the earth's surface .
a flowing body of water .
place or area with clustered or scattered buildings and a permanent human population .
an accumulation of water of varying size .
a feature that has been constructed by deliberate human effort .
a geographical region whose affairs and population are administered by an authority .
a political entitity established by more than one state and with at least some influence over the affairs of its member states .
an area of land or of a body of water in which management practices ,   through legal or other effective means ,  prioritise the protection and maintenance of biological diversity ,  and of natural and associated cultural resources .
a biome is an ecosystem to which resident ecological communities have evolved adaptations .
a biome that applies to the terrestrial realm .
a region at which weapons ,  typically military ,  are tested .
a weapons test site at which nuclear weapons are ,  or have been ,  tested .
incorporated populated place .
a significant accumulation of water which is part of a marine biome .
water that has been adversely affected in quality by anthropogenic influence .
an environmental feature that is ,  or can be ,  contained and is predominantly composed of one or a few types of stuff .
water which has a low concentration of dissolved solutes ,  particularly that of sodium chloride .
wastewater that is contaminated with feces or urine , 
a material which is not the desired output of a process and which is typically the input of a process which removes it from its producer  ( e .g .
a material entity which determines an environmental system .
drinking water is water which may be consumed by humans with no adverse effects on their health .
a material entity that has been processed by humans or their technology in any way ,  including intermediate products as well as final products .
a portion of environmental material is a fiat object which forms the medium or part of the medium of an environmental system .
a prominent or distinctive aspect ,  quality ,  or characteristic of environments occurring within the marine water column .
an anthropogenic terrestrial biome is a terrestrial biome which has community structures determined by human activity .
a cropland biome is an anthropogenic terrestrial biome which is primarily used for agricultural activity and which contains no village or larger human settlement .
a village biome is an anthropogenic terrestrial biome which contains settlements such as villages ,  towns ,  and / or small cities and which is primarily used for agricultural activity .
a rangeland biome is an anthropogenic terrestrial biome which is primarily used for the rearing and grazing of livestock .
a dense settlement biome is an anthropogenic terrestrial biome which is primarily used for human habitation ,  recreation ,  and industry within built structures with little other land use .
an urban biome is a dense settlement biome which has been urbanised .
a system which has the disposition to environ one or more material entities .
water vapour is a vapour which is the gas phase of water .
atmospheric water vapour is water vapour that is part of an atmosphere .
an anthropogenic environment is an environmental system which is the product of human activity .
a site which has its extent determined by the presence or influence of one or more components of an environmental system or the processes occurring therein .
atmospheric carbon dioxide is an environmental material composed of carbon dioxide in its gaseous form present in an atmosphere .
atmospheric ozone is an environmental material primarily composed of ozone in its gaseous form and present in an atmosphere .
a lentic water body is a water body in which the accumulated water ,  in its totality ,  has very little to no directed flow .
a lotic water body is a water body in which the accumulated water ,  in its totality ,  is flowing .
the long - term fluctuations in temperature ,  precipitation ,  wind ,  and all other aspects of the earth's climate .
a volcanic process is a process during which lava ,  tephra  ( ash ,  lapilli ,  volcanic bombs and blocks )  ,  and assorted gases are expelled from a volcanic vent or fissure .
outer space is a hard vacuum containing a low density of particles ,  predominantly a plasma of hydrogen and helium as well as electromagnetic radiation ,  magnetic fields ,  neutrinos ,  dust and cosmic rays that exists between celestial bodies .
a slum is a heavily populated urban informal settlement with substandard housing in which households lack any one of the following: access to improved water ,  access to improved sanitation ,  sufficient - living area ,  durability of housing ,  or security of tenure .
an explosive eruption is a volcanic process in which pressurised magma is violently expelled and froths into volcanic ash .
an effusive eruption is a volcanic eruption during which lava flows onto the ground .
a settlement with a high density of buildings and inhabitants .
a role that is realized in some process wherein the bearer is discarded or not utilized further .
an earthquake is a process whereby part of the surface of a planet shakes due to the passage of seismic waves through rocks .
a tectonic earthquake is an earthquake caused by the release of elastic strain .
a megathrust earthquake is a tectonic earthquake which occurs at subduction zones at destructive plate boundaries  ( convergent boundaries )  .
a lake which has concentrations of environmental contaminants high enough to harm the ecosystems associated with it .
a coast is the area where land meets the sea ,  ocean ,  or lake .
a tsunami is a process during which a series of waves is generated in a water body ,  typically an ocean or large lake ,  by the displacement of a large volume of water .
mass wasting is the geomorphic process by which solid environmental material such as soil ,  sand ,  regolith ,  and / or rock move downslope typically as a mass ,  largely under the force of gravity ,  but frequently affected by water and water content as in submarine environments and mudslides .
an avalanche is a rapid flow of snow down a sloping surface .
a landslide is a process whereby a large mass of earth and rocks moves down a hill or a mountainside .
a subsidence process is a geomorphologic process in which a surface shifts downward relative to a datum such as sea - level .
a mass wasting flow is a form of mass wasting during which the moving materials behave similarly to a flowing fluid .
a mudflow is a form of mass wasting which involves very rapid to extremely rapid surging flow of debris that has become partially or fully liquified by the addition of significant amounts of water to clay - rich source material .
a lahar is a type of mudflow or debris flow composed of a slurry of pyroclastic material ,  rocky debris ,  and water .
a sturzstrom is a landslide consisting which has a great amount of kinetic energy resulting in greater horizontal movement when compared to its initial vertical drop — as much as 20 or 30 times the vertical distance .
an ash fall process is a process in which volcanic ash formed during an explosive volcanic eruption ,  phreatomagmatic eruption ,  or during material transport in pyroclastic density currents is pulled towards the planetary surface by gravity .
coastal flooding is a process in which normally dry ,  low - lying land near a coast is flooded by sea water .
riverine flooding is a process in which the flow rate of river water exceeds the capacity of its channel ,  thus flooding neighbouring land .
flash flooding is a process in which low - lying land is inundated with water for a short period of time and are usually the result of precipitation or a breach in the container of a water body .
an unusual accumulation of water above the ground caused by high tide ,  heavy rain ,  melting snow or rapid runoff from paved areas .
a coastal flood is a flood which is formed as a result of large amounts of water from marine water bodies or large lakes being transported to usually dry land by displacement processes such as high winds or seismic activity .
a riverine flood is a flood which is formed as a result of a river's flow rate exceeding the capacity of its channel .
a flash flood is a flood formed by the rapid flooding of geomorphic low - lying areas .
a storm surge is a coastal flood which is caused by low - pressure weather systems such as tropical cyclones and strong extratropical cyclones ,  the severity of which is affected by the shallowness and orientation of the water body relative to storm path ,  and the timing of tides .
a meteotsunami is a tsunami caused by atmospheric processes and differences in air pressure .
a storm surge process is a coastal flooding process which is caused by low pressure weather systems such as tropical cyclones and strong extratropical cyclones ,  the severity of which is affected by the shallowness and orientation of the water body relative to storm path ,  and the timing of tides .
areal flooding is a flooding process in which flat or low - lying areas become inundated with water due to water input exceeding infiltration ,  evaporation ,  or run off .
urban flooding is a flooding process in which land or property in a built environment ,  particularly in more densely populated areas ,  is inundated due to the rate of water input exceeding that of water drainage provided by the environment's drainage systems .
a process in which a volume of lava emitted during an effusive eruption moves along a solid surface .
a process in which some input bearing a waste role is consumed to produce an output which bears a resource role .
a carbon emission process is any environmental process which outputs a carbon - bearing gas .
a process in which natural ecosystems present over an expanse of land are removed and replaced with anthropogenic ecosystems .
a self - contained constructed feature used by one or more households as a home ,  such as a house ,  apartment ,  mobile home ,  houseboat or other 'substantial' structure .
a settlement with a low density of buildings and inhabitants .
a settlement which has lower population density than a town ,  city ,  or other urban environment and is primarily used for agricultural or pastoral activity .
a settlement which has been established and is managed through officially sanctioned processes and is recognised as legal by a competent authority .
a settlement which is not associated with or directed by official planning processes and which typically lacks municipal services and infrastructure such as sanitation ,  water services ,  and waste management services .
a settlement on land that the inhabitants have no legal claim to or occupy illegally .
a carbon emission process is any environmental process which releases carbon dioxide gas into the atmosphere .
a volume of carbon dioxide gas emitted by a carbon dioxide emission process .
an area which is outside of a town ,  city ,  or urban area .
a village is a clustered human settlement or community ,  larger than a hamlet but smaller than a town ,  with a population ranging from a few hundred to a few thousand .
an environmental zone which contains ,  as determined by an officially mandated selection process ,  one or more ecosystems which include ,  as parts ,  ecological communities of global significance for conservation due to their vulnerability and irreplaceability .
the system of public works in a country ,  state or region ,  including roads ,  utility lines and public buildings .
a populated place where groups of housing units have been constructed on land that the occupants have no legal claim to ,  or occupy illegally ,  or where dwellings are not in compliance with current planning and building regulations .
a planned process during which a portion of environmental material is removed from a material entity .
a material entity which is composed of one or more chemical entities and has neither independent shape nor volume but tends to expand indefinitely .
an object which is naturally occuring ,  bound together by gravitational or electromagnetic forces ,  and surrounded by space .
an object which is composed of one or more gravitationally bound structures that are associated with a position in space .
a material part of an astronomical body .
an environmental material which is in a liquid state .
a biosphere is an environmental system which includes ,  as parts ,  all the living entities within the gravitational sphere of influence of an astronomical body ,  and the non - living and dead entities which they interact with .
a precipitation process is a process in which a portion of some substance segregates from a material in which that substance or its precursors were dissolved or suspended in and settles due to a force such as gravity or centrifugal force .
an ecosystem which bridges two or more adjoining ecosystems and through which organisms may move or propagate .
an environmental system in which minimal to no anthropisation has occurred and non - human agents are the primary determinants of the system's dynamics and composition .
a process during which a natural environmental system is altered by human action .
a process whereby a volume of liquid moves due to a disequilibrium of physical forces .
an environmental system which includes ,  as parts ,  all the entities which have been constructed or manufactured by humans or their technology within the gravitational sphere of influence of an astronomical body .
a planned process during which raw or recycled materials are transformed into products for use or sale using labour and machines ,  tools ,  chemical and biological processing ,  or formulation .
an process during which natural or manufactured materials and products are processed and arranged by humans or their technology into structures .
an environmental system which is determined by materials bearing roughly homogeneous qualities .
an environmental system within which an environmental material strongly influences the system's composition and properties .
an environmental system which is determined by a living organism .
an environmental system determined by an animal .
an environmental system determined by part of a living or dead animal ,  or a whole small animal .
an environmental system determined by part of a living or dead plant ,  or a whole small plant .
an environmental system which includes both living and non - living components .
an environmental zone which is bounded by material parts of a land mass or the atmosphere or space adjacent to it .
a terrestrial zone which is bounded by constructed ,  manufactured ,  or other anthropogenic material entities .
a body of water which is primarily composed of saline water .
a material transport process during which a volume of material is displaced due to a disequilirium in physical forces and during which 1 )  the qualities that inhere in that volume and 2 )  the processes that are unfolding within it are largely unchanged .
a process in which includes the components of an environmental system as participants .
a type of land degradation in which a relatively dry land region becomes increasingly arid ,  typically losing its bodies of water as well as vegetation and wildlife .
a general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland and / or tidal waters ,  and / or the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source .
a process which diminishes the functioning of an ecosystem located on land .
establishment of a new forest by seeding or planting of nonforested land .
the removal of forest and undergrowth to ,  for example ,  increase the surface of arable land or to use the timber for construction or industrial purposes .
the planting of trees in areas in where forests have previously been cleared .
a process during which humans apply technology to alter the magnitude ,  duration ,  rate ,  or impact of an environmental process .
an environmental process which is driven by the action of humans .
an environmental process which has water  -  in any of its states  -  as a participant .
an environmental system process that results in the introduction of contaminants into an environment .
a pollution process during which particulates or other contaminants are released into a portion of air .
a pollution process during which contaminants are released into soil .
a pollution process during which contaminants are released into water .
a pollution process during which plastic contaminants are released into an environmental material .
an process in which environmental parameters and variables are continually assayed .
a planned process during which the amount of pollutants released into an environmental system is regulated .
a monitoring process that assays the level of environmental pollutants to determine the presence of effect of environmental pollution .
a pollution process that results in increased levels of pollutants in an urban environment .
a process during which material is displaced from its original location and transported either to a new location or back to the original location .
a material transport process during which a portion of gaseous environmental material is transported into the atmosphere .
a gas emission process during which a portion of hydrocarbon gas is transported into the atmosphere .
a substance ,  usually composed primarily of carbohydrates ,  fats ,  water and / or proteins ,  that can be eaten or drunk by an animal or human being for nutrition or pleasure .
this is a working folder that holds langual siren database product types that need to be reviewed for placement within the food product hierarchy .
drinking water that has been treated by heat ,  filtration ,  chemical disinfection ,  and / or exposure to ultraviolet radiation  ( including solar uv )  .
beverage containing no more than 0 .5% alcohol ;  it may be flavored ,  sweetened or carbonated ;  includes soft drinks and steeped beverages ;  excludes milk in all forms ,  fruit juices ,  diluted fruit juices and vegetable juices .
alcoholic or nonalcoholic beverage ;  excludes milk and milk - based beverages ,  fruit juices and fruit juice drinks ,  and vegetable juices .
nonalcoholic beverage made from potable water by adding one or more of the following: carbon dioxide ,  flavoring ingredients or sweeteners .
beverage containing more than 0 .5% alcohol ;  includes distilled spirits ,  malt beverage ,  and wine .
food group having common consumption ,  functional or manufacturing characteristics ,  e .g .
a food product type is a class of food products that is differentiated by its food composition ,  processing and / or consumption characteristics .
food and drugs ,  title 21 ,  code of federal regulations .
any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells ,  tissues ,  organs ,  and organisms .
a data item is an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
a generically dependent continuant that is about some thing .
the curation status of the term .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
the reason for which a term has been deprecated .
a denotator type indicates how a term should be interpreted from an ontological perspective .
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities
a time quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of how long the bearer has existed .
a quality of a single physical entity inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's size or shape or structure .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical magnitude .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial location relative to other objects in the vicinity .
a quality in which events occur in sequence .
an age which is relatively high .
an age which is relatively low .
a size quality which is relatively low .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting the physical characteristics of an entity characterized by particles arranged such that their shape and volume are relatively stable .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting the physical characteristics of an entity consisting of particles that have neither a defined volume nor defined shape .
a physical quality inhering in an entity exhibiting the physical characteristics of an amorphous  ( non - crystalline )  form of matter between a gas and a solid that has a definite volume ,  but no definite shape .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's extending out above or beyond a surface or boundary .
a quality inhering into a bearer by virtue of the bearer's extending out above or beyond its surface or boundary and outwards in relation to the physical space occupied by another entity .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being fit to be eaten .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its constitution .
a quality that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a material entity that consists of two or more organisms ,  viruses ,  or viroids .
a collection of organisms ,  all of the same species ,  that live in the same place .
a community of at least two different species ,  living in a particular area .
a material entity that has as parts two or more organisms ,  viruses ,  or viroids of the same species and no members of any other species .
a material entity that consists of one or more people who live in the same dwelling and also share at meals or living accommodation ,  and may consist of a single family or some other grouping of people .
a collection of organisms of the same species whose members are all either genealogically related to each other or have mated with each other .
a collection of organisms that consists of two or more organisms from at least two species .
a household in which the majority of the income of its members is derived from agricultural activities .
a material entity that is one or more organisms ,  viruses or viroids .
a plant structure  ( po:0005679 )  which is a whole organism .
an anatomical structure that is or was part of a plant ,  or was derived from a part of a plant .
an anatomical entity that is or was part of a plant .
a material entity consisting of multiple components that are causally integrated .
material anatomical entity that is a single connected structure with inherent 3d shape generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
an anatomical structure that has more than one cell as a part .
an objective specification which describes the endpoint of a development process following the sustainable development agenda for 2030 .
a threshold value of a sustainable development indicator value or a set of threshold values of several such indicators towards or beyond which corresponding indicator values from a socio - economic - environmental system should tend in order to meet a sustainable development goal .
a material entity which is composed of one or more parts of an environmental system ,  including its natural and anthropogenic socioeconomic components ,  which is thought to represent the state of the entire system .
a data item which represents a sustainable development goal indicator in some quantitative or qualitative system of measurement .
a process in which the parts of a socio - economic - environmental system ,  as well as their interactions and qualities ,  transition to meet one or more sustainable development goals .
an environmental system which provides access to some resource .
a system that provides access to some resource in a sustainable manner .
a disposition that inheres in a person or population who bears the ability ,  right ,  and permission to approach and use an accessible resource .
a disposition of a human societal system to recognise and protect ,  through various means ,  the ability of an entity to approach and use a resource .
the disposition of an environmental system to physically provide a resource to the consumer or user of that resource .
a disposition of an environmental system to allow an entity to approach and use a resource .
a process during which a resource is consumed and confers some benefit to the user .
a process in which a potential consumer of a resource decreases their spatial distance to that resource ,  acting out of the right ,  permission ,  and ability of access .
a material or immaterial entity which may confer benefit to its user or consumer .
a process which is causally within or downstream of another process whose direct or indirect effects cause one or more entities to realise one or more of their dispositions .
an exposure process which is causally downstream of or within a flooding process and during which an entity realises one or more of its dispositions .
an exposure process which is causally downstream of or within a coastal flooding process and during which an entity realises one or more of its dispositions .
an exposure process during which a portion of contaminated environmental material is the causal agent in an entity realising one or more of its dispositions .
an exposure process during which a portion of contaminated water is the causal agent in an entity realising one or more of its dispositions .
an exposure process which is causally downstream of or within the flooding of a contaminated lake and during which an entity realises one or more of its dispositions .
a disposition of a bearer to realise one or more of its vulnerabilities when participating in a process which exposes the bearer to a hazard or combination of hazards .
a disposition of an entity to cause harm or damage to another entity .
the risk that a bearer realises its vulnerability towards flooding when participating in a process which exposes the bearer to a flooding hazard .
the risk that a bearer realises its vulnerability towards drowning when participating in a process which exposes the bearer to a drowning hazard .
a disposition of an entity to undergo undesirable change in response to some exposure .
affordable housing is housing which has been deemed affordable to those with a median household income as rated by a country ,  state  ( province )  ,  region or municipality using a recognized housing affordability index .
a vulnerability borne by an entity which may be impacted by flooding .
a vulnerability borne by an entity which may be killed by drowning .
a process which increases an entity's disposition to recover its previous composition ,  qualities ,  and functionality following some perturbation .
a service in which the service provider participates in processes which preserve or improve the service consumer's health status .
a process during which a visitor travels to and stays in one or more places outside their usual environment for not more than one year for leisure ,  business ,  personal matters or any other main purpose not including employment by a resident entity in the country or place visited .
an ecosystem service in which the material or energy outputs of one or more ecosystem processes benefit a service consumer .
an ecosystem service in which one or more ecosystem processes benefit a service consumer by buffering the impacts of environmental perturbations .
an ecosystem service which is necessary for the maintenance of  ( i .e .
an ecosystem service which provides  nonmaterial benefits to humans through spiritual enrichment ,  cognitive development ,  reflection ,  recreation ,  and aesthetic experience .
a tangible asset which is at risk of being damaged by or lost during hazardous events .
a vulnerability borne by an entity that may develop respiratory disease .
a self - employment role which is realised when a self - employed person intermittently acts as an employer .
a role realised by a person while engaging in economic activities producing goods and / or providing services ,  the profits of which they directly depend on for remuneration .
a self - employed role realised by a person while working in an establishment operated by a family member ,  with a too limited degree of involvement to be considered a partner .
a self - employed role realised by a person while working in a co - operative which produces goods and services and in which members have equal influence upon major decisions concerning the cooperative .
a person that bears a self - employed role .
a person that bears an own - account worker role .
a person that bears a membership role in a producer's cooperative .
a person that bears a contributing family worker role .
a risk that a bearer will realise vulnerabilities which result in the loss of human life ,  the injury of humans ,  or the damage of assets when participating in a process which exposes the bearer to a hazard or combination of hazards beyond the bearer's coping capacity .
a planned process wherein knowledge and skill is imparted .
a role realised by a person when that person performs actions specified by an employer in return for a level of remuneration that is not directly dependent on the revenue generated by the employer's activities .
a self - employed role which is realised by a person or organization while they engage in an employment relationship with one or more persons to whom they provide remuneration or reward in exchange for labour or expertise .
a planned process wherein an employee performs actions that are formally or informally specified by an employer in return for remuneration .
a person that bears an employee role .
a service which is necessary to sustain human life .
a planned process wherein a person imparts knowledge or skill to one or more people .
a planned process wherein a person acquires knowledge or skill .
a role which is realised by a person in the process of imparting knowledge and skill to others .
a role which is realised by a person during the process of acquiring knowledge and skill .
a human dwelling that lacks any one of the following: access to basic services ,  affordability ,  habitability ,  security of tenure ,  or accessibility .
a role realised by molecular entity during the process of preventing ,  treating ,  diagnosing ,  or studying disease or disorder .
a material entity that is used in the process of preventing ,  treating ,  diagnosing ,  or studying disease or disorder .
a service which is designed to promote ,  secure ,  and maintain the health of an individual human or a population of humans .
a service that promotes ,  secures ,  and maintains socio - economic rights .
a role which is realised by an entity when it confers some benefit to its consumer .
a role which is realised by a person during processes of exercising their right to use ,  occupy ,  sell ,  rent ,  or gift an object  ( such as a parcel of land )  .
a disease which is transmitted via a medium composed of water .
a state which has an elevated risk towards a loss of centralized government control and protection ,  or a lowered resilience to perturbation ,  or an inability to maintain basic services ,  or a lack of social equality .
a disposition of an entity to recover its previous composition ,  qualities ,  and functionality following some perturbation .
a right which is protected by a sustainable system .
a policy which is actively being implemented and managed in some set of appropriate processes for a long enough time to be generally accepted and functional .
a organism or organization that is the bearer of a right .
a service which is needed by humans to maintain their health and well - being ,  or enable economic ,  social ,  and cultural development .
a person or population that is not employed ,  but eligible for and currently seeking employment .
a process during which a person or organization ,  the owner ,  exercises their right to use ,  sell ,  rent ,  or gift an object .
a person or organization that participates in an ownership process wherein they realize their role as owner by exercising their right to use ,  sell ,  rent ,  or gift an object .
a quality inhering in a person by virtue of that person bearing a role realised in an employment process .
a person or population that participates in employment processes during a specified time interval .
any entity associated with a rural settlement or area .
a population of humans that lives in a rural settlement or rural area .
an employment process which is specified by formal arrangements and does not include illicit activities .
an employment process which is – in law or in practice – a )  not specified or insufficiently specified by formal arrangements ;  and  ( b )  does not include illicit activities .
a risk disposition which is very difficult to realise .
a medicine that is necessary to meet the priority health - care needs of a population according to treatment prevalence ,  efficacy ,  safety ,  and comparative cost - effectiveness .
a quality of a human dwelling by virtue of its dispositions to provide for its inhabitants: physical safety ,  adequate space ,  protection against the elements and other hazards to health and structure .
a quality of an entity by virtue of it having a cost within the financial means of a person who has a median income .
a disposition of a person or population who bears the ability ,  right ,  and permission to utilize available basic services in the community in which they reside .
a data item about some process of forest loss and which represents a negative change in forest area over a sufficiently long time period .
a data item which represents the ratio between the gross inland consumption of energy and gross domestic product calculated for a calendar year .
a value specification about the quality of water bodies in a given area .
an ambient water quality value which is specified when the water sampled from water bodies in a specified area poses little or no risk to normal ecosystem functioning or human health .
a resource under control of some person or organisation which confers an economic benefit to that person or organisation in an economic system .
a resource role inhering in an independent continuant which is realized by conferring an economic benefit to the person or organization which controls it in some economic system .
a dispostion which is realised when an entity provides services to ,  or has as its parts ,  a  range of entities identified by a policy or regulatory specification .
a data item which represents the total value of the assets under the control of a person ,  population or organisation .
a wealth value which is the sum of human ,  manufactured ,  natural ,  and health capital assets .
a collection composed of natural assets and the environmental services which depend on them .
an asset which is the output of an environmental process and has not been substantially altered by human activity .
a resource consumption value which pertains to the environmental systems which overlap with a national economic system .
a process which results in manufacturing becoming the predominant economic activity within a nation or region .
"a data item which estimates the metric tonnage of resource materials required to serve the final demand of a nation and is computed as raw material equivalent of imports  ( rmeim )  plus domestic extraction  ( de )  minus raw material equivalents of exports  ( rmeex )  ."
a data item which estimates the metric tonnage of resource materials imported into or extracted from an environmental system and used as input for economic processes in that system ,  minus the tonnage of materials exported from that system .
a data item that estimates the metric tonnage of all resource materials which are input for the production and consumption activities of a nation's economy and is calculated by adding used domestic extraction with imported materials .
a data item that represents the resource material trade surplus or deficit in of a nation's economy and is calculated in physical units as total amount of resource materials import minus exports .
a data item which represents the ratio of domestic material consumption to gross domestic product at constant prices .
a data item which represents the ratio of material footprint and total population .
a data item which represents the ratio of material input and total population .
a data item which represents the ratio of material trade balance and total population .
a person that acquires knowledge and skill from some educator during an education process .
an asset role which inheres in some independent continuant that is the output of an environmental process and has not been substantially altered by human activity .
a process which produces assets ,  increases the value of existing assets ,  leads to the realisation of non - material assets ,  or reduces the costs associated with some economic process .
a process in which one or more resources are provided to a service recipient by a service provider .
a service in which an ecosystem ,  usually natural ,  provides benefit to the well - being of human service consumers .
a person that imparts knowledge and skill to one or more students during an education process .
the total supervision of waste production ,  handling ,  processing ,  storage ,  and transport from its point of generation to its final acceptable disposal .
a service in which the service provider conveys the service consumer from one location to another ,  usually with some form of vehicle .
