a taxonomy identifier that denotes a group of organisms or groups of organisms based on common ancestors .
a rate measurement datum that specifies the percentage of organisms within a population that have died over a given time interval .
a planned process that has a data set as its specified output .
an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
b is an independent continuant = def .
p is a process = def .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
a continuant that inheres in or is borne by other entities .
a realizable entity  the manifestation of which brings about some result or end that is not essential to a continuant  in virtue of the kind of thing that it is but that can be served or participated in by that kind of continuant  in some kinds of natural ,  social or institutional contexts .
a continuant that is dependent on one or other independent continuant bearers .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
a monocarboxylic acid comprising 1 , 8 - naphthyridin - 4 - one substituted by carboxylic acid ,  ethyl and methyl groups at positions 3 ,  1 ,  and 7 ,  respectively .
a triazole - based antifungal agent used for the treatment of esophageal candidiasis ,  invasive pulmonary aspergillosis ,  and serious fungal infections caused by scedosporium apiospermum and fusarium spp .
a  quinolone that is quinolin - 4 ( 1h )  - one bearing cyclopropyl ,  carboxylic acid ,  fluoro and piperazin - 1 - yl substituents at positions 1 ,  3 ,  6 and 7 ,  respectively .
a member of the class of fluorenes that is 9 -  ( p - chlorobenzylidene )  - 9h - fluorene which is substitutec by chlorine at positions 2 and 7 ,  and by a 2 -  ( dibutylamino )  - 1 - hydroxyethyl group at position 4 .
a straight - chain ,  sixteen - carbon ,  saturated long - chain fatty acid .
an optically active form of dopa having l - configuration .
a long - chain fatty acid that is a c20 ,  polyunsaturated fatty acid having four  ( z )  - double bonds at positions 5 ,  8 ,  11 and 14 .
a cinchona alkaloid that is cinchonidine in which the hydrogen at the 6 - position of the quinoline ring is substituted by methoxy .
a chlorophenylethane that is 1 , 1 , 1 - trichloro - 2 , 2 - diphenylethane substituted by additional chloro substituents at positions 4 of the phenyl substituents .
a synthetic monocyclic beta - lactam antibiotic  ( monobactam )  ,  used primarily to treat infections caused by gram - negative bacteria .
an octadec - 9 - enoic acid in which the double bond at c - 9 has z  ( cis )  stereochemistry .
a carbonyl group with two c - bound amine groups .
an inorganic peroxide consisting of two hydroxy groups joined by a covalent oxygen - oxygen single bond .
a one - carbon compound with formula co2 in which the carbon is attached to each oxygen atom by a double bond .
any member of the class of organooxygen compounds that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone or a lactol resulting from their intramolecular condensation  ( monosaccharides )  ;  substances derived from these by reduction of the carbonyl group  ( alditols )  ,  by oxidation of one or more hydroxy groups to afford the corresponding aldehydes ,  ketones ,  or carboxylic acids ,  or by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by a hydrogen atom ;  and polymeric products arising by intermolecular acetal formation between two or more such molecules  ( disaccharides ,  polysaccharides and oligosaccharides )  .
amide derived from two or more amino carboxylic acid molecules  ( the same or different )  by formation of a covalent bond from the carbonyl carbon of one to the nitrogen atom of another with formal loss of water .
an organic thiophosphate that is o , o - dimethyl o - phenyl phosphorothioate substituted by a chloro group at position 3 and a nitro group at position 4 .
a lactam obtained by formal cyclocondensation of creatine .
a member of the class of  biladienes that is a linear tetrapyrrole with the dipyrrole units being of both exovinyl and endovinyl type .
any member of the group of substituted penams containing two methyl substituents at position 2 ,  a carboxylate substituent at position 3 and a carboxamido group at position 6 .
an octadecadienoic acid in which the two double bonds are at positions 9 and 12 and have z  ( cis )  stereochemistry .
the carbon oxoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from carbonic acid .
an organochlorine compound that is dichloro - substituted acetamide containing a nitrobenzene ring ,  an amide bond and two alcohol functions .
any of a group of aminoglycoside antibiotics produced by fermentation of some micromonospora spp .
an elemental molecule consisting of two hydrogens joined by a single bond .
an artemisinin derivative that is artemisinin in which the lactone has been converted to the corresponding lactol methyl ether .
a cephalosporin compound having acetoxymethyl and  [ 2 -  ( 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl )  - 2 -  ( methoxyimino ) acetyl ] amino side groups .
an insecticide compound naturally occurring in plants .
a class of beta - lactam antibiotics differing from the penicillins in having a 6 - membered ,  rather than a 5 - membered ,  side ring .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
any substance which when absorbed into a living organism may modify one or more of its functions .
an icosanoid comprising icosanoic acid having one c=c bond at any position .
a substance used to destroy fungal pests .
a glycosyl compound resulting from the attachment of a glycosyl group to a non - acyl group ro -  ,  rs -  ,  rse -  ,  etc .
strictly ,  a substance intended to kill members of the class insecta .
a molecular entity having a net electric charge .
cyclic amides of amino carboxylic acids ,  having a 1 - azacycloalkan - 2 - one structure ,  or analogues having unsaturation or heteroatoms replacing one or more carbon atoms of the ring .
a macrocyclic lactone with a ring of twelve or more members derived from a polyketide .
a class of neuro - active insecticides that act at the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor .
strictly ,  a substance intended to kill pests .
salts and esters of phosphoric and oligophosphoric acids and their chalcogen analogues .
a class of aromatic heterocyclic compounds each of which contains a benzene ring ortho fused to carbons 2 and 3 of a pyridine ring .
a quinoline having a chloro group at the 7 - position and an aryl amino group at the 4 - position .
a penicillin in which the substituent at position 6 of the penam ring is a 2 - amino - 2 -  ( 4 - hydroxyphenyl ) acetamido group .
a macrolide antibiotic used to treat potentially life - threatening fungal infections .
an oxopurine that is the final oxidation product of purine metabolism .
vitamin d is a group of fat - soluble prohormones ,  which can be obtained from sun exposure ,  food and supplements .
a linolenic acid with cis - double bonds at positions 9 ,  12 and 15 .
a 9 - octadecenoic acid and the trans - isomer of oleic acid .
a complex glycopeptide from streptomyces orientalis .
a c18 ,  omega - 6 acid fatty acid comprising a linolenic acid having cis -  double bonds at positions 6 ,  9 and 12 .
a hexadec - 9 - enoic acid in which the double bond at position c - 9 has cis configuration .
a c20 striaght - chain saturated fatty acid which forms a minor constituent of peanut  ( l . arachis )  and corn oils .
a c18 straight - chain saturated fatty acid component of many animal and vegetable lipids .
a amino cyclitol glycoside that is kanamycin b lacking the 3 - hydroxy substituent from the 2 , 6 - diaminoglucose ring .
a c24 straight - chain saturated fatty acid .
a straight - chain ,  fourteen - carbon ,  long - chain saturated fatty acid mostly found in milk fat .
a straight - chain ,  c22 ,  long - chain saturated fatty acid .
a penicillin in which the substituent at position 6 of the penam ring is a 2 - amino - 2 - phenylacetamido group .
a third - generation cephalosporin compound having 2 -  ( 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl )  - 2 -  ( methoxyimino ) acetylamino and  [  ( 2 - methyl - 5 , 6 - dioxo - 1 , 2 , 5 , 6 - tetrahydro - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazin - 3 - yl ) sulfanyl ] methyl side - groups .
a macrolide antibiotic useful for the treatment of bacterial infections .
a hexitol produced by a variety of organisms including bacteria ,  fungi ,  lichens and plants .
particle of zero charge ,  zero rest mass ,  spin quantum number 1 ,  energy hnu and momentum hnu / c  ( h is the planck constant ,  nu the frequency of radiation and c the speed of light )  ,  carrier of electromagnetic force .
a straight - chain ,  twelve - carbon medium - chain saturated fatty acid with strong bactericidal properties ;  the main fatty acid in coconut oil and palm kernel oil .
a c10 ,  straight - chain saturated fatty acid .
a carboxylic ester obtained by formal condensation of cis - 3 -  ( 2 - chloro - 3 , 3 , 3 - trifluoroprop - 1 - enyl )  - 2 , 2 - dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylic acid and  [  ( 2 - methyl - 1 , 1' - biphenyl )  - 3 - yl ] methanol .
a substance that kills or slows the growth of microorganisms ,  including bacteria ,  viruses ,  fungi and protozoans .
a substance  ( or active part thereof )  that kills or slows the growth of bacteria .
a cyclically conjugated molecular entity with a stability  ( due to delocalization )  significantly greater than that of a hypothetical localized structure  ( e .g .
a macromolecule made up of nucleotide units and hydrolysable into certain pyrimidine or purine bases  ( usually adenine ,  cytosine ,  guanine ,  thymine ,  uracil )  ,  d - ribose or 2 - deoxy - d - ribose and phosphoric acid .
high molecular weight ,  linear polymers ,  composed of nucleotides containing ribose and linked by phosphodiester bonds ;  rna is central to the synthesis of proteins .
when two or more amino acids combine to form a peptide ,  the elements of water are removed ,  and what remains of each amino acid is called an amino - acid residue .
a macromolecule is a molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
a carbamate ester obtained by the formal condensation of  1 - naphthol with methylcarbamic acid .
an alkenyl alcohol with a structure based on a c8 unbranched chain with the hydroxy group at c - 2 and unsaturation at c - 1 - c - 2 .
an  organic thiophosphate that is o , o - diethyl hydrogen phosphorothioate in which the hydrogen of the hydroxy group has been replaced by a 3 , 5 , 6 - trichloropyridin - 2 - yl group .
an organic thiophosphate that is o , o - dimethyl hydrogen phosphorothioate in which the hydrogen of the hydroxy group has been replaced by a 3 , 5 , 6 - trichloropyridin - 2 - yl group .
an alkenyl phosphate that is the 2 , 2 - dichloroethenyl ester of dimethyl phosphate .
an organochlorine compound resulting from the epoxidation of the double bond of aldrin .
a benzoylurea insecticide that is urea in which a hydrogen attached to one of the nitrogens is replaced by a 4 - chlorophenyl group ,  and a hydrogen attached to the other nitrogen is replaced bgy a 2 , 6 - difluorobenzoyl group .
a monocarboxylic acid amide that is n - methylacetamide in which one of the hydrogens of the methyl group attached to the carbonyl moiety is replaced by a  ( dimethoxyphosphorothioyl ) sulfanediyl group .
an organic thiophosphate that is o , o - dimethyl o - phenyl phosphorothioate substituted by a methyl group at position 3 and a nitro group at position 4 .
an organic thiophosphate that is o , o - dimethyl hydrogen phosphorothioate in which the hydrogen atom of the hydroxy group is replaced by a 3 - methyl - 4 -  ( methylsulfanyl ) phenyl group .
an organic cation that consists of 4 , 4' - bipyridine bearing two n - methyl substituents loctated at the 1 -  and 1' - positions .
a cyclopropanecarboxylate ester in which the esterifying alcohol is 3 - phenoxybenzyl alcohol and the cyclopropane ring is substituted with a 2 , 2 - dichlorovinyl group and with gem - dimethyl groups .
an organic thiophosphate that is  ethyl mandelate in which the hydroxy group has been replaced by a  ( dimethoxyphosphorothioyl ) sulfanediyl group .
a carbamate ester that is phenyl methylcarbamate substituted at position 2 by a propan - 2 - yloxy group .
a third - generation cephalosporin antibiotic with methoxymethyl and  ( 2z )  - 2 -  ( 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl )  - 2 -  ( methoxyimino ) acetamino substituents at positions 3 and 7 ,  respectively ,  of the cephem skeleton .
any aliphatic monocarboxylic acid derived from or contained in esterified form in an animal or vegetable fat ,  oil or wax .
a first - generation cephalosporin antibiotic with a methyl substituent at position 3 ,  and a  ( 2r )  - 2 - amino - 2 - cyclohexa - 1 , 4 - dien - 1 - ylacetamido substituent at position 7 ,  of the cephem skeleton .
a lactam in which the amide bond is contained within a four - membered ring ,  which includes the amide nitrogen and the carbonyl carbon .
an  antimicrobial agent that destroys fungi by suppressing their ability to grow or reproduce .
an azole in which the five - membered heterocyclic aromatic skeleton contains three n atoms and two c atoms .
a phosphorus oxoanion that is the conjugate base of phosphoric acid .
any c22 polyunsaturated fatty acid containing six double bonds .
any straight - chain ,  c20 polyunsaturated fatty acid having five c=c double bonds .
a drug used to treat or prevent bacterial infections .
an aminoquinoline that is quinoline which is substituted at position 4 by a  [ 5 -  ( diethylamino ) pentan - 2 - yl ] amino group at at position 7 by chlorine .
a two - component mixture comprising trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole .
a multi - component mixture comprising mostly of colistin a  ( r = me )  and b  ( r = h )  ,  with small amounts of colistin c and other polymyxins ,  produced by certain strains of bacillus polymyxa var .
a drug used in the treatment of malaria .
derivatives of carbamic acid with insecticidal properties of general formula roc ( =o ) nr ( 1 ) r ( 2 )  ,  where roh is an alcohol ,  oxime ,  or phenol and r ( 1 )  is hydrogen or methyl .
an  organic thiophosphate that is o , o - dimethyl o - pyrimidin - 4 - yl phosphorothioate substituted by a methyl group at position 6 and a diethylamino group at position 2 .
an organic sulfide that is diphenyl sulfide in which the hydrogen at the para position of each of the phenyl groups has been replaced by a  ( dimethoxyphosphorothioyl ) oxy group .
the active insecticidal constituents of chrysanthemum cinerariifolium flowers .
an n - nitro compound consisting of 2 - nitroguanidine having a  ( 2 - chloro - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 5 - yl ) methyl group at position 1 and a methyl group at position 3 .
a two - component mixture comprising spinosyn a and spinosyn d in a ratio of approximately 5:1 .
an aromatic ether that consists of propylene glycol having a 2 - pyridyl group at the o - 1 position and a 4 - phenoxyphenyl group at the o - 3 position .
a diastereoisomeric mixture comprising the enantiomeric pair  ( 1r )  - cis -  ( alphas )  -  and  ( 1s )  - cis -  ( alphar )  - cyfluthrin in ratio 1:2 with the enantiomeric pair  ( 1r )  - trans -  ( alphas )  -  and  ( 1s )  - trans -  ( alphar )  - cyfluthrin .
reaction product comprising equal quantities of chebi:39323 and chebi:39327 .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( 1r )  - cis -  ( alphas )  -  and  ( 1s )  - cis -  ( alphar )  - cypermethrin .
a diastereoisomeric mixture comprising the enantiomeric pair  ( 1r )  - cis -  ( alphas )  -  and  ( 1s )  - cis -  ( alphar )  - cypermethrin in ratio approximately 2:3 with the enantiomeric pair  ( 1s )  - trans -  ( alphar )  -  and  ( 1r )  - trans -  ( alphas )  - cypermethrin .
a member of the class of pyrroles that is 4 - bromo - 1h - pyrrole - 3 - carbonitrile which is substituted at positions 1 ,  2 and 5 by ethoxymethyl ,  p - chlorophenyl and trifluoromethyl groups ,  respectively .
an aromatic ether that is the 3 - phenoxybenzyl ether of 2 -  ( 4 - ethoxyphenyl )  - 2 - methylpropan - 1 - ol .
a carboxylic ester obtained by formal condensation between 3 -  ( 2 , 2 - dichloroethenyl )  - 2 , 2 - dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylic acid and  ( 4 - fluoro - 3 - phenoxyphenyl )  ( hydroxy ) acetonitrile .
a carboxylic ester obtained by formal condensation between 3 -  ( 2 - chloro - 3 , 3 , 3 - trifluoroprop - 1 - en - 1 - yl )  - 2 , 2 - dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylic acid and cyano ( 3 - phenoxyphenyl ) methanol .
a carboxylic ester resulting from the formal condensation between 3 -  ( 2 , 2 - dichlorovinyl )  - 2 , 2 - dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylic acid and the alcoholic hydroxy group of hydroxy ( 3 - phenoxyphenyl ) acetonitrile .
a cyclopropanecarboxylate ester obtained by formal condensation between 3 -  ( 2 , 2 - dibromovinyl )  - 2 , 2 - dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylic acid and cyano ( 3 - phenoxyphenyl ) methanol .
a tetracosenoic acid having a cis - double bond at position 15 .
a member of the class of  triazoles that is propan - 2 - ol substituted at position 1 and 3 by 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl groups and at position 2 by a 2 , 4 - difluorophenyl group .
a liquid that can dissolve other substances  ( solutes )  without any change in their chemical composition .
a semisynthetic cyclic hexapeptide echinocandin antibiotic which exerts its effect by inhibiting the synthesis of 1 , 3 - beta - d - glucan ,  an integral component of the fungal cell wall .
a monocarboxylic acid amide that  is lysergamide in which one of the hydrogens attached to the amide nitrogen is substituted by a 1 - hydroxypropan - 2 - yl group  ( s - configuration )  .
any of several wide - spectrum macrolide antibiotics obtained from actinomycete saccharopolyspora erythraea  ( formerly known as streptomyces erythraeus )  .
a semisynthetic penicillin antibiotic carrying a 3 -  ( 2 - chlorophenyl )  - 5 - methylisoxazole - 4 - carboxamido group at position 6 .
a retinoid consisting of 3 , 7 - dimethylnona - 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 - tetraen - 1 - ol substituted at position 9 by a 2 , 6 , 6 - trimethylcyclohex - 1 - en - 1 - yl group  ( geometry of the four exocyclic double bonds is not specified )  .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - fipronil .
a penicillanic acid ester that is the  [  ( 2 , 2 - dimethylpropanoyl ) oxy ] methyl ester and prodrug of mecillinam .
an icosatrienoic acid having three cis double bonds at positions 8 ,  11 and 14 .
the all - cis - isomer of a c22 polyunsaturated fatty acid having five double bonds in the 7 -  ,  10 -  ,  13 -  ,  16 -  and 19 - positions .
a semisynthetic echinocandin anti - fungal drug .
an aminoquinoline that is chloroquine in which one of the n - ethyl groups is hydroxylated at position 2 .
an imidazolidine that is n - nitroimidazolidin - 2 - imine bearing a  ( 6 - chloro - 3 - pyridinyl ) methyl substituent at position 1 .
a straight - chain ,  monounsaturated ,  16 - carbon fatty acid with a trans - double bond at position c - 9 ;  the trans - isomer of palmitoleic acid and predominant trans - 16:1 isomer in cheeses from goat and ewe milk .
a chemical substance is a portion of matter of constant composition ,  composed of molecular entities of the same type or of different types .
a cyclic hexapeptide echinocandin antibiotic which exerts its effect by inhibiting the synthesis of 1 , 3 - beta - d - glucan ,  an integral component of the fungal cell wall .
an n - arylpiperazine that is cis - ketoconazole in which the imidazol - 1 - yl group is replaced by a 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl group and in which the actyl group attached to the piperazine moiety is replaced by a p -  [  (  +  -  ) 1 - sec - butyl - 5 - oxo - 1 , 5 - dihydro - 4h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 4 - yl ] phenyl group .
a racemate is an equimolar mixture of a pair of enantiomers .
any straight - chain ,  c22 fatty acid having four c=c double bonds .
a synthetic galactosylfructose disaccharide used in the treatment of constipation and hepatic encephalopathy .
a racemate composed of  (  +  )  -  ( 11r , 2's )  -  and  (  -  )  -  ( 11s , 2'r )  - enantiomers of mefloquine .
an n - arylpiperazine that consists of piperazine carrying two 4 - substituted phenyl groups at positions 1 and 4 .
the all - cis - isomer of a c22 polyunsaturated fatty acid having five double bonds in the 4 -  ,  7 -  ,  10 -  ,  13 -  and 16 - positions .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  and  ( s )  - malaoxon .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  and  ( s )  - malathion .
a chemosterilant intended to sterilize insects .
any monocyclic heteroarene consisting of a five - membered ring containing nitrogen .
a phosphonic ester that is dimethyl phosphonate in which the hydrogen atom attched to the phosphorous is substituted by a 2 , 2 , 2 - trichloro - 1 - hydroxyethyl group .
a member of the class of imidazoles substituted at c - 1 ,   - 2 and  - 5 with 2 - hydroxyethyl ,  nitro and methyl groups respectively .
a 20 - carbon ,  polyunsaturated fatty acid having two double bonds at unspecified positions .
an octadecadienoic acid containing two e  ( trans )  double bonds at positions 9 and 12 .
an n - substituted diamine that is pentane - 1 , 4 - diamine substituted by a 6 - methoxyquinolin - 8 - yl group at the n ( 4 )  position .
any antifungal agent used to prevent or treat fungal infections in humans or animals .
an organic heterotricyclic compound that is 4 , 9 - dihydro - 10h - benzo [ 4 , 5 ] cyclohepta [ 1 , 2 - b ] thiophen - 10 - one which is substituted at position 4 by a 1 - methylpiperidin - 4 - ylidene group .
the representation of a negative conclusion of a diagnostic process for the covid - 19 coronavirus disease .
a material entity of anatomical origin  ( part of or deriving from an organism )  that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
a cell in vitro that is or has been maintained or propagated as part of a cell culture .
a leukocyte with abundant granules in the cytoplasm .
a red blood cell .in mammals ,  mature erythrocytes are biconcave disks containing hemoglobin whose function is to transport oxygen .
a lymphocyte of b lineage with the phenotype cd19 - positive ,  cd20 - positive ,  and capable of b cell mediated immunity .
a lymphocyte is a leukocyte commonly found in the blood and lymph that has the characteristics of a large nucleus ,  a neutral staining cytoplasm ,  and prominent heterochromatin .
myeloid mononuclear recirculating leukocyte that can act as a precursor of tissue macrophages ,  osteoclasts and some populations of tissue dendritic cells .
a cell in vitro that has undergone physical changes as a consequence of a deliberate and specific experimental procedure .
an achromatic cell of the myeloid or lymphoid lineages capable of ameboid movement ,  found in blood or other tissue .
any of the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte that in its mature form has an irregularly shaped ,  pale - staining nucleus that is partially constricted into two lobes ,  and with cytoplasm that contains coarse ,  bluish - black granules of variable size .
any of the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte that in its mature form has a nucleus with three to five lobes connected by slender threads of chromatin ,  and cytoplasm containing fine inconspicuous granules and stainable by neutral dyes .
a leukocyte with a single non - segmented nucleus in the mature form .
the minimum arterial pressure within the cardiac cycle ,  usually at the point at which the heart is in a state of relaxation and expansion .
the number of white blood cells in a specified volume of blood .
fraction of forced vital capacity that is exhaled in a specific number of seconds .
the number of breaths taken by an organism per unit of time .
the force per unit area attributable to the oxygen ,  the chemical element with atomic number 8 which is the essential agent in the respiration of plants and animals ,  dissolved in a specified volume of blood ,  defined as the force per unit area exerted by oxygen in a mixture of gases in equilibrium with such a sample of blood at the same temperature .
a disease that involving errors in metabolic processes of building or degradation of molecules .
a bacterial infectious disease has_material_basis_in bacteria .
a viral infectious disease that results_in infection located_in joint ,  has_material_basis_in chikungunya virus ,  which is transmitted_by aedes mosquito bite .
a disease that is the consequence of the presence of pathogenic microbial agents ,  including pathogenic viruses ,  pathogenic bacteria ,  fungi ,  protozoa ,  multicellular parasites ,  and aberrant proteins known as prions .
a fungal infectious disease that results_in infection of the keratinized layers located_in skin ,  located_in hair or located_in nail ,  which extends deeper into the epidermis ,  has_material_basis_in fungi and results_in_formation_of skin lesions .
a nervous system disease which is located in a part of the nervous system responsible for processing sensory information that consists of sensory receptors ,  neural pathways ,  and parts of the brain involved in sensory perception .
a respiratory system disease which involves the lower respiratory tract .
an opportunistic mycosis that has_material_basis_in penicillium marneffei ,  results_in systemic infection and has_symptom fever ,  has_symptom anemia ,  has_symptom weight loss ,  has_symptom lymphadenopathy ,  has_symptom hepatosplenomegaly ,  has_symptom respiratory signs ,  and has_symptom skin lesions .
a bacterial infectious disease that results_in infection by bacteria as a result of their presence or activity within the normal ,  healthy host ,  and their intrinsic virulence is ,  in part ,  a necessary consequence of their need to reproduce and spread .
a skin disease that is characterized by a rash that results from a variety of causes including bacteria ,  viruses ,  toxins ,  drugs and autoimmune disorders .
a tuberculosis that occurs at body sites other than the lung .
an autoimmune disease that is the abnormal functioning of the immune system that causes your immune system to produce antibodies or t cells against cells and / or tissues in the musculoskeletal system .
an autoimmune disease that is the abnormal functioning of the immune system that causes your immune system to produce antibodies or t cells against cells and / or tissues in the skin and connective tissue .
a disease of metabolism that has _material_basis_in enzyme deficiency or accumulation of enzymes or toxins which interfere with normal function due to an endocrine organ disease ,  organ malfunction ,  inadequate intake ,  dietary deficiency ,  or malabsorption .
a cheilitis characterized by inflammation of one or both of the corners of the mouth .
an intestinal disease characterized by a protrusion of abdominal cavity contests through the inguinal canal .
a middle ear disease characterized by an inflammation of the mucosal lining of the mastoid antrum and the mastoid air cell system inside the mastoid process .
a tooth disease characterized by a localized collection of pus associated with a tooth .
a connective tissue disease that affects the structure or development of bone or causes an impairment of normal bone function .
a disease that has_material_basis_in a genetic abnormality ,  error with embryonic development ,  infection or compromised intrauterine environment .
an autoimmune disease of skin and connective tissue that is characterized by subepidermal blistering especially in the lower abdomen ,  groin ,  and flexor surfaces of the extremities ,  creating tense blisters that do not break easily .
an inner ear disease that is characterized by hearing loss resulting from damage to the cochlea ,  auditory nerve and / or brainstem .
a bone inflammation disease that has_material_basis_in infection located_in bone or located_in bone marrow .
a viral infectious disease that results in inflammation located in salivary gland ,  has_material_basis_in mumps rubulavirus ,  which is transmitted by droplet spread of saliva or mucus from the mouth ,  nose ,  or throat of an infected person ,  or transmitted by contaminated fomites .
a parotid disease characterized by the inflammation of one or both parotid glands .
a disease by infectious agent that results_in infection ,  has_material_basis_in bacteria .
an upper respiratory tract disease which is characterized by inflammation of the tonsils resulting from bacterial  ( group a streptococcus )  and viral  ( epstein - barr virus ,  adenovirus )  infections .
an upper respiratory tract disease which involves inflammation of the mucous membranes of the nose ,  throat ,  eyes ,  and eustachian tubes with watery then purulent discharge .
a kidney disease characterized by the failure of the kidneys to adequately filter waste products from the blood .
a otitis which involves inflammation of the middle ear .
a mouth disease located_in the salivary gland .
a viral infectious disease that results in infection located in mouth ,  has_material_basis_in human coxsackievirus a16 ,  has_material_basis_in human enterovirus 71 ,  has_material_basis_in group b coxsackievirus ,  or has_material_basis_in echoviruses ,  which are transmitted by ingestion of food contaminated with feces ,  transmitted by contact with pharyngeal secretions ,  or transmitted by droplet spread of oronasal secretions .
a mouth disease located_in the teeth .
a blood protein disease that is characterized by low number of red blood cells ,  repeated infections ,  and periodic episodes of pain ,  resulting from atypical hemoglobin molecules called hemoglobin s ,  which can distort red blood cells into a sickle ,  or crescent ,  shape .
a lung disease characterized by inadequate gas exchange by the respiratory system .
a primary bacterial infectious disease that results in prolonged contraction of skeletal muscle fibers ,  has_material_basis_in clostridium tetani ,  which produces tetanospasmin ,  a neurotoxin ,  which is carried to the brain and spinal cord ,  where it binds irreversibly to receptors inhibiting neurotransmission .
an opportunistic mycosis that is located in lungs ,  but can also occur in eyes ,  ears ,  skin ,  thyroid ,  pituitary ,  palate ,  parathyroid ,  esophagus ,  pleura ,  heart ,  liver ,  spleen ,  small intestine ,  adrenals ,  kidneys ,  bone marrow ,  and lymph nodes ,  has_material_basis_in pneumocystis jirovecii that effects interstitial and alveolar tissues and has symptom nonproductive cough ,  has symptom shortness of breath ,  and has symptom fever .
a respiratory failure that results from diffuse injury to the endothelium of the lung  ( as in sepsis ,  chest trauma ,  massive blood transfusion ,  aspiration of the gastric contents ,  or pneumonia )  and is characterized by pulmonary edema with an abnormally high amount of protein in the edematous fluid and by difficult rapid breathing and hypoxemia .
a lower respiratory tract disease that affects the airways leading into the lungs ,  which is caused due to inflammation of the bronchi and bronchioles ,  infection ,  or blockage .
a nutritional deficiency disease that is characterized by inadequate dietary protein and calories ,  which can have profound systemic effects including decreased metabolism ,  altered tissue distribution ,  compromised immunity ,  and impaired growth ,  and has_material_basis_in dietary deprivation .
a viral infectious disease that results in infection ,  has_material_basis_in dengue virus  [ ncbitaxon:12637 ]  with four serotypes  ( dengue virus 1 ,  2 ,  3 and 4 )  ,  which are transmitted by aedes mosquito bite .
a protein - energy malnutrition that is characterized by severe caloric deprivation ,  has_symptom emaciation ,  decreased height and weight gain ,  and decreased metabolism with hypothermia ,  bradycardia ,  and constipation ,  and has_material_basis_in severe caloric deprivation .
a parasitic protozoa infectious disease characterized as a vector - borne infectious disease caused by the presence of protozoan parasites of the genus plasmodium in the red blood cells ,  transmitted from an infected to an uninfected individual by the bite of anopheline mosquitoes ,  and characterized by periodic attacks of chills and fever that coincide with mass destruction of blood cells and the release of toxic substances by the parasite at the end of each reproductive cycle .
an intestinal infectious disease that involves inflammation of the intestines ,  especially colon ,  due to chemical irritants ,  bacteria ,  protozoa ,  or parasitic worms ,  which results in severe diarrhea with passage of mucus and blood .
a viral infectious disease that results_in infection located_in upper respiratory tract or located_in lower respiratory tract ,  has_material_basis_in human respiratory syncytial virus ,  which is transmitted_by droplet spread of nasal secretions from an infected person while coughing or sneezing ,  or transmitted_by contaminated fomites .
a disease of anatomical entity which occurs in the blood ,  heart ,  blood vessels or the lymphatic system that passes nutrients  ( such as amino acids and electrolytes )  ,  gases ,  hormones ,  blood cells or lymph to and from cells in the body to help fight diseases and help stabilize body temperature and ph to maintain homeostasis .
a nail disease characterized by often - tender bacterial or fungal hand infection or foot infection due to either bacteria or fungus  ( candida albicans )  where the nail and skin meet at the side or the base of a finger or toe nail .
a cystitis characterized by a sudden onset or severe symptoms .
abnormally increased frequency of loose or watery bowel movements .
a primary bacterial infectious disease that is a communicable systemic illness ,  has_material_basis_in salmonella enterica subsp enterica serovar typhi ,  which is transmitted_by ingestion of food or water contaminated with the feces of an infected person .
a typhus that has_material_basis_in orientia tsutsugamushi ,  which is transmitted by trombiculid mites  ( leptotrombidium deliense )  .
a disease by infectious agent that is carried out by a parasite which by definition is a pathogen that simultaneously injures and derives sustenance from its host .
a malaria that involves neurologic damage resulting from blockage of the blood vessels ,  caused due to the infection of the red blood cells by plasmodium species .
a primary bacterial infectious disease that is described as an acute ,  diarrheal illness caused by infection of the intestine with the bacterium vibrio cholerae ,  which is characterized by profuse watery diarrhea ,  vomiting ,  leg cramps ,  circulatory collapse and shock .
an opportunistic mycosis that involves fungal infection of the mouth ,  throat ,  skin ,  scalp ,  vagina ,  fingers ,  nails ,  bronchi ,  lungs ,  heart and brain by candida species ,  of which candida albicans is the most common .
a thoracic disease which may involve inflammation of pleura ,  collection of air within the pleural cavity ,  abnormal collection of pleural fluid ,  abnormal growths on the pleura  ( pleural tumor )  and pleural plaques .
a skin disease characterized by skin rash notable for pale red ,  raised and itchy bumps ,  located_in the upper dermis .
a disease by infectious agent that results_in infection ,  has_material_basis_in fungi ,  which pass the resistance barriers of the human or animal body .
a disease of anatomical entity that located_in the respiratory system which extends from the nasal sinuses to the diaphragm .
a disease of anatomical entity that is located_in the integumentary system comprising the skin and its appendages .
a pleural disease that is characterized as an abnormal collection of air in the pleural space between the lung and the chest wall .
a disease of anatomical entity that occurs in the muscular and / or skeletal system .
a disease of anatomical entity that is located_in kidney ,  ureter ,  bladder and urethra .
a brain disease that is characterized by the occurrance of at least two unprovoked seizures resulting from a persistent epileptogenic abnormality of the brain that is able to spontaneously generate paroxysmal activity and typically manifested by sudden brief episodes of altered or diminished consciousness ,  involuntary movements ,  or convulsions .
a hepatitis that involves viral infection causing inflammation of the liver .
a brain disease that is caused by damage to the motor control centers of the developing brain during pregnancy ,  during childbirth or after birth ,  which affects muscle movement and balance .
a candidiasis that refers to a heterogeneous group of disorders characterized by recurrent or persistent superficial fungal infections located_in skin ,  located_in mucous membrane ,  or located_in nail due to t - cell defects ,  has - agent candida species and has_symptom scaling of skin lesions ,  has_symptom thickening of nails ,  has_symptom swollen periungal tissue ,  and has_symptom scarring of the scalp .
a bowel dysfunction that is characterized by infrequent or difficult evacuation of feces .
a teeth hard tissue disease that is characterized by damage to a tooth that can happen when decay - causing bacteria in your mouth make acids that attack the tooth’s surface ,  or enamel .
an upper respiratory tract disease involving inflammation of the throat or pharynx resulting from bacterial ,  viral ,  fungal infections or irritants like pollutants or chemical substances and smoking .
a primary bacterial infectious disease that involves systemic infection ,  has_material_basis_in leptospira ,  which is transmitted by contact with water ,  food ,  or soil containing urine from the infected animals .
a gastrointestinal system infectious disease that involves inflammation of the lining of the stomach and small and large intestines ,  which is caused by viruses ,  bacteria ,  or parasites .
a hematopoietic system disease that is characterized by a decrease in the normal number of red blood cells .
a systemic mycosis that results_in fungal infection located_in human body of immunocompromised individuals ,  has_material_basis_in fungi .
a skin disease characterized by itchy ,  erythematous ,  vesicular ,  weeping and crusting patches of skin .
a sensory system disease that is characterized by auditory dysfunction located_in the auditory system .
a parasitic infectious disease that is caused by parasitic protozoa which are microorganisms classified as unicellular eukaryotes .
a bronchial disease that is characterized by chronic inflammation and narrowing of the airways ,  which is caused by a combination of environmental and genetic factors .
a disease of anatomical entity that is located_in the immune system .
a lung disease that is an inflammation of the bronchioles ,  the smallest air passages of the lungs .
a tuberculosis that is a contagious disease located_in lungs .
a nervous system disease that affects either the spinal cord  ( myelopathy )  or brain  ( encephalopathy )  of the central nervous system .
a bone disease that results_in inflammation of the located_in bone .
a mouth disease that is relating to or affecting the structures surrounding and supporting the teeth .
a skin disease where there is a diffuse infection of connective tissue with severe inflammation of dermal and subcutaneous layers of the skin .
an integumentary system disease that is located_in skin .
a soft tissue infectious disease that involves accumulation of pus in the pleural cavity as a result of infection within the lung  ( pneumonia )  or a lung abscess spreading into the space .
a primary bacterial infectious disease that is located_in lungs ,  located_in lymph nodes ,  located_in pericardium ,  located_in brain ,  located_in pleura or located_in gastrointestinal tract ,  has_material_basis_in mycobacterium tuberculosis ,  which is transmitted_by droplets released into the air when an infected person coughs or sneezes .
a disposition  ( i )  to undergo pathological processes that  ( ii )  exists in an organism because of one or more disorders in that organism .
a gastrointestinal system disease that is located_in the mouth .
an integumentary system disease that is located_in nail .
an integumentary system disease that is located_in hair .
a dermatitis that is characterized by a pyogenic infection causing the formation of pus .
a dermatophytosis that results_in contagious fungal infection located_in scalp ,  located_in hair of head ,  located_in eyebrow or located_in eyelash ,  has_material_basis_in ascomycota fungi that belong to a group called dermatophytes and has_symptom itching of the scalp ,  has_symptom pus filled lesions on the scalp ,  and has_symptom patches of hair loss ,  sometimes with a 'black dot' pattern .
a rhinitis that is an allergic inflammation and irritation of the nasal airways involving sneezing ,  runny nose ,  nasal congestion ,  itching and tearing of the eyes caused by exposure to an allergen such as pollen ,  dust ,  mold ,  animal dander and droppings of cockroaches or house dust mites .
a nutrition disease that is characterized by deficiency of a nutritional element ,  such as a vitamin ,  mineral ,  carbohydrate ,  protein ,  fat ,  or general energy content .
a viral infectious disease that results in destruction of immune system ,  leading to life - threatening opportunistic infections and cancers ,  has_material_basis_in human immunodeficiency virus 1 or has_material_basis_in human immunodeficiency virus 2 ,  which are transmitted by sexual contact ,  transmitted by transfer of blood ,  semen ,  vaginal fluid ,  pre - ejaculate ,  or breast milk ,  transmitted by congenital method ,  and transmitted by contaminated needles .
a gastrointestinal system disease that is located_in the intestine .
a lung disease that involves lung parenchyma or alveolar inflammation and abnormal alveolar filling with fluid  ( consolidation and exudation )  .
an eye and adnexa disease that is located_in the eye .
a bronchial disease that is an inflammation of the bronchial tubes .
a conjunctival disease characterized by an inflammation of the conjunctiva ,  the outermost layer of the eye and the inner surface of the eyelids .
an arthritis that is an autoimmune disease which develops due to an infection located elsewhere in the body .
a musculoskeletal system disease that affects tissues such as skin ,  tendons ,  and cartilage .
a disease that manifests in a defined anatomical structure .
a disease of anatomical entity that has_material_basis_in hematopoietic cells .
an immune system disease that is located_in the lymphatic system .
a disease of anatomical entity that is located_in the gastrointestinal tract .
an arthritis that involves infection by a pathogen located_in joint .
a mite infestation that is a contagious ectoparasite skin infection caused by human itch mite sarcoptes scabiei type hominis ,  which burrows into the upper layer of the skin but never below the stratum corneum causing severe itching and a rash found on the hands ,  folds of the wrist ,  elbow or knee ,  penis ,  breast ,  and shoulder blades .
a bone inflammation disease that involves a response to irritation or injury ,  characterized by joint pain ,  swelling ,  stiffness located_in joint .
a lower respiratory tract disease in which the function of the lungs is adversely affected by narrowing or blockage of the airways resulting in poor air flow ,  a loss of elasticity in the lungs that produces a decrease in the total volume of air that the lungs are able to hold ,  and clotting ,  scarring ,  or inflammation of the blood vessels that affect the ability of the lungs to take up oxygen and to release carbon dioxide .
a pyoderma consisting of three forms of skin lesions having either a thick ,  adherent ,  recurrent ,  dirty yellow crust with an erythematous margin  ( common or superficial impetigo )  or lessions which are superficial ,  thin - walled ,  and bullous as found in bullous impetigo .
a pemphigoid that is characterized by large blisters .
a viral infectious disease that results_in infection located_in nerve fiber ,  has_material_basis_in human herpesvirus 3 ,  which reactivates after appearing as chickenpox in childhood .
a viral infectious disease that results_in_formation_of lesions ,  located_in mouth ,  located_in face ,  located_in genitalia ,  or located_in hands ,  has_material_basis_in human herpesvirus 1 or has_material_basis_in human herpesvirus 2 ,  which are transmitted_by direct contact with an active lesion or body fluid of an infected person .
a viral infectious disease that results_in infection located_in skin ,  has_material_basis_in measles virus ,  which is transmitted_by contact with oronasal secretions ,  or semen of an infected person .
a disease of anatomical entity that is located_in the central nervous system or located_in the peripheral nervous system .
a viral infectious disease that results_in infection located_in skin ,  has_material_basis_in human herpesvirus 3 ,  which is transmitted_by direct contact with secretions from the rash ,  or transmitted_by droplet spread of respiratory secretions .
a parasitic infectious disease that occurs when part of the body is infested with parasitic worms such as cestodes ,  nematodes and trematodes .
a parasitic protozoa infectious disease that involves infection caused by protozoan parasite of the genus leishmania ,  which is transmitted by the bite of sand fly  ( subfamily phlebotominae )  .
a leishmaniasis that involves skin infection caused by leishmania species ,  resulting in one or more cutaneous lesions .
a leishmaniasis that is the most severe form of the disease caused by protozoan parasites of the leishmania genus ,  resulting in the infection of the internal organs such as liver ,  spleen and bone marrow .
a parasitic protozoa infectious disease that involves infection caused by the amoeba entamoeba histolytica .
a mouth disease located_in the lip .
a disease by infectious agent that results in infection ,  has_material_basis_in viruses .
a central nervous system disease that is located_in the brain .
an external ear disease that involves inflammation of the outer ear and ear canal .
a central nervous system disease that is characterized by an inflammation of the pia - arachnoid meninges .
a stomatitis characterized by the repeated formation of benign and non - contagious mouth ulcers .
a respiratory system disease which involves the upper respiratory tract .
hordeolum is a sequelae of infectious and parasitic disease consisting of an infection of the sebaceous glands at the base of the eyelashes .
a glucose metabolism disease that is characterized by abnormally low levels of blood glucose .
the role of a material entity to prevent ,  diagnose ,  treat ,  or study disease and / or its effects
a material entity  ( 1 )  containing at least one scattered molecular aggregate as part that is the bearer of an active ingredient role and  ( 2 )  that is itself the bearer of a clinical drug role
a portion of cream that is the bearer of a clinical drug role
a portion of lotion that is the bearer of a drug role
a portion of solution that is the bearer of a clinical drug role
a portion of suspension that is the bearer of a clinical drug role
a solid object typically of discoid ,  spheroid ,  or elliptic - cylindrical shape or approximations thereof ,  that bears a clinical drug role .
an object that is the bearer of a drug role and is comprised of a solid shell of elliptical - cylindrical shape and another object contained in the shell that has a scattered molecular aggregate as a proper part
artificial watercourse with no flow or a controlled flow used for navigation ,  drainage or irrigation .
a large expanse of saline water usually connected with an ocean .
a body of water or other liquid of considerable size contained in a depression on a landmass .
a stream which ,  through permanent or seasonal flow processes ,  moves from elevated land towards lower elevations through a definite channel and empties either into a sea ,  lake ,  or another river or ends on land as bed seepage and evapotranspiration exceed water supply .
a watercourse which is linear and flows across the solid portion of a planetary surface .
an artificial body of water ,  often contained by a dam ,  constructed for the purpose of water storage .
a point where groundwater or steam flows out of the ground ,  and is thus where the aquifer surface meets the ground surface or where there is a fissure .
a flowing body of water .
a body of water ,  usually of smaller size than a lake .
a wetland ecosystem which includes communities of grasses ,  rushes ,  reeds ,  typhas ,  sedges ,  and other herbaceous plants  ( possibly with low - growing woody plants )  .
a spring that is produced by the emergence of geothermally - heated groundwater from the earth's crust .
a pond or lake used for the artificial culture of fish .
an accumulation of water of varying size .
naturally formed ,  subterranean open area or chamber .
a construction that has been assembled by deliberate human effort .
a permanent walled and roofed construction .
an area of land which is used for the cultivation of crops or grazing of livestock ,  including any agricultural constructions therein .
a landform that extends above the surrounding terrain in a limited area .
area of dry or relatively dry land surrounded by water or low wetland .
an area with a high density of trees .
a landform elevated above the surrounding area .
an elevated and comparatively level expanse of land .
a wetland ecosystem in which land mass is permanently inundated by shallow bodies of water ,  generally with a substantial number of hummocks ,  or dry - land protrusions .
a paddy field for the cultivation of rice .
a speleothem projecting vertically upwards from a cave floor and formed by precipitation from drips .
a lake purposefully constructed .
a biome is an ecosystem to which resident ecological communities have evolved adaptations .
a reservoir constructed for the purpose of providing drinking water .
the line of contact between a body of water and the land .
the portion of the ground surface which lies below water .
incorporated populated place .
a rock is a naturally occurring solid aggregate of one or more minerals or mineraloids .
soil is an environmental material which is primarily composed of minerals ,  varying proportions of sand ,  silt ,  and clay ,  organic material such as humus ,  gases ,  liquids ,  and a broad range of resident micro -  and macroorganisms .
a significant accumulation of water which is part of a marine biome .
water that has been adversely affected in quality by anthropogenic influence .
an excreta material which is composed primarily of feces ,  an excreta consisting of waste products expelled from an animal's digestive tract through the anus  ( or cloaca )  during defecation .
an environmental material primarily composed of dihydrogen oxide in its liquid form .
sediment is an environmental substance comprised of any particulate matter that can be transported by fluid flow and which eventually is deposited as a layer of solid particles on the bedor bottom of a body of water or other liquid .
minute solid particles with diameters less than 500 micrometers .
water which contains a significant concentration of dissolved salts .
water which has a low concentration of dissolved solutes ,  particularly that of sodium chloride .
wastewater that is contaminated with feces or urine , 
a complex aggregation of microorganisms marked by the excretion of a protective and adhesive matrix ;  usually adhering to a substratum .
water that is found on the surface of an astronomical object .
the residual semi - solid material left from domestic or industrial processes ,  or wastewater treatment processes .
the aerobically decomposed remnants of organic materials .
a portion of soil which is found in a forested area .
a material which is not the desired output of a process and which is typically the input of a process which removes it from its producer  ( e .g .
hay is grass ,  legumes or other herbaceous plants that have been cut ,  dried ,  and stored for use as animal fodder ,  particularly for grazing livestock such as cattle ,  horses ,  goats ,  and sheep .
drinking water is water which may be consumed by humans with no adverse effects on their health .
a material entity that has been processed by humans or their technology in any way ,  including intermediate products as well as final products .
a portion of soil which is part of a cropland or a rangeland biome .
a portion of soil which is found in a grassland .
soil in which trees from an orchard grow .
soil which is found in a pasture and in which vegetation ,  such as the grass used for the grazing of ungulates ,  grows .
the narrow region of soil that is directly influenced by root secretions and associated soil microorganisms .
a portion of environmental material is a fiat object part which forms the medium or part of the medium of an environmental system .
a layer of some material entity which is adjacent to one or more of its external boundaries and directly interacts with its immediate surroundings .
airborne solid particles  ( also called dust or particulate matter  ( pm )  )  or liquid droplets .
anthropogenic material in or on which organisms may live .
a liquid or semi - liquid mixture of water and some combination of soil ,  silt ,  and clay .
a well which provides access to groundwater held  in an aquifer .
a naturally occurring granular material composed of finely divided rock and mineral particles .
environmental material derived from living organisms and composed primarily of one or more biomacromolecules .
a system which has the disposition to environ one or more material entities .
a layer is a quantity of some material which is spatially continuous ,  has comparable thickness ,  and usually covers some surface .
a site which has its extent determined by the presence or influence of one or more components of an environmental system or the processes occurring therein .
a building part which is separated from other building parts by one or more interior walls and ,  optionally ,  outdoor areas by one or more exterior walls .
concrete is a composite material composed of an aggregate bonded together with a fluid cement which hardens over time .
masonry cement is a substance used in construction that has the disposition to set and harden and thus may be used to bind materials together .
an exterior wall is a building wall which separates the interior of a building from the buildings surrounding environment .
a roof is the covering on the uppermost part of a building which provides protection from animals and weather ,  notably rain ,  but also heat ,  wind and sunlight .
thatch is material composed of dry vegetation such as straw ,  water reed ,  sedge  ( cladium mariscus )  ,  rushes ,  or heather .
a brick is a masonry unit which is composed of kneaded clay - bearing soil ,  expanded clay aggregate ,  sand and lime ,  or concrete material ,  fire - hardened or air - dried .
a thatched building roof is a building roof that is built by thatching  ( or out of thatch )  .
a tile is a manufactured piece of hard - wearing material such as ceramic ,  stone ,  metal ,  or even glass ,  generally used for covering roofs ,  floors ,  walls ,  showers ,  or other objects such as tabletops .
a fixture which is used primarily for the collection and ,  in some cases ,  disposal of human urine and feces .
a pit latrine is a latrine which is constructed by digging a hole in the ground .
a toilet fixture which uses water to flush liquid and solid excreta into a sewage containment or processing facility through a drainpipe .
a ventilated improved pit latrine is a pit latrine which includes a vent pipe fitted to the pit with a flyscreen covering the pipe's outlet .
a covered pit latrine is a building which comprises a pit latrine sheltered by an outhouse .
a covered pit latrine with slab is a building which comprises a pit latrine with a slab floor sheltered by an outhouse .
a composting toilet fixture is a dry toilet fixture in which managed ,  aerobic decomposition converts human excreta into organic matter suitable for the fertilisation or amendment of soils .
charcoal is a light ,  black residue ,  consisting of carbon and any remaining ash ,  obtained by removing water and other volatile constituents from animal and vegetation substances .
a flat - wick lamp is a simple type of paraffin lamp ,  which burns paraffin drawn up through a wick by capillary action .
a paraffin lantern is a lantern which houses a parrafin lamp in a structure of soldered or crimped - together sheet metal stampings and glass or other translucent material .
an electric lamp is a lamp which produces light from electricity .
a battery - powered electric lamp is an electric lamp which draws its power from a device composed of two or more electrochemical cells that convert stored chemical energy into electrical energy .
a candle is a lamp composed of a wax within which an ignitable wick is embedded .
a device capable of receiving and / or transmitting information encoded in electromagnetic radiation through wave modulation .
a cassette deck is a device capable of playing and recording audio compact cassettes .
a television set is a device that combines a tuner ,  display ,  and loudspeakers for the purpose of converting digital or analog information signals into moving images and sound .
a telephone is a telecommunications device which converts sound into electronic signals suitable for transmission via cables or other transmission media ,  and reconverts such signals into sound waves .
a mobile phone is a telephone which transmits sound information to a mobile phone network via radio transmissions .
a landline telephone is a telephone which is connected to a telephone network with wires through which electronic signals are carried .
a refrigerator is a device which consists of a thermally insulated compartment and a mechanical ,  chemical ,  or electronic heat pump that transfers heat from the inside of the fridge to its external environment such that the inside of the fridge is cooled to a temperature below the ambient temperature of the room
a table is a form of furniture with a flat horizontal upper surface used to support objects ,  for storage ,  show ,  and / or manipulation .
a chair is a piece of furniture with a raised surface commonly used to seat a single person .
a piece of furniture is a movable object intended to support various human activities such as seating  ( e .g . ,  chairs ,  stools and sofas )  and sleeping  ( e .g . ,  beds )  .
a sofa is a bench which is partially or entirely upholstered ,  and often fitted with springs and tailored cushions .
a cabinet is a roughly cuboidal piece of furniture which is used to store miscellaneous items in compartments accessible through doors or drawers .
a cupboard is a cabinet which is used indoors to store household objects such as food ,  crockery ,  textiles and liquor ,  and to protect them from dust and dirt
a clock is an instrument which may indicate ,  keep ,  and / or co - ordinate time .
a pressure lamp is a portable paraffin or oil lamp in which fuel is forced up into the mantle or burner by air pressure in the reservoir ,  which can be increased by pumping with a plunger .
a spring which emits fresh water .
rainwater is liquid water which has precipitated in the form of droplets through the condensation of atmospheric water vapour .
a motor vehicle is a vehicle which is propelled by an engine or motor and that does not operate on rails .
a water truck is a truck which transports water .
a vehicle is a mobile machine which transports people or cargo .
a bicycle is a human - powered ,  pedal - driven ,  single - track vehicle ,  having two wheels attached to a frame ,  one behind the other .
a motorcycle is a two -  or three - wheeled motor vehicle .
a lentic water body is a water body in which the accumulated water ,  in its totality ,  has very little to no directed flow .
a landmass which is part of a planet .
a self - contained constructed feature used by one or more households as a home ,  such as a house ,  apartment ,  mobile home ,  houseboat or other 'substantial' structure .
a material part of an astronomical body .
a part of a building roof which overhangs the face of a wall and ,  normally ,  projects beyond the side of a building .
an environmental system determined by an animal .
a material which is composed primarily of one or more pure metals and which shows their properties .
an environmental system which includes both living and non - living components .
manure which is composed primarily of the feces of poultry .
a terrestrial ecosystem which is inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support ,  and that under normal circumstances does support ,  a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions .
a process during which materials deemed to be waste are transported away from a site .
a surface layer which is composed primarily of solid environmental material .
a surface layer where the solid or liquid material of an astronomical body comes into contact with an atmosphere or outer space .
a surface layer of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of solid material and is not covered by oceans or other bodies of water .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of excreta ,  bodily fluids consisting of matter which contains the waste products of biological processes ,  including urine or feces ,  discharged from an organism's body .
a clinical assay that is performed as a preliminary procedure ,  such as a test or examination ,  to detect the most characteristic sign or signs of a disorder or a condition that may require further investigation .
an assay that enables the presence or the concentration of a substance in a material to be measured by exploiting the specific binding between an analyte and the corresponding detection antibody .
a surgical technique involving a large incision through the abdominal wall to gain access into the abdominal cavity .
a relationship between persons related as members of a domestic group ,  or a number of domestic groups linked through descent from a common ancestor ,  marriage ,  or adoption
a material entity used to build a dwelling or part of a dwelling .
a material entity for accommodation ,  such as a building ,  part of a building ,  caravan ,  houseboat or other mobile home .
a building material used in the construction of a roof .
a building material used in the construction of a floor
a building material used in the construction of a wall .
a processed material shaped a small rectangular block typically made of clay mixed with sand and fired in a kiln or baked by the sun ,  used in building wall construction .
a data item of a household's cumulative living standard represented in a numerical datum .
a processed material that is the bottom edge of a roof .
a brick with holes which is embedded in a wall to allow ventilation through it .
a scalar measurements datum of resident in a dwelling .
an information content entity to indicate whether a household has electricity in a dwelling .
a material entity that consists of fuel mainly used for cooking .
a material entity that consists of an energy source for lighting .
number of rooms in a dwelling that are used for sleeping .
a scalar measurement datum of land such as land owned by a household .
a scalar measurement datum of meals per day in a household
a scalar measurement datum of days eating meat in a  week in a household
how often problems satisfying food needs in a household
a length measurement datum of the distance from a dwelling to the nearest health facility .
a genotype information which is about the presence of certain genetic variants of glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase .
a genotype information which is about the presence and degree of alpha - thalassemia ,  a form of thalassemia involving the number of functional hba1 and hba2 genes .
a genotype information which is about the presence of sickle - cell hemoglobin  ( hbs )  ,  an abnormal form of hemoglobin which is the oxygen - carrying protein within the red blood cells .
a diagnosis that represents one of the following conclusions about a patient: that the patient has malaria ,  asymptomatic parasitemia ,  or no parasitemia .
a phenotypic abnormality of the presence of bacteria in the blood .
a diagnosis of malaria without evidence of complicated malaria .
a phenotypic abnormality of the presence of a virus in the blood .
a diagnosis of malaria with the presence of any danger signs including inability to sit up or stand ,  vomiting everything ,  unable to breastfeed or drink and lethargy or meeting criteria for severe malaria .
a diagnosis of complicated malaria with signs and symptoms ,  such as inability to sit up or stand ,  vomiting everything ,  unable to breastfeed or drink ,  lethargy ,  which are not listed as who criteria used to diagnose severe malaria .
a diagnosis of complicated malaria based on who criteria that include the presence of parasite infections ,  most commonly p .falciparum ,  and any one or more of symptoms / signs of serious organ failures or abnormalities ,  including cerebral malaria ,  severe anemia ,  generalized convulsions ,  hypoglycemia ,  respiratory distress ,  fluid and electrolyte disturbances ,  acute renal failure ,  ards ,  circulatory collapse ,  abnormal bleeding ,  and jaundice .
a malaria characterized by serious organ failures or abnormalities including cerebral malaria ,  severe anemia ,  generalized convulsions ,  hypoglycemia ,  respiratory distress ,  fluid and electrolyte disturbances ,  acute renal failure ,  ards ,  circulatory collapse ,  abnormal bleeding ,  and jaundice .
symptom or sign information that is used for the diagnosis of severe malaria based on world health organization  ( who )  criteria .
a scalar measurement datum about the level of hemoglobin in the blood .
a categorical measurement datum that indicates the presence of asexual parasites in blood cells by microscopy using a value of positive or negative .
a planned process in which a patient is seen by a medical practitioner .
a clinical visit that is primarily for a regular examination .
a human being who bears a participant under investigation role
a material entity whichis part of a dwelling for providing fresh air to the dwelling .
a geographical location which is part of uganda .
a role borne by some material entity which can be delivered / administrated into some organisms and the role is realized during clinical treatment process aiming to treat symptoms ,  signs or diagnosed disease .
a material entity that is bearer of a medication role .
a medication material intended to prevent or treat malaria .
a medication material intended to prevent or treat a disease other than malaria .
a drug product that has the chemical ingredient quinine and has antipyretic  ( fever - reducing )  ,  antimalarial ,  analgesic  ( painkilling )  ,  and anti - inflammatory properties .
a drug product that is the of combination artemether / lumefantrine  ( trade names coartem and riamet ,  falcynate - lf )  .
a dependent continuant which is either disease or phenotypic abnormality .
an information content entity is about household .
a diagnosis of uncomplicated malaria that occurs with the first trimester of pregnancy .
a diagnosis based on presence of asexual parasites by microscopy in the absence of subjective fever or documented elevated temperature
a diagnosis of malaria based on positive blood smear with subjective fever or elevated temperature resulting in antimalarial treatment .
a time measurement datum that specifies the date of a clinical visit .
a scalar measurement datum that is the number of asexual parasites per ul in a specimen using microscopy .
an information content entity about dwelling .
a symbol that denotes a specific household .
a symbol that denotes a specific human participant under investigation .
an information content entity which is about features of a human participant under investigation .
elevated temperature or subjective fever
a function to provide fresh air to a closed space .
a material entity in a dwelling that is designed ,  built ,  installed ,  selected ,  etc . ,  to serve a specific function affording a convenience or service to people who are living in the dwelling .
a phenotypic abnormality of a subjective fever as reported by the study participant or their parent / guardian
a febrile quality of an abnormally high temperature
a scalar measurement datum that is about temperature .
an organism that is the bearer of a partipant under investigation role
a role that inheres in a material entity that is realized in a building process in which the material entity will become part of a structure with a roof and walls standing more or less permanently in one place .
a building material role that inheres in a material entity that is realized in a building process in which the material entity will become part of a roof .
a building material role that inheres in a material entity that is realized in a building process in which the material entity will become part of a wall .
a building material role that inheres in a material entity that is realized in a building process in which the material entity will become part of a floor .
a role that inheres in a material entity that is realized in a process that provides a convenience or service to people who are living in a dwelling .
a temperature measurement datum that is about an organism .
a processed material shaped a small rectangular block typically made of clay mixed with sand and fired in a kiln or baked by the sun ,  used in building floor construction .
an age since birth measurement datum at the time of a clinical visit .
an average value of asexual parasites counted per microliter of blood  ( i .e .
an average value of asexual parasites counted per microliter of blood  ( i .e .
an average value of female anopheles mosquitoes collected across multiple collections  ( e .g .
an average value of anopheles mosquitoes tested for sporozoites across multiple collections  ( e .g .
an average value of sporozoite positive female anopheles mosquitoes across multiple collections  ( e .g .
an average percentage value of female anopheles mosquitoes tested as sporozoites - positive in all female mosquitoes tested for sporozoites across multiple collections .
an age since birth measurement datum at the time of subject enrollment .
a data item of the total number of clinical visits by a participant in an investigation .
a data item of the number of clinical visits during which the participant was diagnosed with malaria
a data item of the number of clinical visits during which the participant was diagnosed with asymptomatic microscopic parasitemia .
a data item of the total number of clinical visits which were not sheduled routine visits .
a data item of the total number of clinical visits which were sheduled routine visits .
an information content entity that is about the type of sample / specimen collected during a clinical visit .
a blood specimen that is located on a filter paper .
a processed specimen that is extracted from whole blood using gradient centrifugation that separates the blood into a layer of peripheral blood mononuclear cell under the top layer of plasma .
a processed specimen consisting of red blood cells isolated from whole blood by centrifugation .
an average value for female anopheles mosquitoes tested positive for carrying plasmodium parasites across multiple collections  ( e .g .
an average value for female anopheles mosquitoes tested for carrying plasmodium parasites across multiple collections  ( e .g .
an average percentage value for female anopheles mosquitoes carrying plasmodium parasites in all female mosquitoes tested for carrying plasmodium parasites across multiple collections .
a count of anopheles mosquitoes collections performed  ( e .g .
a sum value for all species of female anopheles mosquitoes in a given collections .
a sum value for all female anopheles funestus mosquitoes in a given collections .
a sum value for all female anopheles gambiae mosquitoes in a given collections .
a time datum for the duration of a patients participation in an investigation .
an average value for the number of clinical visits of a patient based on calendar years
an average value for the number of clinical visits of a patient with asymptomatic microscopic parasitemia based on calendar years .
an average value for the number of clinical visits of a patient with malaria based on calendar years
a clinical visit date that specifies the date / time period of a routine clinical visit .
a data item about a household's cumulative living standard represented in a categorical datum .
an information content entity about items that a household owns such as a car ,  funiture ,  etc .
an information content entity indicating whether a person was given antimalarial therapy outside the study since last seen as part of the study .
an information content entity indicating the cause of death for a participant in the study .
a clinical visit occuring because of a sickness .
a covered pit latrine that does not have a latrine slab .
a time measurement datum specifying the date of death
a time measurement datum that specified the date of participant first enrolled in a study
a time measurement datum that specified the date of participant last seen in a study
a time measurement datum measuring the number of days since a clinical visit took place which resulted in a malaria diagnosis .
a time measurement datum that measures the duration of having abdominal pain .
a time measurement datum that measures the duration of having anorexia .
a time measurement datum that measures the duration of having a cough .
a time measurement datum that measures the duration of having diarrhea .
a time measurement datum that measures the duration of having fatigue .
a time measurement datum that measures the duration of having a headache .
a time measurement datum that measures the duration of having jaundice .
a time measurement datum that measures the duration of having joint pains .
a time measurement datum that measures the duration of having muscle aches .
a time measurement datum that measures the duration of having seizures .
a time measurement datum that measures the duration of having subjective fever .
a time measurement datum that measures the duration of having vomiting .
a household asset information indicating whether a member of a household has or owns an animal - drawn cart .
a household asset information indicating whether a member of a household has a bank account .
a household asset information indicating whether a household has a bed .
a household asset information indicating whether a member of a household has or owns a bicycle .
a household asset information indicating whether a member of a household has or owns a boat without a motor .
a household asset information indicating whether a member of a household has or owns a car or truck .
a household asset information indicating whether a household has a cassette player .
a household asset information indicating whether a household has a chair .
a household asset information indicating whether a household has a clock .
a household asset information indicating whether a household has a cupboard .
a household asset information indicating whether a household has electricity in their dwelling .
a household asset information indicating whether a household has a land line or fixed location phone .
a household asset information indicating whether a household has a mobile phone .
a household asset information indicating whether a member of a household has or owns a boat with a motor .
a household asset information indicating whether a member of a household has or owns a motorcycle or motor scooter .
a household asset information indicating whether a household has a radio .
a household asset information indicating whether a household has a refrigerator .
a household asset information indicating whether a household has a sofa .
a household asset information indicating whether a household has a table .
a household asset information indicating whether a household has a television .
a household asset information indicating whether a member of a household has or owns a watch .
an information content entity indicating whether a malaria episode occurred
a material entity where a clinical visit took place .
a material entity where a death occurred .
an information content entity indicating whether medical care occurred outside the study clinic since last seen as part of the study .
a time measurement datum of the days from the time of participant enrollment in a study until the current visit .
a measurement datum of the number of female anopheles funestus with a recent blood meal in a given collection
a measurement datum of the number of female anopheles gambiae with a recent blood meal in a given collection
a measurement datum of the number of female anopheles dissected for parity in a given collection .
a measurement datum of the number of female anopheles that have never layed eggs in a given collection .
a measurement datum of the number of female anopheles that have layed eggs before or are pregnant in a given collection .
a measurement datum of the number of gravid or semi - gravid female anopheles funestus in a given collection
a measurement datum of the number of gravid or semi - gravid female anopheles gambiae in a given collection
an average value for the number of insecticide treated mosquito net ( s )  per person .
a measurement datum of the number of female anopheles that are not gambiae nor funestus in a given collection .
a data item of the number of sleeping spaces in a dwelling .
a measurement datum of the number of anopheles funestus that could not be accessed in a given collection
a measurement datum of the number of anopheles gambiae that could not be assessed in a given collection
a measurement datum of the number of female anopheles funestus without a recent blood meal in a given collection
a measurement datum of the number of female anopheles gambiae without a recent blood meal in a given collection
an information content entity that indicates whether a plasma sample is lost or not .
a categorical measurement datum that indicates whether plasmodium gametocytes were present in a specimen using microscopy .
an information content entity indicating the reason why a participant withdrew from a study .
an information content entity that indicates whether a redraw of a symptom occurred after a clinical visit .
a routine clinical visit in which a blood specimen was collected for a t - cell study .
a routine clinical visit in which a blood specimen was collected by finger prick and sent for lab testing  ( e .g . ,  blood smear ,  hemoglobin level measurement )  .
a routine clinical visit in which a blood specimen was collected using venipuncture and sent for lab testing  ( e .g . ,  blood smear ,  hemoglobin level measurement )  .
a routine clinical visit in which no routine assessment was done during the visit .
an air brick with a screen that can prevent some insects get in the dwelling .
an anemia with hemoglobin levels less than 5 gm / dl .
an information content entity indicating whether a person slept in an insecticide treated net the previous night .
a sum value for all female anopheles examined for sporozoites in a given collection .
a sum value for all female anopheles with plasmodium sporozoites in a given collection .
a time measurement datum indicating when screening of a human study subject was perfomed .
a pit latrine that is not sheltered by an outhouse but has a latrine slab .
a pit latrine that is not sheltered by an outhouse and does not have a latrine slab .
an air brick without a screen to prevent insects from enetering the dwelling .
pain perceived to originate in the muscle .
a light source that light is produced from solar energy .
drinking water that is obtained from a publicly accessible water well without a constructed barrier built around it to limit movement of waste or runoff into it
drinking water that is obtained from a water well with a constructed barrier built around it to limit movement of waste or runoff into the well and the well is located in the yard of a dwelling
drinking water accessed through a plumbing fixture located inside a human dwelling
drinking water obtained through a plumbing fixture located in the yard of a human dwelling
drinking water that is obtained from a freshwater spring without a constructed barrier built around it that would limit movement of waste or runoff into it
a centrally registered identifier symbol assigned by the american type culture collection  ( atcc )  .
half life datum  ( t 1 / 2 )  for cleaning parasite
a rate measurement datum that represents the number of parasite organisms removed from the bearer of a host role by means of the biological processes of the bearer of the host role
a time measurement datum that is the result of measuring the time it takes for the biological processes of the bearer of a host role to remove parasite organisms within it ,  until such time as the organisms cannot be detected
a population of people who share a common ancestor on the patrilineal or matrilineal line .
a time measurement datum that represents the beginning of the first process in which a parasitemia is realized
an information content entity that describes the success ,  failure ,  or indeterminacy of a treatment
an information content entity that is about a process in which a human being occupying a dwelling participates .
a information content entity that is about a part of a dwelling
an information content entity that is about a household and is an estimator of capabilities of household members to participate in processes that maintain their health ,  social status ,  and economic freedom
a data item that is about an investigation and is the specified output of a data transformation that has only clinical visit data as input
a genotype information that is about the genetic material of a human being
an information content entity that is about a part of a study design execution that is part of an investigation under which a human being is a participant
an information content entity that is about a part of a health care encounter that occurs in a hospital facility
an information content entity that is about a sign or symptom of a patient
an information content entity that is about a clinical visit
an information content entity that specifies whether a clinical visit is scheduled or unscheduled
an entomological data item that results from either  ( a )  counting insect collections from multiple catches of live specimens or  ( b )  an averaging data transformation that has single catch entomological measurement data as input
an entomological data item that is the specified output of an assay that has a collection of insect specimens as specified input ;  this collection is the specified output of exactly one catch of live specimens
a clinical visit that realizes the concretization of a protocol specifying the time of the visit
a clinical visit that occurs at a time that is not mentioned in a protocol that directs the time of the visit
an information content entity that is about a malaria diagnosis and describes the severity of the disease or the basis for the diagnosis
a diagnosis that is an assertion that a patient ,  who is the subject of a diagnostic process ,  has a disease other than malaria
an information content entity that is about a participant under investigation and specifies the hospital admitting the participant
a time measurement datum that is about a human being who bears a patient role and specifies the date of the patient's admission to a hospital
a time measurement datum that is about a human being who bears a patient role and specifies the date of the patient's discharge from a hospital
a diagnosis that is documented during the discharge process .
an information content entity that is about a collection of anopheles funestus
an information content entity that is about a collection of anopheles gambiae sensu lato
an information content entity that is about a number of mosquitos that have given birth
an entomological data item that is the specified output of an analyte assay to determine whether a sporozoite is present in any insect in a collection of insects
a data item that is the specified output of a data transformation that has only sporozoite testing information as input
a data item that is about a collection of insects
one dimensional cartesian spatial coordinate datum refers to eastward - measured distance  ( or the x - coordinate )  .
one dimensional cartesian spatial coordinate datum refers to the northward - measured distance  ( or the y - coordinate )  .
a human waste disposal in a household .
a count of the total number of non - scheduled clinical visits in an investigation .
a count of the total number of scheduled clinical visits in an investigation .
an information content entity that is about malaria diagnosis and parasite status testing by blood smear or lamp .
a dwelling information about animal living in a human dwelling .
an information content entity that is about human traveling .
an information content entity that is about vector control intervention towards interruption of transmission of infectious diseases .
an information content entity that is about employment .
an organism that raised by people and lives in a human dwelling .
an information content entity that is about when the bed net is last treated .
an information content entity that is about the highest level of schooling that a person has reached .
a count of the total times of a person who infected with p . vivax in his lifetime .
a count of the total times of a person who infected with p . vivax last year .
a count of the total times of a person who infected with p . falciparum in his lifetime .
a count of the total times of a person who infected with p . falciparum last year .
a time measurement datum of days in a week at primary job .
a time measurement datum of days in a week at secondary job .
"a human social role realized in a process that often performed in exchange for payment .
a planned process that a person participates in exchange for payment .
an economic activity that a person is involved in primarily .
an economic activity that a person is not involved in primarily .
a textual entity that describes a person's primary economic activity .
a textual entity that describes a person's secondary economic activity .
an information content entity about secondary economic activity a person participates in the last month .
an information content entity that is about an activity that realizes a social role and is often performed for payment .
a time measurement datum about the pay period of primary economic activity .
a time measurement datum about the pay period of secondary economic activity .
an information content entity about whether a person received payment from primary economic activity .
an information content entity about whether a person received payment from secondary economic activity .
a data item of salary of primary job .
a data item of salary of other job .
a time measurement datum about number of hours per day spend at primary economic activity .
a time measurement datum about number of hours per day spend at secondary economic activity .
an environmental feature for disposing garbage .
a textual entity about community where a person is living .
a textual entity about community where a study taken place .
a malaria medication that is generally taken for initial treatment of malaria .
"a malaria medication that is given when first - line medication doesn't work ,  or stops working ."
a categorical value specification that is about a human being and specifies whether that human being is joined to another human being in marriage
a categorical value specification that specifies whether a human being plans to change within two years the dwelling which that human being occupies
an information content entity that specifies the relationship between a person and the head of their household .
a time measurement datum that represents the time a human being resides in a human dwelling
a time measurement datum that is about a human being ,  has years as its unit ,  and represents the time interval that the human being has lived in a geographic location where the inhabitants share a common trait
a count of the number of instances of a site ,  within a human dwelling and its yard ,  to which any resident of the dwelling has access
a scalar measurement datum that has the square meter as its measurement label and is the result of a measurement of area that is covered by a roof
an information content entity about where the kitchen is located inside or outside of a dwelling .
a scalar measurement datum that is the result of a measurement of area and has the square meter as its measurement label
a categorical value specification that is about a dwelling and specifies whether  ( a )  it is owned by an occupant of the dwelling or  ( b )  a rental agreement exists such that an occupant has an obligation to pay rent to someone who does not occupy the dwelling
an information content entity that is about a geographic location in which part of a journey occurs
an information content entity about travel to any place more than 10 km away from where a person lives .
an information content entity that is about a patient diagnosed with malaria and describes geographic locations the patient visited
a material entity that is used to make bed net .
a time measurement datum that is about a human dwelling and specifies the most recent date on which the dwelling was fumigated ,  i .e .
an information content entity that specifies the organization that administers insecticide to a collection of bed nets
an information content entity that specifies whether a human participant under investigation is a contact for malaria ,  based on the partipant's association with sites in which malaria infections are known to occur
an information content entity that is about a human participant under investigation and specifies whether the person is present for a scheduled clinical visit
a count of the number of instances of a domesticated animal that is raised in an agricultural setting to produce labor and commodities
a count of the number of instances of a domesticated animal that is kept for pleasure rather than utility
a count of the number of instances of a bed net to which insecticide was applied in the past six months
a count of the number of instances of a bed net to which insecticide was applied before the previous six months
a count of the number of instances of bed net to which long last insecticide is administered
a count of the number of instances of a bed net to which insecticide has not been applied
a categorical measurement datum about proximity to case dwelling .
an organization that administrates a medical care center that provides healthcare services on an outpatient basis
a geographic location where the clinic is located .
a textual entity that denotes a political entity that is a division of a state or territory of india
a textual entity about a 'division' or 'ward' being a sub - division of a city .
a categorical value specification that specifies whether a patient complies with a dose specification that specifies the dose of malaria medication to self - administer
an information content entity that specifies whether a participant under investigation self - administered antimalarial drugs in the past 2 weeks
an information content entity that is about a human participant under investigation that has a disease and specifies the disease
an information content entity that is about a human participant under investigation and specifies whether the participant has a disease
a categorical value specification that is about a health care provider role that is realized in a treatment to alleviate symptoms of a fever .
a time measurement datum that measures the duration of having febrile .
an information content entity that specifies whether a human being is manifesting a disease
"an information content entity is about who are indoor residents ,  such as only human ,  or human and animals ."
a measurement datum that approximates the temporal interval between applications of larvicide at the same site
an information content entity that specifies any locations in which a diagnostic process has occurred in the past twelve months that resulted in a diagnosis of malaria
a count of the number of instances of a parasite in a life cycle stage in which reproduction is asexual
a data item of which parasite species detected in a blood specimen .
a country name denote where a person was born .
an information content entity that is part of a diagnosis of malaria ,  resulting from a diagnostic process that occurred within the past year ,  and specifies the species of the infectious agent causing the malaria
a count of malaria diagnosis past year .
a time measurement datum of number of months since malaria diagnosis .
an information content entity about whether antimalarial drug treated last year
a time measurement datum about when the antimalarial drug used last year
an information content entity about what antimalarial drug used last year
an information about who treated malaria last year
a specimen that is used for dna extraction and following pcr assay .
an organism identification assay that identifies the species of parasites by pcr .
a textual entity that denotes the public health clinic / hospital that the human subject normally uses  ( for non malaria illness )  .
a data item of income level issued annually by the department of health and human services .
an information that specifies a person has no illness .
a laboratory test that can quickly establishing the diagnosis of  p . falciparum or p . vivax malaria infection by detecting the antigens in a person's blood .
"a laboratory test that is a rapid ,  sensitive malaria test that is able to differentiate between p . falciparum and other malaria parasites . "
a material entity that a person uses to deter mosquitoes from approaching or settling .
"an information content entity about a person's resident status ,  permanent or temporary ."
an information content entity about repellent sprayed in last 12 months in a dwelling .
a text entity denotes to a state where a person was born .
an information content entity that is about whether a person take fever suppressant .
a text entity denotes to a taluk .
a country name denote a geographic location that a person has visited .
a text entity denotes to a district that a person has visited .
a text entity denotes to a state that a person has visited .
a taluk name denote a geographic location that a person has visited .
a village name denote a geographic location that a person has visited .
an information content entity about whether a person travelled in last 14 days .
an information content entity about healthcare that is private or public .
a text entity denotes to a village .
a text entity of a zone number denotes to a geographic location .
a data item that is about a sequencing assay and is the ratio of the count of mapped reads to the total count of reads
a diagnosis based on parasites detected by microscopy  ( parasite density  >  0 )  or lamp assay  ( lamp result is positive )  in the absence of febrile  ( subjective fever and  temperature > =38 )  .
a diagnosis based on presence of parasites by lamp assay when microscopy result was negative in the absence of subjective fever or documented elevated temperature .
a data item of the number of clinical visits during which the participant was diagnosed with asymptomatic parasitemia .
a presence of parasite that indicates whether parasites too small to be seen under light microscopy are present in a specimen .
an information content entity is about blood smear not performed .
a laboratory finding about parasite present which is negative in both blood smear and lamp assay .
an information content entity is about parasite status with negative blood smear and lamp test is not performed .
an average value for the number of clinical visits of a patient with asymptomatic parasitemia based on calendar years .
a count of the number of courses of antibiotics received by the human or animal .
a symbol that denotes a specific family ,  rather than the physical home in which they live .
a symbol denotes a physical structure / home / dwelling ,  rather than the human inhabitants .
an information content entity that idicates whether the hive was treated with tetracyline to prevent infection with the bacterial pathogen paenibacillus larvae .
an information indicates that samples from child or from the mother ,  or both .
a number of courses of antibiotics given to a mother during delivery .
a region of the 16s rrna gene that was pcr amplified and sequenced .
an organism that realizes host role in laboratory .
a textual entity refers to a taxon or organism that is based on the normal language of everyday life ;  this kind of name is often contrasted with the scientific name for the same organism ,  which is latinized .
an information content entity specify any molecular data associated with specimen source is available .
an information content entity indicates whether the specimen collection is original collection or follow up collection from same study subject .
an information content entity specifies whether study subject signed informed consent for data collection and usage .
a categorical measurement datum that indicates whether plasmodium falciparum were present in a specimen .
a categorical measurement datum that indicates whether gametocyte were present in a specimen .
a categorical measurement datum that indicates whether plasmodium knowlesi were present in a specimen .
a categorical measurement datum that indicates whether plasmodium malariae were present in a specimen .
a categorical measurement datum that indicates whether plasmodium ovale were present in a specimen .
a categorical measurement datum that indicates whether parasite were present in a specimen .
a categorical measurement datum that indicates whether plasmodium vivax were present in a specimen .
a time measurement datum measuring the number of days from the first specimen collection to current specimen collection from same study subject .
a scalar measurement datum that is about gametocyte density measured using microscopy .
a scalar measurement datum that is about gametocyte density measured by rt - pcr .
an assay that detects parasite gametocyte in a specimen .
a protocol that specifies how to measure the density of parasite gametocyte .
a site in which a global positioning system receiver produces a data item specifying the location of the site
an information content entity specify any host genetics data associated with specimen source is available .
an information content entity specify any immune response data associated with specimen source is available .
an information content entity specify any parasite genetics data associated with specimen source is available .
an information content entity specify any molecular data other than host genetics ,  parasite genetics ,  and immune response ,  associated with specimen source is available .
a centrally registered identifier symbol assigned to a research project by institutional review board  ( irb )  .
a scalar measurement datum that is about parasite density measured by pcr .
a scalar measurement datum that is about parasite density measured by microscope .
an assay that detects parasite in a specimen .
an assay that detects parasite in a specimen using pcr .
a categorical measurement datum that indicates whether asexual parasite were present in a specimen using pcr .
a categorical measurement datum that is the result of rapid diagnosis test using a value of positive or negative .
the site where specimen collection taken place .
a research organization that is located in an area where malaria is endemic and is one of many centers established by the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases with the following aims: to design and conduct multidisciplinary research on the epidemiology ,  transmission ,  and pathogenesis of malaria in its specific region ,  to design and conduct special projects to capitalize on new opportunities and emerging public health needs ,  and to build clinical research capacity and improve malaria control and prevention
an assay that detects body temperature of an organism .
an assay that is quick and easy in the diagnosis of malaria by detecting evidence of malaria parasites  ( antigens )  in human blood .
gametocyte density by microscope that is the output of an assay that realizes a measurand role that inheres in plasmodium falciparum
gametocyte density by microscope that is the output of an assay that realizes a measurand role that inheres in plasmodium vivax
a gametocyte density by rt - pcr that is about plasmodium vivax .
parasite density by pcr that is the output of an assay that realizes a measurand role that inheres in plasmodium vivax
parasite density by microscope that is the output of an assay that realizes a measurand role that inheres in plasmodium falciparum
parasite density by microscope that is the output of an assay that realizes a measurand role that inheres in plasmodium vivax
parasite density by pcr that is the output of an assay that realizes a measurand role that inheres in plasmodium falciparum
an information content entity specifies whether study subject signed informed consent for future use of specimen .
a genotype information of parasite organism .
a data item that is about some virulence and is the count of infectious agents that kill half of a collection of human beings infected with the agents
a data item that is about some virulence and is the proportion of the number of human beings with a disease  ( caused by the bearer of the virulence )  that die of the disease
a centrally registered identifier symbol assigned by the bei resources  ( https: /  / www .beiresources .org /  )  to cultures and reagents for microbiology and infectious diseases research .
a measurement datum of vertical distance below local surface ,  e .g .
an age since birth measurement datum measured in days .
an information content entity about whether child exposed to antibiotics .
a health care encounter in which a health care provider assists a mother in the birth of a child
a medication material that is used in the treatment and prevention of bacterial infections .
an information content entity about whether bee colony treated with tetracycline .
main source of nutrition for a child
main source of nutrition for a child for each month
an information content entity about any drug used by a participant under investigation and the frequency of usage .
an information content entity about environmental material ,  environmental feature ,  environmental system ,  etc .
household information that specifies whether the household relocated during its time under investigation
an information content entity that is about the bearer of a host role
the diet of an animal that is the bearer of a host role
an organism that has host role
a categorical value specification that is about a collection of bee larvae and specifies whether tetracycline was administered to the larvae
mass measurement datum is about a host that measured at specimen collection process
a count that is about a dwelling and is also the result of counting the instances of a child that occupies the dwelling
an information content entity about disposal of human excreta material .
a ratio that is about a dwelling ,  is expressed as a percent ,  has a count of adult occupants of the dwelling as the numerator ,  and has a count of all occupants of the dwelling as the denominator
a ratio that is about a dwelling ,  is expressed as a percent ,  has a count of male occupants of the dwelling as the numerator ,  and has a count of all occupants of the dwelling as the denominator
a categorical value specification that specifies whether a mother received an antimicrobial agent
an information content entity that is about an antimicrobial agent given to a mother and specifies the agent by chemical compound
an information content entity that specifies the trimester of a pregnancy for which a mother receives an antimicrobial agent
an information content entity about presence of pets or farm animals in the environment of subject ,  if yes the animals should be specified ;  can include multiple animals present .
a protocol that ,  when concretized ,  is realized in an assay that uses chemical or biological means to infer the sequence of a biomaterial
an information content entity about in which batch were samples sequenced together .
an information content entity that is about an investigation and has as parts only the most significant information content entities that result from the investigation
a symbol that denotes the bearer of a participant under investigation role
an information content entity that is about weight loss occurring in a three - month period
a protocol such that ,  if it is concretized and its concretization is realized ,  its concretization is realized in a planned process that has as its objective collecting a specimen
an information content entity about the bearer of a specimen role
symptom or sign information that results from an examination of either the skin of the patient or a process in which the skin participates
an information content entity that is about a specimen collection process
an information content entity that specifies whether an animal is also human
a specimen collection time measurement datum that is the measure of a time when specimens are collected after an infection starts
skin symptom or sign information that is about the thickness of the ear of the patient
skin symptom or sign information that specifies the rate at which water passes through the epidermis of the patient into the air
a categorical measurement datum that is about the skin of a human being and specifies whether the skin is either dry ,  moist ,  or sebaceous
a categorical value specification that is about a portion of skin that has a disorder hypothesized to be clinically significant .
a count of the number of instances of a treatment
skin symptom or sign information that is about increased thickness of the skin
skin symptom or sign information that specifies the size of a disorder on the skin of a patient
skin symptom or sign information that is about a lesion on the axilla of a patient and specifies the extent of damage to the tissue before a treatment to alleviate the lesion
skin symptom or sign information that is about a lesion on the axilla of a patient and specifies the extent of damage to the tissue during a treatment to alleviate the lesion
skin symptom or sign information that is about a lesion on the axilla of a patient and specifies the extent of damage to the tissue that remains after a treatment to alleviate the lesion
skin symptom or sign information that is about a lesion on the groin of a patient and specifies the extent of damage to the tissue before a treatment to alleviate the lesion
skin symptom or sign information that is about a lesion on the groin of a patient and specifies the extent of damage to the tissue during a treatment to alleviate the lesion
skin symptom or sign information that is about a lesion on the groin of a patient and specifies the extent of damage to the tissue that remains after a treatment to alleviate the lesion
skin symptom or sign information that is about a lesion on a pinna of a patient and specifies the extent of damage to the tissue before a treatment to alleviate the lesion
skin symptom or sign information that is about a lesion on a pinna of a patient and specifies the extent of damage to the tissue during a treatment to alleviate the lesion
skin symptom or sign information that is about a lesion on a pinna of a patient and specifies the extent of damage to the tissue that remains after a treatment to alleviate the lesion
treatment outcome information that specifies whether the treatment of a skin lesion was successful
a time measurement datum that represents the time interval between the first appearance of a skin lesion and the time it is swabbed for specimen collection
a categorical value specification that specifies the degree of erythema
skin symptom or sign information that specifies the area of a part of a patient's skin that participates in an inflammation process
a measurement datum that is a measurement of the hydration of the outer epidermis
an information content entity that specifies the degree to which alopecia has been realized in a patient
a skin symptom or sign information that specifies whether the patient has atopic dermatitis
a diagnosis that is documented during the admission process .
a population that is the bearer of a study group role
a symbol that denotes a cage that has the function to keep an animal that is the bearer of a participant under investigation role
a symbol that denotes a cage that has the function to keep a mouse that is the bearer of a participant under investigation role
an information content entity about disposal of excreta material produced by a child .
assay that subjects a stool sample to a test for microorganisms .
a biological process that breeds a plant or animal by natural processes from the parent stock .
a genotype information which is about  cluster of differentiation 36  ( cd36 )  gene ,  which encodes an integral membrane protein in many cell types and a member of the scavenger receptor family that imports fatty acids into cells  ( canton et al . ,  2013 )  .
an information content entity is about a process .
a planned process that an organism exposed to that are not one of the variables under study .
a treatment to alleviate the signs and symptoms associated with malaria .
a time measurement datum of duration of an individual acquires ,  develops ,  or first experiences a condition or symptoms of a disease or disorder .
a time measurement datum that specifies when the dna was extracted
the measurement datum generated by inverse polymerase chain reaction  ( inverse pcr )  .
a time measurement datum of duration of the observation at the end of an observation period .
a time measurement datum of a person first diagnosed as malaria
a time measurement datum of the duration for reinfection .
a genotype information about 60 kda glycoprotein  ( gp60 )  gene .
a specimen collection time measurement datum in year .
an information content entity of multiple blood smear results during an observation period .
an organism that has pathogen role .
a quality inheres in parasite organism .
a genotype information of fungus .
a fungus that is bred to have some uniform behavioral ,  morphological ,  physiological ,  or genetic characteristics with similarly bred fungus
a candida albicans that is bred to have some uniform behavioral ,  morphological ,  physiological ,  or genetic characteristics with similarly bred candida albicans
a parasite that is bred to have some uniform behavioral ,  morphological ,  physiological ,  or genetic characteristics with similarly bred parasite organisms
a data item that indicates whether some organism is present in a specimen .
an information content entity that is about some quality ,  risk ,  or access to health care that inheres in a human being and is deemed clinically significant by the world health organization ,  which uses this entity to categorize each of their individual core health indicators ,  based on the type of quality ,  risk ,  or access .
skin symptom or sign information that is about a lesion on the groin of a patient and specifies the extent of damage to the tissue .
skin symptom or sign information that is about a lesion on an axilla of a patient and specifies the extent of damage to the tissue .
skin symptom or sign information that is about a lesion on a pinna of a patient and specifies the extent of damage to the tissue .
a role borne by an organism that is gained during a process in which another organism ingests blood as food from the organism .
a time measurement datum that is about the duration of exposure to an insecticide that results in the death of 50% of a population of insects .
a clinical finding of a death that has been confirmed to be likely caused by covid - 19 .
an information content entity that is about a treatment .
an information content entity identifying an assay and specifying whether it was performed .
an assay that detects parasite organisms in a specimen that are in the sporozoite stage .
a time measurement datum specifying the date of a clinical visit scheduled for sixty days after a treatment
administering substance in vivo where an antibiotic substance is administered to a living organism .
an information content entity that is about a subject pairing of two participants for a case - control study design
an immediate clinical history that is about a treatment for diarrhea
an information content entity that is about a realization of diarrhea
treatment whose aim is to restore the normal hydration state of a living organism .
environmental system associated with the dwelling used by humans .
study participant information that specifies details of the study design execution in which the human participant under investigation is participating
an information content entity that mentions an eligiblity criterion
an information content entity that is about a human being in the community of a human participant under investigation and identifies the relationship between them both
a data item that is about a quality of a fecal specimen
specimen collection process aimed at collecting a stool sample .
an information content entity that specifies an antibiotic that is administered to a human participant under investigation ,  which precedes stool collection from the participant
organization that undertakes a clinical study at some point in time .
site where a human life process ended .
a mass measurement datum that is the result of measuring the combined mass of a human participant under investigation and a caretaker of that participant
a mass measurement datum that is the result of measuring the mass of a caretaker of a human participant under investigation
an average value that is the specified output of a data transformation that has as input only length measurement data about height
a center value that is the specified output of a median calculation that has as input only length measurement data about height
a length measurement datum that is the result of the first in a series of assays measuring the length around the same upper arm ,  such that the measurement is taken midway along the upper arm
a length measurement datum that is the result of the second in a series of assays measuring the length around the same upper arm ,  such that the measurement is taken midway along the upper arm
a length measurement datum that is the result of the third in a series of assays measuring the length around the same upper arm ,  such that the measurement is taken midway along the upper arm
an average value of two or more mid - upper arm circumference data of the same human participant under investigation
a center value of one or more mid - upper arm circumference data of the same human participant under investigation
a temperature measurement datum that is about the temperature of an axilla
a rate measurement datum that is about a human participant under investigation and is the specified output of the first of a series of countings of instances of the participant's respiration
a rate measurement datum that is about a human participant under investigation and is the specified output of the second of a series of countings of instances of the participant's respiration
an average value that is the specified output of a data transformation that has two or more respiratory rates of the same human participant under investigation as specified input
container used by humans to drink water .
information content entity that is a boolean - valued measurement datum ,  outcome of a chlorine testing assay that aims at testing a body of drinking water for a specified minimum concentration of chlorine .
site where humans wash their hands .
an information content entity that specifies whether a human participant under investigation is currently a medication - taking patient
a time measurement datum of the date encompassing a defecation
a quality of water composition ,  shape ,  or structure that inheres in fecal material
a time measurement datum of the date of the first in a series of antibiotic administrations to a human participant under investigation
a time measurement datum of the time of the first in a series of antibiotic administrations to a human participant under investigation
a time measurement datum that is the result of measuring the duration of a diarrheal episode
measurement datum resulted from the volume measurement process of an entire stool .
a time measurement datum of the date at which a dehydration treatment is administered
a time measurement datum of the time of day at which a dehydration treatment is administered
a symptom at enrollment information about a symptom that was experienced within seven days prior to the time of enrollment
a symptom or sign information that is about a symptom experienced after a disease course has started
process of feeding of babies and young children with milk from a woman's breast .
child study subject identifier received upon enrolling into a healthcare study for the first time .
an information content entity that is about a treatment for diarrhea ,  given to a participant under investigation ,  that precedes any treatment for diarrhea given to the participant as part of a clinical visit .
an information content entity that specifies how the money was raised to cover the cost of a health care encounter
a diarrheal treatment immediate history that is about the person or place from which the treatment is sought
a categorical value specification that specifies whether the value of an anthropometric information content entity lies outside a specified range
an information content entity that is about a treatment for diarrhea that is administered in a health care facility
an information content entity that is about a treatment provided by a health care prescription for a human participant under investigation for diarrhea
a diagnosis of a human participant under investigation ,  two months before the participant's follow - up visit
information on case matching that denotes the sex of the case subject
the date of birth of a case subject in a case - control study
a categorical value specification that specifies whether a human participant under investigation meets requirements for human subject enrollment
a categorical measurement datum that is about a maximum fever temperature in celsius and specifies whether its value is at least 37 .5
a categorical value specification that specifies whether an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay was performed with the objective of determining whether a specimen contains adenovirus
a categorical value specification that specifies whether an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay was performed with the objective of determining whether a specimen contains astrovirus
a categorical value specification that specifies whether an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay was performed with the objective of determining whether a specimen contains rotavirus
a categorical value specification that specifies whether a modified acid fast staining method was performed
a categorical value specifiction that specifies whether a reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction assay was performed with the objective of determining whether a specimen contains norovirus
a categorical value specification that specifies whether an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay was performed with the objective of determining whether a specimen contains cryptosporidium
a categorical value specification that specifies whether an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay was performed with the objective of determining whether a specimen contains entamoeba histolytica
a categorical value specification that specifies whether an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay was performed with the objective of determining whether a specimen contains giardia
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether adenovirus was detected by an enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether aeromonas was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether ascaris lumbricoides was detected by a microscopy assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether astrovirus was detected by an enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether trichuris trichiura was detected in feces by an enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether balantioides coil was detected in feces by a microscopy assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether escherichia coli was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether chilomastix mesnili was detected in feces by a microscopy assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether cyclospora was detected in feces by microscopy
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether entamoeba histolytica was detected in feces by an enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether endolimax nana was detected by microsopy
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether enterobius vermicularis was detected by microsopy
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether hymenolepis diminuta was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether hymenolepis nana was detected by microscopy
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether ancylostomatoidea was detected by microscopy
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether iodamoeba butschlii was detected by microscopy
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether entamoeba coli was detected by microscopy
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether norovirus was detected by a reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether norovirus gi was detected by a reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether norovirus gii was detected by a reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether entamoeba histolytica was detected by an enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether plesiomonas shigelloides was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether rotavirus detected by an enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether salmonella was detected in feces by a differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether schistosoma was detected by microscopy
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether shigella was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether strongyloides stercoralis was detected by a microscopy assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether taenia was detected by a microscopy assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether vibrio was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether yersinia enterocolitica was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether the objective of an assay to detect bacteria was achieved
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether the objective of an assay to detect a pathogen organism was achieved
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether an assay achieves its objective to detect a virus
a presence of parasite that specifies that a parasite was detected by the modified acid fast staining method
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether campylobacter was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether campylobacter was detected by an enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether cryptosporidium was detected by an enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether cryptosporidium was detected by the modified acid fast staining method
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether giardia was detected by an enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether isospora was detected by a microscopy assay
information on process that is about breastfeeding
any measurement of the calories  ( usually large calories ,  kilogram calories ,  dietary calories ,  or nutritional calories )  consumed by an organism .
an information content entity that is about an acute manifestation of a lower respiratory tract disease
a laboratory test that has a blood specimen as specified input
a laboratory test that has a urine specimen as specified input
an information content entity that is about a microscopy assay
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of ferritin in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
the threshold cycle that is the specified output of a fluorogenic pcr assay that has the objective of determining the number of blastocystis in a feces specimen
the threshold cycle that is the specified output of a fluorogenic pcr assay that has the objective of determining the number of clostridium difficile in a feces specimen
the threshold cycle that is the specified output of a fluorogenic pcr assay that has the objective of determining the number of entamoeba in a feces specimen
the threshold cycle that is the specified output of a fluorogenic pcr assay that has the objective of determining the number of hymenolepis nana in a feces specimen
the threshold cycle that is the specified output of a fluorogenic pcr assay that has the objective of determining the number of mycobacterium tuberculosis in a feces specimen
the threshold cycle that is the specified output of a fluorogenic pcr assay that has the objective of determining the number of plesiomonas in a feces specimen
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of retinol in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
charcoal as a cooking fuel
an information content entity that mentions drinking water piped into a dwelling
an information content entity that mentions drinking water obtained through a plumbing fixture located in the yard of a human dwelling
drinking water that is derived from rainwater
drinking water that is derived from bore hole water
a symptom since illness began information that mentions respiratory distress
a symptom since illness began information that mentions convulsion
information on raising money for health care encounter that specifies that less money was spent on food to cover healthcare costs
information on raising money for health care encounter that specifies that less money was spent on goods or services other than food to cover healthcare costs
information on raising money for health care encounter that specifies that the money to cover healthcare costs was derived from savings
information on raising money for health care encounter that specifies that the money to cover healthcare costs was borrowed
information on raising money for health care encounter that specifies that the money to cover healthcare costs derived from money obtained through the sale of assets
information on raising money for health care encounter that specifies that the money to cover healthcare costs was donated but not by any member of the patient's household
information on raising money for health care encounter that specifies that the money to cover healthcare costs was donated by a friend or relative of the patient
a symptom or sign information that mentions rectal prolapse
a symptom or sign information that mentions bipedal edema
a symptom or sign information that mentions flaky paint dermatosis
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has diarrhea .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has dysentery .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has pneumonia or lower respiratory tract disease .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has malaria .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has nutritional deficiency disease .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has typhoid fever .
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether vibrio cholerae o1 was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether the vibrio cholerae inaba serotype was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether the vibrio cholerae ogawa serotype was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether vibrio cholerae o139 was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether salmonella typhi was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether a salmonella serotype other than typhi was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether sapovirus was detected by a reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether a species of campylobacter other than campylobacter jejuni or campylobacter coli was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether shigella flexneri serotype 4b was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether shigella flexneri serotype 5b was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether shigella flexneri serotype 6 was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether vibrio cholerae was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether a vibrio serogroup other than o1 or o139 was detected in feces by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether a species of vibrio other than cholerae or parahaemolyticus was detected in feces by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether campylobacter coli was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether campylobacter jejuni was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether shigella flexneri was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether shigella boydii was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether shigella dysenteriae was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether vibrio parahaemolyticus was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether shigella sonnei was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether shigella flexneri serotype 4a was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether shigella flexneri serotype 4c was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether shigella flexneri serotype 5a was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether shigella flexneri serotype x was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether shigella flexneri serotype y was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether astrovirus was detected by a reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction assay
the threshold cycle that is the specified output of a fluorogenic pcr assay that has the objective of determining the number of cryptosporidium hominis in a feces specimen
the threshold cycle that is the specified output of a fluorogenic pcr assay that has the objective of determining the number of cryptosporidium parvum in a feces specimen
the threshold cycle that is the specified output of a fluorogenic pcr assay that has the objective of determining the number of cyclospora in a feces specimen
the threshold cycle that is the specified output of a fluorogenic pcr assay that has the objective of determining the number of entamoeba histolytica in a feces specimen
the threshold cycle that is the specified output of a fluorogenic pcr assay that has the objective of determining the number of encephalitozoon intestinalis in a feces specimen
the threshold cycle that is the specified output of a fluorogenic pcr assay that has the objective of determining the number of giardia in a feces specimen
the threshold cycle that is the specified output of a fluorogenic pcr assay that has the objective of determining the number of helicobacter pylori in a feces specimen
the threshold cycle that is the specified output of a fluorogenic pcr assay that has the objective of determining the number of isospora in a feces specimen
the threshold cycle that is the specified output of a fluorogenic pcr assay that has the objective of determining the number of necator in a feces specimen
the threshold cycle that is the specified output of a fluorogenic pcr assay that has the objective of determining the number of rotavirus in a feces specimen
the threshold cycle that is the specified output of a fluorogenic pcr assay that has the objective of determining the number of salmonella in a feces specimen
the threshold cycle that is the specified output of a fluorogenic pcr assay that has the objective of determining the number of sapovirus in a feces specimen
the threshold cycle that is the specified output of a fluorogenic pcr assay that has the objective of determining the number of strongyloides in a feces specimen
the threshold cycle that is the specified output of a fluorogenic pcr assay that has the objective of determining the number of trichuris in a feces specimen
the threshold cycle that is the specified output of a fluorogenic pcr assay that has the objective of determining the number of vibrio cholerae in a feces specimen
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether ancylostoma duodenale was detected by a real time polymerase chain reaction assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether ascaris lumbricoides was detected by a real time polymerase chain reaction assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether escherichia coli was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether helicobacter pylori was detected by immunoassay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether ancylostomatoidea was detected by a real time polymerase chain reaction assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether necator americanus was detected by a real time polymerase chain reaction assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether shigella dysenteriae serotype 1 was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether shigella flexneri serotype 7 was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether shigella flexneri serotype 1a was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether shigella flexneri serotype 1b was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether shigella flexneri serotype 2a was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether shigella flexneri serotype 2b was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether shigella flexneri serotype 3a was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether shigella flexneri serotype 3b was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether shigella flexneri serotype 3c was detected by differential medium assay
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether shigella flexneri serotype 7a was detected by differential medium assay
a mass measurement datum of the mass of a fecal specimen
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether strongyloides stercoralis was detected by a real time polymerase chain reaction assay
a time measurement datum of the date encompassing a stool test for microorganisms
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether vibrio cholerae o1 biovar el tor was detected by differential medium assay
a data item that is the specified output of a differential medium assay that has the objective of determining whether a specimen contains vibrio cholerae serogroup o1
a data item that is the specified output of a differential medium assay that has the objective of determining whether a specimen contains vibrio cholerae serogroup o139
an information content entity that is about a dead human participant under investigation and specifies the process which caused the death of the participant
a domesticated animal that is raised in an agricultural setting to produce labor and commodities
a categorical value specification that specifies that a bed net is not used
a categorical value specification that specifies that a bed net is used ,  but it is not treated with insecticide
a categorical value specification that specifies that a bed net is used ,  but it was last treated earlier than six months ago
a categorical value specification that specifies that a bed net is used ,  and it was last treated more recently than six months previous
a categorical value specification that specifies that a bed net is used ,  and it was treated with long last insecticide
an information content entity that is about a human participant under investigation and specifies that the participant received treatment ,  for a fever ,  that was provided at a clinic within the past two weeks
an information content entity that is about a human participant under investigation and specifies that the participant received treatment ,  for a fever ,  that was provided by a self - employed health care provider within the past two weeks
an information content entity that is about a human participant under investigation and specifies that the participant received treatment ,  for a fever ,  that was self - provided within the past two weeks
an information content entity that is about a human participant under investigation and specifies that the participant had a fever within the past two weeks but did not receive treatment for the fever
a data item that is the specified output of a microscopy assay that has a sample of blood as specified input and indicates that the sample does not contain plasmodium
a data item that is the specified output of a microscopy assay that has a sample of blood as specified input and indicates that the sample contains plasmodium falciparum
a data item that is the specified output of a microscopy assay that has a sample of blood as specified input and indicates that the sample contains plasmodium vivax
a data item that is the specified output of a microscopy assay that has a sample of blood as specified input and indicates that the sample contains plasmodium malariae
a categorical value specification that specifies whether a microscopy assay was performed
an information content entity that is about a human participant under investigation and specifies that the participant remembers being diagnosed ,  within the past year ,  with a disease by plasmodium falciparum
an information content entity that is about a human participant under investigation and specifies that the participant remembers being diagnosed ,  within the past year ,  with a disease by plasmodium vivax
an information content entity that is about a human participant under investigation and specifies that the participant remembers being diagnosed ,  within the past year ,  with a disease by plasmodium malariae
an information content entity that is about a human participant under investigation and specifies that the participant remembers being diagnosed ,  within the past year ,  with a disease by plasmodium ,  but does not remember the species of plasmodium
information on antimalarial drug used last year that specifies artesunate as the drug administered as the most recent treatment
an information content entity that is about a human participant under investigation who ,  within one year previous ,  was administered an antimalarial drug to alleviate symptoms of malaria .
information on antimalarial drug used last year that specifies a combination of aretesunate ,  pyrimethamine ,  and sulphadox as the drugs administered as the most recent treatment
information on antimalarial drug used last year that specifies chloroquine or primaquine as the drugs administered as the most recent treatment
information on antimalarial drug used last year that specifies pyrimethamine or sulphadoxine as the drugs administered as the most recent treatment
information on antimalarial drug used last year that specifies quinine or quinidine as the drugs administered as the most recent treatment
information on antimalarial drug used last year that specifies tetracycline or doxycycline as the drugs administered as the most recent treatment
an information content entity that is about a human participant under investigation and specifies that the participant received treatment for malaria in a clinic ,  within the past year
a categorical value specification that specifies whether the bearer of an organization health care role ,  which administered a treatment to alleviate an episode of malaria ,  was a private practice
a categorical value specification that specifies whether a treatment to alleviate an episode of malaria was self - administered
an information content entity that is about a human participant under investigation who ,  within one year previous ,  was administered an antimalarial drug to alleviate symptoms of malaria .
a presence of parasite that is the specified output of a parasite detection by pcr assay ,  has a blood specimen as specified input ,  and specifies that no plasmodium was detected
a presence of plasmodium falciparum that is the specified output of a parasite detection by pcr assay ,  has a blood specimen as specified input ,  and specifies that plasmodium falciparum was detected
a presence of plasmodium falciparum that is the specified output of a parasite detection by pcr assay ,  has a blood specimen as specified input ,  and specifies that plasmodium vivax was detected
a presence of plasmodium malariae that is the specified output of a parasite detection by pcr assay ,  has a blood specimen as specified input ,  and specifies that plasmodium malariae was detected
a presence of plasmodium ovale that is the specified output of a parasite detection by pcr assay ,  has a blood specimen as specified input ,  and specifies that plasmodium ovale was detected
a presence of plasmodium falciparum that is the specified output of a falcivax rapid diagnostic test and specifies that plasmodium falciparum was detected
a presence of plasmodium vivax that is the specified output of a falcivax rapid diagnostic test and specifies that plasmodium vivax was detected
a presence of parasite that is the specified output of a falcivax rapid diagnostic test and indicates that no plasmodium was detected
a categorical value specification that specifies whether a falcivax rapid diagnostic test was performed
a presence of plasmodium falciparum that is the specified output of a optimal - it rapid diagnostic test and specifies that plasmodium falciparum was detected
a presence of parasite that is the specified output of a optimal - it rapid diagnostic test and specifies that an antigen common to multiple plasmodium species was detected
a presence of parasite that is the specified output of an optimal - it rapid diagnostic test and specifies that no plasmodium was detected
a categorical value specification that specifies whether an optimal - it rapid diagnostic test was performed
an information content entity that is about a human participant under investigation and specifies that the participant does not remember using a personal mosquito repellent
an information content entity that specifies that a human participant under investigation does not remember whether insecticide was applied in the previous 12 months
healthcare information that specifies that the organization that typically provides the healthcare is funded by a government rather than funded independently
healthcare information that specifies that the organization that typically provides the healthcare is funded independently of any government
water accessed through a plumbing fixture located inside a human dwelling
water derived from water that is part of either a stream or a river
a blood specimen that is located in a vacutainer
a time measurement datum of the day that encompasses a process that has as specified output a data item about a household
a categorical value specification that specifies whether there exists some quality of a patient ,  material entity that is part of a patient ,  or processual entity that a patient participates in ,  that is both observed in a physical examination and deemed by the clinician to be of clinical significance
a categorical value specification that specifies whether there exists some quality of a patient that is observed by the patient or some processual entity experienced by the patient that is hypothesized by the patient to be a realization of a disease
a categorical value specification that specifies whether a human participant under investigation was febrile in the previous 48 hours
a categorical value specification that specifies whether medication to treat malaria was administered in the past two weeks to a human participant under investigation
a categorical value specification that specifies whether a human participant under investigation was febrile in the previous two weeks
a clinical history that is about a human participant under investigation and contains only statements about health - relevant qualities that come into existence after the enrollment of the participant in the study
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of alanine aminotransferase in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of alkaline phosphatase in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has chikungunya .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has dengue disease .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has a gastrointestinal infection .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has leptospirosis .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of phosphate in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has scrub typhus .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of urea in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of uric acid in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has viral hepatitis .
a geographic location that is either a city or an area containing settlements where the inhabitants share a common trait
a wall material used to build an exterior wall
a wall material used to build a wall between rooms
a count of the number of beds in the dwelling of a household that have a bed net hung over them
a household asset information indicating whether a household has a freezer
a household asset information indicating whether a household has an electrical appliance that has the function of mixing food or drink
a household asset information indicating whether a household has an appliance that has a heating element as part and has the function of heating food or drink
a household asset information indicating whether a household has an appliance that has the function of heating food or drink through the combustion of natural gas
a household asset information indicating whether a household has an appliance that has the function of heating food or drink through the combustion of kerosene
a household asset information indicating whether a household has an appliance that has the function of heating food or drink through the combustion of coal
a household asset information indicating whether a household has a television set that is capable of producing grayscale images but not color images
a household asset information indicating whether a household has a television set that is capable of producing color images
a household asset information indicating whether a household has a device capable of playing dvds
a household asset information indicating whether a household has a sound system
a household asset information indicating whether a household has cows
a household asset information indicating whether a household has goats
a household asset information indicating whether a household has sexually immature domesticated birds
a household asset information indicating whether a household has domesticated female birds
a household asset information indicating whether a household has roosters
a household asset information indicating whether a household has turkeys
a household asset information indicating whether a household has ducks
a household asset information indicating whether a household has small parrots with long tails
a household asset information indicating whether a household has parrots
a household asset information indicating whether a household has monkeys
a household asset information indicating whether a household has pigs
a household asset information indicating whether a household has rabbits
a household asset information indicating whether a household has dogs
a household asset information indicating whether a household has cats
a household asset information indicating whether a household has turtles
a categorical value specification that specifies whether a human participant under investigation had traveled within the two weeks previous to the time of the participant's most recent malaria episode
a categorical value specification that specifies whether a human participant under investigation had traveled within the two weeks previous to the time of the participant's second most recent malaria episode
a categorical value specification that specifies whether a human participant under investigation had traveled within the two weeks previous to the time of the participant's third most recent malaria episode
a categorical value specification that specifies whether a human participant under investigation had traveled within the two weeks previous to the time of the participant's fourth most recent malaria episode
a time measurement datum of the duration of the most recent journey of a human participant under investigation
a time measurement datum of the duration of the second most recent journey of a human participant under investigation
a time measurement datum of the duration of the third most recent journey of a human participant under investigation
a time measurement datum of the duration of the fourth most recent journey of a human participant under investigation
an information content entity that specifies which rivers were visited during the most recent journey of a human participant under investigation
human traveling information that specifies the community to which a human participant under investigation has most recently traveled
human traveling information that specifies the community to which a human participant under investigation has traveled the second most recently
human traveling information that specifies the community to which a human participant under investigation has traveled the third most recently
human traveling information that specifies the community to which a human participant under investigation has traveled the fourth most recently
a time measurement datum of the time since the beginning of the most significant occupation of a human participant under investigation
a time measurement datum of the time since the beginning of the second most significant occupation of a human participant under investigation
a categorical value specification that specifies whether a human participant under investigation was on the property of the participant's household at the time of a scheduled clinical visit
human travel informaton that is about a human participant under investigation and specifies both method and geographic location of the most recent journey taken by the participant
human travel information that is about a human participant under investigation and specifies both method and geographic location of the second most recent journey taken by the participant
a categorical value specification that specifies whether the collection of a specimen from a human participant under investigation was prompted by a sign that the participant was febrile
an information content entity that is about a human participant under investigation from which the collection of a specimen was not prompted by a sign that the partipant was febrile .
the threshold cycle that is the specified output of a real time polymerase chain reaction assay that has the objective of determining the number of plasmodium vivax in a blood specimen
the threshold cycle that is the specified output of a real time polymerase chain reaction assay that has the objective of determining the amount of plasmodium falciparum in a blood specimen
a time measurement datum of the last time insecticide was applied to the bednets used by a household
a measurement datum of the total area of a land lot on which a dwelling is built .
an information content entity that is about the relocation of the household of a human participant under investigation
a time measurement datum of the time point at which a human subject enrollment is complete
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether a bacterium was detected by a microscopy assay
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of bicarbonate in blood that is a specified output of a blood test
a data item that is about a child infected with malaria and is the sum of the blantyre coma eye movement score ,  the blantyre coma motor response score ,  and the blantyre coma verbal response score for the same child during the same infection
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of urea nitrogen in blood that is the specified output of a blood test .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of creatinine in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
a categorical value specification that specifies whether a human participant under investigation was administered malaria medication a second time while in hospital
a categorical value specification that specifies whether a human participant under investigation was discharged from hospital
gametocyte density by microscope that is the output of an assay that realizes a measurand role that inheres in plasmodium
a categorical value specification that specifies whether a human participant under investigation was administered malaria medication a third time while in hospital
a hemoglobin level in g per dl that is the specified output of an assay that occurs in a hospital facility
a categorical value specification that specifies whether a human participant under investigation moved to a different dwelling in the previous twelve months
a categorical value specification that specifies whether a human participant under investigation moved to a different dwelling in the previous month
a parasitemia measurement that is the specified output of a microscopy assay in which a blood specimen is evaluated to determine the fraction of red blood cells infected with plasmodium falciparum
a parasitemia measurement that is the specified output of a microscopy assay in which a blood specimen is evaluated to determine the fraction of red blood cells infected with plasmodium malariae
a parasitemia measurement that is the specified output of a microscopy assay in which a blood specimen is evaluated to determine the fraction of red blood cells infected with plasmodium vivax
a falcivax rapid diagnostic test that occurs in a hospital facility
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether plasmodium was detected by a microscopy assay that has as part a thick smear technique
a categorical measurement datum that specifies whether plasmodium was detected by a microscopy assay that has as part a thin smear technique
a categorical value specification that specifies whether a human participant under investigation is receiving treatment to alleviate symptoms of malaria
a relocation information on a human participant under investigation who moved to a different dwelling within one month previous .
human traveling information that specifies which subnational regions a human participant under investigation had visited within one month previous
a relocation information on a human participant under investigation who moved to a different dwelling within twelve months previous .
a categorical value specification that specifies whether a human participant under investigation was administered malaria medication a fourth time while in hospital
a categorical value specification that specifies whether a human participant under investigation was administered malaria medication a fifth time while in hospital
human traveling information that specifies which subnational regions a human participant under investigation had visited within twelve months previous
a time measurement datum of the date during which a treatment starts
a time measurement datum of the time point at which a treatment starts
a time measurement datum specifying the time  ( of day )  of a clinical visit scheduled for sixty days after a treatment
a scalar measurement datum of the mass concentration of bilirubin in blood that is a specified output of a blood test
a categorical value specification that is about a human participant under investigation and specifies whether the participant had traveled within twelve months previous
a categorical value specification that specifies whether a human participant under investigation self - identifies as a member of a tribe
a categorical value specification that specifies whether the life - death temporal boundary of a human participant under investigation occurred during a health care encounter in a hospital facility
a diagnosis that is an assertion that a patient has diarrhea .
a diagnosis that is an assertion that a patient has pneumonia .
a diagnosis that is an assertion that a patient has upper respiratory tract disease .
a diagnosis that is an assertion that a patient has malaria .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of c - reactive protein in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has pneumonia .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has bronchiolitis .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has lower respiratory tract disease .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has seizure .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has anemia .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has neonatal sepsis .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has anemia and heart failure .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has osteomyelitis .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has asthma .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has otitis media .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has neonatal asphyxia .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has pneumocystosis .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has cellulitis .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has pneumothorax .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has cerebral palsy .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has congenital heart disease .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has physical disorder .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has protein - energy malnutrition .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has pleural empyema .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has pulmonary tuberculosis .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has epilepsy .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has septic arthritis .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has bacterial sepsis .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has fever - induced seizures .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has sickle cell anemia .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has gastroenteritis .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has parasitic helminthiasis infectious disease .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has human immunodeficiency virus infectious disease .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has urinary system disease .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has immunosuppression .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has upper respiratory tract disease .
a diagnosis at hospitalization that is an assertion that a patient has pulmonary tuberculosis .
a diagnosis at hospitalization that is an assertion that a patient has extrapulmonary tuberculosis .
a diagnosis at hospitalization that is an assertion that a patient has severe anemia .
a diagnosis at discharge that is an assertion that a patient has bronchiolitis or respiratory syncytial virus infectious disease at hospitalization .
a diagnosis at hospitalization that is an assertion that a patient has asthma .
a diagnosis at hospitalization that is an assertion that a patient has measles .
a diagnosis at hospitalization that is an assertion that a patient has bronchitis .
a diagnosis at hospitalization that is an assertion that a patient has malaria .
a diagnosis at hospitalization that is an assertion that a patient has global developmental delay or cerebral palsy  .
a diagnosis that is an assertion that a patient has meningitis .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of activin a in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of icosanoic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of arachidonic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of docosanoic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of decanoic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of all - cis - icosa - 8 , 11 , 14 - trienoic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of docosahexaenoic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of  ( 7z , 10z , 13z , 16z , 19z )  - docosapentaenoic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of  ( 4z , 7z , 10z , 13z , 16z )  - docosa - 4 , 7 , 10 , 13 , 16 - pentaenoic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of docosatetraenoic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of icosadienoic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of icosapentaenoic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of icosenoic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of elaidic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of gamma - linolenic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of dodecanoic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of tetracosanoic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of linoelaidic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of linoleic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of tetradecanoic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of  ( 15z )  - tetracosenoic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of oleic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of palmitelaidic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of hexadecanoic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of palmitoleic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of octadecanoic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interferon gamma in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interleukin - 10 in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interleukin - 1 beta in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interleukin - 4 in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interleukin - 5 in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interleukin - 6 in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interleukin - 7 in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interleukin - 8 in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of tumor necrosis factor in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of eotaxin resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of granulocyte colony - stimulating factor resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interleukin - 12 complex resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interleukin - 13 resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interleukin - 15 resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interleukin - 17a resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interleukin - 1 receptor antagonist protein resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interleukin - 2 resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interleukin - 9 resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of chemokine ligand 10 resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of c - c motif chemokine 2 resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of c - c motif chemokine 3 resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of platelet - derived growth factor complex resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of c - c motif chemokine 5 resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of pro - epidermal growth factor resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of endotoxin in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of lactadherin resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of vitamin d in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of granulocyte colony - stimulating factor in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interferon gamma resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interleukin - 10 resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interleukin - 17a in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interleukin - 1 beta resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interleukin - 4 resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interleukin - 5 resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interleukin - 6 resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interleukin - 7 resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interleukin - 8 resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of c - c motif chemokine 4 resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of tumor necrosis factor resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of alpha - linolenic acid resulting from a clinical laboratory test on a milk specimen .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of interleukin - 2 in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
an information content entity that specifies whether a blood smear has been performed .
a role of a material entity realized in drawing an arthropod in the direction of the material .
an infusion material extracted from alfalfa .
a device manufactured by biogents that is designed for operation with the bg - sentinel trap and releases an attractant that mimics the scent of human skin .
an infusion material extracted from hay .
an information content entity that specifies that no attractant was used in an anthropod trap
a light trap that is designed to use motorized suction to trap arthropods in a collection bag once they approach the light attractant .
an arthropod trap that is designed to collect gravid female arthropods or their eggs .
a light trap that uses carbon dioxide as attractant .
a device manufactured by biogents that is designed to count mosquitoes passing through the device ,  differentiating the mosquitoes from other arthropods .
a light trap that is designed to use motorized suction to trap arthropods in a collection bag once they approach the light attractant .
an arthropod trap that is manufactured by biogents and is designed to attract arthropods through the use of a motorized fan to mimic convection currents produced by a human .
an arthropod trap consisting of a static physical barrier designed to funnel arthropods in flight into a container .
a light trap that is designed to use motorized suction to trap arthropods in a collection bag once they approach the attractant .
an arthropod trap that consists of a box that is open on one end .
an arthropod trap that is made of cloth and netting and is designed to be suspended from above  ( e .g .
an arthropod trap that is designed to capture arthropods resting on a surface by coating the surface with adhesive .
an arthropod trap ,  consisting of a pit dug under the shelter of a plant ,  designed to provide a space for arthropods to rest and be collected .
an arthropod trap that consists of a bucket ,  which is lined with fabric and placed on its side ,  and a wet cloth inside the bucket .
an arthropod trap that is powered by propane and is designed to emit a combination of carbon dioxide ,  heat ,  water ,  and oct - 1 - en - 3 - ol attractants while simultaneously using suction to trap arthropods .
an arthropod specimen collection process that involves exposing arthropods to pesticide ,  then collecting them once they become dead or immobilized .
a gravid trap consisting of an arthropod attractant and adhesive surface .
an arthropod trap that consists of a bucket ,  which is lined with adhesive and placed on its side ,  and a wet cloth inside the bucket .
a light trap designed to be placed inside a building .
a knockdown arthropod specimen collection process in which the pesticide is pyrethrum .
an arthropod trap that uses light as an attractant .
an arthropod specimen collection process meant to collect live specimens .
an arthropod specimen collection process in which the arthropods are in the larval stage .
an arthropod specimen collection by aspiration that occurs in the daytime .
an arthropod specimen collection by aspiration that occurs while the arthropod is biting a human .
an arthropod trap that consists of a container holding a mesh layer above water and is designed to trap arthropods hatched from eggs dropped over the water by gravid females .
an arthropod specimen collection by aspiration that occurs while the arthropod is biting a human inside a building .
an arthropod specimen collection by aspiration designed to catch specimens that are in the process of biting a human outside a building .
a live arthropod specimen collection process that involves the use of an aspirator ,  a device which is brought to an arthropod and causes the arthropod to be drawn by suction into a container .
an arthropod specimen collection by aspiration that catches specimens resting inside an animal house .
an animal - biting arthropod specimen collection by aspiration that occurs while the arthropod is resting outside a building during a period of inactivity .
an arthropod trap that is positioned adjacent to a window of a building and is designed to collect arthropods flying out of the building .
a live arthropod specimen collection process in which the arthropods are in the adult stage .
an arthropod specimen collection by aspiration that occurs while the arthropod is biting an animal .
an arthropod resting outdoors specimen collection by aspiration that occurs while the arthropod rests on a processed material such as a wall or furniture .
a light trap designed to be placed outside a building .
a device designed to catch arthropods .
a specimen collection process that has the objective of collecting arthropods as specimens .
an animal - biting arthropod specimen collection by aspiration that occurs outside a building .
an arthropod resting outdoors specimen collection by aspiration that occurs while the arthropod rests on an unprocessed material such as a plant .
an arthropod specimen collection process that has the objective of collecting mosquitoes from an aquatic environment .
a count of the traps deployed in a study design execution .
an arthropod specimen collection process that occurs while the arthropods land on a surface .
a device that consists of a network of mesh and is designed to capture adult arthropods .
an arthropod trap that is designed to trap an arthropod as it emerges from water at the beginning of its adult stage .
a gravid trap that consists of a pan holding a hay infusion ,  motorized fan ,  and collection bag .
an arthropod trap that uses as attractant an animal that is not human and is the size of a chicken or smaller .
a device that is designed for the collection of arthropod larvae or pupae from water and has the shape of a ladle or a pan .
an arthropod specimen collection process that occurs while an arthropod that is capable of flight is resting outdoors during a period of inactivity .
an arthropod trap that consists of a transparent window placed in a box that holds a liquid solution deadly to arthropods .
a device that is designed to provide a solid surface that is attractive to an arthropod as a place to rest during a period of inactivity .
a material entity that has an arthropod attractor role .
an arthropod specimen collection by aspiration that catches specimens resting inside a human house .
an arthropod trap designed to work with an animal  ( which could be human )  inside a netted structure .
a processed material that results from the suspension of plant material in a solvent for enough time to allow compounds to be extracted from the plant material into the solvent .
an arthropod specimen collection process in which the arthropods are in the pupal stage .
an arthropod trap that is designed to be attractive to an arthropod as a place to rest during a period of inactivity .
a time measurement datum that measures a temporal interval of insecticide exposure .
a light source that provides uv light for use in a distant area using a delivery system .
a light source that provides visible light for use in a distant area using a delivery system .
a data item that is about resistance to an insecticide .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of an insecticide .
an insecticide concentration datum expressed as a percent .
an insecticide concentration datum that has a parts per notation unit .
an insecticide concentration datum that has an area density unit .
an insecticide concentration datum that has a mass density unit .
an insecticide concentration datum that has a unit of mass unit per standard assay bottle ,  which is 250 ml .
a data item that is about the concentration of an insecticide that kills 50% of a population of insects .
a lethal insecticide concentration 50 ,  expressed as a percent .
a lethal insecticide concentration 50 that has a parts per notation unit .
a lethal insecticide concentration 50 that has an area density unit .
a lethal insecticide concentration 50 that has a mass density unit .
a lethal insecticide concentration 50 that has a unit of mass unit per standard assay bottle ,  which is 250 ml .
a data item that is about the concentration of an insecticide that kills 95% of a population of insects .
a lethal insecticide concentration 95 ,  expressed as a percent .
a lethal insecticide concentration 95 that has a parts per notation unit .
a lethal insecticide concentration 95 that has an area density unit .
a lethal insecticide concentration 95 that has a mass density unit .
a lethal insecticide concentration 95 that has a unit of mass unit per standard assay bottle ,  which is 250 ml .
a data item that is about the concentration of an insecticide that kills 99% of a population of insects .
a lethal insecticide concentration 99 ,  expressed as a percent .
a lethal insecticide concentration 99 that has a parts per notation unit .
a lethal insecticide concentration 99 that has an area density unit .
a lethal insecticide concentration 99 that has a mass density unit .
a lethal insecticide concentration 99 that has a unit of mass unit per standard assay bottle ,  which is 250 ml .
a data item that is about the concentration of an insecticide that kills 90% of a population of insects .
a lethal insecticide concentration 90 ,  expressed as a percent .
a time measurement datum that is about the duration of exposure to an insecticide that results in the death of 90% of a population of insects .
a time measurement datum that is about the duration of exposure to an insecticide that results in the death of 95% of a population of insects .
a time measurement datum specifying the time at which half of a population of insects has died as a result of exposure to insecticide .
a lethal insecticide concentration 90 that has a parts per notation unit .
a lethal insecticide concentration 90 that has an area density unit .
a lethal insecticide concentration 90 that has a mass density unit .
a lethal insecticide concentration 90 that has a unit of mass unit per standard assay bottle ,  which is 250 ml .
a data item that specifies the proportionality of the mean enzymatic activity of a field - collected population of specimens compared to that of a reference population .
a data item that specifies the proportionality of the median enzymatic activity of a field - collected population of specimens compared to that of a reference population .
a data item that specifies the fraction of a population exhibiting higher enzymatic activity than the 99th percentile of a reference population .
a count of the specimens involved in an assay .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of genetic variation resulting in kdr l1014f .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of genetic variation resulting in kdr s989p .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of genetic variation resulting in kdr i1011m .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of genetic variation resulting in kdr i1011v .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of genetic variation resulting in kdr l1014s .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of genetic variation resulting in kdr l1014c .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of genetic variation resulting in kdr v1016g .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of genetic variation resulting in kdr v1016i .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of genetic variation resulting in kdr i1532t .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of genetic variation resulting in kdr f1534c .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of genetic variation resulting in kdr f1534l .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of genetic variation resulting in kdr f1534s .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of genetic variation resulting in kdr n1575y .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of genetic variation resulting in kdr d1763y .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of genetic variation resulting in ache1 g119s .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of genetic variation resulting in gste2 l119f .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of genetic variation resulting in rdl a296g .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of genetic variation resulting in rdl a296s .
a count of collections of specimens that have only arthropods as their members .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of the reference sequence amino acid at kdr l1014 or is calculated from data items of the frequency of a variant at that position .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of the reference sequence amino acid at kdr s989 or is calculated from data items of the frequency of a variant at that position .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of the reference sequence amino acid at kdr i1011 or is calculated from data items of the frequency of a variant at that position .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of the reference sequence amino acid at kdr v1016 or is calculated from data items of the frequency of a variant at that position .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of the reference sequence amino acid at kdr i1532 or is calculated from data items of the frequency of a variant at that position .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of the reference sequence amino acid at kdr f1534 or is calculated from data items of the frequency of a variant at that position .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of the reference sequence amino acid at kdr n1575 or is calculated from data items of the frequency of a variant at that position .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of the reference sequence amino acid at kdr d1763 or is calculated from data items of the frequency of a variant at that position .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of the reference sequence amino acid at ache1 g119 or is calculated from data items of the frequency of a variant at that position .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of the reference sequence amino acid at ache1 f290 or is calculated from data items of the frequency of a variant at that position .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of the reference sequence amino acid at ache1 f331 or is calculated from data items of the frequency of a variant at that position .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of the reference sequence amino acid at gste2 i114 or is calculated from data items of the frequency of a variant at that position .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of the reference sequence amino acid at gste2 l119 or is calculated from data items of the frequency of a variant at that position .
a data item that is the output of an assay to quantify the frequency of the reference sequence amino acid at rdl a296 or is calculated from data items of the frequency of a variant at that position .
an arthropod specimen collection process in which the arthropods are in the embryo stage .
an arthropod specimen collection process in which the arthropods are in the larval stage and a trap is used to collect the specimens .
a data item that is the specified output of an organism identification assay .
a data item that is about the concentration of an insecticide that kills 100% of a population of insects .
a lethal insecticide concentration 100 ,  expressed as a percent .
a device that is designed for the collection of arthropod larvae or pupae from water and consists of a conical net .
an arthropod specimen collection process that has the objective of collecting gravid female arthropods .
an arthropod specimen collection process that involves a device that produces data specifying the types of arthropod collected .
an adult arthropod specimen collection process that has the objective of collecting arthropods capable of flight ,  through the use of a barrier trap .
a chemical substance manufactured by biogents that is designed to attract mosquitoes by mimicking the scent of human skin .
an identifier that encodes a geographic location into a short string of letters and digits .
a geohash code encoding of geospatial location using 1 character .
a geohash code encoding of geospatial location using 2 characters .
a geohash code encoding of geospatial location using 3 characters .
a geohash code encoding of geospatial location using 4 characters .
a geohash code encoding of geospatial location using 5 characters .
a geohash code encoding of geospatial location using 6 characters .
a geohash code encoding of geospatial location using 7 characters .
a geohash code encoding of geospatial location using 32 characters .
a scalar measurement datum of the concentration of hydroxychloroquine in blood that is a specified output of a blood test .
a mushroom  ( or toadstool )  is the fleshy ,  spore - bearing fruiting body of a fungus ,  typically produced above ground on soil or on its food source .
a chemical food component in liquid form .
a solid product is a hard or soft product capable of retaining its own shape at room temperature  ( 20 degrees c . )  .
a reference to a place on the earth ,  by its name or by its geographical location .
coverage  ( read depth or depth )  is the average number of reads representing a given nucleotide in the reconstructed sequence .
a subnational region is a type of subnational entity similar to a nation's state ,  province ,  or territory .
a molecular process that can be carried out by the action of a single macromolecular machine ,  usually via direct physical interactions with other molecular entities .
catalysis of a biochemical reaction at physiological temperatures .
catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  .
catalysis of the reaction: acetylcholine  +  h2o = choline  +  acetate .
catalysis of the reaction: r - x  +  glutathione = h - x  +  r - s - glutathione .
the reproductive process in which the parent is separated from its offspring either by giving birth to live young or by laying eggs .
the process of gaseous exchange between an organism and its environment .
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a histone protein .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any ester bond .
a stable assembly of two or more macromolecules ,  i .e .
a process that modulates the rate or extent of water loss from an organism via the skin .
a nonsteroidal regulator ,  composed of two covalently linked inhibin beta - a subunits  ( sometimes known as activin beta - a or activin / inhibin beta - a )  .
a protein complex that is composed of an interleukin - 12 alpha  ( p35 ,  product of the il12a gene )  and an interleukin - 12 beta subunit  ( p40 ,  product of the il12b gene )  and is secreted into the extracellular space .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a carboxylic ester bond .
a protein complex that binds iron and acts as a major iron storage system .
a protein complex consisting of two chains of platelet - derived growth factor  ( pdgf )  subunits .
a reduction in the level of performance of the kidneys in areas of function comprising the concentration of urine ,  removal of wastes ,  the maintenance of electrolyte balance ,  homeostasis of blood pressure ,  and calcium metabolism .
a phenotypic abnormality .
the presence of any abnormality of the genitourinary system .
hydrocephalus is an active distension of the ventricular system of the brain resulting from inadequate passage of csf from its point of production within the cerebral ventricles to its point of absorption into the systemic circulation .
epistaxis ,  or nosebleed ,  refers to a hemorrhage localized in the nose .
an eye that is more deeply recessed into the plane of the face than is typical .
abnormal alignment ,  positioning ,  or spacing of the teeth ,  i .e . ,  misaligned teeth .
a state of unease characterized by diffuse motor activity or motion subject to limited control ,  nonproductive or disorganized behavior ,  and subjective distress .
the presence of blood in the urine .
an abnormality of the skin .
yellow pigmentation of the skin due to bilirubin ,  which in turn is the result of increased bilirubin concentration in the bloodstream .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid beneath the skin ,  or in one or more cavities of the body .
abnormal excessive perspiration  ( sweating )  despite the lack of appropriate stimuli like hot and humid weather .
abnormally pale skin .
pruritus is an itch or a sensation that makes a person want to scratch .
laminar thickening of skin .
a state of disinterestedness ,  listlessness ,  and indifference ,  resulting in difficulty performing simple tasks or concentrating .
complete absence of wakefulness and content of conscience ,  which manifests itself as a lack of response to any kind of external stimuli .
a delay in the achievement of motor or mental milestones in the domains of development of a child ,  including motor skills ,  speech and language ,  cognitive skills ,  and social and emotional skills .
failure to thrive  ( ftt )  refers to a child whose physical growth is substantially below the norm .
a noncongenital process of hair loss ,  which may progress to partial or complete baldness .
the birth of a baby of less than 37 weeks of gestational age .
the presence of an abnormality of cardiac function that is responsible for the failure of the heart to pump blood at a rate that is commensurate with the needs of the tissues or a state in which abnormally elevated filling pressures are required for the heart to do so .
abnormal increased size of the spleen .
reduction inexisting body weight .
an abnormal decreased number of leukocytes in the blood .
an abnormal susceptibility to bleeding ,  often referred to as a bleeding diathesis .
elevated body temperature due to failed thermoregulation .
excessive thirst manifested by excessive fluid intake .
an abnormal increase in the number of leukocytes in the blood .
forceful ejection of the contents of the stomach through the mouth by means of a series of involuntary spasmic contractions .
a sensation of unease in the stomach together with an urge to vomit .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  and perceived to originate in the abdomen .
respiratory distress is objectively observable as the physical or emotional consequences from the experience of dyspnea .
cephalgia ,  or pain sensed in various parts of the head ,  not confined to the area of distribution of any nerve .
an abnormality of the immune system .
very rapid breathing .
abnormality of the homeostasis  ( concentration )  of a monoatomic ion .
pain in muscle .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the back .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the lower back .
stridor is a high pitched sound resulting from turbulent air flow in the upper airway .
an abnormal accumulation of excess fluid in the lower extremity resulting in swelling of the feet and extending upward to the lower leg .
redness of the skin ,  caused by hyperemia of the capillaries in the lower layers of the skin .
the presence of inflammation of the skin .
cognitive ,  psychiatric or memory anomaly .
increased size of the parotid gland .
a type of abdominal pain that comes and goes in waves ,  most often starting and ending suddenly and being of severe intensity .
an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience associated with actual or potential tissue damage ,  or described in terms of such damage .
respiratory failure in the newborn .
pain in the ear can be a consequence of otologic disease  ( primary or otogenic otalgia )  ,  or can arise from pathologic processes and structures other than the ear  ( secondary or referred otalgia )  .
a high - pitched whistling sound associated with labored breathing .
widening of the nostrils upon inhalation as a manifestation of respiratory distress .
the state in which profound and widespread reduction of effective tissue perfusion leads first to reversible ,  and then if prolonged ,  to irreversible cellular injury .
a dermatosis characterized by generalized shiny ,  enamel - like ,  hyperpigmented scales in an irregular pattern .
health status of a family member with respect to the disease being investigated in a proband .
any form of seizure occurring at the time of a fever  ( temperature at or above 38 .0 degrees celcius )  without infection of the central nervous system ,  and without an alternative cause such as severe metabolic derangement ,  occurring at any age .
a palpable swelling in both feet and ankles caused by palpable swelling caused by an increase in interstitial fluid volume  ( excess fulid )  .
a cough with a characteristic sound that has been compared to a seal's bark .
systemic inflammatory response to infection in newborn babies .
fluid accumulation in the lungs .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the chest .
systemic inflammatory response to infection .
an acute hypersensitivity reaction due to exposure to a previously encountered antigen .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the eye .
a small elevation of the skin containing cloudy or purulent material usually consisting of necrotic inflammatory cells .
warts ,  benign growths on the skin or mucous membranes that cause cosmetic problems as well as pain and discomfort .
a measurement unit label is as a label that is part of a scalar measurement datum and denotes a unit of measure .
a directive information entity that describes an intended process endpoint .
a directive information entity that describes an action the bearer will take .
a label is a symbol that is part of some other datum and is used to either partially define  the denotation of that datum or to provide a means for identifying the datum as a member of the set of data with the same label
a quality of an information bearer that imparts the information content
an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
an information content entity that is a mark ( s )  or character ( s )  used as a conventional representation of another entity .
a generically dependent continuant that is about some thing .
a scalar measurement datum is a measurement datum that is composed of two parts ,  numerals and a unit label .
an information content entity whose concretizations indicate to their bearer how to realize them in a process .
a plan specification which describes the inputs and output of mathematical functions as well as workflow of execution for achieving an predefined objective .
the curation status of the term .
a data item that is an aggregate of other data items of the same type that have something in common .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
a directive information entity with action specifications and objective specifications as parts that ,  when concretized ,  is realized in a process in which the bearer tries to achieve the objectives by taking the actions specified .
a measurement datum is an information content entity that is a recording of the output of a measurement such as produced by a device .
a material entity in which a concretization of an information content entity inheres .
the reason for which a term has been deprecated .
a textual entity is a part of a manifestation  ( frbr sense )  ,  a generically dependent continuant whose concretizations are patterns of glyphs intended to be interpreted as words ,  formulas ,  etc .
a collection of information content entities intended to be understood together as a whole
a document that is the output of a publishing process .
a cartesian spatial coordinate datum is a representation of a point in a spatial region ,  in which equal changes in the magnitude of a coordinate value denote length qualities with the same magnitude
a cartesion spatial coordinate datum that  uses one value to specify a position along a one dimensional spatial region
a scalar measurement datum that is the result of measurement of length quality
a denotator type indicates how a term should be interpreted from an ontological perspective .
a scalar measurement datum that is the result of measurement of mass quality
a scalar measurement datum that is the result of measuring a temporal interval
a planned process of making information ,  such as literature ,  music ,  and software etc . ,  available to the public for sale or for free .
a document that is in preparation for submission to be published .
a planned process in which a document is created or added to by including the specified input in it .
a planned process in which a new crid is created ,  associated with an entity ,  and stored in the crid registry thereby registering it as being associated with some entity
a symbol that is part of a crid and that is sufficient to look up a record from the crid's registry .
an information content entity that consists of a crid symbol and additional information about the crid registry to which it belongs .
a crid registry is a dataset of crid records ,  each consisting of a crid symbol and additional information which was recorded in the dataset through a assigning a centrally registered identifier process .
an identifier is an information content entity that is the outcome of a dubbing process and is used to refer to one instance of entity shared by a group of people to refer to that individual entity .
a role borne by pathogen in virtue of the fact that it or one of its products is sufficiently close to an organism towards which it has the pathogenic disposition to allow realization of the pathogenic disposition .
a disposition to initiate processes that result in a disorder .
a quality that inheres in an organism population and is the number of organisms in the population infected with an infectious agent at a specified time .
a material entity with a pathogenic disposition .
a molecular entity with a toxin disposition and that is a structural component of a pathogen and is released from the pathogen only upon cytolysis .
an infection bearing the primary infection role .
a part of an extended organism that itself has as part a population of one or more infectious agents and that  ( 1 )  exists as a result of processes initiated by members of the infectious agent population and is  ( 2 )  clinically abnormal in virtue of the presence of this infectious agent population ,  or  ( 3 )  has a disposition to bring clinical abnormality to immunocompetent organisms of the same species as the host  ( the organism corresponding to the extended organism )  through transmission of a member or offspring of a member of the infectious agent population .
a process that attenuates an immune response .
a disposition to initiate processes that result in a disorder in a human organism .
a protein modification that effectively either removes neutral hydrogen atoms  ( proton and electron )  ,  or adds oxygen atoms to a residue with or without the removal of hydrogen atoms .
a protein modification that by reaction of iodoacetamide effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with a carboxamidomethyl group .
a note acknowledging a source of information or quoting a passage .
a sterile liquid preparation infused into a vein .
a blood smear technique used to make a thick blood smear on a microscope slide which is generally used to look for blood parasites such as those causing malaria .
a blood smear technique used to make a thin blood smear on a microscope slide which is generally used to look for blood parasites such as those causing malaria .
a data transformation that add two or more numbers ,  magnitudes ,  quantities ,  or particulars as determined by or as if by the mathematical process of addition .
a data item that is produced as the output of a summing data transformation and represents the total value of the input data .
a material entity that is bearer of a medication role .
a processed specimen which is the output of a density gradient centrifugation of an anticoagulated blood specimen that contains most of the white blood cells and platelets .
a scalar measurement datum that is the output of a volume measurement assay that has a blood specimen as evaluant .
a process that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
biological_feature_identification_objective is an objective role carried out by the proposition defining the aim of a study designed to examine or characterize a particular biological feature .
is a material entity that is created or changed during material processing .
a planned process that consists of parts: planning ,  study design execution ,  documentation and which produce conclusion ( s )  .
a role that inheres in a material entity that is realized in an assay in which data is generated about the bearer of the evaluant role
a study personnel role played by a party who reports the outcome of a study component
a planned process with the objective to produce information about the material entity that is the evaluant ,  by physically examining it or its proxies .
a sample_preparation_for_assay is a protocol_application including material_enrollments and biomaterial_transformations .
a processed material that provides the needed nourishment for microorganisms or cells grown in vitro .
a role inhering in a biological or chemical entity that is intended to be applied in a scientific technique to participate  ( or have molecular components that participate )  in a chemical reaction that facilitates the generation of data about some entity distinct from the bearer ,  or the generation of some specified material output distinct from the bearer .
a planned process which results in physical changes in a specified input material
a role that is realized through the execution of a study design in which the bearer of the role participates and in which data about that bearer is collected .
a study personnel role played by a party who is accountable for the execution of a study component and can make decisions about the conduct of the study
a responsible party role played by a person responsible for the overall conduct of a study
a role borne by a material entity that is gained during a specimen collection process and that can be realized by use of the specimen in an investigation
a study population role where the bearer is a population of material entities and the role is realized in the implementation of a study design wherein the entities bearing the study population role are observed or subjected to intervention according to the study design and are biological replicates ,  i .e .
a population is a collection of individuals from the same taxonomic class living ,  counted or sampled at a particular site or in a particular area
a role borne by an entity and that is realized in a process that is part of an investigation in which an objective is achieved .
a reference subject  role which inheres in an organism or entity of organismal origin so that the characteristics or responses of the participant playing the reference participant role are used for comparison or reference
a material processing that digests the fraction of input material that is susceptible to that enzyme
an entity that can bear roles ,  has members ,  and has a set of organization rules .
organism_feature_identification_objective is a biological_feature_identification_objective role describing a study designed to examine or characterize a biological feature monitored at the level of the organism ,  e .g .
a plan specification which has sufficient level of detail and quantitative information to communicate it between investigation agents ,  so that different investigation agents will reliably be able to independently reproduce the process .
a measurand role borne by a molecular entity or an atom and realized in an analyte assay which achieves the objective to measure the magnitude / concentration / amount of the analyte in the entity bearing evaluant role .
a planned process in which data gathered in an investigation is evaluated in the context of existing knowledge with the objective to generate more general conclusions or to conclude that the data does not allow one to draw general conclusion
a process of creating or modifying a plan specification
a contain function is a function to constrain a material entities location in space
pcr is the process in which a dna polymerase is used to amplify a piece of dna by in vitro enzymatic replication .
enzyme and has_function some go:0003964  ( rna - directed dna polymerase activity ) 
an extract is a material entity which results from an extraction process
an averaging objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to perform mean calculations on the input of the data transformation .
 ( protein or rna )  or has_part  ( protein or rna )  and has_function some go:0003824  ( catalytic activity ) 
an assay which generates data about a genotype from a specimen of genomic dna .
an assay objective to determine the presence or concentration of an analyte in the evaluant
an objective specification to determine a specified type of information about an evaluated entity  ( the material entity bearing evaluant role ) 
an assay with the objective to capture information about the presence ,  concentration ,  or amount of an analyte in an evaluant .
measure function is a function that is borne by a processed material  and realized in a process in which information about some entity is expressed relative to some reference .
an objective specifiction that creates an specific output object from input materials .
a planned process that carries out a study design
reverse transcribe pcr is a process which allow amplification of cdna during a pcr reaction while the cdna results from a retrotranscription of messenger rna isolated from a material entity .
manufacturer role is a role which inheres in a person or organization and which is realized by a manufacturing process .
a sequencing assay which determines information on the sequence of a dna molecule .
is an objective to transform a material entity into spatially separated components .
a portion of urine collected from an organism
is a material processing with the objective to combine two or more material entities as input into a single material entity as output .
a material entity derived from a portion of blood collected from an organism
a planned process with the objective of collecting a specimen .
an analyte assay where binding of an enzyme linked antibody to a material entity that is immobilized on solid support is detected utilizing a chemiluminescent reaction .
a material obtained from an organism in order to be a representative of the whole
a data item that is produced as the output of a center calculation data transformation and represents the center value of the input data .
a material separation objective aiming to separate material into multiple portions ,  each of which contains a similar composition of the input material .
a  data item that is produced as the output of an averaging data transformation and represents the average value of the input data .
a material entity which is the output of a process in which one or more whole organisms are prepared in a way to make it easier to study them ,  and in which the great majority of organismal parts are maintained
a material separation objective aiming to separate a material entity that has parts of different types ,  and end with at least one output that is a material with parts of fewer types  ( modulo impurities )  .
a objective specification to obtain a material entity for potential use as an input during an investigation .
host role is a role played by an organism and realized by providing nourishment ,  shelter or a means of reproduction to another organism within the organism playing the host role
an enzyme that has a specific target cleavage sites within nucleic acids
a material sample role is a specimen role borne by a material entity that is the output of a material sampling process .
a specimen gathering process with the objective to obtain a specimen that is representative of the input material entity
a material entity that has the material sample role
an objective specification maintains some or all of the qualities of a material over time .
a planned process in which a person or their legal representative is informed about key facts about potential risks and benefits of a process and makes a documented decision as to whether the person in question will participate .
a device in which a measure function inheres .
a person or organization that has a manufacturer role
a process with that achieves the objective to maintain some or all of the characteristics of an input material over time
a medical organization at which sick or injured people are given clinical care
the primary structure of an rna molecule that is completely defined by the set of its nucleic residue parts and the linear order induced by the peptide bonds that hold them together
a information content entity created to indicate that information about something is not available to the person recording it .
a record indicating that the biological sex of an organism is not known .
an assay ,  based on the pcr ,  that amplifies and simultaneously quantifies a specific dna molecule based on the use of complementary probes / primers .
information about a sequence region
is a material entity bearing the disposition to infect an organism
a measurement datum that is reported on a categorical scale
a role which inheres in a person who uses a service
is a role which inheres in a person or organization and is realized in in a planned process which provides access to training ,  materials or execution of protocols for an organization or person
an intervention design in which the treatment is the administration of a compound
a specimen that has been intentionally physically modified .
a device that can be used to restrict the location of material entities over time
a material entity that is designed to perform a function in a scientific investigation ,  but is not a reagent .
a specimen that is output of a specimen creation process used for an investigation without storage .
a measurement datum that representing the primary structure of a macromolecule ( it's sequence )  sometimes associated with an indicator of confidence of that measurement .
the directed combination of a material entity with a specimen .
an extract that is the output of an extraction process in which nucleic acid molecules are isolated from a specimen .
the output of an extraction process in which dna molecules are purified in order to exclude dna from organellas .
an device that is used to determine the order of nucleotides in nucleic acid sequences .
a device that moves charged particles through a medium by using an electric field induced by electrodes .
an device that is used to determine the order of amino acids in protein sequences .
a crid symbol used to distinguish one individual organism from another .
a time measurement datum that is the result of measurement of age of an organism
an age measurement datum that is the result of the measurement of the age of an organism since birth ,  the process of emergence and separation of offspring from the mother .
an assay that determines the concentration of rna in a sample in which an rna strand is first reverse transcribed into its dna complement  ( complementary dna ,  or cdna )  using the enzyme reverse transcriptase ,  and the resulting cdna is amplified using traditional or real - time pcr .
the time it takes for 50% of a class of stochastic processes to occur .
a planned process in which a service provider performs a task  ( i .e .
an objective specification to generate a population or type of organism within species that have some uniform behavioral ,  morphological ,  physiological ,  or genetic characteristics with similarly bred organisms .
an organism that is bred to have some uniform behavioral ,  morphological ,  physiological ,  or genetic characteristics with similarly bred organisms
a genotyping assay that uses a high througput sequencer
a genotyping assay that uses an array
a genetic characteristics information that is about the genetic material of an organism and minimally includes information about the genetic background and can in addition contain information about specific alleles ,  genetic modifications ,  etc .
a study design that assays differences between distinct species .
a data item that is about genetic material including polymorphisms ,  disease alleles ,  and haplotypes .
a study design that classifies an individual or group of individuals on the basis of alleles ,  haplotypes ,  snps .
a study design that assays differences between multiple strains ,  cultivars ,  serovars ,  isolates ,  lines from organisms of a single species .
a specimen primarily composed of a cell or cells collected from a multicellular organism or a cell culture .
a specimen for which it is known whether it has been subjected to storage of a specified type .
a specimen that derives from an anatomical part or substance arising from an organism .
an enzymatic amplification which amplifies nucleic acid sequence by making many copies off the same template .
a time measurement datum when an observation is made or a sample is taken from a material as measured from some reference point .
a material processing service in which a service provider makes physical modifications to a specified input material ,  such that at least one of the specified outputs of this process is a modified version of a specified input material .
an algorithm used to assemble individual sequence reads into larger contiguous sequences  ( contigs )  .
a service which has a material entity as specified input and / or specified output .
a service in which a service consumer provides some input material and a service provider performs some analysis of this material to generate data that is returned to the service consumer .
a scalar measurement datum that represents the number of events occuring over a time interval
a storage service in which a service consumer provides some material as input which a service provider stores and returns as output .
a crid symbol uniquely indentifies the submitted genebank sequence record .
a textual entity that describes an investigation .
a crid symbol denotes a specimen and used to distinguish one specimen from another in an investigation .
a crid symbol that is sufficient to look up a citation from the pubmed ,  a literature database of life sciences and biomedical information .
an average value of the depth of sequence coverage based both on external  ( e .g .
a time measurement datum that is the measure of the time when the specimens are collected .
a measurement datum that is the measure of the latitude coordinate of a site .
a measurement datum that is the measure of the longitude coordinate of a site .
a textual entity that denotes an investigation .
a biological feature identification objective to identify the organism species in a specimen .
an assay that identifies the organism species in a specimen .
an algorithm used to identify sequence features  ( e .g .
an organization that  is one of the internet - based research centers established and funded by niaid  ( the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases )  .
a textual entity that denotes a geographic location that is a site or part of a site that is identified as a country in the political geography .
a crid symbol used to identify an investigation .
a crid symbol used to identify a grant .
a plan specification of organization a to give money to organization b so that b conducts investigations .
a role inhering in a person who represents an institution ,  organization ,  or service provider and realized when communication is directed at them about the entity they represent .
an investigation agent role borne by a person or organization which  is realized in a specimen collection process .
a material entity comprised of cultured cells and the media in which they are being propagated or stored .
an organization that is the affiliation of the principal investigator providing the specimens for the investigation
an organization that is the affiliation of the person who is contact representative of a bioinformatics resource center
a plan specification which specifies the type of material that will be assayed in an investigation .
a person who is the contact representative of a bioinformatics resource center
a plan specification which specifies the scope of an investigation based on the heterogeneity of organisms or type of material that are the specified input of specimen collection .
an organization that provides a service to store and distribute specimens
an email address of the person who is contact representative of a bioinformatics resource center
a person who is the contact representative at the sequencing facility
a person who is a principal investigator and provides the specimen
an email address of the person collecting the specimen
an organization that provides sequence determination service
an objective specification which indicates the type of data that will be generated and submitted to a database .
an organization that is the affiliation of the person collecting the specimen
an email address of the contact representative at the sequencing facility
a person who collects the specimen
a plan specification which indicates the assay type used to obtain data .
an organization that is the affiliation of the contact representative at the sequencing facility
a textual entity that is about any of the aspects of an investigation worth noting
a plan specification which specifies how the material enrichment procedure will influence the scale ,  or type of material that will be assayed in the specimen .
a specimen identifier which is assigned by a specimen repository
a specimen identifier which is assigned by a sequencing facility
a sample preparation for assay that preparation of nucleic acids for a sequencing assay
an email address of the principal investigator providing the specimens for the investigation
a service provides sequencing service which is the realization of some sequencing such as rna and dna sequencing in which the service provider role is realized .
an information content entity that is inferred from data .
a processed material that serves as a liquid vehicle for freezing cells for long term quiescent stroage ,  which contains chemicls needed to sustain cell viability across freeze - thaw cycles .
a value specification that is specifies one category out of a fixed number of nominal categories
a value specification that consists of two parts: a numeral and a unit label
an information content entity that specifies a value within a classification scheme or on a quantitative scale .
an organization that provides funding support for projects such as investigations .
a planned process that identifies and reports sequence features  ( e .g .
a person or organization reporting the feature annotation results from the analysis of a macromolecular sequence .
a textual entity that is used to denote a sequence assembly .
a reporting party role that is realized by a person or organization who reports the feature annotation results from the analysis of a macromolecular sequence .
an assay that counts and / or measures characteristics of cells .
a dna sequencer which is manufactured by the illumina corporation ,  with two flow cells and a throughput of up to 55 gb per day .
a material entity that has two or more specimens as its parts .
an imaging assay that utilizes a microscope to magnify features of the visualized material of interest that are not visible to naked eye .
an analyte assay that is meant to detect hepatitis b virus  ( hbv )  surface antigens .
an organization that provides molecular analysis service .
a role borne by a material entity and realized in an assay which achieves the objective to measure the magnitude / concentration / amount of the measurand in the entity bearing evaluant role .
an organism identification assay that uses a differential medium to achieve its objective
a scalar value specification that specifies the point in time that a human participant under investigation self - administers a medication material
a scalar value specification that specifies the value of the quantity of a material entity administered to an organism as a treatment
a role that is borne by a case - control study design participant under investigation that is associated with the outcome mentioned in the study design .
a role that is borne by a case - control study design participant under investigation that is not associated with the outcome mentioned in the study design .
a specimen that is derived from cerbrospinal fluid .
a specimen that is derived from feces .
a specimen that is derived from digestive system fluid or secretion .
a specimen that is derived from milk .
a specimen that is derived from sputum .
a specimen that is derived from bone marrow .
a specimen that is derived from pleural fluid .
a specimen that is derived from lung .
a polymerase chain reaction which amplifies dna with only one known sequence from which primers may be designed .
a specimen that is stored on a swab as the output of a collecting specimen with swab process .
a specimen collection process that uses a swab as the collection device .
a specimen that is collected with a swab from the surface of a nasopharynx .
a study design that entails the creation of two types of roles ,  such that each participant under investigation bears one or the other .
an assay that uses a giemsa stain to characterize cells .
a specimen composed of an individual organism to be studied in an investigation .
an organism identification assay that identifies a microorganism in a blood specimen .
a container with a narrow neck that is made of glass .
a glass bottle that coated with material designed to control insects .
a polymerase chain reaction that amplifies short interspersed nuclear elements  ( sines )  .
a polymerase chain reaction with modification intended to reduce non - specific binding in products due to the amplification of unexpected primer binding sites .
an electrophoresis that separates and characterize proteins based on reaction with antibodies .
an electrophoresis in which antigen and antibody move in opposite directions and form precipitates in the area between the cells where they meet in concentrations of optimal proportions .
a linear amplification that uses a thermostable ligase to amplify a piece of dna .
an enzymatic amplification in which a piece of dna is amplified at a constant temperature of 60  -  65 degree c using either two or three sets of primers and a polymerase with high strand displacement activity in addition to a replication activity .
an organism feature identification objective that aims to detect whether an organism contains pathogenic organisms .
an organism feature identification objective that aims to detect insecticide resistance of an insect .
a specimen of the blood ingested by an arthropod .
an assay that uses polymerase chain reaction technique to amplify dna .
an assay that uses digestion of dna with specific restriction enzymes followed by gel electropheresis to detect differences in the sizes of the generated fragments that are due to genetic differences  ( polymorphisms )  in homologous sequences .
an assay to identify a specific individual organism from a dna specimen by looking at unique patterns in their dna .
an assay that aims to detect the presence and / or frequency of resistance to insecticides in an organism or organism population .
an insecticide resistance assay that detects ,  in a population ,  presence and frequency of mutant alleles for previously characterized mutations with insecticide resistance phenotypes .
an insecticide resistance assay that is based on determination the catalytic activity of an enzyme associated with insecticide resistance phenotypes .
an insecticide resistance assay that is typically conducted to measure the effects of a substance on a living organism .
an insecticide resistance by detecting enzyme activity assay that measures activity of alpha esterase .
an insecticide resistance by detecting enzyme activity assay that measures activity of beta esterase .
an insecticide resistance by detecting enzyme activity assay that measures activity of acetylcholinesterase .
an insecticide resistance by detecting enzyme activity assay that measures activity of glutathione s - transferase  ( gst )  .
an insecticide resistance by detecting enzyme activity assay that measures activity of carboxylic ester hydrolase using p - nitrophenyl acetate as a substrate .
an insecticide resistance by detecting enzyme activity assay that measures whether mixed - function oxidase activity present .
an insecticide resistance bioassay without the use of any synergist .
an insecticide resistance bioassay by adding insecticide directly to the thorax of the insect .
a direct insecticide resistance assay that at preset insecticide dosage scoring mortality to determine resistance of a population .
a direct insecticide resistance assay in which an insect population is exposed to a range of insecticide dosage scoring mortality to determine resistance .
a direct insecticide resistance assay to determine resistance as a consequence of the time of exposure to insecticide .
a direct insecticide resistance diagnostic assay performs in a glass bottle coated with insecticides for detecting resistance to insecticides in vector populations .
a direct insecticide resistance diagnostic assay uses who cone kit .
a direct insecticide resistance diagnostic assay uses who paper kit .
a direct insecticide resistance diagnostic assay tests survival of larvae in a medium supplemented with insecticide .
an insecticide resistance dose response assay that performs in a glass bottle coated with insecticides .
an insecticide resistance dose response assay that tests survival of larvae in a medium supplemented with insecticide .
an insecticide resistance dose response assay using who paper kit .
an insecticide resistance time response assay that is performed in a glass bottle coated with insecticides ,  with the presence of a synergist .
an insecticide resistance time response assay using who paper kit ,  with the presence of a synergist .
an insecticide resistance by monitoring known mutations assay that detects any mutation involving single base changes or small deletions using amplification refractory mutation system  ( arms )  .
an insecticide resistance by monitoring known mutations assay that detects single nucleotide polymorphisms  ( snps )  using pcr technique and mismatched primers that is close to the mutation of interest and digested the pcr productions using restriction enzymes .
an insecticide resistance by monitoring known mutations assay that detects gene mutation based on nested polymerase chain reaction technique .
an insecticide resistance assay that is based on monitoring known mutations using ligase detection reaction exquisitely discriminate between a mismatched and complementary dna helix .
an insecticide resistance by ligase detection reaction assay that uses fluorescently labeled conserved probes in ligase detection reaction .
an insecticide resistance assay that is based on monitoring known mutations by pcr amplification of specific alleles to detect polymorphic or mutant alleles .
an insecticide resistance assay that is based on monitoring known mutations by pcr technique that uses target specific probes labeled with fluorogenic chromophores to detect gene mutation .
an insecticide resistance by monitoring known mutations assay based on restriction fragment length polymorphism assay .
an insecticide resistance assay that is based on monitoring known mutations by pcr amplification of short interspersed elements  ( sines )  .
an assay that aims to detect pathogens .
a pathogen detection assay that identifies the presence or absence of specific peptide epitopes of circumsporozoite  ( cs )  protein of the most important plasmodium falciparum and two strains  ( variants 210 and 247 )  of the more widespread plasmodium vivax using a dipstick wicking test strip .
a pathogen detection assay that is based on rapid analyte measurement platform  ( ramp )  technology to quantify immunologically active substances .
a pathogen detection assay that is based on loop - mediated isothermal amplification .
an assay that analyzes the specimen taken from blood meal fed organism ,  such as insect .
a blood meal assay that uses a counter current immunoelectrophoresis technique .
a dna fingerprinting assay that uses dna extracted from blood meal fed organism ,  such as insect .
an organism identification assay that is based on the size of organism .
an organism identification assay that is based on genetic crossings between specimens collected in the field to determine whether fertile progeny is produced .
an organism identification assay that is based on analysis of polytene chromosomes through cytological examination of the banding pattern of the species .
an organism identification assay that is based on electrophoresis to determine the isozymes that are present in a specific population to determine the species .
an organism identification assay that is based on examination of morphology and the use of specific "taxonomic keys" to determine the species of the specimen .
an organism identification assay that is based on pcr .
an organism identification assay that is based on dna hybrdization .
an organism identification assay of mosquito species that is on the basis of mosquito survival depending on the salt concentration in the water used to lay their eggs to differentiate between morphologically very similar species .
a sputum specimen that is collected from an organism following its inhalation of a nebulized salt solution .
a material processing that consists of first growing an organism in an environmental system and then removing the organism to be grown in another environmental system ,  a process which may be repeated with the objective of altering the organism or increasing its number .
a data item that is about the sequence of environmental systems in each of which is grown an organism in a passage process .
a genetic characteristics information that is about the number and appearance of chromosomes in the nucleus of an eukaryotic cell .
a karyotype information that is about the structural variation of partial genome rather than whole genome .
a karyotype information that is about the structural variation of the whole genome .
a specimen that is collected with a suctioning tube from the trachea .
a specimen that is collected with a mid - turbinate nasal swab from the turbinate area of the nasal cavity .
a specimen that is collected with a suctioning tube from the nasal cavity .
a specimen that is collected with a suctioning tube from the lower respiratory tract .
a specimen that is derived from the upper respiratory tract
a specimen that is derived from the lower respiratory tract .
a specimen that is derived from the anterior nasal wall
procedure using suction ,  usually with a thin needle and syringe ,  to remove bodily fluid or tissue .
an investigation in which some entity is monitored ,  and data concerning that entity collected ,  interpreted ,  and disseminated ,  for the purpose of managing ,  directing ,  or protecting that entity ,  or some other entity .
a study group role that is the result of the allocation of a cluster of study - defined groupings of people in a clinical trial to receive a specific intervention / treatment ,  or no intervention ,  according to the trial's protocol .
a study group role that is the result of the allocation of a compound of geographically - proximate households with a shared component in a clinical trial to receive a specific intervention / treatment ,  or no intervention ,  according to the trial's protocol .
a light source that provides ultraviolet  ( uv )  light for use in a distant area using a delivery system .
a light source that provides visible light for use in a distant area using a delivery system .
a light source that light is produced from solar energy .
a live arthropod specimen collection process in which the arthropods are in the adult stage .
an arthropod specimen collection by aspiration that occurs while the arthropod is biting an animal .
an animal - biting arthropod specimen collection by aspiration that occurs outside a building .
an arthropod specimen collection process that has the objective of collecting mosquitoes from an aquatic environment .
an arthropod specimen collection by aspiration that catches specimens resting inside an animal house .
an arthropod resting outdoors specimen collection by aspiration that occurs while the arthropod rests on a processed material such as a wall or furniture .
an arthropod resting outdoors specimen collection by aspiration that occurs while the arthropod rests on an unprocessed material such as a plant .
an animal - biting arthropod specimen collection by aspiration that occurs while the arthropod is resting outside a building during a period of inactivity .
a live arthropod specimen collection process that involves the use of an aspirator ,  a device which draws an arthropod by suction into a container .
a specimen collection process that has the objective of collecting arthropods as specimens .
an arthropod specimen collection by aspiration that occurs while the arthropod is biting a human .
an arthropod specimen collection by aspiration that occurs while the arthropod is biting a human inside a building .
an arthropod specimen collection by aspiration designed to catch specimens that are in the process of biting a human outside a building .
a knockdown arthropod specimen collection process in which the pesticide is pyrethrum .
an arthropod specimen collection process that involves exposing arthropods to pesticide ,  then collecting them once they become dead or immobilized .
an arthropod specimen collection process meant to collect live specimens .
a device designed to catch arthropods .
an arthropod trap ,  consisting of a pit dug in the ground to provide a space for arthropods to rest and be collected .
an arthropod trap designed to work with an animal  ( which could be human )  inside a netted structure .
an arthropod trap consisting of a static physical barrier designed to funnel arthropods in flight into a container .
a device manufactured by biogents that is designed to count mosquitoes passing through the device ,  differentiating the mosquitoes from other arthropods .
an arthropod trap that is manufactured by biogents and is designed to attract arthropods through the use of a motorized fan to mimic convection currents produced by a human .
a light trap that is designed to use motorized suction to trap arthropods in a collection bag once they approach the light attractant .
a device that is designed for the collection of arthropod larvae or pupae from water and has the shape of a ladle or a pan .
a light trap that uses carbon dioxide as attractant .
an arthropod trap that is designed to collect gravid female arthropods or their eggs .
an arthropod trap that uses light as an attractant .
a light trap designed to be placed inside a building .
a light trap designed to be placed outside a building .
an arthropod trap that is powered by propane and is designed to emit a combination of carbon dioxide ,  heat ,  water ,  and oct - 1 - en - 3 - ol attractants while simultaneously using suction to trap arthropods .
a gravid trap consisting of an arthropod attractant and adhesive surface .
a light trap that is designed to use motorized suction to trap arthropods in a collection bag once they approach the light attractant .
a light trap that is designed to use motorized suction to trap arthropods in a collection bag once they approach the attractant .
an arthropod trap that is positioned adjacent to a window of a building and is designed to collect arthropods flying out of the building .
an arthropod trap that consists of a container holding a mesh layer above water and is designed to trap arthropods hatched from eggs dropped over the water by gravid females .
an arthropod trap that is designed to be attractive to an arthropod as a place to rest during a period of inactivity .
an arthropod trap that consists of a box that is open on one end .
an arthropod trap that consists of a bucket ,  which is lined with fabric and placed on its side ,  and a wet cloth inside the bucket .
an arthropod trap that is made of cloth and netting and is designed to be suspended from above  ( e .g .
an arthropod trap that consists of a bucket ,  which is lined with adhesive and placed on its side ,  and a wet cloth inside the bucket .
an arthropod trap that is designed to capture arthropods resting on a surface by coating the surface with adhesive .
a study design where the selection of the individuals that are included into the study are intended to be representative of all individuals in the a priori defined specific population and is done at the population level or among the population groups ,  generally to find the cause ,  incidence or spread of the disease or to see the response to the treatment ,  nutrition or environment .
a specimen that derives from a biofilm that forms on the inner surface of an endotracheal tube while the tube is in the trachea .
a specimen that derives from a biofilm that forms on the inner surface of an endotracheal tube while the tube is in the trachea .
a length measurement datum between a point at sea or ground level and some point above it .
a time measurement datum that is the count of collection cycles over which a specimen collection process occurs .
a data item that is the frequency of detection of a specified pathogenic organism in collected specimens .
a data item that is the frequency of blood whose source is from a specified host organism in collected blood meal specimens .
a data item that indicates whether blood in a blood meal specimen came from a specified host organism .
an organism that is the source of a blood meal .
a role borne by an organism that is gained during a process in which another organism ingests blood as food from the organism .
a role of a material entity realized in drawing an arthropod in the direction of the material .
an arthropod specimen collection process that involves a device that produces data specifying the types of arthropod collected .
an arthropod specimen collection process that has the objective of collecting gravid female arthropods .
an arthropod specimen collection process that occurs while an arthropod that is capable of flight is resting outdoors during a period of inactivity .
an arthropod specimen collection by aspiration that occurs in the daytime .
an arthropod specimen collection by aspiration that catches specimens resting inside a human house .
an arthropod specimen collection process that occurs while the arthropods land on a surface .
an adult arthropod specimen collection process that has the objective of collecting arthropods capable of flight ,  through the use of a barrier trap .
a device that is designed to provide a solid surface that is attractive to an arthropod as a place to rest during a period of inactivity .
a device that is designed for the collection of arthropod larvae or pupae from water and consists of a conical net .
an arthropod trap that uses as attractant an animal that is not human and is the size of a chicken or smaller .
an arthropod trap that is designed to trap an arthropod as it emerges from water at the beginning of its adult stage .
a cytometry assay that measures the abundance and / or characteristics of lymphocytes
a material entity which results from viral transformation process using ebv as transformation agent when applied to b - cell entity
a material entity which corresponds to the liquid component of blood ,  in which the blood cells are suspended .
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
a material entity that has the specimen role .
a processed material comprised of a collection of cultured cells that has been continuously maintained together in culture and shares a common propagation history .
group of biomaterials present in the bronchial aveolar space of an organism which are collected through lavage including the reagents used to for the lavage process ,  organisms ,  cells ,  and cellular secretions present in the bronchial aveolar space .
a planned process that produces output data from input data .
an objective specification to transformation input data into output data
an averaging data transformation is a data transformation that has objective averaging .
a center calculation data transformation is a data transformation that has objective of center calculation .
observation design is a study design in which subjects are monitored in the absence of any active intervention by experimentalists .
a pool of specimens is a mixture of a population of samples which have been gathered from one or more sample populations ,  obtained by the physical process of mixing individual specimens ,  e .g .
a material separation in which a desired component of an input material is separated from the remainder
a maintenance process by which material entities that are not actively metabolizing are placed in well identified location and possibly under controlled environment in ad - hoc devices / structures in order to preserve and protect them from decay / alteration and maintain availability
a planned process by which totally or partially complementary ,  single - stranded nucleic acids are  combined into a single molecule called heteroduplex or homoduplex to an extent depending on the amount of complementarity .
a light source is an optical subsystem that provides light for use in a distant area using a delivery system  ( e .g . ,  fiber optics )  .
a dna sequencer is an instrument that determines the order of deoxynucleotides in deoxyribonucleic acid sequences .
a processed material which has the function to define a bounded habitat which is amenable to keeping animals .
a plan specification comprised of protocols  ( which may specify how and what kinds of data will be gathered )  that are executed as part of an investigation and is realized during a study design execution .
an eligibility criterion  ( rule )  is_a selection criterion which  defines and states the requirements  ( positive or negative )  for an entity to be considered as suitable for a given task or participation in a process .
a planned process with the objective to obtain a population of human subjects to participate in an investigation by determining eligibility of subjects and obtaining informed consent .
a process with the objective to obtain a material entity that was part of an organism for potential future use in an investigation
a process by which a substance is intentionally given to an organism resulting in exposure of the organism to that substance .
a material processing in which components of an input material become segregated in space
a protocol application in which cells are kept alive in a defined environment outside of an organism .
a process through which a new type of cell culture or cell line is created ,  either through the isolation and culture of one or more cells from a fresh source ,  or the deliberate experimental modification of an existing cell culture  ( e .g passaging a primary culture to become a secondary culture or line ,  or the immortalization or stable genetic modification of an existing culture or line )  .
an assay the uses chemical or biochemical means to infer the sequence of a biomaterial
an enzymatic cleavage that uses an enzyme with a strong affinity for specific cleavage sites in the input material
a protocol application that uses diffusion through a semi - permeable membrane to separate an input material into two fractions of different composition
a protocol application that uses an electrical potential to move material through a defined matrix in order to separate it by its resistance to movement and its charge
the use of enzymes to increase the number of molecules of a biomaterial
a material separation to recover the nucleic acid fraction of an input material
the detrimental process in which an infectious agent colonizes or replicates in a host environment
a cell specimen comprised of a mixed population of cells obtained by processing whole lymph node into individual cells ,  typically performed using a sieve .
the process of removing an organ from its source organism
is a role borne by an agent ,  and realized when in contact with or inside another organism in which it is capable of replicating and causing disease
abnormal ,  harmful processes caused by or associated with a disease
a specimen that is derived from some bodily fluid
a representation that is either the output of a clinical history taking or a physical examination or an image finding ,  or some combination thereof .
a series of statements representing health - relevant qualities of a patient and of a patient's family .
a representation of a quality of a specimen that is the output of a laboratory test and that can support an inference to an assertion about some quality of the patient .
a clinically abnormal phenotype .
a measurement assay that has as input a patient - derived specimen and as output a data item that is about a quality of the specimen .
the totality of all processes through which a given disease instance is realized .
the representation of a conclusion of a diagnostic process .
todo: define .
a planned process whose completion is hypothesized by a health care provider to eliminate ,  prevent ,  or alleviate a disorder ,  the signs and symptoms of a disorder ,  or a pathological process
a planned process with the objective to improve the health status of a patient that directly involves the treatment ,  diagnosis ,  or prevention of disease or injury of a patient
a temporally - connected health care process that has as participants an organization or person realizing the health care provider role and a person realizing the patient role .
a health care process that involves the interpretation of a clinical picture from a given patient  ( input )  and the assertion to the effect that the patient has a disease ,  disorder ,  or syndrome of a certain type ,  or none of these  ( output )  .
a data item that is about a patient and is the specified output of a health care process assay or diagnostic process
a microbial phenotype related to the resistance or sensitivity of a microbe to antimicrobial agents that kill  ( microbiocidal )  or inhibit growth  ( microbiostatic )  of a microbe .
a social role inhering in a human being .
a role borne by an organism and that is realized by presenting to a health care provider in a clinical encounter .
a human health care role inhering in an organization or human being that is realized by a process of providing health care services to an organism .
a health care facility that bears the function to provide acute and intensive healthcare services and that is run by a hospital organization and is the bearer of a hospital function .
a function that inheres in a material entity and ,  if realized ,  is realized by protecting persons and their possessions from weather and by some person or group of persons habitually sleeping in at least one site that is contained by that material entity .
a deontic document act that concludes an inpatient encounter .
an information content entity that is about human travel .
a planned process in which the bearer of an employer role provides wages or salary to the bearer of an employee roll in fullfillment of the arrangements specified in some declaration
a deontic document act in which a patient is registered with a health care provider for the purpose of receiving care in an inpatient encounter .
a social identity information content entity that is about whether some person identifies as some ethnicity .
a social identity information content entity that is about whether some person identifies as some gender .
a socio - economic data item that is about a person and their completion of an education program  ( and its type )  ,  where that education progam is the last one in a sequence  ( of education programs )  that the person has completed ,  where each education program completed except the last one is a pre - requisite to the education program completed after it .
a parasite lifecycle stage of sporozoa consisting of a zygote enclosed by cyst wall .
a life cycle stage where a cell differentiates into male or female sexual forms .
a parasite lifecycle stage of some sporozoans where cells divide through sporogony producing daughter cells called sporozoites that infect new hosts .
a life cycle stage of a parasite .
an organism living in ,  with ,  or on another organism in parasitism .
the representation of a positive conclusion of a diagnostic process for the covid - 19 coronavirus disease .
a time quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of how long the bearer has existed .
a quality inhering in a substance by virtue of the amount of the bearer's there is mixed with another substance .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to undergo sexual reproduction in order to differentiate the individuals or types involved .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the distance between two points .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the proportion of the bearer's amount of matter .
a physical quality of the thermal energy of a system .
a quality in which events occur in sequence .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population that only produces gametes that can be fertilised by male gametes .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population whose sex organs contain only male gametes .
a quality denoting the lack of an entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's existence .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having susceptibilty toward an external stimulus .
a resistance quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resistance to a stimulus .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a 2 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's two dimensional extent .
a biological sex quality inhering in a population of multiple sexes .
a quality inhering in a population by virtue of the proportion of its members that are ill at a given time .
a structural quality inhering in a cell or blood vessel or capillary by virtue of the bearer's being in a rigid state of fullness resulting from pressure of the contents against the wall or membrane .
a turgor which is relatively low .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population that undergo sexual reproduction .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the severity of infectious disease caused by the bearer in a target organism .
a viviparous organism having never given birth .
a structural quality which is held by a bearer where a localized pathological or traumatic structural change ,  damage ,  deformity ,  or discontinuity of tissue ,  organ ,  or body part is present .
an organismal quality of having successfully reproduced .
a material entity that consists of two or more organisms ,  viruses ,  or viroids .
an organismal entity that consists of one or more people who live in the same dwelling and also share at meals or living accommodation ,  and may consist of a single family or some other grouping of people .
a count data item of the number of steps in the line of descent from a common ancestor for a multicellular organism .
a microbial population of parasites that is defined by shared features such as genetic markers reflecting a common origin and distinguishing the population from other related parasite populations .
un document créé par un fournisseur de soin indiquant comment réaliser une partie d'un processus de santé pour un patient particulier .
a multi - tissue plant structure  ( po:0025496 )  that develops from a gynoecium  ( po:0009062 )  ,  or a single carpel  ( po:0009030 )  ,  and at maturity may have as parts one or more seeds  ( po:0009010 )  .
a determinate reproductive shoot system  ( po:0025082 )  that has as part at least one carpel  ( po:0009030 )  or at least one stamen  ( po:0009029 )  and does not contain any other determinate shoot system  ( po:0009006 )  as a part .
an anatomical entity that is or was part of a plant .
an amino acid chain that is produced de novo by ribosome - mediated translation of a genetically - encoded mrna ,  and any derivatives thereof .
a type ii interferon that is a translation product of the human ifng gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a tumor necrosis factor ,  tnf - like that is a translation product of the human tnf gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an interleukin - 1 that is a translation product of the human il1b gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human il1rn gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an interleukin - 17 that is a translation product of the human il17a gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human il7 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human il13 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human il15 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human il2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human il4 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human il5 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human il6 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cxcl8 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human il9 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a class 2 cytokine ,  il - 10 type that is a translation product of the human il10 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein with core architecture consisting of a small cytokines  ( intecrine / chemokine )  ,  interleukin - 8 like  ( pfam:pf00048 )  domain .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd14 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a c / c - c motif small inducible chemokine that is a translation product of the ccl3 ,  ccl3l1 / ccl3l3 ,  or ccl4 gene .
a c / c - c motif small inducible chemokine that is a member of a subfamily that includes eotaxin .
a c / c - c motif small inducible chemokine that is a translation product of the human ccl5 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an eotaxin - like cytokine that is a translation product of the human ccl2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a c - c motif chemokine 3 / 4 that is a translation product of the human ccl3 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a c - c motif chemokine 3 / 4 that is a translation product of the human ccl4 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an eotaxin - like cytokine that is a translation product of the human ccl11 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human crp gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human csf2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human csf3 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human egf gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human mfge8 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the escherichia coli k - 12 aspc gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the escherichia coli k - 12 phoa gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human gpt or gpt2 genes ,  1:1 orthologs thereof ,  or a semi - ortholog thereof .
an acetylcholinesterase that is a translation product of the anopheles gambiae ace gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a voltage - gated sodium channel subunit alpha that is a translation product of the fruit fly para gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a sodium channel protein para sequence variant at position 1016 that has a gly residue at the position equivalent to val - 1016 of the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:q94615 - 1 .
a protein that is a translation product of the fruit fly rdl gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a sodium channel protein para sequence variant at position 1011 that has a met residue at the position equivalent to ile - 1011 of the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:q94615 - 1 .
a sodium channel protein para sequence variant at position 1011 that has a val residue at the position equivalent to ile - 1011 of the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:q94615 - 1 .
a sodium channel protein para sequence variant at position 989 that has a pro residue at the position equivalent to ser - 989 of the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:q94615 - 1 .
a sodium channel protein para sequence variant at position 1014 that has a ser residue at the position equivalent to leu - 1014 of the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:q94615 - 1 .
a sodium channel protein para sequence variant at position 1532 that has a thr residue at the position equivalent to ile - 1532 of the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:q94615 - 1 .
a sodium channel protein para sequence variant at position 1534 that has a cys residue at the position equivalent to phe - 1534 of the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:q94615 - 1 .
a sodium channel protein para sequence variant at position 1534 that has a leu residue at the position equivalent to phe - 1534 of the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:q94615 - 1 .
a sodium channel protein para sequence variant at position 1534 that has a ser residue at the position equivalent to phe - 1534 of the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:q94615 - 1 .
a sodium channel protein para sequence variant at position 1575 that has a tyr residue at the position equivalent to asn - 1575 of the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:q94615 - 1 .
a sodium channel protein para sequence variant at position 1763 that has a tyr residue at the position equivalent to asp - 1763 of the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:q94615 - 1 .
a sodium channel protein para sequence variant at position 1016 that has an ile residue at the position equivalent to val - 1016 of the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:q94615 - 1 .
an insect - type acetylcholinesterase sequence variant at position 119 that has a ser residue at the position equivalent to gly - 119 of the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:p04058 - 1 .
a gamma - aminobutyric acid receptor subunit beta sequence variant at position 296 that has a gly residue at the position equivalent to ala - 296 of the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:p25123 - 1 .
a gamma - aminobutyric acid receptor subunit beta sequence variant at position 296 that has a ser residue at the position equivalent to ala - 296 of the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:p25123 - 1 .
a glutathione s - transferase epsilon that is a translation product of the anopheles funestus gste2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a glutathione s - transferase epsilon 2 sequence variant at position 119 that has a phe residue at the position equivalent to leu - 119 of the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:v9qki4 - 1 .
a sodium channel protein para sequence variant at position 1014 that has a cys residue at the position equivalent to leu - 1014 of the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:q94615 - 1 .
a sodium channel protein para sequence variant at position 1014 that has a phe residue at the position equivalent to leu - 1014 of the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:q94615 - 1 .
a sequence_feature with an extent greater than zero .
a region of the chromosome between the centromere and the telomere .
sslp are a kind of sequence alteration where the number of repeated sequences in intergenic regions may differ .
a repeat_region containing repeat_units of 2 to 10 bp repeated in tandem .
a sequence of nucleotides that has been algorithmically derived from an alignment of two or more different sequences .
a region of sequence implicated in an experimental result .
a region  ( or regions )  that includes all of the sequence elements necessary to encode a functional transcript .
a large polynucleotide in bacteria and archaea ,  which functions as the small subunit of the ribosome .
a genome is the sum of genetic material within a cell or virion .
a genotype is a variant genome ,  complete or incomplete .
a region of the genome of known length that is composed by ordering and aligning two or more different regions .
a region which is the result of some arbitrary experimental procedure .
a collection of sequences  ( often chromosomes )  taken as the standard for a given organism and genome assembly .
a collection of one or more sequences of an individual .
a sequence variant where the structure of the gene is changed .
a physical quality which inheres to the variant by virtue of the number instances of the variant within a population .
a quality inhering in a variant by virtue of its phenotype .
a continuous nucleotide sequence is inverted in the same position .
a chromosomal inversion that does not include the centromere .
a count is a data item denoted by an integer and represented the number of instances or occurences of an entity
a subject pairing is a planned process which executes a pairing rule and results in the creation of sets of 2 subjects meeting the pairing criteria
threshold cycle  ( or ct or cq )  is a count which is defined as the fractional pcr cycle number at which the reporter fluorescence is greater than the threshold in the context of the rt - qpcr assay .
a general symptom that is characterized as an act ,  instance ,  or result of being bled or the process by which something is bled: as a the escape of blood from vessels .
wasting is a nutrition ,  metabolism ,  and development symptom characterized by the unintended loss of weight and lean body tissue characteristic of many diseases  ( as cancer ,  tuberculosis ,  and aids )  .
anorexia is a nutrition ,  metabolism ,  and development symptom characterized by a loss of appetite especially when prolonged .
dizziness is a neurological and physiological symptom characterized by a sensation of unsteadiness accompanied by a feeling of movement within the head .
cough is a respiratory system and chest symptom characterized by an explosive expulsion of air from the lungs acting as a protective mechanism to clear the air passages or as a symptom of pulmonary disturbance .
fatigue is a neurological and physiological symptom characterized by a weariness or exhaustion from labor ,  exertion ,  or stress .
any portion of the organ that covers that body and consists of a layer of epidermis and a layer of dermis .
an organ that is capable of transducing sensory stimulus to the nervous system .
any of the rounded masses of lymphoid tissue that are surrounded by a capsule of connective tissue ,  are distributed along the lymphatic vessels ,  and contain numerous lymphocytes which filter the flow of lymph .
the head is the anterior - most division of the body  [ go ]  .
material anatomical entity that is a single connected structure with inherent 3d shape generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical structure that performs a specific function or group of functions  [ wp ]  .
a multicellular structure that is a part of an organ .
a distinct juvenile stage many animals undergo before metamorphosis into adults .
a life cycle stage of holometabolous insects in which the organism is a pupa and starts with the larval - pupal apolysis and ends with pupal - adult apolysis .
end of the life of an organism .
an section of a respiratory tract .
an anatomical structure that develops from the endoderm and the mesoderm .
a spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of the life cycle of an organism .
a tube in the respiratory system .
segment of the alimentary canal extending from the stomach to the anus and ,  in humans and other mammals ,  consists of two segments ,  the small intestine and the large intestine .
anatomical cavity at the start of the digestive tract that that is enclosed by the mouth .
a portion of organism substance that is the product of an excretion process that will be eliminated from the body .
a fluid that is composed of blood plasma and erythrocytes .
a lining of mostly endodermal origin ,  covered in epithelium ,  which is involved in absorption and secretion .
a portion of organism substance that is produced by exocrine glands .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
anatomical structure which is a subdivision of a whole organism ,  consisting of components of multiple anatomical systems ,  largely surrounded by a contiguous region of integument .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
multicellular anatomical structure that consists of many cells of one or a few types ,  arranged in an extracellular matrix such that their long - range organisation is at least partly a repetition of their short - range organisation .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
unilaminar epithelium ,  which consists of a single layer of columnar cells .
compound organ that contains one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
an expanded region of the vertebrate alimentary tract that serves as a food storage compartment and digestive organ .
a myogenic muscular circulatory organ found in the vertebrate cardiovascular system composed of chambers of cardiac muscle .
the brain is the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate ,  and most invertebrate ,  animals .
the transparent anterior portion of the fibrous coat of the eye that serves as the chief refractory structure
an organ that detects light .
blood analogue used by all arthropods and most mollusks that have an open circulatory system .
saliva - secreting exocrine glands of the oral cavity [ go ] 
middle subdivision of a digestive tract [ cjm ]  .
the caudalmost subdivision of a digestive tract .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
transudate contained in the pleural cavity .
excretion that is the output of a kidney
a thin musculomebranous barrier that separates the abdominal and thoracic cavities .
muscle tissue that consists primarily of skeletal muscle fibers .
a major subdivision of an organism that is the entire part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
a pouch in the digestive tract that connects the ileum with the ascending colon of the large intestine .
anatomical cavity bounded by visceral and parietal peritoneum
mucosal layer that lines the intestine .
a clear ,  colorless ,  bodily fluid ,  that occupies the subarachnoid space and the ventricular system around and inside the brain and spinal cord .
the part of the forelimb extending from the shoulder to the autopod [ cjm ]  .
skeletal element that is composed of bone tissue .
the segment of the respiratory tract that starts proximally with the nose and ends distally with the cricoid cartilage ,  before continuing to the trachea .
the segment of the respiratory tract that starts proximally with the trachea and includes all distal structures including the lungs [ wp , modified ] 
organ consisting of a tissue made up of various elongated cells that are specialized to contract and thus to produce movement and mechanical work [ go ]  .
an anatomical cavity that is part of the olfactory apparatus .
a muscular organ in the floor of the mouth .
the section of the pharynx that lies above the soft palate
the part of the ear that projects from the head ,  connecting to the external acoustic meatus .
the small curved bones that extends horizontally along the lateral wall of the nasal passage
the smooth stratified squamous epithelium that covers the outer surface of the cornea
a skeletal muscle organ that is part of the trunk region .
a thick watery refractive medium that fills the space between the lens and the cornea [ wp ]  .
the mucous membrane that lines the nasal cavity [ mp ]  .
a fluid produced in the oral cavity by salivary glands ,  typically used in predigestion ,  but also in other functions .
organ component of neuraxis that has as its parts the medullary reticular formation ,  inferior olivary complex and cochlear nuclear complex ,  among other structures [ fma ]  .
an emulsion of fat globules within a fluid that is secreted by the mammary gland during lactation .
organism substance that is composed of sperm cells suspended in seminal fluid .
organ of metabolic interchange between fetus and mother ,  partly of embryonic origin and partly of maternal origin [ go ]  .
portion of semisolid bodily waste discharged through the anus [ mw , modified ] 
respiration organ that develops as an outpocketing of the esophagus .
an organ that is located within the body cavity  ( or in its extension ,  in the scrotum )  ;  it consists of organ parts that are embryologically derived from endoderm ,  splanchnic mesoderm or intermediate mesoderm ;  together with other organs ,  the viscus constitutes the respiratory ,  gastrointestinal ,  urinary ,  reproductive and immune systems ,  or is the central organ of the cardiovascular system .
the organ that functions to filter blood and to store red corpuscles and platelets
an exocrine gland which secretes bile and functions in metabolism of protein and carbohydrate and fat ,  synthesizes substances involved in the clotting of the blood ,  synthesizes vitamin a ,  detoxifies poisonous substances ,  stores glycogen ,  and breaks down worn - out erythrocytes [ go ]  .
an organ that aids digestion and stores bile produced by the liver [ wp ]  .
a paired organ of the urinary tract which has the production of urine as its primary function .
the middle layer of the heart ,  comprised mainly of striated cardiac muscle fibers
a gland that secretes products  ( excluding hormones and other chemical messengers )  into ducts  ( duct glands )  which lead directly into the external environment [ wp ]  .
endocrine glands are glands of the endocrine system that secrete their products directly into the circulatory system rather than through a duct .
anatomical structure of largely lymphoid tissue that functions in cell - mediated immunity by being the site where t cells develop .
the soft tissue that fills the cavities of bones
muscle tissue is a contractile tissue made up of actin and myosin fibers [ go ]  .
an external caudal extension of the body .
replacement bone that forms within cartilage .
an organ that functions as a secretory or excretory organ
anatomical surface structure found in many aquatic organisms .
a distinct juvenile form many animals undergo before metamorphosis into adults .
anatomical space which contains portions of one or more body substances and is bounded by the internal surface of one maximally connected anatomical structure .
anatomical structure that overlaps the outer epithelial layer and is adjacent to the space surrounding the organism .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
the trachea is the portion of the airway that attaches to the bronchi as it branches  [ go:dph ]  .
a gland that is part of a digestive tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a facial skeleton  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
one of the conchae of the ethmoid bone ,  which occupy the caudal part of the nasal fossae and form the lateral and superior portions of the turbinate bones in mammals [ mp ]  .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the endoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the ectoderm .
organ that is part of the hematopoietic system .
this begins with the newly hatched first - instar larva ,  through its maturation to the end of the last larval stage .
organ consisting of skeletal tissue .
the pseudostratified ciliated epithelium that lines much of the conducting portion of the airway ,  including part of the nasal cavity and larynx ,  the trachea ,  and bronchi
a proximal - distal subdivision of the digestive tract .
a part of a wall of an organ that forms a layer .
an organ that is part of a immune system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
muscle structures are contractile cells ,  tissues or organs that are found in multicellular organisms [ go ]  .
the avian beak is an external anatomical structure ,  in the head region ,  that is adapted for feeding self and young ,  catching prey ,  probing ,  etc .
an organ or element that is in the abdomen .
an organ or element that part of the trunk region .
an organ or element that is in the thoracic cavity .
an organ that part of the thoracic segment region .
an epithelium that lines the nasal cavity .
epithelium that derives from the endoderm .
the medial surface of the labyrinth of ethmoid consists of a thin lamella ,  which descends from the under surface of the cribriform plate ,  and ends below in a free ,  convoluted margin ,  the middle nasal concha .
the laminar structure of the heart
liquid components of living organisms .
a portion of organism substance that secreted_by a respiratory system .
any gland that is part of the digestive system .
matter ejected from the lungs ,  bronchi ,  and trachea ,  through the mouth .
a pouched enlargement of the gullet of many birds that serves as a receptacle for food and for its preliminary maceration .
simple columnar epithelium in which the luminal side of the cells bears cilia .
any bodily fluid that has passed through a membrane such as the capillary wall ,  as a result of unbalanced hydrostatic and osmotic forces
the external junctural region between the lower part of the abdomen and the thigh .
an organism containing a developing embryo ,  fetus ,  or unborn offspring within the body .
the axilla is the area directly under the joint where the forelimb connects to the shoulder .
branch or outpocketing of the digestive tract .
an anatomical structure that has more than one cell as a part .
gland of the epithelium lining the oral cavity .
an anatomical structure that develops from the neural crest .
an anatomical structure that has some part that develops from the neural crest .
a skeletal element that has the potential to participate in endochondral ossification ,  and may participate in intramembranous ossification .
epithelium composed of cells that develops from the ectoderm [ fma , modified ]  .
epithelium composed of a single layer of cells ,  appearing as layered because the column - shaped cells vary in height so the nuclei are at different levels .
a major subdivision of an organism that divides an organism along its main body axis  ( typically anterio - posterior axis )  .
any of the organs or elements that are part of the digestive system .
any structure that is placed on one side of the left - right axis of a bilaterian .
a epithelium that is part of a camera - type eye .
a viscus that is part of a abdomen .
a life cycle stage that starts at completion of development and growth of the sexually mature adult animal ,  and ends before senescence .
a membranous sac in animals that serves as the receptacle of a liquid or contains gas .
any region of epithelium that is part of a skin region .
paired ,  vertical ,  and relatively straight plates that form the anterior limit of the nasal capsule .
left part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
right part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
a unit which is a standard measure of the distance between two points .
a unit which is a standard measure of the amount of matter / energy of a physical object .
a unit which is a standard measure of the dimension in which events occur in sequence .
a unit which is a standard measure of the average kinetic energy of the particles in a sample of matter .
a unit which is a standard measure of the amount of a 2 - dimensional flat surface .
a unit which represents a standard measurement of how much of a given substance there is mixed with another substance .
a density unit which is a standard measure of the mass of a substance in a given volume .
a density unit which is a standard measure of the mass exerting an influence on a given area .
a unit which is a standard measure of the amount of space occupied by any substance ,  whether solid ,  liquid ,  or gas .
a dimensionless concentration notation which describes the amount of one substance in another .
a unit which is a standard measure of the influence exerted by some mass .
a unit which is a standard measure of physical quantity consisting of only a numerical number without any units .
a dimensionless ratio unit which denotes numbers as fractions of 100 .
a dimensionless unit which denotes a simple count of things .
a dimensionless unit which denotes an amount or magnitude of one quantity relative to another .
a dimensionless ratio unit which relates the part  ( the numerator )  to the whole  ( the denominator )  .
a concentration unit which denotes the average cell number in a given volume .
a concentration unit which is a standard measure of the amount of the action of a catalyst in a given volume .
a dimensionless concentration unit which denotes the given volume of the solute in the total volume of the resulting solution .
a concentration unit which is a standard measure of the amount of a toxic or pharmaceutical substance administered to a recipient subject ,  expressed in terms of the size of the subject .
a path that is located in gross anatomical part of an organism  ( e .g . ,  human )  and is used for administering a vaccine ,  a drug ,  fluid ,  poison ,  or other substance into the body .
an antibody function  ( or antigen binding function )  is an infection - fighting protein molecule in blood or secretory fluids that tags ,  neutralizes ,  and helps destroy pathogenic microorganisms such as bacteria ,  viruses and toxins .
a role played by a a biological sample in the context of an experiment where the intent is that biological or technical variation is measured .
the customary allowance of food and drink taken by a person or an animal from day to day ,  particularly one especially planned to meet specific requirements of the individual ,  including or excluding certain items of food ;  a prescribed course of eating and drinking in which the amount and kind of food ,  as well as the times at which it is to be taken ,  are regulated for therapeutic purposes or selected with reference to a particular state of health .
the number of platelets per unit volume in a sample of venous blood .
the number of times the heart ventricles contract per unit of time ,  usually per minute .
the volume of packed red blood cells in a blood specimen .
an fasting blood glucose measurement is a measurement of glucose in the blood of a patient at some defined time point after eating .
the point in time at which an individual was born .
the age at which death occurs .
quantification of the content of parasites in the blood ,  used as a measurement of parasite load in the organism and an indication of the degree of an active parasitic infection
a condition or physical state produced by the ingestion ,  injection ,  inhalation of or exposure to a deleterious agent .
a glycine derivative having methyl and amidino groups attached to the nitrogen .
a macrocyclic lactone with a ring of twelve or more members which exhibits antibiotic activity .
any organochlorine pesticide that has been used as an insecticide .
an atom of an element that exhibits typical metallic properties ,  being typically shiny ,  with high electrical and thermal conductivity .
an organonitrogen heterocyclic antibiotic whose structure contains a quinolone or quinolone - related skeleton .
any triazole antifungal agent that has been used for the treatment of fungal infections in humans or animals .
any antibiotic antifungal agent used to treat fungal infections in humans or animals .
the representation of a negative conclusion of a diagnostic process for the covid - 19 coronavirus disease .
an environmental material which is in a solid state .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of liquid material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of liquid or gaseous material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous medium bearing liquid ,  gaseous ,  and solid material in varying quantities .
land area measured in acres: a scalar measurement datum of land measured in acres that may be of a particular type such as land owned by a household .
a length measurement datum of the distance in kilometers to from a dwelling to the nearest health facility .
a scalar measurement datum about the level of hemoglobin in the blood with a value in units of g / dl .
a drug product that is the of combination artemether / lumefantrine  ( trade names coartem and riamet ,  falcynate - lf )  .
a material entity where a clinical visit took place .
an information content entity that specifies the relationship between a participant under investigation and the head of the participant's household
a planned process that an organism exposed to that are not one of the variables under study .
site where a human life process ended .
an information content entity that mentions drinking water piped into a dwelling
an information content entity that mentions drinking water obtained through a plumbing fixture located in the yard of a human dwelling
a count of the number of beds in the dwelling of a household that have a bed net hung over them
a count of the traps deployed in a study design execution .
a kingdom of eukaryotic ,  heterotrophic organisms that live as saprobes or parasites ,  including mushrooms ,  yeasts ,  smuts ,  molds ,  etc .
a maintenance service in which a service provider actively manages or maintains data or a database for the service consumer .
the representation of a positive conclusion of a diagnostic process for the covid - 19 coronavirus disease .
