a process is an entity that exists in time by occurring or happening ,  has temporal parts and always involves and depends on some entity during the time it occurs .
a disposition is an entity that causes a specific process or transformation in an entity in which it inheres ,  under specific circumstances and in conjunction with the laws of nature .
a quality is an entity that describes some aspect which is intrinsic to that particular object and is dependent on or more material entities in which it inheres in or is borne by .
an experimental factor which is a property or characteristic of some other entity .
a role is an entity which is borne in a material entity in some kinds of natural ,  social or institutional contexts ,  but which is not essential to the fundamental definition of that material entity  ( i .e .
a site is an entity which consists of a characteristic spatial shape in relation to some arrangement of other material entities .
a function is an entity which is an essentially end - directed activity of a material entity in virtue of that entity being a specific kind of entity in the kind or kinds of contexts that it is made for .
a material entity is an entity that exists in full during the length of time of its existence ,  persists through this time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
 established from a human primary embryonal kidney transformed by adenovirus type 5 .
 human lung carcinoma established from an explanted lung tumor which was removed from a 58 - year - old caucasian man in 1972 ;  cells were described to induce tumors in athymic mice and to synthesize lecithin .
the cell - free portion of the blood from which the fibrinogen has been separated in the process of clotting .
the collection of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid  ( bal )  from the lungs
malignant tumour cell of lymphoblasts derived from b - lymphocytes .
cells taken from a living organism and grown under controlled conditions  ( in culture )  .
particles floating in  ( not necessarily on )  a liquid medium ,  or the mix of particles and liquid itself .
 endothelial cell of or involving the cerebrum and the blood vessels supplying it .
cell lines derived from myoblast cells
a specialized fungal hypha that produces conidia .
 a crypt is a deep pit that protrudes down into the connective tissue surrounding the small intestine .
 the infectious form of chlamydiaceae .
 cell line of a malignant neoplasm of the bone - forming tissues .
 cancer cell of the blood - forming tissues in which large numbers of immature ,  abnormal red blood cells are found in the blood and bone marrow .
 the epidermal layer directed away or outwards from the axis .
 a food - absorbing outgrowth of a plant organ  ( as a hypha or stem )  .
cancer cell of the major organ of respiration the lung .
 human chronic myeloid leukemia in blast crisis established from the pleural effusion of a 53 - year - old woman with chronic myeloid leukemia  ( cml )  in blast crisis in 1970 ;  cells can be used as highly sensitive targets in in - vitro natural killer assays ;  cells produce hemoglobin ;  cells carry the philadelphia chromosome with a b3 - a2 fusion gene .
 a cell line of leukemia characterized by proliferation of myeloid tissue  ( as of the bone marrow and spleen )  and an abnormal increase in the number of granulocytes ,  myelocytes ,  and myeloblasts in the circulating blood .
 mouse ,  balb / c ,  blood ,  not defined tumor cell line .
a delicate ,  cylindrical sheath of chitin continuously secreted from the posterior edge of the foregut of insects and millipedes that ingest solid food ,  which surrounds the food as it passes through the midgut .
 mouse ,  balb / cxnzb f1 ,  lymphoblastic lymphoma cell line .
 a malignant tumour cell of glandular origin in the prostate .
 rat ,  nervous system ,  immature ,  schwann cell derived cell line .
the thin layer of bone making up the bony processes of the maxilla and mandible ,  and surrounding and containing the teeth ;  it is pierced by many small openings through which blood vessels ,  lymphatics ,  and nerve fibers pass .
1: the vegetative part of a fungus ,  consisting of a mass of branching ,  threadlike hyphae .n2: a similar mass of fibers formed by certain bacteria .
mouse pro b cell line .
the ventricles are the two lower chambers of the heart .
the lower right chamber of the heart that receives deoxygenated blood from the right atrium and pumps it under low pressure into the lungs via the pulmonary artery .
 subset of helper - inducer t - lymphocytes which synthesize and secrete interleukin - 2 ,  gamma - interferon ,  and interleukin - 12 .
 subset of helper - inducer t - lymphocytes which synthesize and secrete the interleukins il - 4 ,  il - 5 ,  il - 6 ,  and il - 10 .
 coelomic fluid probably aids in oxygen transport and may contain some cells with hemoglobin .
a cell culture at the plateau of the growth curve after log growth in a culture ,  during which cell number remains constant .
the characteristic periods in the growth of a bacterial culture ,  as indicated by the shape of a graph of viable cell number versus time .
a cell culture at the steepest slope of the growth curve of a culture -  -  at the phase of vigorous growth during which cell number doubles every 20 - 30 minutes .
human ,  blood ,  leukemia ,  t cell line ,  clone e6 .1 .
"human mammary epithelial cells  ( hmepc )  are derived from normal adult mammary glands ."
"the 184a1n4 and 184b5 cell lines are nontumorigenic cell lines derived from primary cultures of hmecs that were immortalized with benzo ( a ) pyrene ."
"the 184a1n4 and 184b5 cell lines are nontumorigenic cell lines derived from primary cultures of hmecs that were immortalized with benzo ( a ) pyrene ."
the clear fluid above a sediment or precipitate of a cell culture .
mouse macrophage cell line .
"rat brain - derived type - 2 astrocyte cell line ."
a rare type of hepatocellular carcinoma arising from the cholangioles ,  composed of tumor cells resembling the epithelial cells of the cholangioles arranged in cords consisting of two layers of cells surrounding a minute lumen .
infiltrating ductal carcinoma is one of several recognized specific patterns of cancer of the breast .
distinct from adult leaves ,  being characterized by particular anatomical traits namely ,  wax and trichome distribution ,  presence or absence of epidermal cell types ,  cell wall shape and biochemistry .
 a cardiac muscle cell line from the at - 1 mouse atrial cardiomyocyte tumor lineage ;  established from an adult female jackson laboratory - inbred c57bly6j mouse .
the hla - a , b negative mutant cell line c1r is widely used as a transfection recipient in functional studies of class i mhc genes .
human normal colon fibroblast cell line established from a black 2 .5 - months - old human female .
"a differentiating cell line ,  established from the mouse myoblastic cell line c2c12 ."
"a non - differentiating cell line ,  established from the mouse myoblastic cell line c2c12 ."
the bony socket of the eye .
mouse embryonic stem cell line .
 established melanoma cell line from the skin cancer unit at the german cancer research center ,  heidelberg .
this gene is involved in cell adhesion ,  differentiation ,  division and stress response .
"a synthetic fluoroquinolone with broad - spectrum antibacterial activity against most gram - negative and gram - positive bacteria .
a sphingomyelin d18:1 in which the fatty acyl group contains 16 carbons and is fully saturated .
a sphingomyelin d18:1 in which the fatty acyl group contains 16 carbons and 1 double bond
a sphingomyelin d18:1 in which the fatty acyl group contains 24 carbons and 1 double bond .
a  ( 2r )  - 2 - hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxylic acid group of  ( r )  - 3 - phenyllactic acid .
a quinazoline compound having a  ( 3 - ethynylphenyl ) amino group at the 4 - position and two 2 - methoxyethoxy groups at the 6 -  and 7 - positions .
a hydroxybutyric acid having a single hydroxyl group located at position 2 ;  urinary secretion of 2 - hydroxybutyric acid is increased with alcohol ingestion or vigorous physical exercise and is associated with lactic acidosis and ketoacidosis in humans and diabetes in animals .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion resulting from the removal of a proton from both of the carboxylic acid groups of 2 - hydroxyglutaric acid .
a fatty amide derived from oleic acid .
a 2 - oxo monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of 3 - methyl - 2 - oxobutanoic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of n - carbamoyl - beta - alanine arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of 4 - acetamidobutanoic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a radiolabelled urea molecule used to diagnose stomach ulcers caused by heliobacter pylori .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of guanidinoacetic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a cholesterol ester in which the acyl group contains 18 carbons and 2 double bonds .
a cholesterol ester in which the acyl group contains 18 carbons and 3 double bonds .
a cholesterol ester in which the acyl group contains 20 carbons and 4 double bonds .
a cholesterol ester in which the acyl group contains 20 carbons and 5 double bonds .
a n - acylglycinate that is the conjugate base of glycoursodeoxycholic acid .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 56 carbons and 2 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 58 carbons and 11 double bonds .
a dicarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of 2 - isopropylmalic acid .
a dicarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of 3 - hydroxysebacic acid .
a dicarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of ethylmalonic acid .
an organic anion obtained by deprotonation of 1 , 3 , 7 - trimethyluric acid .
a pyridinemonocarboxylate obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any pyridoxic acid .
a dicarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of maleic acid .
a dicarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of 3 - methylsuccinic acid .
a 3 - hydroxy fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of 3 - hydroxyoctanoic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a dicarboxylic anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of 3 - methylglutaconic acid .
a 2 - hydroxy fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of 2 - hydroxyoctanoic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of m - hydroxyhippuric acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of p - hydroxyhippuric acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a dicarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of undecanedioic acid .
an organic anion obtained by removal of at least one proton from 1 - methyluric acid .
an organic anion obtained by removal of at least one proton from 1 , 3 - dimethyluric acid .
an organic anion obtained by removal of at least one proton from 1 , 7 - dimethyluric acid .
an organic anion obtained by removal of at least one proton from 3 , 7 - dimethyluric acid .
a hydroxy fatty acid anion which is obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of 2 - hydroxyhexanoic acid .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any erythronic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 60 carbons and 12 double bonds .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - tafenoquine .
a tetrachlorobiphenyl that has formula c12h6cl4 .
the determination of the amount of complement c4 present in a sample .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of 2 - aminooctanoic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a sphingomyelin in which the total number of carbons in the sphingoid base and fatty acyl groups is 14 with 0 double bonds .
a sphingomyelin in which the total number of carbons in the sphingoid base and fatty acyl groups is 16 with 1 double bond .
a sphingomyelin in which the total number of carbons in the sphingoid base and fatty acyl groups is 18 with 0 double bonds .
a sphingomyelin in which the total number of carbons in the sphingoid base and fatty acyl groups is 18 with 1 double bond .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 58 carbons and 12 double bonds .
a selenium oxoanion that has formula o4se .
a 2 , 3 , 4 - trihydroxybutanoate that is the conjugate base of threonic acid .
a purine nucleobase found in humans and other organisms .
a propanone that has formula c3h6o .
a choline that is the parent compound of the cholines class ,  consisting of ethanolamine having three methyl substituents attached to the amino function .
a 2 - oxo monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of pyruvic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a simple carboxylic acid containing two carbons ;  the active ingredient in vinegar .
this gene plays a regulatory role in the complement pathway ,  which is comprised of a complex proteolytic cascade .
an inorganic hydroxy compound that has formula h2o .
an elemental molecule that has formula o2 .
the simplest  ( and the only achiral )  proteinogenic amino acid ,  with a hydrogen atom as its side chain .
expressed in keratinocytes by human fabp5 gene  ( fabp family )  ,  highly conserved 135 - aa 15 - kda cytoplasmic fatty acid binding protein 5 binds long - chain fatty acids with high specificity ,  and other hydrophobic ligands .
an optically active form of malate having  ( r )  - configuration .
an optically active form of malate having  ( s )  - configuration .
a c4 - dicarboxylate resulting from deprotonation of both carboxy groups of malic acid .
a tricarboxylic acid trianion that is the conjugate base of 2 - methylcitric acid .
a n - alkylglycine that is the n - methyl derivative of glycine .
an imidazolidine - 2 , 4 - dione that is 5 - aminohydantoin in which a carbamoyl group is attached to the exocyclic nitrogen .
a tertiary amine oxide resulting from the oxidation of the amino group of trimethylamine .
an organic heterooctacyclic compound that has formula c28h26n4o3 .
a straight - chain ,  sixteen - carbon ,  saturated long - chain fatty acid .
an  aminobenzoic acid that is benzoic acid substituted at c - 2 by an amine group and at c - 3 by a hydroxy group .
a deoxyglucose that has formula c6h12o5 .
a phenol that has formula c6h6o .
any 3 - hydroxy steroid whose skeleton is closely related to cholestan - 3 - ol  ( additional carbon atoms may be present in the side chain )  .
an amino sulfonic acid that is the 2 - amino derivative of ethanesulfonic acid .
a pyrimidine obtained by formal addition of hydrogen across the 5 , 6 - position of uracil .
homeobox protein hox - c6  ( 235 aa ,  ~27 kda )  is encoded by the human hoxc6 gene .
a pentitol  ( five - carbon sugar alcohol )  having meso - configuration ,  being derived from ribose by reduction of the carbonyl group .
an oxoproline having the oxo group placed at the 5 - position .
a methyladenosine carrying a methyl substituent at position 1 .
a purine ribonucleoside 5' - monophosphate having adenine as the nucleobase .
the principal sterol of all higher animals ,  distributed in body tissues ,  especially the brain and spinal cord ,  and in animal fats and oils .
the simplest member of the class of benzoates that is the conjugate base of benzoic acid ,  comprising a benzoic acid core with a proton missing to give a charge of  - 1 .
a sulfur oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of both oh groups of sulfuric acid .
an octadec - 9 - enoic acid in which the double bond at c - 9 has z  ( cis )  stereochemistry .
a carbonyl group with two c - bound amine groups .
an ethanol that has formula c2h6o .
an inorganic peroxide that has formula h2o2 .
a pentahydroxyflavone that has formula c15h10o7 .
an androgen that has formula c19h30o2 .
the organosulfinic acid arising from oxidation of the sulfhydryl group of l - cysteine .
this gene plays a regulatory role in the complement pathway ,  which is comprised of a complex proteolytic cascade .
a steroidal bile acid derived from cholesterol .
an aconitate ( 3 -  )  that has formula c6h3o6 .
a sphing - 4 - enine in which the double bond is trans .
natural compounds consisting of a trisaccharide repeating unit  ( two heptose units and octulosonic acid )  with oligosaccharide side chains and 3 - hydroxytetradecanoic acid units  ( they are a major constituent of the cell walls of gram - negative bacteria )  .
a histidine derivative that is l - histidine having an acetyl substituent on the alpha - nitrogen .
an alpha - amino acid that has formula c3h7no2 .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of pantothenic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a zeatin that has formula c10h13n5o .
the r - enantiomer of serine .
a carbon oxide that has formula co2 .
a l - methionine derivative in which one of the hydrogens attached to the nitrogen is replaced by a formyl group .
a 2 - aminooctadecane - 1 , 3 - diol having  ( 2s , 3r )  - configuration .
encoded by human cyp8b1 gene  ( cytochrome p450 family )  ,  501 - aa 58 - kda cytochrome p450 8b1 is a liver endoplasmic reticulum membrane p450 heme - thiolate monooxygenase involved in bile acid synthesis that catalyzes conversion of 7 alpha - hydroxy - 4 - cholesten - 3 - one into 7 - alpha , 12 - alpha - dihydroxy - 4 - cholesten - 3 - one .
a chloroethene that has formula c2hcl3 .
a triamine that is the 1 , 5 , 10 - triaza derivative of decane .
a methoxybenzoate that is the conjugate base of vanillic acid .
an aminosulfinic acid comprising ethylamine having the sulfo group at the 2 - position .
a pyridinedicarboxylic acid that is pyridine substituted by carboxy groups at positions 2 and 3 .
an organic sulfide that is the s - adenosyl derivative of l - homocysteine .
the n - acetyl derivative of beta - alanine .
an ecdysteroid that has formula c27h44o6 .
a ribonucleoside composed of a molecule of uracil attached to a ribofuranose moiety via a beta - n ( 1 )  - glycosidic bond .
the parent compound of the 6 - aminopurines ,  composed of a purine having an amino group at c - 6 .
the sixth of the seven cervical vertebrae .
the e  ( trans )  stereoisomer of cinnamaldehyde ,  the parent of the class of cinnamaldehydes .
the n - acetyl derivative of d - tryptophan .
the sixth of the seven cervical vertebrae .
human c5 wild - type allele is located within 9q33 - q34 and is approximately 98 kb in length .
a 2 - oxo monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of 2 - oxobutanoic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a pyridinium ion comprising nicotinamide having a methyl group at the 1 - position .
an oxo dicarboxylate obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of 2 - oxoglutaric acid .
a dicarboxylic acid that is glutaric acid in which one of the two hydrogens at position 3 is substituted by a hydroxy group ,  while the other is substituted by a methyl group .
the simplest aldehyde .
gsh glutathione is a tripeptide .
a gamma - amino acid that is butanoic acid with the amino substituent located at c - 4 .
a member of the class of phosphocholines that is the choline ester of sn - glycero - 3 - phosphate .
a sphingoid 1 - phosphate that is the monophosphorylated derivative of sphinganine .
the d - enantiomer of mannitol .
a glycine derivative that has formula c4h9n3o2 .
a tricarboxylic acid trianion ,  obtained by deprotonation of the three carboxy groups of citric acid .
a doubly - charged n - acyl - l - alpha - amino acid anion resulting from deprotonation of both carboxy groups of n - acetyl - l - aspartic acid .
a naturally - occurring beta - amino acid comprising propionic acid with the amino group in the 3 - position .
a c21 - steroid that is pregn - 4 - ene substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 17 and 21 and oxo group at positions 3 ,  11 and 20 .
the sixth of the seven cervical vertebrae .
high molecular weight ,  linear polymers ,  composed of nucleotides containing deoxyribose and linked by phosphodiester bonds ;  dna contain the genetic information of organisms .
cholesterol esterified at the 3 - hydroxy group .
a steroid hormone that has formula c21h30o2 .
an aminoglycan that has formula  ( c8h13no5 ) n .
a linear tetrapyrrole produced in the reticuloendothelial system by the first step of heme degradation ,  catalysed by heme oxygenase .
quantification of 3 - phosphoglyceric acid levels in a sample .
a 2 - hydroxydicarboxylic acid that is glutaric acid in which one hydrogen alpha -  to a carboxylic acid group is substituted by a hydroxy group .
the meso - diastereomer of butane - 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 - tetrol .
the 3alpha - stereoisomer of 3 - hydroxy - 5beta - pregnan - 20 - one .
a short - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of hexanoic acid  ( also known as caproic acid )  .
an amino - acid betaine that is butanoate substituted with a hydroxy group at position c - 3 and a trimethylammonium group at c - 4 .
a pentitol  ( five - carbon sugar alcohol )  having meso - configuration ,  being derived from xylose by reduction of the carbonyl group .
a pyridinecarboxamide that is pyridine in which the hydrogen at position 3 is replaced by a carboxamide group .
this gene plays a regulatory role in the complement pathway ,  which is comprised of a complex proteolytic cascade .
a purine ribonucleoside 5' - monophosphate having hypoxanthine as the nucleobase .
a monoterpene that has formula c10h16 .
an aldohexose used as a source of energy and metabolic intermediate .
a carbon oxide that has formula co .
a 17alpha - hydroxy steroid that is the 17alpha - hydroxy derivative of progesterone .
an inositol having myo -  configuration .
a 2 - hydroxy carboxylate that is the conjugate base of 3 -  ( indol - 3 - yl ) lactic acid .
a phosphoamino acid consisting of creatine having a phospho group attached at the primary nitrogen of the guanidino group .
a morphinane alkaloid that has formula c17h19no3 .
a glycosylglucose consisting of two d - glucopyranose units connected by an alpha -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - linkage .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion that results from the removal of a proton from both of the carboxylic acid groups of 3 - hydroxy - 3 - methylglutaric acid .
unlike testosterone ,  which is a flat molecule ,  its 8 - isomer has a folded conformation .
an octadecadienoic acid in which the two double bonds are at positions 9 and 12 and have z  ( cis )  stereochemistry .
"an ortho - fused polycyclic arene that consists of 9h - fluorene bearing an acetamido substituent at position 2 ."
the simplest member of the quinoline class of compounds ,  comprising a benzene ring ortho fused to c - 2 and c - 3 of a pyridine ring .
a purine nucleobase that consists of purine bearing an oxo substituent at position 6 .
a sulfur - containing amino acid obtained by the oxidation of two cysteine molecules which are then linked via a disulfide bond .
a 1 - pyrroline - 5 - carboxylate resulting from the removal of the proton from the carboxy group of  ( s )  - 1 - pyrroline - 5 - carboxylic acid .
a n ( 5 )  - alkylglutamine where the alkyl group is ethyl .
a l - lysine derivative that is l - lysine having a carbamoyl group at the n ( 6 )  - position .
a monocarboxylic acid that is phenylacetic acid in which the hydrogen at position 3 on the benzene ring is replaced by a hydroxy group .
a 3' , 5' - cyclic purine nucleotide that has formula c10h12n5o6p .
a methyl - l - alanine in which one of the the amino hydrogen of l - alanine is replaced by a methyl group .
a common and naturally occurring pyrimidine nucleobase in which the pyrimidine ring is substituted with two oxo groups at positions 2 and 4 .
a purine nucleoside in which hypoxanthine is attached to ribofuranose via a beta - n ( 9 )  - glycosidic bond .
a nitrogen oxoanion that has formula no3 .
cortisol is a corticosteroid hormone or glucocorticoid produced by zona fasciculata of the adrenal cortex ,  which is a part of the adrenal gland .
a dichloro - substituted acetamide containing a nitrobenzene ring ,  an amide bond and two alcohol functions .
an n - methylglycine that is glycine carrying two n - methyl substituents .
the bis ( 2 - ethylhexyl )  ester of benzene - 1 , 2 - dicarboxylic acid .
the amino acid betaine derived from glycine .
an n ( 6 )  - acyl - l - lysine where the n ( 6 )  - acyl group is specified as acetyl .
a triol with a structure of propane substituted at positions 1 ,  2 and 3 by hydroxy groups .
a modified amino acid generated by enzymic means from homocysteine and serine .
an n - monoacetylalkane - alpha , omega - diamine that is the n - monoacetyl derivative of putrescine .
a urocanate obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of trans - urocanic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a dicarboxylic acid monoanion that is the conjugate base of pimelic acid .
the n - acetyl derivative of l - leucine .
the simplest aliphatic alcohol ,  comprising a methyl and an alcohol group .
a c - glycosyl pyrimidine that consists of uracil having a beta - d - ribofuranosyl residue attached at position 5 .
an alpha - amino acid that is alanine substituted at position 3 by a hydroxy group .
encoded by human cyp8b1 gene  ( cytochrome p450 family )  ,  501 - aa 58 - kda cytochrome p450 8b1 is a liver endoplasmic reticulum membrane p450 heme - thiolate monooxygenase involved in bile acid synthesis that catalyzes conversion of 7 alpha - hydroxy - 4 - cholesten - 3 - one into 7 - alpha , 12 - alpha - dihydroxy - 4 - cholesten - 3 - one .
human tbl1xr1 wild - type allele is located in the vicinity of 3q26 .32 and is approximately 186 kb in length .
an alpha , omega - dicarboxylic acid that is a linear five - carbon dicarboxylic acid .
the steroid sulfate of taurolithocholic acid .
a 2 - oxo monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of 4 - methyl - 2 - oxopentanoic acid .
the conjugate base of 4 - hydroxybenzoic acid ,  comprising a 4 - hydroxybenzoic acid core with a proton missing to give a charge of  - 1 .
a diatomic molecule containing covalently bonded hydrogen and chlorine atoms .
a d - glucopyranose that has formula c6h12o6 .
homeobox protein hox - c6  ( 235 aa ,  ~27 kda )  is encoded by the human hoxc6 gene .
an aminonucleoside antibiotic ,  derived from the streptomyces alboniger bacterium ,  that causes premature chain termination during translation taking place in the ribosome .
a glycosyl glycoside that has formula c12h22o11 .
a halide anion formed when chlorine picks up an electron to form an an anion .
a 2 - oxo monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from deprotonation of the carboxy group of keto - phenylpyruvic acid .
a glyceride that is glycerol in which any two of the hydroxy groups have been acylated .
the determination of the amount of complement c4 present in a sample .
a generic term for fats and lipoids ,  the alcohol - ether - soluble constituents of protoplasm ,  which are insoluble in water .
an optically active form of 4 - hydroxyproline having l - trans - configuration .
the l - enantiomer of an o - octanoylcarnitine .
an iminium betaine that is the conjugate base of n - methylnicotinic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - tocopherol that has formula c29h50o2 .
an alkene that has formula c2h4 .
a tocopherol that has formula c28h48o2 .
the parent compound of the citrulline class consisting of ornithine having a carbamoyl group at the n ( 5 )  - position .
a selenium oxoanion that has formula o3se .
an isoflavone that has formula c15h10o2 .
an aldopentose ,  found in the embryos of most edible plants and used in medicine to test for malabsorption by administration in water to the patient .
an iron group element that has formula fe .
an alpha - amino acid that is pentanoic acid bearing two amino substituents at positions 2 and 5 .
a beta - alanine derivative that is propionic acid bearing a ureido group at position 3 .
a medium - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of dodecanoic acid  ( lauric acid )  ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an oxo monocarboxylic acid that has formula c12h18o3 .
the threo - diastereomer of 1 , 4 - dimercaptobutane - 2 , 3 - diol .
a quinolinemonocarboxylic acid that is quinoline - 2 - carboxylic acid substituted by a hydroxy group at c - 4 .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of phenylacetic acid .
a sulfur oxide that has formula o2s .
the 5 - fluoro derivative of uridine .
a pyrrolidine alkaloid that has formula c10h14n2 .
inosine carrying a methyl substituent at position 1 on the hypoxanthine ring .
a guanosine where the hydrogens of the amine group at c - 2 are substituted by methyl groups .
a quaternary ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of 4 -  ( trimethylammonio ) butanoate .
a hydroxy fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of 2 - hydroxyisobutyric acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a straight - chain 3 - hydroxy monocarboxylic acid comprising a butyric acid core with a single hydroxy substituent in the 3 -  position ;  a ketone body whose levels are raised during ketosis ,  used as an energy source by the brain during fasting in humans .
a n - glycosyl - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine that has formula c8h12n4o5 .
an organic disulfide that is the l - cysteinyl derivative of glutathione .
an l - methionine derivative in which the sulfur has been oxidised to the corresponding sulfone .
an n - acyl - l - alpha - amino acid anion resulting from deprotonation of both carboxy groups and protonation of the amide nitrogen of n - acetyl - l - glutamic acid .
an l - methionine derivative that is l - methionine in which one of the amine hydrogens is substituted by an acetyl group .
an l - valine derivative in which one of the amino hydrogens of l - valine has been replaced by an acetyl group .
the n - acetyl derivative of phenylalanine .
an apo carotenoid sesquiterpenoid that has formula c15h20o4 .
a tricarboxylic acid trianion that is the conjugate base of aconitic acid .
highly reactive chemical that introduces alkyl radicals into biologically active molecules and thereby prevents their proper functioning .
a nine - membered bis - lactone having methyl substituents at the 2 -  and 6 - positions ,  an n - hexyl substituent at the 8 - position ,  an acyloxy substituent at the 7 - position and an aroylamido substituent at the 3 - position .
a substance that opposes oxidation or inhibits reactions brought about by dioxygen or peroxides .
a pentitol that is the sugar alcohol produced by the reduction of arabinose or lyxose .
an alpha - amino acid in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon of glycine is substituted by a 2 - amino - 2 - oxoethyl group .
an alpha - amino acid that consists of succinic acid bearing a single alpha - amino substituent
any of a group of compounds ,  both naturally occurring and synthetic ,  that regulate aspects of plant growth  ( from greek alphaupsilonxialphanuomega ,  "to grow" )  .
a methylguanine that is guanine substituted by a methyl group at position 7 .
an insecticide compound naturally occurring in plants .
a zinc group element atom that has formula cd .
a carbotricyclic compound that has formula c22h25no6 .
the naturally occurring  ( 1's )  -  (  +  )  enantiomer of abscisic acid .
any substance which when absorbed into a living organism may modify one or more of its functions .
a compound or agent that combines with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate - enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction .
a steroid hormone that has formula c18h24o2 .
a urea compound having ethyl and nitroso substituents in the 1 - position .
a substance used to destroy fungal pests .
a molecular entity consisting of two or more chemical elements .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biological context .
a hexonic acid formed by oxidising the aldehyde group of gulose to a carboxylic acid group .
a substance used to destroy plant pests .
a 2 - aminopurine that has formula c8h11n5o3 .
an endogenous compound that is formed in specialized organ or group of cells and carried to another organ or group of cells ,  in the same organism ,  upon which it has a specific regulatory function .
a weak ,  unstable acid with formula hocl ,  which is the active form of chlorine in water .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion resulting from the removal of a proton from both of the carboxy groups of iminodiacetic acid .
an indole - 3 - carboxylic acid carrying a carboxy group at position 3 .
a substance used to destroy pests of the class insecta .
a 2 - amino - 3 - methylpentanoic acid having either  ( 2r , 3r )  -  or  ( 2s , 3s )  - configuration .
any lipid formally derived from isoprene  ( 2 - methylbuta - 1 , 3 - diene )  ,  the skeleton of which can generally be discerned in repeated occurrence in the molecule .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of lactic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a carbon group element that has formula pb .
a branched - chain amino acid that consists of glycine in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon is substituted by an isobutyl group .
this gene is involved in cell adhesion ,  differentiation ,  division and stress response .
any of two trienoic essential fatty acids ;  a nutrient essential to the formation of prostaglandins .
a polysaccharide that has formula  ( c12h18o9 ) n .
any intermediate or product resulting from metabolism .
a methanesulfonate ester that has formula c2h6o3s .
an ethyl sulfide that has formula c4h8cl2s .
an agent that increases the frequency of spontanenous mutation ,  usually by interacting directly with dna and causing it damage ,  including base substitution .
a tetraphene having methyl substituents at the 7 -  and 12 - positions .
a 2 , 4' - bi - 1 , 3 - thiazole substituted at the 4 - position with a  ( 1e , 3s , 4r , 5e )  - 7 - amino - 3 , 5 - dimethoxy - 4 - methyl - 7 - oxohepta - 1 , 5 - dien - 1 - yl ]  group and at the 2' - position with a  ( 2s , 3e , 5e )  - 7 - methylocta - 3 , 5 - dien - 2 - yl group .
the oxime carbamate resulting from the addition of 2 - methyl - 2 -  ( methylsulfanyl ) propanaldoxime to methyl isocyanate .
a fatty acid anion 18:0 that is the conjugate base of octadecanoic acid  ( stearic acid )  .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of octanoic acid  ( caprylic acid )  ;  believed to block adipogenesis .
a  l - arginine derivative having two methyl groups at the n ( omega )  -  and n' ( omega )  - positions
a nucleoside formed by attaching orotic acid to a ribose ring via a beta - n ( 1 )  - glycosidic bond .
a triatomic oxygen that has formula o3 .
a dimethylxanthine having the two methyl groups located at positions 1 and 7 .
an l - alanine derivative in which one of the methyl hydrogens of l - alanine has been replaced by an  ( s )  - allylsulfinyl group .
salts and esters of phosphoric and oligophosphoric acids and their chalcogen analogues .
an endogenous molecular entity that results in a colour of an organism as the consequence of the selective absorption of light .
a chemical ,  natural or artificial ,  that can affect the rate of growth of a plant .
an alpha - d - glucoside that has formula c22h43n5o13 .
a cyclitol carboxylic acid anion that is conjugate base of quinic acid .
a retinoid that has formula c20h28o2 .
a tricyclic antidepressant that has formula c20h23n .
"a cholate salt that has formula c24h39nao5 ."
a penicillin that has formula c16h19n3o5s .
steroid hormones produced by the gonads .
a macrolide antibiotic used to treat potentially life - threatening fungal infections .
an alpha - amino acid in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon of glycine is substituted by a 1 - hydroxyethyl group .
poisonous substance produced by a biological organism such as a microbe ,  animal or plant .
a 1 , 2 , 4 - triazole compound having a 3 , 5 - bis ( 2 - cyano - 2 - propyl ) benzyl group at the 1 - position .
an oxopurine that is the final oxidation product of purine metabolism .
a branched - chain amino acid that consists of glycine in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon is substituted by an isopropyl group .
vitamin d is a group of fat - soluble prohormones ,  which can be obtained from sun exposure ,  food and supplements .
a zinc group element that has formula zn .
a beta - amino - acid that is isobutyric acid in which one of the methyl hydrogens is substituted by an amino group .
a pyridone that is 2 - pyridone substituted with a carboxamide group at c - 5 and a methyl group at n - 1 .
a linolenic acid with cis - double bonds at positions 9 ,  12 and 15 .
a pyrimidone obtained by formal addition of hydrogen across the 5 , 6 - position of thymine .
a 2 - hydroxy monocarboxylic acid that is lactic acid in which one of the methyl hydrogens has been replaced by an imidazol - 5 - yl group .
human plac8 wild - type allele is located in the vicinity of 4q21 .22 and is approximately 24 kb in length .
a pnictogen that has formula as .
a chalcogen that has formula se .
an alpha - amino acid that is propanoic acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 and a 1h - imidazol - 4 - yl group at position 3 .
a carbon group element that has formula si .
a pregnane - based steroidal hormone produced by the outer - section  ( zona glomerulosa )  of the adrenal cortex in the adrenal gland ,  and acts on the distal tubules and collecting ducts of the kidney to cause the conservation of sodium ,  secretion of potassium ,  increased water retention ,  and increased blood pressure .
a carbon group element atom that has formula c .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of vanillylmandelic acid .
human plac8 wild - type allele is located in the vicinity of 4q21 .22 and is approximately 24 kb in length .
a pyranoindolizinoquinoline that has formula c20h16n2o4 .
an actinomycin that has formula c62h86n12o16 .
a fatty acid anion 10:0 that is the conjugate base of decanoic acid .
a vanadium group element that has formula v .
a trimethylxanthine that has formula c8h10n4o2 .
this gene plays a regulatory role in the complement pathway ,  which is comprised of a complex proteolytic cascade .
a surfactant  ( or a mixture containing one or more surfactants )  having cleaning properties in dilute solutions .
a member of the class of indole - 3 - acetic acids that is indole - 3 - acetic acid substituted by a hydroxy group at c - 5 and a serotonin metabolite .
a stilbenol that has formula c14h12o3 .
an s - substituted l - cysteine where the s - substituent is specified as a sulfo group .
an alpha - amino acid that is alanine bearing an indol - 3 - yl substituent at position 3 .
a monounsaturated very long - chain fatty acid with a 22 - carbon backbone and a single double bond originating from the  9th position from the methyl end ,  with the double bond in the trans -  configuration .
an aryl sulfate that is phenol bearing an o - sulfo substituent .
an alkaloid obtained from leaves of the south american shrub erythroxylon coca .
homeobox protein hox - c6  ( 235 aa ,  ~27 kda )  is encoded by the human hoxc6 gene .
an urea that has formula c12h18n2o3s .
the tooth ,  teeth ,  or implant that supports a fixed bridge or removable prosthesis .
a chromium group element that has formula cr .
a n - iminopiperazine that has formula c43h58n4o12 .
a phytoestrogenic isoflavone with antioxidant properties .
a 14alpha - hydroxy steroid that has formula c27h44o6 .
a chromenone that has formula c23h22o6 .
a chlorine molecular entity that has formula ch3clhg .
an aldohexose that is the c - 4 epimer of glucose .
a brassinosteroid that has formula c28h48o6 .
a imidazolidine - 2 , 4 - dione that is hydantoin substituted by a 2 - carboxyethyl group at position 4 .
an alpha - amino acid that has formula c5h10n2o3 .
a pyrazolopyrimidine that is 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 - tetrahydro - h - pyrazolo [ 3 , 4 - d ] pyrimidine substituted by oxo groups at positions 4 and 6 .
an icosapentaenoic acid that has formula c20h30o2 .
a vinca alkaloid that has formula c46h56n4o10 .
an oleoyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the acyl group at position 1 is  ( 9z )  - octadecenoyl  ( oleoyl )  and the hydroxy group at position 2 is unsubstituted .
this gene plays a regulatory role in the complement pathway ,  which is comprised of a complex proteolytic cascade .
a teichoic acid which is covalently bound to a lipid .
a 2 - oxo monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of 3 - methyl - 2 - oxovaleric acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a c18 ,  omega - 6 acid fatty acid comprising a linolenic acid having cis -  double bonds at positions 6 ,  9 and 12 .
a leukotriene that has formula c25h40n2o6s .
an analog of paclitaxel with antineoplastic activity .
a ketone that is alanine in which one of the methyl hydrogens is substituted by a 2 - aminobenzoyl group .
an androgen that has formula c19h28o2 .
a copper group element that has formula cu .
an o - acyl - l - carnitine that is l - carnitine having decanoyl as the acyl substituent .
a lysophosphatidylcholine 18:2 in which the acyl group at position 1 is  ( 9z , 12z )  - octadecadienoyl .
a deoxy hexoside that has formula c27h29no11 .
a ketohexose that is an isomer of glucose .
a n - acylpiperidine that is piperidine substituted by a  ( 1e , 3e )  - 1 -  ( 1 , 3 - benzodioxol - 5 - yl )  - 5 - oxopenta - 1 , 3 - dien - 5 - yl group at the nitrogen atom .
homeobox protein hox - c6  ( 235 aa ,  ~27 kda )  is encoded by the human hoxc6 gene .
expressed in keratinocytes by human fabp5 gene  ( fabp family )  ,  highly conserved 135 - aa 15 - kda cytoplasmic fatty acid binding protein 5 binds long - chain fatty acids with high specificity ,  and other hydrophobic ligands .
an o - acylcarnitine compound having propanoyl as the acyl substituent .
any glycerophosphoinositol having one phosphatidyl group esterified to one of the hydroxy groups of inositol .
the determination of the amount of complement c4 present in a sample .
the sixth of the seven cervical vertebrae .
the n - acetylated derivative of natural amino acid l - cysteine .
a vitamin d that has formula c27h44o .
a dimethylxanthine having the two methyl groups located at positions 3 and 7 .
a penicillin in which the substituent at position 6 of the penam ring is a 2 - amino - 2 - phenylacetamido group .
a boron group element that has formula al .
a cephalosporin compound having 2 -  ( 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl )  - 2 -  ( methoxyimino ) acetylamino and  [  ( 2 - methyl - 5 , 6 - dioxo - 1 , 2 , 5 , 6 - tetrahydro - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazin - 3 - yl ) sulfanyl ] methyl side groups .
the l -  enatiomer of ascorbic acid and conjugate acid of l - ascorbate ;  an essential nutrient and antioxidant with possible anticancer role ,  especially with intravenous administration .
a calcium cation that has formula ca .
human c5 wild - type allele is located within 9q33 - q34 and is approximately 98 kb in length .
a chromosome band present on 10q
the organophosphate oxoanion formed from choline by removal of two protons from the phosphate group .
a cholanic acid conjugate anion that is the conjugate base of glycocholic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a bile acid anion that is the conjugate base of cholic acid .
a c4 - dicarboxylate that is the e - isomer of but - 2 - enedioate ( 2 -  ) 
the glycosyloxyflavone which is the 7 - o - glucuronide of baicalein .
an ortho -  and peri - fused polycyclic arene consisting of five fused benzene rings .
an arsenite ion that has formula aso3 .
a c4 - dicarboxylate that is the dianion obtained by the deprotonation of both the carboxy groups of aspartic acid .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion resulting from the removal of a proton from both of the carboxy groups of succinic acid .
the conjugate base of acetic acid .
an aluminium coordination entity that has formula alcl3 .
a radiolabelled urea molecule used to diagnose stomach ulcers caused by heliobacter pylori .
an octadecadienoate with cis -  double bonds at the 9 -  and 12 -  positions ;  the conjugate base of linoleic acid .
a bipyridine that has formula c10h8n2 .
an epoxide that has formula c20h14o3 .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of oxalic acid .
a 1 , 2 - glycol compound produced via reaction of ethylene oxide with water .
human cxcl10 wild - type allele is located within 4q21 and is approximately 2 kb in length .
an aminobenzoic acid that is benzoic acid having a single amino substituent located at position 2 .
a monohydroxybenzoate that is the conjugate base of salicylic acid .
a short - chain saturated fatty acid comprising ethane attached to the carbon of a carboxy group .
a dicarboxylic acid monoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from one of the carboxy groups of succinic acid .
a c4 - dicarboxylate that is the z - isomer of but - 2 - enedioate ( 2 -  ) 
a long - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of myristic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a c18 ,  long straight - chain monounsaturated fatty acid anion ;  and the conjugate base of oleic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group .
an alpha , omega - dicarboxylic acid that is the 1 , 4 - dicarboxy derivative of butane .
orotate
an indol - 3 - yl carboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of indole - 3 - acetic acid .
an amide that has formula c18h14f4n2o4s .
bicuculline is a light - sensitive competitive antagonist of gabaa receptors .
a dicarboxylic acid monoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from one of the carboxylic acid groups of 3 - hydroxy - 3 - methylglutaric acid .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both the carboxy groups of glutaric acid
"a hydrate that has formula c34h38cl2n2o5 ."
a platinum coordination entity that has formula c6h12n2o4pt .
a bleomycin that has formula c55h84n17o21s3 .
a 3 - hydroxy steroid that has formula c32h47f5o3s .
a linear nonapeptide messenger belonging to the kinin group of proteins ,  with amino acid sequence rppgfspfr .
an indolinone carrying an oxo group at position 2 .
a pyrrolidinemonocarboxylic acid that has formula c10h15no4 .
human cd82 wild - type allele is located in the vicinity of 11p11 .2 and is approximately 54 kb in length .
an aspartic acid derivative having an n - methyl substituent and d - configuration .
homeobox protein hox - c6  ( 235 aa ,  ~27 kda )  is encoded by the human hoxc6 gene .
human usp6 wild - type allele is located within 17p13 and is approximately 47 kb in length .
a beta - d - glucopyranoside having a methyl substituent at the anomeric position .
an alpha - d - glucopyranoside having a methyl substituent at the anomeric position .
a metal bromide salt with a k (  +  )  counterion .
a 1 , 2 - benzisothiazole having a keto - group at the 3 - position and two oxo substituents at the 1 - position .
a long - chain fatty acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of arachidic acid .
a medium - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of heptanoic acid ;  shown in myocardial ischaemia / reperfusion studies to increase levels of c4 kreb's cycle intermediates .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of margaric acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a tetradecenoate that is the conjugate base of myristoleic acid .
a hexadec - 9 - enoate that is the conjugate base of palmitoleic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a linolenate that is the conjugate base of alpha - linolenic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group .
an octadecatetraenoic acid having four double bonds located at positions 6 ,  9 ,  12 and 15  ( the all - cis - isomer )  .
a linolenate that is the conjugate base of gamma - linolenic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group .
a unsaturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of erucic acid ,  formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group .
a long - chain fatty acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of arachidonic acid .
a hydroxyaldehyde that has formula c9h16o2 .
a magnesium salt having sulfate as the counterion .
an aryl sulfate that is paracetamol in which the hydroxy group has been replaced by a sulfooxy group .
human usp6 wild - type allele is located within 17p13 and is approximately 47 kb in length .
a nitrosamine that has formula c10h13n3o2 .
a naphthylacetic acid that has formula c12h10o2 .
a  ( 2s )  - 2 - hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxylic acid group of  ( s )  - 3 - phenyllactic acid .
an ortho -  and peri - fused polycyclic arene that has formula c16h10 .
a member of the 4 - nitrotoluenes that has formula c7h7no2 .
a nitrotoluene that has formula c7h7no2 .
an inorganic chloride salt that has formula cacl2 .
a member of the aluminium hydroxides that has formula h3alo3 .
a bisphenol that has formula c15h16o2 .
an organic substance that is distributed in foodstuffs ,  is distinct from the main organic components of food  ( protein ,  carbohydrate and fat )  and is needed for the normal nutrition of the organism in question .
intended use of the molecular entity or part thereof by humans .
a substance that kills or slows the growth of microorganisms ,  including bacteria ,  viruses ,  fungi and protozoans .
the food provided to the organism  ( e .g . ,  chow ,  fertilizer ,  demm 10%fbs ,  etc .
an agrochemical is a substance that is used in agriculture or horticulture .
a substance administered to aid diagnosis of a disease .
a chromosome band present on 10p
a catecholamine that has formula c9h13no3 .
rna is a chemical compound which are naturally occurring polyribonucleotides .
an rna molecule that transfers the coding information for protein synthesis from the chromosomes to the ribosomes mrna is formed from a dna template by transcription .
organic aromatic compounds having one or more hydroxy groups attached to a benzene or other arene ring .
an iminostilbene derivative with a carbamoyl group at the azepine nitrogen ,  used as an anticonvulsant .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of glyceric acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a synthetic form of the ras peptide containing a point mutation at position 12  ( glycine to cysteine )  with potential antineoplastic activity .
the  ( 9r , 13r )  - diastereomer of 12 - oxophytodienoic acid .
a 1 - acyl - sn - glycerol where arachidonoyl forms the 1 - acyl group .
an organochlorine acaricide that has formula c9h11cl3no3ps .
the dibutyl ester of benzene - 1 , 2 - dicarboxylic acid .
a 3 - isobutyl - 1 - methylxanthine that has formula c10h14n4o2 .
human usp6 wild - type allele is located within 17p13 and is approximately 47 kb in length .
a thiophene that has formula c14h11n3o3s .
a synthetic form of the ras peptide containing a point mutation at position 12  ( glycine to cysteine )  with potential antineoplastic activity .
human tbl1xr1 wild - type allele is located in the vicinity of 3q26 .32 and is approximately 186 kb in length .
a 3 -  ( carbamoyloxymethyl ) cephalosporin compound having a 7 -  ( 2z )  - 2 -  ( furan - 2 - yl )  - 2 -  ( methoxyimino ) acetamido side chain .
a metal sulfate compound having zinc ( 2 +  )  as the counterion .
a substance which lowers the surface tension of the medium in which it is dissolved ,  and / or the interfacial tension with other phases ,  and ,  accordingly ,  is positively adsorbed at the liquid / vapour and / or at other interfaces .
an apratoxin that has formula c45h69n5o8s .
substance ,  structurally similar to a metabolite ,  which competes with it or replaces it ,  and so prevents or reduces its normal utilization .
a substance that diminishes the rate of a chemical reaction .
a member of the 4 - nitrotoluenes that has formula c7h7no2 .
a benzofuran that has formula c8h6o .
an amino acid betaine that is l - proline zwitterion in which both of the hydrogens attached to the nitrogen are replaced by methyl groups .
any of naturally occurring compounds and synthetic analogues ,  based on the cyclopenta [ a ] phenanthrene carbon skeleton ,  partially or completely hydrogenated ;  there are usually methyl groups at c - 10 and c - 13 ,  and often an alkyl group at c - 17 .
any aliphatic monocarboxylic acid derived from or contained in esterified form in an animal or vegetable fat ,  oil or wax .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of aspartic acid .
a 3 - carboxy - 2 , 3 - dihydroxypropanoate that is the conjugate base of tartaric acid .
a ketoaldonate that is the conjugate base of n - acetylneuraminic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
pregnenolone sulfate
a substance used in the treatment or control of nematode infestations .
a cadmium coordination entity that has formula cdcl2 .
a substance that reduces or suppresses inflammation .
an anti - inflammatory drug that is not a steroid .
antipsychotic drugs are agents that control agitated psychotic behaviour ,  alleviate acute psychotic states ,  reduce psychotic symptoms ,  and exert a quieting effect .
antimanic drugs are agents used to treat bipolar disorders or mania associated with other affective disorders .
a drug that has principally analgesic ,  antipyretic and anti - inflammatory actions .
a narcotic or opioid substance ,  synthetic or semisynthetic agent producing profound analgesia ,  drowsiness ,  and changes in mood .
a drug that prevents or reduces fever by lowering the body temperature from a raised state .
an agent that selectively binds to and activates beta - adrenergic receptors .
a drug which lowers the blood glucose level .
a compound or agent that combines with cyclooxygenases and thereby prevents its substrate - enzyme combination with arachidonic acid and the formation of eicosanoids ,  prostaglandins ,  and thromboxanes .
a drug that affects the rate or intensity of cardiac contraction ,  blood vessel diameter or blood volume .
a nitrile that has formula c22h31no2 .
a substance that inhibits or prevents the proliferation of neoplasms .
a drug used to cause dilation of the blood vessels .
a drug used to prevent seizures or reduce their severity .
a lactam in which the amide bond is contained within a four - membered ring ,  which includes the amide nitrogen and the carbonyl carbon .
adrenergic uptake inhibitors are drugs that block the transport of adrenergic transmitters into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals .
a substance used to treat hyperlipidemia  ( an excess of lipids in the blood )  .
foreign" ;  bios "life
an agent that suppresses immune function by one of several mechanisms of action .
a drug used to induce drowsiness or sleep or to reduce psychological excitement or anxiety .
a substance that destroys fungi by suppressing their ability to grow or reproduce .
a tricarboxylic acid monoanion that is the conjugate base of citric acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of one of the three carboxy groups .
a tricarboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of two of the three carboxy groups of citric acid .
a substance used to lower plasma cholesterol levels .
a drug used to treat rheumatoid arthritis .
a dicarboxylic acid monoanion that is the conjugate base of glutaric acid .
any c22 polyunsaturated fatty acid containing six double bonds .
any straight - chain ,  c20 polyunsaturated fatty acid having five c=c double bonds .
a protein is an  ( also known as polypeptides )  organic compound made of amino acids arranged in a linear chain and folded into a globular form .
a piperidinecarboxylate that is the conjugate base of pipecolic acid .
a bisbiguanide compound with a structure consisting of two  ( p - chlorophenyl ) guanide units linked by a hexamethylene bridge .
a dicarboxylic acid monoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from one of the carboxylic acid groups of 2 - hydroxyglutaric acid .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion obtained by the deprotonation of both the carboxy groups of pimelic acid .
conjugate base of chenodeoxycholic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a n - acylglycinate that is the conjugate base of glycochenodeoxycholic acid .
an organosulfonate oxoanion that is the conjugate base of taurocholic acid .
an organosulfonate oxoanion that is the conjugate base of taurodeoxycholic acid .
the glycerol phosphate ester of a phosphocholine .
expressed in keratinocytes by human fabp5 gene  ( fabp family )  ,  highly conserved 135 - aa 15 - kda cytoplasmic fatty acid binding protein 5 binds long - chain fatty acids with high specificity ,  and other hydrophobic ligands .
a strontium salt that has formula cl2sr .
tricarboxylate anion of homocitric acid .
a cholesterol ester obtained by the formal condensation of cholesterol with palmitic acid .
a 2 - hydroxy carboxylate that is obtained by removal of a proton from the carboxylic acid group of 3 -  ( 4 - hydroxyphenyl ) lactic acid .
a sapphyrin that has formula c24h17n5 .
a 1 -  [ 3 -  ( dimethylamino ) propyl ]  - 1 -  ( 4 - fluorophenyl )  - 1 , 3 - dihydro - 2 - benzofuran - 5 - carbonitrile that has s - configuration at the chiral centre .
an alpha - amino acid that is adipic acid bearing a single amino substituent at position 2 .
a hydroxy fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of 3 - hydroxybutyric acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a hydrogen butenedioate obtained by deprotonation of one of the carboxy groups of fumaric acid .
a hydrogen butenedioate that is the conjugate base of maleic acid .
a heterodetic cyclic peptide that has formula c39h54n10o14s .
a s - glycosyl compound that has formula c18h33cln2o5s .
a ribulose phosphate in which the phosphate group is attached at position 5 .
commonly employed in biomedical research to activate the signal transduction enzyme protein kinase .
expressed in keratinocytes by human fabp5 gene  ( fabp family )  ,  highly conserved 135 - aa 15 - kda cytoplasmic fatty acid binding protein 5 binds long - chain fatty acids with high specificity ,  and other hydrophobic ligands .
a sodium phosphate that has formula h2nao4p .
an imidazole that has formula c22h17cln2 .
"a beta - d - glucan in which the glucose units are connected by  ( 1 -  > 3 )  linkages ."
an agent that inhibits protein kinases .
a hormone that specifically regulates growth .
an agent that binds to but does not activate adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists .
an agent that binds to but does not activate alpha - adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous alpha - adrenergic agonists .
histamine antagonists are the drugs that bind to but do not activate histamine receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of histamine or histamine agonists .
human usp6 wild - type allele is located within 17p13 and is approximately 47 kb in length .
a triazole that has formula c15h18cln3o .
a drug that has a strengthening effect on the heart or that can increase cardiac output .
a bromate salt that has formula brko3 .
one of a class of drugs that acts by selective inhibition of calcium influx through cell membranes or on the release and binding of calcium in intracellular pools .
any substance that inhibits the enzyme acetylcholinesterase from breaking down acetylcholine into choline and acetic acid .
a nitrile that has formula c2h3n .
a quinazoline that has formula c20h22n2o .
an organothiophosphate insecticide that has formula c11h12no4ps2 .
a surfactant with an uncharged hydrophilic headgroup .
a polypeptide hormone produced and secreted by the pituitary gland comprising 39 amino acid residues coupled in a linear sequence .
a pyrrole that has formula c22h27fn4o2 .
a synthetic peptide that is identical to the 24 - amino acid segment at the n - terminal of adrenocorticotropic hormone  ( corticotropin )  .
mixture of 80% avermectin b1a and 20% avermectin b1b .
this gene is involved in cell adhesion ,  differentiation ,  division and stress response .
human cd82 wild - type allele is located in the vicinity of 11p11 .2 and is approximately 54 kb in length .
human tbl1xr1 wild - type allele is located in the vicinity of 3q26 .32 and is approximately 186 kb in length .
a member of the class of  triazoles that is 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazole substituted by an amino group at position 3 .
a hydroxycoumarin that is coumarin in which the hydrogen at position 4 is replaced by a hydroxy group .
human cxcl10 wild - type allele is located within 4q21 and is approximately 2 kb in length .
an n - acylglycine where the acyl group is specified as acetyl .
an n - acetyl - l - amino acid that is l - arginine in which one of the hydrogens attached to the nitrogen is replaced by an acetyl group .
an n - acetyl - l - amino acid that is l - alanine in which one of the hydrogens attached to the nitrogen is replaced by an acetyl group .
a pyrazole that has formula c17h14f3n3o2s .
a fluorinated steroid that has formula c22h29fo5 .
an estrogen that has formula c18h20o2 .
the sixth of the seven cervical vertebrae .
a 1 , 2 - di - octadecadienoyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the double bonds in each fatty acyl group are at positions 9 and 12 and have z configuration .
a member of the flavones that has formula c15h10o2 .
a tetrahydroxyflavone that has formula c15h10o6 .
an aryl sulfate that is indoxyl in which the hydroxyl hydrogen is substituted by a sulfo group .
an  indol - 3 - yl carboxylic acid that is  propionic acid substituted by a 1h - indol - 3 - yl group at position 3 .
a dipeptide that has formula c21h31n3o5 .
a pteridine that has formula c20h22n8o5 .
an n - acyl - l - alpha - amino acid anion resulting from deprotonation of both carboxy groups of n - acetyl - l - glutamic acid .
an urea that has formula ch4n2o2 .
"an octadeca - 10 , 12 - dienoic acid having 10 - trans , 12 - cis - configuration ."
a monocarboxylic acid that is acrylic acid substituted by a phosphonooxy group at position 2 .
a phenol that has formula c12h18o .
a phenanthroline that has formula c12h8n2 .
the sodium salt of diclofenac .
an n - acetyl - l - amino acid in which the amino acid specified is l - serine .
a cysteine derivative that is l - cysteine in which the hydrogen attached to the sulfur is replaced by a methyl group .
a n - methylpiperazine that has formula c29h31n7o .
a n - acetyl - l - amino acid that is the n - acetyl derivative of l - threonine .
"an aromatic amine that has formula c13h14n2 ."
a methyluridine having a single methyl substituent at the 5 - position on the uracil ring .
a trichostatin that has formula c17h22n2o3 .
a triazole that has formula c13h12f2n6o .
an o - sulfoamino acid that is l - tyrosine in which the phenolic hydrogen has been replaced by a sulfo group .
fibrous incombustible mineral composed of magnesium and calcium silicates with or without other elements .
a polymer composed of repeating ethyleneoxy units .
a carboxypyridinecarboxylate that is the conjugate base of quinolinic acid .
a diacyl lipopeptide that has formula c65h126n10o12s .
a dicarboxylic acid monoanion that is the conjugate base of oxalic acid .
a pyrimidine ribonucleoside that has formula c9h12n2o5 .
the determination of the amount of complement c4 present in a sample .
a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug  ( nsaid )  ,  administered primarily as its sodium salt .
a cephalosporin compound having  [  ( 5 - methyl - 1 , 3 , 4 - thiadiazol - 2 - yl ) sulfanyl ] methyl and  ( 1h - tetrazol - 1 - ylacetyl ) amino side groups .
a semisynthetic cyclic hexapeptide echinocandin antibiotic which exerts its effect by inhibiting the synthesis of 1 , 3 - beta - d - glucan ,  an integral component of the fungal cell wall .
cholesterol which is contained in or bound to high - density lipoproteins  ( hdl )  ,  including cholesterol esters and free cholesterol .
a sulfoxide that has formula c6h11nos2 .
drugs that bind to but do not activate serotonin receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of serotonin or serotonergic agonists .
a l - histidine derivative that is n ( alpha )  , n ( alpha )  , n ( alpha )  - trimethyl - l - histidine in which the hydrogen at position 2 on the imdazole ring is replaced by a mercapto group .
an oxazinooxazine that has formula c12h23no2 .
a biphenylyltetrazole that has formula c24h26n6o3 .
"a ring assembly that has formula c23h26n2o ."
a drug that binds to but does not activate dopamine receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of dopamine or exogenous agonists .
a metal chloride salt with a li (  +  )  counterion .
a selenite salt that has formula na2o3se .
a benzodiazepine  ( sometimes colloquially "benzo" ;  often abbreviated "bzd" )  is a psychoactive drug whose core chemical structure is the fusion of a benzene ring and a diazepine ring .
any drug that binds to but does not activate cholinergic receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of acetylcholine or cholinergic agonists .
a drug that binds to but does not activate muscarinic cholinergic receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of endogenous acetylcholine or exogenous agonists .
a branched - chain saturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of isovaleric acid ;  reported to improve ruminal fermentation and feed digestion in cattle .
a monoazo compound that has formula c6h12n4o2 .
an oxopurine that is xanthine in which the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen at position 7 is replaced by a methyl group .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is obtained by removal of a proton from the carboxylic acid group of 4 - hydroxyphenylacetic acid .
an n - acetyl - amino acid that is the n ( alpha )  - acetyl derivative of citrulline .
the s - oxide derivative of methionine .
a beta - amino acid anion that is the conjugate base of 3 - aminoisobutyric acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a beta - d - glucoside that has formula c29h32o13 .
a guaiacol with an allyl chain substituted para to the hydroxy group .
a radiotracer consisting of choline labeled with the positron - emitting isotope carbon c 11 with potential imaging use .
an ec 3 .6 .3 .*  ( acid anhydride hydrolase catalysing transmembrane movement of substances )  inhibitor that inhibits h (  +  )  / k (  +  )  - exchanging atpase ,  ec 3 .6 .3 .10 .
a monounsaturated very long - chain fatty acid with a 22 - carbon backbone and a single double bond originating from the  9th position from the methyl end ,  with the double bond in the trans -  configuration .
androsta - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 17 - dione in which the hydrogens at position 6 are replaced by a double bond to a methylene group .a selective inhibitor of the aromatase  ( oestrogen synthase )  system ,  it is used in the treatment of advanced breast cancer .
chloride of copper in which the metal is in the  + 2 oxidation state .
a 1 , 4 - benzodiazepinone that has formula c16h13cln2o .
a quinazoline that has formula c29h26clfn4o4s .
a quinazoline that has formula c22h24clfn4o3 .
a methylmercury compound that has formula ch3hg .
"the complex formed between iron ( iii )  and citrate ."
"a chlorobenzophenone that has formula c20h21clo4 ."
"a benzazepine that has formula c16h16clno3 ."
this gene plays a regulatory role in the complement pathway ,  which is comprised of a complex proteolytic cascade .
a glutathione derivative that has formula c10h16n4o7s .
an agent that binds to and activates excitatory amino acid receptors .
any hormone that is responsible for controlling sexual characteristics and reproductive function .
a steroid hormone that stimulates or controls the development and maintenance of masculine characteristics in vertebrates by binding to androgen receptors .
compounds that interact with estrogen receptors in target tissues to bring about the effects similar to those of estradiol .
an indazole that has formula c15h10cl2n2o2 .
an organic sodium salt that has formula c3h3nao3 .
a morpholine that has formula c20h33no .
a steroid acid anion that has formula c22h29o4 .
a metallotexaphyrin that has formula c52h72gdn5o14 .
a drug used to treat or prevent skin disorders or for the routine care of skin .
a razoxane that has formula c11h16n4o4 .
an agent that prevents blood clotting .
a compound that ,  on administration ,  must undergo chemical conversion by metabolic processes before becoming the pharmacologically active drug for which it is a prodrug .
an inhibitor of bacterial enzymes of the dna topoisomerases ,  type i class that catalyze atp - independent breakage of one of the two strands of dna ,  passage of the unbroken strand through the break ,  and rejoining of the broken strand .
a cadmium salt that has formula cdo4s .
a labdane diterpenoid that has formula c22h34o5 .
a parasympatholytic agent is a substance or activity that reduces the activity of the parasympathetic nervous system .
a heme b that has formula c34h32clfen4o4 .
an unsaturated long - chain fatty acid anion and the conjugate base of vaccenic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group .
compound that increase urine volume by increasing the amount of osmotically active solute in the urine .
substance that sweeten food ,  beverages ,  medications ,  etc .
drug used to cause constriction of the blood vessels .
a cyclooxygenase inhibitor with specificity for cyclooxygenase 2 .
a cyclooxygenase inhibitor with specificity for cyclooxygenase 1 .
an agent that inhibits bone resorption and / or favor bone mineralization and bone regeneration .
a product in capsule ,  tablet or liquid form that provide essential nutrients ,  such as a vitamin ,  an essential mineral ,  a protein ,  an herb ,  or similar nutritional substance .
a substance that possess antiestrogenic actions but can also produce estrogenic effects as well .
an inhibitor of dna topoisomerase ii ,  which catalyses atp - dependent breakage of both strands of dna ,  passage of the unbroken strands through the breaks ,  and rejoining of the broken strands .
an antagonist at the estrogen receptor .
a pyridazinone that has formula c12h9clf3n3o .
tetracycline in which the 5beta - hydrogen is replaced by a hydroxy group ,  while the 6alpha - hydroxy group is replaced by hydrogen .
a naphthalene that has formula c31h33n3o11 .
an agent which overcomes insulin resistance by activation of the peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma  ( ppar - gamma )  .
a 1 , 2 - dithiole that has formula c3h2s3 .
a ring assembly that has formula c13h14cl2o3 .
a mineralocorticoid that has formula c21h29fo5 .
a role played by a chemical compound in the onset of allergic reaction and interacting with molecular pathways involved in allergy .
a drug used to prevent nausea or vomiting .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of 3 - phenylpropionic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a drug that binds to and activates dopamine receptors .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a chemical context .
"a benzenoid aromatic compound that has formula c17h18f3no ."
an organofluorine compound that has formula c28h22f3n7o .
an organic heteropentacyclic compound that has formula c23h24o8 and has biological role specific ,  covalent inhibitor of phosphoinositide 3 - kinases  ( pi3ks )  .
human usp6 wild - type allele is located within 17p13 and is approximately 47 kb in length .
a mycotoxin ,  which is cell permeable and a potent inhibitor of actin polymerisation and dna synthesis .
a fluorobenzene compound with two nitro substituents in the 2 -  and 4 - positions .
expressed in keratinocytes by human fabp5 gene  ( fabp family )  ,  highly conserved 135 - aa 15 - kda cytoplasmic fatty acid binding protein 5 binds long - chain fatty acids with high specificity ,  and other hydrophobic ligands .
caffeine substituted at its 8 - position by an  ( e )  - 3 - chlorostyryl group .
a polymer composed of peg - ylated sorbitan ,  where the total number of poly ( ethylene glycol )  units is 20 and a single terminal is capped by a dodecanoyl group .
a  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - beta - d - glucan compound formed by methylating cellulose through exposure to naoh / ch3cl .
an icosatrienoic acid having three cis double bonds at positions 8 ,  11 and 14 .
a glycerophosphoglycerol where both glycerol moieties are attached at primary positions .
a monocarboxylic acid that is the 3 - o - methyl ether of  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl ) acetic acid .
an omega - hydroxy fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of 16 - hydroxypalmitic  ( juniperic )  acid .
a 1 - o - alkyl - 2 - o - arachidonoyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine where the alkyl group is specified as hexadecyl .
the anion of  ( r )  - 2 - hydroxy - 4 - methylpentanoic acid .
a hydroxypiperidine that has formula c21h23clfno2 .
a haloalkane that has formula c2hbrclf3 .
the sixth of the seven cervical vertebrae .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of 3 -  ( 3 - hydroxyphenyl ) propanoic acid .
a 2 - hydroxyoctadecanoate that has r configuration .
an ammonium betaine that is pipecolic acid zwitterion with methyl groups substituted for the two hydrogens at the nitrogen .
dicarboxylate anion of 2 - hydroxyadipic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
trianion of 3 - phosphoglyceric acid arising from deprotonation of the carboxy and phosphate groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an organophosphate oxoanion that is the conjugate base of 3' , 5' - cyclic amp arising from deprotonation of the free phosphate oh group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid betaine obtaine by exhaustive methylation of the alpha - amino group of l - tryptophan with concomitant deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a 2 - hydroxyoctadecanoate that has s configuration .
a quinolinemonocarboxylate that is the conjugate base of kynurenic acid
a monocarboxylic acid that is propionic acid in which one of the hydrogens at position 2 is substituted by a 4 -  ( 2 - methylpropyl ) phenyl group .
a bile acid anion that is the conjugate base of hyodeoxycholic acid .
a steroid sulfate oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid and sulfate functions of glycochenodeoxycholic acid 7 - sulfate .
"the monohydrate of  (  +  )  - catechin ."
a substance used as an indicator of a biological state .
a decapeptide comprising 5 - oxoprolyl ,  glutamyl ,  aspartyl ,  o - sulfotyrosyl ,  threonyl ,  glycyl ,  tryptopyl ,  methionyl ,  aspartyl and phenylalaninamide residues in sequence .
the hydrochloride salt of cyproheptadine .
a n - acylglycinate that is the conjugate base of glycolithocholic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an organofluorine compound that has formula c3h2clf5o .
a hydroxylysine that is lysine substituted by a hydroxy group at position 5 .
a pyrrole having formyl and hydroxymethyl substituents at positions 2 and 5 respectively ;  useful as indicator of advanced stages of the maillard reaction ,  which produces advanced glycation end - products  ( ages )  .
an acylglycerophosphocholine resulting from partial hydrolysis of a phosphatidylcholine ,  which removes one of the fatty acyl groups .
a valine derivative that is valine in which the amino group has been replaced by a hydroxy group .
a retinoic acid that has formula c20h28o2 .
any straight - chain ,  c22 fatty acid having five c=c double bonds .
a member of the class of cyclohexanones in which one of the hydrogens at position 2 is substituted by a 2 - chlorophenyl group ,  while the other is substituted by a methylamino group .
"a quaternary ammonium salt resulting from the reaction of the amino group of scopolamine with methyl bromide ."
a tricarboxylic acid dianion that is obtained from gamma - carboxy - l - glutamic acid by removal of a proton from each of the carboxy groups and protonation of the amino group ;  the resulting entity has an overall charge of 2 -  .
a pyrazole that is antiipyrine substituted at c - 4 by a methyl ( sulfomethyl ) amino group ,  the sodium salt of which ,  metamizole sodium ,  was widely used as a powerful analgesic and antipyretic ,  but withdrawn from many markets from the 1970s due to a risk of causing risk of causing agranulocytosis .
a monomethylxanthine having the methyl group located at the 3 - position .
the monocarboxylic acid anion formed from  ( 2 - hydroxyphenyl ) acetic acid by loss of a proton from the carboxy group ;  major microspecies at ph 7 .3 .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of mycophenolic acid .
"an inorganic sulfate salt obtained by reaction of sulfuric acid with two equivalents of ammonia .
"the ammonium salt of phosphoric acid  ( molar ratio 1:1 )  ."
"the ammonium salt of nitric acid ."
"the inorganic chloride salt of caesium ;  each caesium ion is coordinated by eight chlorine ions ."
a substance capable of undergoing rapid and highly exothermic decomposition .
"a purine arabinonucleoside monophosphate having 2 - fluoroadenine as the nucleobase .
"a racemate composed of  (  +  )  -  ( 11r , 2's )  -  and  (  -  )  -  ( 11s , 2'r )  - enantiomers of mefloquine .
"a pyranoindolizinoquinoline used as an antineoplastic agent .
an n - acylglycine in which the acyl group is specified as hexanoyl .
a 1 - acyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphoethanolamine in which the acyl group is specified as arachidonoyl .
a 1 , 2 - diacyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the acyl groups at c - 1 and c - 2 contain 34 carbons in total with 4 double bonds .
a 1 , 2 - diacyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the acyl groups at c - 1 and c - 2 contain 34 carbons in total with 3 double bonds .
a 1 , 2 - diacyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the two acyl groups contain forty carbons in total with six double bonds .
a 1 , 2 - diacyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the acyl groups at c - 1 and c - 2 contain 36 carbons in total and 2 double bonds .
a 1 , 2 - diacyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the acyl groups at c - 1 and c - 2 contain 38 carbons with 3 double bonds .
a lysophosphatidylcholine in which the acyl group contains 20 carbons with 3 double bonds .
a lysophosphatidylcholine in which the remaining acyl group is specified as tetradecanoyl  ( myristoyl )  .
a lysophosphatidylcholine 14:0 in which the acyl group specified is myristoyl .
a 1 , 2 - diacyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the acyl groups at c - 1 and c - 2 contain 36 carbons in total with 5 double bonds .
a 1 , 2 - diacyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the acyl groups at c - 1 and c - 2 contain 34 carbons in total with 2 double bonds .
a 1 , 2 - diacyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the acyl groups at c - 1 and c - 2 contain 34 carbons in total with 1 double bond .
a 1 , 2 - diacyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the acyl groups at c - 1 and c - 2 contain 38 carbons in total with 6 double bonds .
a 1 , 2 - diacyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the acyl groups at c - 1 and c - 2 contain 36 carbons in total with 4 double bonds .
a 1 , 2 - diacyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the acyl groups at c - 1 and c - 2 contain 36 carbons in total with 3 double bonds .
a 1 , 2 - diacyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the acyl groups at c - 1 and c - 2 contain 38 carbons in total with 5 double bonds .
a 1 , 2 - diacyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the acyl groups at c - 1 and c - 2 contain 38 carbons in total with 4 double bonds .
a lysophosphatidylcholine in which the acyl group  ( position not specified )  contains 18 carbons and 2 double bonds .
a hydroxy fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of 2 - hydroxybutyric acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a lysophosphatidylcholine in which the acyl group contains 20 carbons and 5 double bonds .
an lysophosphatidylcholine in which the acyl group is hexadecenoyl  ( position of double bond not specified )  .
a lysophosphatidylcholine in which the acyl group has a fully saturated c18 chain and is attached to the glycero moiety at either position 1 or 2 .
a lysophosphatidylcholine in which the acyl group has a fully saturated c16 chain and is attached to the glycero moiety at either position 1 or 2 .
a sulfur - containing amino acid that is proline in which the methylene group at position 4 is replaced by a sulfur atom .
a lysophosphatidylcholine in which the remaining acyl group  ( position not specified )  contains 18 carbons with 1 double bond .
an acyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the acyl group  ( position not specified )  contains 22 carbons with 6 double bonds .
an acyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the remaining acyl group  ( position not specified )  contains 20 carbons with 4 double bonds .
an acyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphoethanolamine in which the acyl group contains twenty carbons and four double bonds .
a glycerophosphoethanolamine resulting from partial hydrolysis of a phosphatidylethanolamine ,  which removes one of the fatty acid groups .
a lysophosphatidylethanolamine in which the acyl group  ( position not specified )  contains 18 carbons and 1 double bond .
a lysophosphatidylethanolamine in which the acyl group has a fully saturated c18 chain and is attached to the glycero moiety at either position 1 or 2 .
amyloid beta  ( a or abeta )  is a peptide of 3643 amino acids that is processed from the amyloid precursor protein .
a lipoxin that has formula c20h32o5 .
a hydroxy fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of 2 - hydroxypalmitic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a chromone substituted with a phenyl group at position 8 and a morpholine group at position 2 .
a monounsaturated very long - chain fatty acid with a 22 - carbon backbone and a single double bond originating from the  9th position from the methyl end ,  with the double bond in the trans -  configuration .
a magnesium salt comprising of two chlorine atoms bound to a magnesium atom .
a 1 , 2 - diacyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the acyl groups at c - 1 and c - 2 contain 32 carbons in total with 2 double bonds .
a 1 , 2 - diacyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the acyl groups at c - 1 and c - 2 contain 32 carbons in total with 1 double bond .
a 1 , 2 - diacyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the acyl groups at c - 1 and c - 2 contain 32 carbons in total with 0 double bonds .
a 1 , 2 - diacyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the acyl groups at c - 1 and c - 2 contain 36 carbons in total with 1 double bond .
a 1 , 2 - diacyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the acyl groups at c - 1 and c - 2 contain 38 carbons in total with 2 double bonds .
a diverse group of pharmacologically active secondary metabolite characteristic to cannabis plant as well as produced naturally in the body by humans and animals .
a dipeptide that is the n - acetyl derivative of carnosine .
a guanidine that has formula c4h11n5 .
an ethylenediamine derivative that has formula c14h19n3s .
an organochlorine insecticide that has formula c16h15cl3o2 .
a glutamyl - l - amino acid having l - isoleucine as the l - amino acid component .
a monomethylxanthine having the methyl group located at the 1 - position .
an alpha , omega - dicarboxylic acid that is adipic acid substituted with a methyl group at position c - 3 .
an n - acetyl - amino acid that is tyrosine with an amine hydrogen substituted by an acetyl group .
an o - acylcarnitine compound having adipoyl as the acyl substituent .
an n - acylglycine in which the acyl group is specified as  ( 2e )  - 3 - phenylprop - 2 - enoyl  ( cinnamoyl )  .
an n - alkylpyrrolidine that consists of n - methylpyrrolidinone bearing a pyridin - 3 - yl substituent at position c - 5  ( the 5s - enantiomer )  .
a glutamyl - l - amino acid that is the n -  ( l - gamma - glutamyl )  derivative of l - leucine .
human plac8 wild - type allele is located in the vicinity of 4q21 .22 and is approximately 24 kb in length .
expressed in keratinocytes by human fabp5 gene  ( fabp family )  ,  highly conserved 135 - aa 15 - kda cytoplasmic fatty acid binding protein 5 binds long - chain fatty acids with high specificity ,  and other hydrophobic ligands .
an o - acylcarnitine compound having hexanoyl as the acyl substituent .
a n ( 2 )  - acylglutamine that has indol - 3 - ylacetyl as the acyl group .
an o - methylglutarylcarnitine compound having 3 - methylglutaryl as the acyl substituent .
a methylhistidine in which the methyl group is located at n - 1 .
a methylhistidine in which the methyl group is located at n - 3 .
an n - acylglycine in which the acyl group is specified as isobutryl .
an n - acylglycine in which the acyl group is specified as isovaleryl .
an o - acylcarnitine compound having trans - 2 - methyl - 2 - butenoyl  ( tiglyl )  as the acyl substituent .
an n - alkylpyrrolidine that is cotinine substituted at position c - 3 by a hydroxy group  ( the 3r , 5s - diastereomer )  .
a quinolinemonocarboxylate that is the conjugate base of xanthurenic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an n -  ( long - chain - acyl ) ethanolamine that is the ethanolamide of palmitic  ( hexadecanoic )  acid .
an n -  ( long - chain - acyl ) ethanolamine that is the ethanolamide of oleic acid .
a hode that consists of 9z , 11e - octadecadienoic acid carrying a 13 - hydroxy substituent .
a hode that consists of  ( 10e , 12z )  - octadecadienoic acid with the hydroxy substituent located at position 9 .
a dihome obtained by formal dihydroxylation of the 9 , 10 - double bond of octadeca - 9 , 12 - dienoic acid  ( the 12z - geoisomer )  .
a dihome obtained by formal dihydroxylation of the 12 , 13 - double bond of octadeca - 9 , 12 - dienoic acid  ( the 9z - geoisomer )  .
an o - acylcarnitine having oleoyl as the acyl substituent .
an acyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphoethanolamine in which the acyl group contains twenty - two carbons with six double bonds and is attached to the glycero moiety at either position 1 or 2 .
an acyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the acyl group contains fifteen carbons with no double bonds and is attached to the glycero moiety at either position 1 or 2 .
an o - acylcarnitine having 3 - hydroxybutyryl as the acyl substituent .
an o - acylcarnitine having isobutyryl as the acyl substituent .
an n - acylglycine that is glycine with an amine hydrogen substituted by a 2 - methylbut - 2 - enoyl  ( tiglyl )  group .
an o - acylcarnitine having acetyl as the acyl substituent .
a c5 - acylcarnitine having isovaleryl as the acyl substituent .
a c5 - acylcarnitine having 2 - methylbutyryl as the acyl substituent .
an o - acylcarnitine having succinyl as the acyl substituent .
an o - acylcarnitine having glutaryl as the acyl substituent .
an o - decenoylcarnitine having  ( 4z )  - decenoyl as the acyl substituent .
an o - acylcarnitine having palmitoyl  ( hexadecanoyl )  as the acyl substituent .
an o - acylcarnitine having linoleoyl as the acyl substituent .
an o - acylcarnitine having stearoyl  ( octadecanoyl )  as the acyl substituent .
a member of the class of triazoles that is butan - 2 - ol which is substituted at positions 2 ,  3 ,  and 4 by phenyl ,  1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl and p - chlorophenyl groups ,  respectively .
a dipeptide formed from l - methionine and l - alanine residues .
a dipeptide formed from l - valine and glycine residues .
a dipeptide obtained by formal condensation of the gamma - carboxy group of glutamic acid with the amino group of another glutamic acid .
a dipeptide obtained by formal condensation of the gamma - carboxy group of glutamic acid with the amino group of glutamine
a lysophosphatidylcholine 18:0 in which the acyl substituent is located at position 1 and is specified as stearoyl .
a dipeptide formed from l - histidine and l - alanine residues .
a 2 - monoglyceride where the acyl group is  ( 9z )  - octadecenoyl .
a phosphatidylcholine 32:1 in which the acyl groups at c - 1 and c - 2 are hexadecanoyl and  ( 9z )  - hexadec - 9 - enoyl respectively .
a dipeptide formed from l - isoleucine and glycine residues .
a nucleoside analogue that is allopurinol with a beta - d - ribofuranosyl moiety at the 1 - position .
an s - hydrocarbyl - l - cysteine that is l - cysteine in which the hydrogen attached to the sulphur is replaced by a prop - 2 - enyl group .
a cholesterol ester in which the acyl group contains 22 carbons in total and 6 double bonds .
a lysophosphatidylcholine 22:5 in which the acyl group at position 1 is  ( 4z , 7z , 10z , 13z , 16z )  - docosapentaenoyl and the hydroxy group at position 2 is unsubstituted .
a formamide compound having an n - methyl substituent .
a dipeptide formed from l - leucine and glycine residues .
a n - acetyl - l - amino acid that is the n - acetyl derivative of l - tryptophan .
a phosphatidylcholine 36:3 in which the two acyl substituents at positions 1 and 2 are specified as oleoyl and linoleoyl respectively .
a dipeptide formed from l - proline and l - alanine residues .
a dipeptide composed of l - proline and l - hydroxyproline residues .
a phosphatidylcholine 38:4 in which the two acyl substituents at positions 1 and 2 are specified as stearoyl and arachidonoyl respectively .
a phosphatidylcholine 36:1 in which the phosphatidyl acyl groups at positions 1 and 2 are stearoyl and oleoyl respectively .
a phosphatidylcholine 30:0 in which the phosphatidyl acyl groups at positions 1 and 2 are myristoyl  ( tetradecanoyl )  and palmitoyl  ( hexadecanoyl )  respectively .
a 1 - acyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphoethanolamine in which the 1 - acyl group is specified as oleoyl .
a 1 - monoglyceride where the acyl group is oleoyl .
a 1 , 2 - diacyl - sn - glycerol where oleoyl and linoleoyl are the 1 -  and 2 - acyl groups respectively .
a 1 - monoglyceride that has octadecadienoyl  ( linoleoyl )  as the acyl group .
a dihydropyridine that has formula c17h18n2o6 .
the r - enantiomer of 2 - hydroxyhexadecanoate .
the s - enantiomer of 2 - hydroxypalmitate .
an enoate ester resulting from the formal condensation of both carboxy groups of fumaric acid with methanol .
a lysophosphatidylcholine 18:1 in which the acyl group is specified as oleoyl and is located at position 2 .
a lysophosphatidylcholine 16:0 in which the acyl group is specified as palmitoyl  ( hexadecanoyl )  and is located at position 2 .
a lysophosphatidylcholine 18:2 in which the acyl group is specified as linoleoyl and is located at position 2 .
a 2 - acyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphoethanolamine in which the acyl group is specified as linoleoyl .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of dodecanedioic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of hexadecanedioic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of tetradecanedioic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of suberic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of suberic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a 3 - hydroxy fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of 3 - hydroxylauric acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an alpha - amino acid that is homoserine in which the alcoholic hydroxy group has been converted to the corresponding acetate .
a c4 - acylcarnitine that is the o - butanoyl derivative of carnitine .
a phenylalanine derivative that has formula c20h18clno6 .
a polyunsaturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of  ( 7z , 10z , 13z , 16z )  - docosatetraenoic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a benzodiazepine that has formula c17h20n4s .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 46 carbons and 2 double bonds .
a delta - lactam that is piperidine which is substituted by an oxo group at position 2 .
a cyclohexenecarboxylate ester that has formula c16h28n2o4 .
a polyunsaturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of docosapentaenoic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a polyunsaturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of docosahexaenoic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a long - chain monounsaturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of icosenoic acid ,  formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of of azelaic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
human plac8 wild - type allele is located in the vicinity of 4q21 .22 and is approximately 24 kb in length .
a bile acid anion that is the conjugate base of ursodeoxycholic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a cyclic nonapeptide hormone with amino acid sequence cyiqncplg that also acts as a neurotransmitter in the brain ;  the principal uterine - contracting and milk - ejecting hormone of the posterior pituitary .
a ketohexose monophosphate consisting of fructose having a phosphate group located at the 1 - position
a nineteen carbon straight - chain fatty acid anion .
a fatty acid anion with 22 carbons and 2 double bonds .
a polyunsaturated fatty acid anion containing 22 carbons and 3 double bonds .
a long - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of hexadecanoic acid  ( palmitic acid )  ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a monounsaturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of  ( 10z )  - heptadecenoic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a member of the class of pantothenic acids that is an amide formed from pantoic acid and beta - alanine .
human plac8 wild - type allele is located in the vicinity of 4q21 .22 and is approximately 24 kb in length .
barbituric acid substituted at c - 5 by ethyl and phenyl groups .
a n - acyl - amino acid that has formula c18h25no4 .
an analog of paclitaxel with antineoplastic activity .
a 2 - hydroxy carboxylate that results from the removal of a proton from the carboxylic acid group of 3 - phenyllactic acid .
a trihydroxy - 5beta - cholanic acid in which the three hydroxy substituents are located at the 3alpha -  ,  6alpha -  and 7alpha - positions .
an aliphatic alcohol  ( with nine carbon atoms and two hydroxyl groups at positions 1 and 9 )  used in chemical synthesis and biomedical research .
a thiazolidenedione that has formula c19h20n2o3s .
a cholesterol ester obtained by the formal condensation of the hydroxy group in cholesterol with the carboxy group of stearic acid .
an organic sulfate of thymol .
a glycine derivative that is the carboxamide obtained by the formal condensation of the amino group of glycine with 2 - furoic acid .
a l - tyrosine derivative that is the 3 - methoxy derivative of l - dopa .
an aryl sulfate that is p - cresol in which the phenolic hydrogen has been replaced by a sulfo group .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of 3 -  ( 1h - indol - 3 - yl ) propanoic acid .
a 1 , 2 - diacyl - sn - glycerol in which the 1 -  and 2 - acyl groups are specified as palmitoyl and linoleoyl respectively .
an aryl sulfate that is 4 - hydroxystyrene in which the hydroxy group has been replaced by a sulfooxy group .
an aryl sulfate that is 4 - ethylphenol in which the hydroxy group has been replaced by a sulfooxy group .
an aryl sulfate that is the 3 - hydroxy derivative of paracetamol sulfate .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of 3 - hydroxyisovaleric acid .
a dipeptide composed of l - glutamic acid and l - methionine joined by a peptide linkage .
a dipeptide composed of glutamic acid and phenylalanine joined together by a peptide linkage .
a dipeptide composed of glutamic acid and threonine joined by a peptide linkage .
a dipeptide composed of l - glutamic acid and l - tyrosine joined by a peptide linkage .
a n - acylglycinate that is the conjugate base of glycodeoxycholic acid .
a dicarboxylic acid monoanion that is the conjugate base of 2 -  ( 2 - carboxyethyl )  - 4 - methyl - 5 - propylfuran - 3 - carboxylic acid .
a cholestanoid that is cholest - 4 - en - 26 - oic acid substituted by an alpha - hydroxy group at position 7 and an oxo group at position 3 .
a steroid sulfate that is the 3 - sulfate of androsterone .
a steroid sulfate that is the 3 - sulfate of epiandrosterone .
an undecenoate that is the conjugate base of 10 - undecenoic acid .
a dodecenoate that is the conjugate base of 5 - dodecenoic acid .
a 1 - acyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphoethanolamine in which the acyl group is specified as stearoyl .
a monounsaturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of 10 - nonadecenoic acid .
a 1 - acyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphoethanolamine in which the acyl group is specified as linoleoyl .
a sulfamate ester that is 1 , 2 , 3 - oxathiazin - 4 ( 3h )  - one 2 , 2 - dioxide substituted by a methyl group at position 6 .
a glucocorticoid that has formula c21h28o5 .
an isoleucine derivative that is the n - acetyl derivative of isoleucine .
an o - octadecadienoyl - l - carnitine where the acyl group specified is linoleyl .
an amino sulfonic acid that is taurine substituted by an acetyl group at the n atom .
a phosphatidylcholine 34:3 in which the acyl groups specified at positions 1 and 2 are palmitoleoyl and linoleoyl respectively .
a phosphatidylcholine 38:4 in which the acyl groups at positions 1 and 2 are hexadecanoyl and  ( 7z , 10z , 13z , 16z )  - docosatetraenoyl respectively .
an o - acyl - l - carnitine in which the acyl group is specified as myristoyl  ( tetradecanoyl )  .
an o - tetradecenoyl - l - carnitine in which the acyl group is specified as myristoleoyl .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 54 carbons and 3 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 52 carbons and 4 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 52 carbons and 3 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 50 carbons and 2 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 50 carbons and 1 double bond .
an n - acetyl - d - amino acid in which the amino acid is d - methionine .
an amino - acid betaine that is trans - 4 - hydroxy - l - proline zwitterion in which both of the hydrogens attached to the nitrogen have been replaced by methyl groups .
a diglyceride in which the two acyl groups contain a total of 34 carbons and 2 double bonds .
a diglyceride in which the two acyl groups contain a total of 34 carbons and 1 double bond .
a diglyceride in which the two acyl groups contain a total of 36 carbons and 2 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 48 carbons and 2 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 48 carbons and 1 double bond .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 50 carbons and 3 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 52 carbons and 5 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 52 carbons and 2 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 54 carbons and 7 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 54 carbons and 5 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 54 carbons and 4 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 54 carbons and 2 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 56 carbons and 9 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 56 carbons and 8 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 56 carbons and 7 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 56 carbons and 6 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 56 carbons and 5 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 58 carbons and 10 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 58 carbons and 9 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 58 carbons and 8 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 58 carbons and 7 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 58 carbons and 6 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 48 carbons and 4 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 50 carbons and 4 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 54 carbons and 8 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 56 carbons and 4 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 56 carbons and 3 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 46 carbons and 0 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 46 carbons and 1 double bond .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 48 carbons and 0 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 48 carbons and 3 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 52 carbons and 6 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 54 carbons and 6 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 56 carbons and 10 double bonds .
an o - acyl - d - carnitine in which the acyl group specified as octanoyl .
a phosphatidylcholine 32:2 in which the acyl groups specified at positions 1 and 2 are tetradecanoyl and  ( 9z , 12z )  - octadecadienoyl respectively .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of 3 - methyladipic acid .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of 4 - guanidinobutanoic acid .
an arginine derivative that is arginine substituted by two methyl groups .
a monocarboxylic acid that is propanoic acid in which one of the hydrogens at position 3 has been replaced by a 4 - hydroxy - 3 - methoxyphenyl group .
a diglyceride  in which the two acyl groups contain a total of 36 carbons and 1 double bond .
human tbl1xr1 wild - type allele is located in the vicinity of 3q26 .32 and is approximately 186 kb in length .
a beta - d - glucosiduronic acid that is the ethyl derivative of beta - d - glucuronic acid .
a benzothiophene that has formula c28h27no4s .
a ketohexose monophosphate consisting of fructose having a phosphate group located at the 6 - position .
a phosphoglycerate obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group and one of the phosphate oh groups of 3 - phosphoglyceric acid .
an n ( 6 )  - acyl - l - lysine derivative in which the acyl group is specified as gamma - glutamyl .
a sulfone that has formula c17h14o4s .
a dpeptide obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of l - pyroglutamine with the amino group of l - glutamine
an n - alkylpyrrolidine that is nicotine in which the methylene hydrogens at position 2 on the pyrrolidine ring have been replaced by an oxo group and the pyridine nitrogen converted to the corresponding n - oxide .
a member of the class of furoic acids that is 2 - furoic acid substituted at position 5 by a hydroxymethyl group .
a steroid sulfate that is 17 - hydroxypregnenolone in which the hydroxy hydrogen at position 3 has been replaced by a sulfo group .
a n - acylglycine obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of propionic acid with the amino group of glycine .
a n - acylglycine obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of butyric acid with the amino group of glycine .
an n - acylglycine in which the acyl group is specified as 2 - hydroxybenzoyl .
an aryl sulfate that is trans - caffeic acid in which the phenolic hydrogen at position 3 is replaced by a sulfo group .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 44 carbons and 1 double bond .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 50 carbons and 5 double bonds .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 52 carbons and 1 double bond .
a triglyceride in which the three acyl groups contain a total of 54 carbons and 1 double bond .
an l - proline derivative obtained by replacement of the amino hydrogen by a methyl group .
a lysophosphatidylethanolamine in which the acyl group has a fully saturated c16 chain and is attached to the glycero moiety at either position 1 or 2 .
a sphingomyelin in which the total number of carbons contained in the sphingoid base and fatty acyl groups is 16 with zero double bonds .
a sphingomyelin in which the total number of carbons contained in the sphingoid base and fatty acyl groups is 22 with zero double bonds .
a sphingomyelin in which the total number of carbons contained in the sphingoid base and fatty acyl groups is 24 with zero double bonds .
a sphingomyelin in which the total number of carbons contained in the sphingoid base and fatty acyl groups is 24 with 1 double bond .
a lysophosphatidylethanolamine in which the acyl group  ( position not specified )  contains 18 carbons and 2 double bonds .
an ether compound having fluoromethyl and 1 , 1 , 1 , 3 , 3 , 3 - hexafluoroisopropyl as the two alkyl groups .
simvastatin  ( inn )   (   / smvsttn /  )  is a hypolipidemic drug used to control elevated cholesterol ,  or hypercholesterolemia .
an antibiotic that is produced by streptomyces achromogenes .
an alpha , omega - dicarboxylic acid that is the 1 , 6 - dicarboxy derivative of hexane .
a dicarboximide that is pyrrolidine which is substituted by oxo groups at positions 2 and 5 .
a sulfoxide that has formula c20h17fo3s .
an organosulfonate oxoanion that is the conjugate base of taurochenodeoxycholic acid arising from deprotonation of the sulfonate oh group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an involuntary muscular contraction involving a muscle of the abdomen or of a hollow organ within the abdomen .
a phenothiazine that has formula c21h26n2s2 .
a chromane that has formula c24h27no5s .
the sodium salt of valproic acid .
"an l - type calcium channel blocker of the phenylalkylamine class ."
a cell line cell that is expected to be capable of an unlimited number of divisions ,  and is thus able to support indefinite propagation in vitro as part of an immortal cell line .
ataxia - telangiectasia mutated gene ;  atm ataxia - telangiectasia ;  at
ataxia - telangiectasia mutated gene ;  atm ataxia - telangiectasia ;  at
apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
ataxia - telangiectasia ;  at ataxia - telangiectasia mutated gene ;  atm
ataxia - telangiectasia ;  at
ataxia - telangiectasia ;  at
ataxia - telangiectasia ;  at
ataxia - telangiectasia mutated gene ;  atm ataxia - telangiectasia ;  at
ataxia - telangiectasia ;  at
ataxia - telangiectasia ;  at
ataxia - telangiectasia ;  at
parkinsons panel: caucasian from the united states parkinson's disease
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 cytochrome p450 ,  subfamily iid ,  polypeptide 6 ;  cyp2d6 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  cytochrome p450 ,  subfamily iic ,  polypeptide 19 ;  cyp2c19
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 cytochrome p450 ,  subfamily iid ,  polypeptide 6 ;  cyp2d6 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
cytochrome p450 ,  subfamily iic ,  polypeptide 19 ;  cyp2c19 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  european caucasian panel of 24 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 cytochrome p450 ,  subfamily iic ,  polypeptide 9 ;  cyp2c9 cytochrome p450 ,  subfamily iid ,  polypeptide 6 ;  cyp2d6 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 24
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 snp500 panel
snp500 panel human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
snp500 panel human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
snp500 panel human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
snp500 panel human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
cytochrome p450 ,  subfamily iid ,  polypeptide 6 ;  cyp2d6 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 cytochrome p450 ,  subfamily iid ,  polypeptide 6 ;  cyp2d6 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
parkinson's disease parkinsons panel: caucasian from the united states
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 )  human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 50 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 200 human variation panel  -  caucasian panel of 100  ( set 1 ) 
ataxia - telangiectasia ;  at
aneuploid chromosome number  -  trisomy trisomy 21
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 8 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 24 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 16
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 16 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 24
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 24
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 24
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 24
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 16 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 24
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 16 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 24
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 16 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 24 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50
udp - glycosyltransferase 1 family ,  polypeptide a1 ;  ugt1a1 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 8 udp - glycosyltransferase 1 family ,  polypeptide a1 ;  ugt1a1 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 16 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 24
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 24 udp - glycosyltransferase 1 family ,  polypeptide a1 ;  ugt1a1 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 16 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 8
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 16 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 24 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 8
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 16 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 8 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 24
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
udp - glycosyltransferase 1 family ,  polypeptide a1 ;  ugt1a1 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 16 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 24 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 8 udp - glycosyltransferase 1 family ,  polypeptide a1 ;  ugt1a1
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 16 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 8 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 24
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 24 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 16 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 8
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 24 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 16 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 udp - glycosyltransferase 1 family ,  polypeptide a1 ;  ugt1a1
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 udp - glycosyltransferase 1 family ,  polypeptide a1 ;  ugt1a1
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 24 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 16
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 24
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 16 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 24 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 16 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 24
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 24 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 24 udp - glycosyltransferase 1 family ,  polypeptide a1 ;  ugt1a1 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50
udp - glycosyltransferase 1 family ,  polypeptide a1 ;  ugt1a1 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 24 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
udp - glycosyltransferase 1 family ,  polypeptide a1 ;  ugt1a1 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100
human variation panel  -  african american panel of 100 human variation panel  -  african american panel of 50 udp - glycosyltransferase 1 family ,  polypeptide a1 ;  ugt1a1
parkinsons panel: caucasian from the united states parkinson's disease
parkinsons panel: caucasian from the united states parkinson's disease
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 8 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 24 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 16 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 16 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 24
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 16 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 24
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 16 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 24
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 16 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 24 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 24 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 24 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 24 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 24 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 24 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 16 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 8 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 24
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 24 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 16 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 8
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 16 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 24 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 8
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
cytochrome p450 ,  subfamily iic ,  polypeptide 19 ;  cyp2c19 snp500 panel human variation panel  -  european caucasian panel of 8 human variation panel  -  european caucasian panel of 16 international hapmap project  -  ceph  ( plate i )   [ utah residents with ancestry from northern and western europe ]  human variation panel  -  european caucasian panel of 24 ceph / utah pedigree 1345
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 24 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 16
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 24
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 24 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 16 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 8
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 8 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 16 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 24
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 16 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 8 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 24 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 24 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 24 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 24 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 16
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 24 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 16 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 8
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 24 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 16
human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 24 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 100 human variation panel  -  han people of los angeles panel of 16
late onset parkinson's dna panel ,  affected individuals parkinson's disease
international hapmap project  -  ceph  ( plate i )   [ utah residents with ancestry from northern and western europe ]  ceph / utah pedigree 1375 cytochrome p450 ,  subfamily iic ,  polypeptide 19 ;  cyp2c19
ceph / utah pedigree 1349 international hapmap project  -  ceph  ( plate i )   [ utah residents with ancestry from northern and western europe ]  cytochrome p450 ,  subfamily iic ,  polypeptide 19 ;  cyp2c19
baltimore longitudinal study on aging  ( blsa )  gerontology research center  ( grc )  cell culture collection
lamin a / c ;  lmna hutchinson - gilford progeria syndrome ;  hgps
baltimore longitudinal study on aging  ( blsa )  gerontology research center  ( grc )  cell culture collection
baltimore longitudinal study on aging  ( blsa )  gerontology research center  ( grc )  cell culture collection
gerontology research center  ( grc )  cell culture collection baltimore longitudinal study on aging  ( blsa ) 
gerontology research center  ( grc )  cell culture collection baltimore longitudinal study on aging  ( blsa ) 
gerontology research center  ( grc )  cell culture collection baltimore longitudinal study on aging  ( blsa ) 
gerontology research center  ( grc )  cell culture collection baltimore longitudinal study on aging  ( blsa ) 
gerontology research center  ( grc )  cell culture collection baltimore longitudinal study on aging  ( blsa ) 
gerontology research center  ( grc )  cell culture collection baltimore longitudinal study on aging  ( blsa ) 
gerontology research center  ( grc )  cell culture collection baltimore longitudinal study on aging  ( blsa ) 
baltimore longitudinal study on aging  ( blsa )  gerontology research center  ( grc )  cell culture collection
lamin a / c ;  lmna hutchinson - gilford progeria syndrome ;  hgps
human variation panel  -  european caucasian panel of 24 international hapmap project  -  ceph  ( plate ii )   [ utah residents with ancestry from northern and western europe ]  human variation panel  -  european caucasian panel of 8 human variation panel  -  european caucasian panel of 16 ceph / utah pedigree 1424
human variation panel  -  european caucasian panel of 8 international hapmap project  -  ceph  ( plate ii )   [ utah residents with ancestry from northern and western europe ]  udp - glycosyltransferase 1 family ,  polypeptide a1 ;  ugt1a1 human variation panel  -  european caucasian panel of 24 human variation panel  -  european caucasian panel of 16 ceph / utah pedigree 1423
ceph / utah pedigree 1423 human variation panel  -  european caucasian panel of 16 international hapmap project  -  ceph  ( plate ii )   [ utah residents with ancestry from northern and western europe ]  human variation panel  -  european caucasian panel of 24 udp - glycosyltransferase 1 family ,  polypeptide a1 ;  ugt1a1
snp500 panel ceph / utah pedigree 1413
ceph / utah pedigree 1413 snp500 panel
translocated chromosome trisomy 21
population / convenience control
population / convenience control
cytochrome p450 ,  subfamily iic ,  polypeptide 9 ;  cyp2c9 dna polymorphism discovery resource collection
dna polymorphism discovery resource collection
ischemic stroke ndpt081 ischemic stroke dna panel
dna polymorphism discovery resource collection
dna polymorphism discovery resource collection
dna polymorphism discovery resource collection
cytochrome p450 ,  subfamily iic ,  polypeptide 9 ;  cyp2c9 dna polymorphism discovery resource collection
dna polymorphism discovery resource collection
dna polymorphism discovery resource collection
dna polymorphism discovery resource collection
dna polymorphism discovery resource collection
dna polymorphism discovery resource collection
dna polymorphism discovery resource collection
dna polymorphism discovery resource collection cytochrome p450 ,  subfamily iic ,  polypeptide 9 ;  cyp2c9
dna polymorphism discovery resource collection
dna polymorphism discovery resource collection
dna polymorphism discovery resource collection
parkinson's disease parkinsons panel: caucasian from the united states
population / convenience control
population / convenience control
dna polymorphism discovery resource collection
population / convenience control
dna polymorphism discovery resource collection cytochrome p450 ,  subfamily iic ,  polypeptide 9 ;  cyp2c9
dna polymorphism discovery resource collection
dna polymorphism discovery resource collection
dna polymorphism discovery resource collection
dna polymorphism discovery resource collection
dna polymorphism discovery resource collection
population / convenience control
apparently healthy non - fetal tissue non - obese controls monozygotic twin pairs
monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue non - obese controls
monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue non - obese controls
apparently healthy non - fetal tissue non - obese controls monozygotic twin pairs
non - obese controls monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
monozygotic twin pairs non - obese controls apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
non - obese controls apparently healthy non - fetal tissue monozygotic twin pairs
baltimore longitudinal study on aging  ( blsa )  gerontology research center  ( grc )  cell culture collection
non - obese controls monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
non - obese controls apparently healthy non - fetal tissue monozygotic twin pairs
monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue non - obese controls
monozygotic twin pairs non - obese controls apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
apparently healthy non - fetal tissue monozygotic twin pairs non - obese controls
non - obese controls monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
monozygotic twin pairs non - obese controls apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue non - obese controls
non - obese controls monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue non - obese controls
non - obese controls monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
monozygotic twin pairs non - obese controls apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
non - obese controls monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
non - obese controls monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
non - obese controls apparently healthy non - fetal tissue monozygotic twin pairs
non - obese controls apparently healthy non - fetal tissue monozygotic twin pairs
monozygotic twin pairs non - obese controls apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue non - obese controls
non - obese controls monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
non - obese controls apparently healthy non - fetal tissue monozygotic twin pairs
monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue non - obese controls
monozygotic twin pairs non - obese controls apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
monozygotic twin pairs non - obese controls apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
non - obese controls apparently healthy non - fetal tissue monozygotic twin pairs
non - obese controls monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
monozygotic twin pairs non - obese controls apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
non - obese controls monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
non - obese controls monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue non - obese controls
apparently healthy non - fetal tissue monozygotic twin pairs non - obese controls
apparently healthy non - fetal tissue non - obese controls monozygotic twin pairs
apparently healthy non - fetal tissue non - obese controls monozygotic twin pairs
monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue non - obese controls
monozygotic twin pairs non - obese controls apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
non - obese controls apparently healthy non - fetal tissue monozygotic twin pairs
non - obese controls monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
monozygotic twin pairs non - obese controls apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
non - obese controls monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
non - obese controls apparently healthy non - fetal tissue monozygotic twin pairs
monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue non - obese controls
monozygotic twin pairs apparently healthy non - fetal tissue non - obese controls
non - obese controls apparently healthy non - fetal tissue monozygotic twin pairs
non - obese controls apparently healthy non - fetal tissue
parkinsons panel: caucasian from the united states parkinson's disease
colorectal cancer ,  familial
ataxia - telangiectasia ;  at
baltimore longitudinal study on aging  ( blsa )  gerontology research center  ( grc )  cell culture collection
baltimore longitudinal study on aging  ( blsa )  gerontology research center  ( grc )  cell culture collection
ataxia - telangiectasia ;  at
parkinsons panel: caucasian from the united states parkinson's disease
ataxia - telangiectasia ;  at
ataxia - telangiectasia ;  at
baltimore longitudinal study on aging  ( blsa )  gerontology research center  ( grc )  cell culture collection
baltimore longitudinal study on aging  ( blsa )  gerontology research center  ( grc )  cell culture collection
gerontology research center  ( grc )  cell culture collection baltimore longitudinal study on aging  ( blsa ) 
baltimore longitudinal study on aging  ( blsa )  gerontology research center  ( grc )  cell culture collection
baltimore longitudinal study on aging  ( blsa )  gerontology research center  ( grc )  cell culture collection
baltimore longitudinal study on aging  ( blsa )  gerontology research center  ( grc )  cell culture collection
gerontology research center  ( grc )  cell culture collection baltimore longitudinal study on aging  ( blsa ) 
translocated chromosome
international hapmap project  -  ceph  ( plate i )   [ utah residents with ancestry from northern and western europe ]  ceph / utah pedigree 1340 cytochrome p450 ,  subfamily iic ,  polypeptide 19 ;  cyp2c19
a material entity of anatomical origin  ( part of or deriving from an organism )  that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
obsolete: a cell line cell that is expected to be capable of an unlimited number of divisions ,  and is thus able to support indefinite growth / propagation in vitro as part of a immortal cell line .
a cell found in the embryo before the formation of all the gem layers is complete .
a cell in vitro that is or has been maintained or propagated as part of a cell culture .
male germ cell is a germ cell that supports male gamete production .
a mature male germ cell that develops from a spermatid .
a female germ cell that has entered meiosis .
a female gamete where meiosis has progressed to metaphase ii and is able to participate in fertilization .
a cell that will develop into a neuron often after a migration phase .
a relatively undifferentiated cell that retains the ability to divide and proliferate throughout life to provide progenitor cells that can differentiate into specialized cells .
a stem cell from which all cells of the lymphoid and myeloid lineages develop ,  including blood cells and cells of the immune system .
a progenitor cell committed to the erythroid lineage .
a myeloid progenitor cell committed to the monocyte lineage .
a fully differentiated eosinophil ,  a granular leukocyte with a nucleus that usually has two lobes connected by one or more slender threads ,  and cytoplasm containing coarse ,  round granules that are uniform in size and which can be stained by the dye eosin .
a myeloblast committed to the neutrophil lineage .
a fully differentiated basophil ,  a granular leukocyte with an irregularly shaped ,  pale - staining nucleus that is partially constricted into two lobes ,  and with cytoplasm that contains coarse granules of variable size .
neural stem cell is characterized as an undifferentiated cell that originates from the neuroectoderm and has the capacity both to perpetually self - renew without differentiating and to generate multiple types of lineage - restricted progenitors .
a stem cell that can give rise to multiple lineages of cells .
a progenitor cell committed to myeloid lineage ,  including the megakaryocyte and erythroid lineages .
a progenitor cell committed to the megakaryocyte and erythroid lineages .
a oligopotent progenitor cell committed to the lymphoid lineage .
a precursor cell with a limited number of potential fates .
a cell that is commited to differentiating into a muscle cell .
a connective tissue cell which secretes an extracellular matrix rich in collagen and other macromolecules .
skeletogenic cell that secretes osteoid ,  is capable of producing mineralized  ( hydroxyapatite )  matrix ,  is located adjacent to or within osteoid tissue ,  and arises from the transformation of a preosteoblast cell .
a neurectoderm derived cell that lines the neural lumen .
a cell that is usually found in a two - dimensional sheet with a free surface .
an endothelial cell that lines the vasculature .
a flattened epithelial cell of mesenchymal origin that lines the serous cavity .
a cell which moves among different tissues of the body ,  via blood ,  lymph ,  or other medium .
a cell found predominately in the blood .
an epithelial cell of the pancreas .
a type of lymphocyte whose defining characteristic is the expression of a t cell receptor complex .
a tissue - resident macrophage of the reticuloendothelial system found on the luminal surface of the hepatic sinusoids involved in erythrocyte clearance .
a specialized phagocytic cell associated with the absorption and removal of the mineralized matrix of bone tissue ,  which typically differentiates from monocytes .
a leukocyte with abundant granules in the cytoplasm .
a fully differentiated neutrophil ,  a granular leukocyte having a nucleus with three to five lobes connected by slender threads ,  and cytoplasm containing fine inconspicuous granules and stainable by neutral dyes .
a cell that is found in almost all tissues containing numerous basophilic granules and capable of releasing large amounts of histamine and heparin upon activation .
most generally any neuron which is not motor or sensory .
an efferent neuron that passes from the central nervous system or a ganglion toward or to a muscle and conducts an impulse that causes or inhibits movement .
any neuron having a sensory function ;  an afferent neuron conveying sensory impulses .
a neuron that is part of nerve found outside the central nervous system .
an endothelial cell comprises the outermost layer or lining of anatomical structures and can be squamous or cuboidal .
a non - neuronal cell of the nervous system .
a class of large neuroglial  ( macroglial )  cells in the central nervous system  -  the largest and most numerous neuroglial cells in the brain and spinal cord .
a class of large neuroglial  ( macroglial )  cells in the central nervous system .
a central nervous system macrophage found in the parenchyma of the central nervous system .
a fat - storing cell found mostly in the abdominal cavity and subcutaneous tissue of mammals .
skeletogenic cell that is terminally differentiated ,  secretes an avascular ,  gag - rich matrix ,  is embedded in cartilage tissue matrix ,  retains the ability to divide ,  and develops from a chondroblast cell .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
a cell that specializes in controlled release of one or more substances .
epithelial progenitor cell of the lung .
a cell of the epithelial lining that produce and secrete mucins .
a large ,  oval stomach epithelial cell with a central nucleus ;  source of gastric acid .
a cell of an endocrine gland ,  ductless glands that secrete substances which are released directly into the circulation and which influence metabolism and other body functions .
an endocrine cell that has the specialized function to produce and secrete hormones in response to neuronal signals .
a cell that secretes insulin and is located towards the center of the islets of langerhans .
a type of enteocrine cell found in the periphery of the islets of langerhans that secretes glucagon .
a d cell located in the pancreas .
a leydig cell is a testosterone - secreting cell in the interstitial area ,  between the seminiferous tubules ,  in the testis .
the main structural component of the liver .
contractile cells resembling smooth muscle cells that are present in glands ,  notably the mammary gland ,  and aid in secretion .
a mature contractile cell ,  commonly known as a myocyte .
a non - striated ,  elongated ,  spindle - shaped cell found lining the digestive tract ,  uterus ,  and blood vessels .
a mechanoreceptor cell located in the inner ear that is sensitive to auditory stimuli .
a cell whose function is determined by the generation or the reception of an electric signal .
a supporting cell projecting inward from the basement membrane of seminiferous tubules .
a neuroglial cell of the peripheral nervous system which forms the insulating myelin sheaths of peripheral axons .
a cell of the middle germ layer of the embryo .
a red blood cell .in mammals ,  mature erythrocytes are biconcave disks containing hemoglobin whose function is to transport oxygen .
a non - nucleated disk - shaped cell formed by extrusion from megakaryocytes ,  found in the blood of all mammals ,  and mainly involved in blood coagulation .
a mononuclear phagocyte present in variety of tissues ,  typically differentiated from monocytes ,  capable of phagocytosing a variety of extracellular particulate material ,  including immune complexes ,  microorganisms ,  and dead cells .
a lymphocyte of b lineage with the phenotype cd19 - positive ,  cd20 - positive ,  and capable of b cell mediated immunity .
obsolete .use po:0020019 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete .use po:0020048 from plant ontology instead .
a cell of a filament of a fungal mycelium .
obsolete .use po:0000293 from plant ontology instead .
an epidermal cell which synthesizes keratin and undergoes a characteristic change as it moves upward from the basal layers of the epidermis to the cornified  ( horny )  layer of the skin .
a cell derived from the specialized ectoderm flanking each side of the embryonic neural plate ,  which after the closure of the neural tube ,  forms masses of cells that migrate out from the dorsal aspect of the neural tube to spread throughout the body .
a cell found within the adrenal medulla that secrete biogenic amine hormones upon stimulation .
a specialized mesenchymal cell that resides in the dermal papilla located at the bottom of hair follicles .
a cell lining the outside of the blastocyst .
a cell of the outer layer of a blastula that gives rise to the ectoderm after gastrulation .
an epithelial cell of the integument  ( the outer layer of an organism )  .
diploid cell produced by the fusion of sperm cell nucleus and egg cell .
the cell protoplasm after removal of the cell wall .
a cell whose nucleus has two haploid genomes .
a free floating cell ,  including amebocytes and eleocytes ,  in the coelom of certain animals ,  especially annelids .
a cell with extensive dendritic processes found in the b cell areas  ( primary follicles and germinal centers )  of lymphoid tissue .
a cell of hematopoietic origin ,  typically resident in particular tissues ,  specialized in the uptake ,  processing ,  and transport of antigens to lymph nodes for the purpose of stimulating an immune response via t cell activation .
langerhans cell is a conventional dendritic cell that has plasma membrane part cd207 .
a somatic epithelial cell of the ovarian follicle / egg chamber .
mast cell subtype whose granules contain both the serine proteases tryptase and chymase .
mast cell subtype that contains only the serine protease trypase in its granules .
a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that cooperates with other lymphocytes via direct contact or cytokine release to initiate a variety of immune functions .
a connective tissue cell of an organ found in the loose connective tissue .
a supporting cell for the developing female gamete in the ovary of mammals .
an epithelial cell found in the basal part of the intestinal glands  ( crypts of lieberkuhn )  including the appendix .
a precursor cell destined to differentiate into smooth muscle myocytes .
a myoblast that differentiates into skeletal muscle fibers .
a cell from the outer syncytial layer of the trophoblast of an early mammalian embryo ,  directly associated with the maternal blood supply .
the basic cellular unit of nervous tissue .
a lymphocyte is a leukocyte commonly found in the blood and lymph that has the characteristics of a large nucleus ,  a neutral staining cytoplasm ,  and prominent heterochromatin .
a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that has the phenotype t - bet - positive ,  cxcr3 - positive ,  ccr6 - negative ,  and is capable of producing interferon - gamma .
a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that has the phenotype gata - 3 - positive ,  cxcr3 - negative ,  ccr6 - negative ,  and is capable of producing interleukin - 4 .
an immature ,  nucleated erythrocyte occupying the stage of erythropoeisis that follows formation of erythroid progenitor cells .
a nucleated immature erythrocyte ,  having cytoplasm generally similar to that of the earlier proerythroblast but sometimes even more basophilic ,  and usually regular in outline .
a nucleated ,  immature erythrocyte in which the nucleus occupies a relatively smaller part of the cell than in its precursor ,  the basophilic erythroblast .
the final stage of the nucleated ,  immature erythrocyte ,  before nuclear loss .
the earliest cytologically identifiable precursor in the thrombocytic series .
a giant cell 50 to 100 micron in diameter ,  with a greatly lobulated nucleus ,  found in the bone marrow ;  mature blood platelets are released from its cytoplasm .
a hematopoietic progenitor cell that is committed to the granulocyte and monocyte lineages .
an immature erythrocyte that changes the protein composition of its plasma membrane by exosome formation and extrusion .
a precursor in the monocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between the monoblast and monocyte .
a late neutrophilic metamyelocyte in which the nucleus is indented to more than half the distance to the farthest nuclear margin but in no area being condensed to a single filament .
an erythrocyte having a nucleus .
a promyelocyte committed to the neutrophil lineage .
myeloid mononuclear recirculating leukocyte that can act as a precursor of tissue macrophages ,  osteoclasts and some populations of tissue dendritic cells .
a neutrophil precursor in the granulocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between a promyelocyte and a metamyelocyte ;  in this stage ,  production of primary granules is complete and neutrophil - specific granules has started .
a macrophage resident in the peritoneum under non - inflammatory conditions .
a neutrophil precursor in the granulocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between a myelocyte and the band form neutrophil .
a tissue - resident macrophage found in the alveoli of the lungs .
an epithelial cell that has its apical plasma membrane folded into microvilli to provide ample surface for the absorption of nutrients from the intestinal lumen .
the reproductive cell in multicellular organisms .
a specialized osteoclast associated with the absorption and removal of cementum .
an erythrocyte lacking a nucleus .
pyramidal neurons have a pyramid - shaped soma with the apex and an apical dendrite pointed toward the pial surface and other dendrites and an axon emerging from the base .
an asexual ,  nonmotile spore formed by higher fungi ;  conidia are usually made from the side or tip of specialized sporogenous cells and do not form by progressive cleavage of the cytoplasm .
a eosinophil precursor in the granulocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between a promyelocyte and a metamyelocyte ; in this stage ,  production of primary granules is complete and eosinophil - specific granules has started .
a progenitor cell committed to the basophil lineage .
a basophil precursor in the granulocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between a promyelocyte and a metamyelocyte ;  in this stage ,  production of primary granules is complete and basophil - specific granules has started .
a neuron that uses gaba as a vesicular neurotransmitter
a secretory cell that is grouped together with other cells of the same type to form grape shaped clusters known as acini  ( singular acinus )  .
a lymphocyte that can spontaneously kill a variety of target cells without prior antigenic activation via germline encoded activation receptors and also regulate immune responses via cytokine release and direct contact with other cells .
a mature alpha - beta t cell that expresses an alpha - beta t cell receptor and the cd4 coreceptor .
a t cell expressing an alpha - beta t cell receptor and the cd8 coreceptor .
a cell that can perform photosynthesis ,  in which carbohydrates are synthesized from carbon dioxide and water ,  using light as the energy source .
a cell that is found in the perisinusoidal space of the liver that is capable of multiple roles including storage of retinol ,  presentation of antigen to t cells  ( including cd1d - restricted nkt cells )  ,  and upon activation ,  production of extracellular matrix components that can contribute to liver fibrosis .
type of radial astrocyte in the cerebellar cortex that have their cell bodies in the purkinje cell layer and processes that extend into the molecular layer ,  terminating with bulbous endfeet at the pial surface .
undifferentiated ;  mitotic stem cell for other epithelial cell types ;  rounded or elliptical with little cytoplasm and few organelles ;  contain cytokeratin intermediate filament .
a phagocytic cell formed by the fusion of macrophages ,  occurs in chronic inflammatory responses to persistent microorganism such as m .tuberculosis ,  component of granulomas .
a cell type that encapsulates the capillaries and venules in the kidney .
a glomerular visceral epithelial cell is a specialized kidney epithelial cell that contains "feet" that interdigitate with the "feet" of other glomerular epithelial cells .
an elongated ,  contractile cell found wrapped about precapillary arterioles outside the basement membrane .
a primordial germ cell is a diploid germ cell precursors that transiently exist in the embryo before they enter into close association with the somatic cells of the gonad and become irreversibly committed as germ cells .
a neuron that releases dopamine as a neurotransmitter .
cumulus cell is a specialized granulosa cell that surrounds and nourishes the oocyte .
a stem cell that can give rise to cell types of the body other than those of the germ - line .
an achromatic cell of the myeloid or lymphoid lineages capable of ameboid movement ,  found in blood or other tissue .
cardiac muscle cells are striated muscle cells that are responsible for heart contraction .
a nucleated blood cell involved in coagulation ,  typically seen in birds and other non - mammalian vertebrates .
a cell of the monocyte ,  granulocyte ,  mast cell ,  megakaryocyte ,  or erythroid lineage .
a immature or mature cell in the lineage leading to and including erythrocytes .
a nucleated precursor of an erythrocyte that lacks hematopoietic lineage markers .
a cell of the monocyte ,  granulocyte ,  or mast cell lineage .
any of the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte that in its mature form has an irregularly shaped ,  pale - staining nucleus that is partially constricted into two lobes ,  and with cytoplasm that contains coarse ,  bluish - black granules of variable size .
any of the immature forms of a basophil ,  in which basophilic specific granules are present but other phenotypic features of the mature form may be lacking .
a basophil precursor in the granulocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between a basophilic myelocyte and a band form basophil .
a late basophilic metamyelocyte in which the nucleus is in the form of a curved or coiled band ,  not having acquired the typical multilobar shape of the mature basophil .
any of the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte with a nucleus that usually has two lobes connected by one or more slender threads of chromatin ,  and cytoplasm containing coarse ,  round granules that are uniform in size and which can be stained by the dye eosin .
any of the immature forms of an eosinophil ,  in which eosinophilic specific granules are present but other phenotypic features of the mature form may be lacking .
a eosinophil precursor in the granulocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between a eosinophilic myelocyte and a band form eosinophil .
a late eosinophilic metamyelocyte in which the nucleus is in the form of a curved or coiled band ,  not having acquired the typical multilobar shape of the mature eosinophil .
any of the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte that in its mature form has a nucleus with three to five lobes connected by slender threads of chromatin ,  and cytoplasm containing fine inconspicuous granules and stainable by neutral dyes .
any of the immature forms of a neutrophil in which neutrophilic specific granules are present but other phenotypic features of the mature form may be lacking .
a tissue - resident macrophage of the renal glomerular mesangium involved in the disposal and degradation of filtration residues ,  presentation of antigen to t cells and in tissue remodeling .
a specialized mononuclear osteoclast associated with the absorption and removal of bone ,  precursor of multinuclear osteoclasts .
a specialized multinuclear osteoclast associated with the absorption and removal of bone .
a specialized multinuclear osteoclast associated with the absorption and removal of cementum .
a specialized mononuclear osteoclast associated with the absorption and removal of cementum .
a dendritic cell of the myeloid lineage .
a dendritic cell type of distinct morphology ,  localization ,  and surface marker expression  ( cd123 - positive )  from other dendritic cell types and associated with early stage immune responses ,  particularly the release of physiologically abundant amounts of type i interferons in response to infection .
a b cell that is mature ,  having left the bone marrow .
a terminally differentiated ,  post - mitotic ,  antibody secreting cell of the b cell lineage with the phenotype cd138 - positive ,  surface immunonoglobulin - negative ,  and mhc class ii - negative .
a memory b cell is a mature b cell that is long - lived ,  readily activated upon re - encounter of its antigenic determinant ,  and has been selected for expression of higher affinity immunoglobulin .
a naive b cell is a mature b cell that has the phenotype surface igd - positive ,  surface igm - positive ,  cd20 - positive ,  cd27 - negative and that has not yet been activated by antigen in the periphery .
a t cell that expresses an alpha - beta t cell receptor complex .
an alpha - beta t cell that has an immature phenotype and has not completed t cell selection .
a alpha - beta t cell that has a mature phenotype .
a cd4 - positive ,  cd25 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that regulates overall immune responses as well as the responses of other t cell subsets through direct cell - cell contact and cytokine release .
a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that is found in the columnar epithelium of the gastrointestinal tract .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that is capable of killing target cells in an antigen specific manner with the phenotype perforin - positive and granzyme b - positive .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that regulates overall immune responses as well as the responses of other t cell subsets through direct cell - cell contact and cytokine release .
a alpha - beta intraepithelial t cell found in the columnar epithelium of the gastrointestinal tract .
a mature alpha - beta t cell of the columnar epithelium of the gastrointestinal tract .
a t cell that expresses a gamma - delta t cell receptor complex .
a gamma - delta t cell that has an immature phenotype .
a gamma - delta t cell that has a mature phenotype .
a mature gamma - delta t cell that is found in the columnar epithelium of the gastrointestinal tract .
a gamma - delta intraepithelial t cell that has the phenotype cd8 - alpha alpha - positive .
a gamma - delta intraepithelial t cell that has the phenotype cd4 - negative and cd8 - negative .
a thymocyte that has the phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - positive ,  cd44 - negative ,  cd25 - negative ,  and pre - tcr - positive .
a thymocyte that has the phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  cd44 - positive ,  and cd25 - positive .
a thymocyte that has the phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  cd44 - negative ,  and cd25 - positive and expressing the t cell receptor beta - chain in complex with the pre - t cell receptor alpha chain .
a thymocyte that has the phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  cd44 - negative ,  cd25 - negative ,  and pre - tcr - positive .
a thymocyte expressing the alpha - beta t cell receptor complex as well as both the cd4 and cd8 coreceptors .
an immature alpha - beta t cell that is located in the thymus and is cd4 - positive and cd8 - negative .
an immature alpha - beta t cell that is located in the thymus and is cd8 - positive and cd4 - negative .
a long - lived ,  antigen - experienced t cell that has acquired a memory phenotype including distinct surface markers and the ability to differentiate into an effector t cell upon antigen reexposure .
a mature alpha - beta t cell of a distinct lineage that bears natural killer markers and a t cell receptor specific for a limited set of ligands .
a t cell which regulates overall immune responses as well as the responses of other t cell subsets through direct cell - cell contact and cytokine release .
an immature b cell is a b cell that has the phenotype surface igm - positive and surface igd - negative ,  and have not undergone class immunoglobulin class switching or peripheral encounter with antigen and activation .
a precursor b cell is a b cell with the phenotype cd10 - positive .
an immature b cell of an intermediate stage between the pre - b cell stage and the mature naive stage with the phenotype surface igm - positive and cd19 - positive ,  and are subject to the process of b cell selection .
a b cell of distinct lineage and surface marker expression .
a b - 1 b cell that has the phenotype cd5 - positive .
a b - 1 b cell that has the phenotype cd5 - negative ,  but having other phenotypic attributes of a b - 1 b cell .
a conventional b cell subject to antigenic stimulation and dependent on t cell help and with a distinct surface marker expression pattern from b - 1 b cells .
a natural killer cell that is developmentally immature and expresses natural killer cell receptors  ( nkr )  .
a natural killer cell that is developmentally mature and expresses a variety of inhibitory and activating receptors that recognize mhc class i and other stress related molecules .
a lymphoid progenitor cell that is committed to the natural killer cell lineage ,  expressing cd122  ( il - 15 )  receptor ,  but lacking many of the phenotypic characteristics of later stages of natural killer cell development such as expression of nk activating and inhibitory molecules .
a progenitor cell of the b cell lineage ,  with some lineage specific activity such as early stages of recombination of b cell receptor genes ,  but not yet fully committed to the b cell lineage until the expression of pax5 occurs .
a lymphoid progenitor cell of the t cell lineage ,  with some lineage specific marker expression ,  but not yet fully committed to the t cell lineage .
a progenitor cell of the thrombocyte ,  a nucleated blood cell involved in coagulation typically seen in birds and other non - mammalian vertebrates .
a myeloblast committed to the basophil lineage .
a promyelocyte committed to the basophil lineage .
a progenitor cell of the mast cell lineage .
a myeloblast committed to the eosinophil lineage .
a promyelocyte committed to the eosinophil lineage .
a progenitor cell of the neutrophil lineage .
the most primitive precursor in the granulocytic series ,  having fine ,  evenly distributed chromatin ,  several nucleoli ,  a high nuclear - to - cytoplasmic ration  ( 5:1 - 7:1 )  ,  and a nongranular basophilic cytoplasm .
a precursor in the granulocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between a myeloblast and myelocyte ,  that has distinct nucleoli ,  a nuclear - to - cytoplasmic ratio of 5:1 to 3:1 ,  and containing a few primary cytoplasmic granules .
a hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell is multipotent ,  but not capable of long - term self - renewal .
a progenitor cell restricted to the lymphoid lineage .
a progenitor cell restricted to the myeloid lineage .
an immature cell of the conventional dendritic cell lineage ,  characterized by high levels of antigen uptake via endocytosis ,  macropinocytosis ,  and phagocytosis ,  and typically found resident in the tissues .
a mature cell of the conventional dendritic cell lineage ,  characterized by a high capacity for antigen presentation and typically found in a lymph node .
a leukocyte with a single non - segmented nucleus in the mature form .
a resting mature b cell that has the phenotype igm - positive ,  igd - positive ,  cd23 - positive and cd21 - positive ,  and found in the b cell follicles of the white pulp of the spleen or the corticol areas of the peripheral lymph nodes .
a rapidly cycling mature b cell that has distinct phenotypic characteristics and is involved in t - dependent immune responses and located typically in the germinal centers of lymph nodes .
a mature b cell that is located in the marginal zone of the spleen with the phenotype cd23 - negative and cd21 - positive and expressing a b cell receptor usually reactive to bacterial cell wall components or senescent self components such as oxidized - ldl .
a monocyte that responds rapidly to microbial stimuli by secreting cytokines and antimicrobial factors and which is characterized by high expression of ccr2 in both rodents and humans ,  negative for the lineage markers cd3 ,  cd19 ,  and cd20 ,  and of larger size than non - classical monocytes .
a macrophage which develops from an inflammatory monocyte and is recruited into the tissues in response to injury and infection as part of an inflammatory response .
a macrophage that suppresses immune responses .
an elicited macrophage that is recruited into the tissues in response to injury and infection as part of an inflammatory response ,  expresses high levels of pro - inflammatory cytokines ,  ros and no ,  and shows potent microbicidal activity .
a macrophage constitutively resident in a particular tissue under non - inflammatory conditions ,  and capable of phagocytosing a variety of extracellular particulate material ,  including immune complexes ,  microorganisms ,  and dead cells .
a gut - associated lymphoid tissue macrophage found in lamina propria of the gut .
a tissue - resident macrophage resident found in the thymus ,  involved in the clearance of apoptotic thymocytes .
a tissue - resident macrophage found in a secondary lymphoid organ .
a secondary lymphoid organ macrophage found in a lymph node .
a gut - associated lymphoid tissue macrophage found in tonsils .
a gut - associated lymphoid tissue macrophage found in the peyer's patches .
a secondary lymphoid organ macrophage found in the spleen .
a splenic macrophage found in the marginal zone of the spleen ,  involved in recognition and clearance of particulate material from the splenic circulation .
a splenic macrophage found in the areas surrounding the white pulp of the spleen ,  adjacent to the marginal sinus .
a splenic macrophage found in the red - pulp of the spleen ,  and involved in immune responses to blood - borne pathogens and in the clearance of senescent erythrocytes .
a type of monocyte characterized by low expression of ccr2 ,  low responsiveness to monocyte chemoattractant ccl2 / mcp1 ,  low phagocytic activity ,  and decrease size relative to classical monocytes ,  but increased co - stimulatory activity .
a splenic macrophage found in the white pulp of the spleen .
a splenic white pulp macrophage found in and around the germinal centers of the white pulp of the spleen that participates in phagocytosis of apoptotic b cells from the germinal centers .
a tissue - resident macrophage found in the central nervous system .
a central nervous system macrophage found in the meninges  ( the three membranes that surround the brain )  .
a central nervous system macrophage found at the interface between the blood and the cerebrospinal fluid in the brain .
a central nervous system macrophage found in small blood vessels in the brain .
a thymic macrophage found in the thymic medulla .
a thymic macrophage found in the thymic cortex .
a tissue - resident macrophage found in the mucosa associated lymphoid tissue .
a mucosa - associated lymphoid tissue macrophage found in the mucosa - associated lymphoid tissues of the gut .
a mucosa - associated lymphoid tissue macrophage found in the nasal and bronchial mucosa - associated lymphoid tissues .
a lymph node macrophage found in the subcapsular sinus of lymph nodes that participates in sensing ,  clearance ,  and antigen presentation of lymph - borne particulate antigens .
a lymph node macrophage found in the cortex of lymph nodes ,  in particular in and around the germinal centers ,  and that participates in phagocytosis of apoptotic b cells from the germinal centers .
an immature myeloid leukocyte of heterogeneous phenotype found particularly in cancer and sepsis patients that is capable of suppressing activity of t cells in ex vivo assays .
an elicited macrophage characterized by low production of pro - inflammatory and th1 polarizing cytokines and high expression of arginase - 1 ,  and associated with tissue remodelling .
an immature t cell located in the thymus .
a pro - t cell that has the phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  cd44 - positive ,  and cd25 - negative .
an antigen inexperienced cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype ccr7 - positive ,  cd127 - positive and cd62l - positive .
a recently activated cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype cd69 - positive ,  cd62l - negative ,  cd127 - negative ,  and cd25 - positive .
a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that has differentiated into a memory t cell .
mature t cell not yet exposed to antigen with the phenotype ccr7 - positive ,  cd45ra - positive ,  and cd127 - positive .
cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype rorgamma - t - positive ,  cxcr3 - negative ,  ccr6 - positive ,  and capable of producing il - 17 .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that has not experienced activation via antigen contact and has the phenotype cd45ra - positive ,  ccr7 - positive and cd127 - positive .
cd4 - positive alpha - beta t cell with regulatory function that produces il - 10 .
cd4 - positive alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype cd25 - positive ,  ctla - 4 - positive ,  and foxp3 - positive with regulatory function .
cd4 - positive alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype foxp3 - positive ,  cd25 - positive ,  cd62l - positive ,  and ctla - 4 positive with regulatory function .
cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cell with the phenotype ccr7 - positive ,  cd127 - positive ,  cd45ra - negative ,  cd45ro - positive ,  and cd25 - negative .
cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cell with the phenotype ccr7 - negative ,  cd127 - positive ,  cd45ra - negative ,  cd45ro - positive ,  and cd25 - negative .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype cd69 - positive ,  cd62l - negative ,  cd127 - negative ,  cd25 - positive ,  and ccr7 - negative .
cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cell with the phenotype ccr7 - positive ,  cd127 - positive ,  cd45ra - negative ,  cd45ro - positive ,  and cd25 - negative .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype cd69 - positive ,  cd62l - negative ,  cd127 - negative ,  and cd25 - positive ,  that secretes cytokines .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that has differentiated into a memory t cell .
a mature t cell that differentiated and acquired cytotoxic function with the phenotype perforin - positive and granzyme - b positive .
a differentiated t cell with ability to traffic to peripheral tissues and is capable of mounting a specific immune response .
a effector t cell that provides help in the form of secreted cytokines to other immune cells .
cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cell with the phenotype ccr7 - negative ,  cd127 - positive ,  cd45ra - negative ,  cd45ro - positive ,  and cd25 - negative .
an immature alpha - beta t - cell that express egr2 .
an alpha - beta intraepithelial t cell with the phenotype cd8 - alpha - alpha - positive located in the columnar epithelium of the gastrointestinal tract .
a mature gamma - delta t cell located in the epidermis that regulates wound healing .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta positive t cell that has the phenotype t - bet - positive ,  eomesodermin - positive ,  cxcr3 - positive ,  ccr6 - negative ,  and is capable of producing interferon - gamma .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta positive t cell expressing gata - 3 and secreting il - 4 .
a cd8 - positive alpha beta - positive t cell with the phenotype foxp3 - positive and having suppressor function .
cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta positive regulatory t cell with the phenotype cd28 - negative and foxp3 - positive .
an alpha - beta t cell expressing nk cell markers that is cd1d restricted and expresses specific v - alpha chains .
an alpha - beta t cell expressing nk call markers that is cd1d restricted and expresses a diverse tcr repertoire .
a type i nk t cell that has the phenotype cd4 - positive .
a type i nk t cell that has the phenotype cd4 - negative and cd8 - negative .
a type i nk t cell that has been recently activated ,  secretes interferon - gamma and il - 4 ,  and has the phenotype cd4 - positive ,  cd69 - positive ,  and downregulated nk markers .
a mature nk t cell that secretes interferon - gamma and enhances type 1 immune responses .
a mature nk t cell that predominantly secretes type 2 cytokines such as interleukin - 4 and interleukin - 13 and enhances type 2 immune responses .
a type i nk t cell that has been recently activated ,  secretes interferon - gamma and interleukin - 4 ,  and has phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  cd69 - positive ,  and downregulated nk markers .
a mature nk t cell that secretes interferon - gamma and enhances th1 immune responses .
a mature nk t cell that secretes interleukin - 4 and enhances th2 immune responses .
a type ii nk t cell that has been recently activated ,  secretes interferon - gamma and interleukin - 4 ,  and has the phenotype cd69 - positive and downregulated nk markers .
a type ii nk t cell that has been recently activated ,  secretes interferon - gamma ,  and has the phenotype cd69 - positive and downregulated nk markers .
a type ii nk t cell that has been recently activated ,  secretes interleukin - 4 ,  and has the phenotype cd69 - positive and downregulated nk markers .
a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that has cytotoxic function .
a cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  alpha - beta intraepithelial t cell that is found in the columnar epithelium of the gastrointestinal tract .
a lymphoid progenitor cell that is found in bone marrow ,  gives rise to b cells ,  t cells ,  natural killer cells and dendritic cells ,  and has the phenotype lin - negative ,  kit - positive ,  sca - 1 - positive ,  flt3 - positive ,  cd34 - positive ,  cd150 negative ,  and glya - negative .
cell committed to natural killer cell lineage that has the phenotype cd122 - positive ,  cd34 - positive ,  and cd117 - positive .
nk cell that has the phenotype cd56 - bright ,  cd16 - negative ,  and cd84 - positive with the function to secrete interferon - gamma but is not cytotoxic .
a mature natural killer cell that has the phenotype cd56 - low ,  cd16 - positive and which is capable of cytotoxicity and cytokine production .
an alpha - beta t cell that is found in the lamina propria of mucosal tissues and is restricted by the mr - 1 molecule .
a dendritic cell arising in thymus that has the phenotype cd11c - positive ,  cd11b - negative ,  and cd45ra - negative .
a plasmacytoid dendritic cell developing in the thymus with phenotype cd11c - negative or low ,  cd45ra - positive ,  cd11b - negative ,  and cd123 - positive .
a be cell that facilitates development of t - helper 1  ( th1 )  phenotype in cd4 - positive t cells ,  and secretes high levels of interleukin - 2 ,  tumor necrosis factor - alpha and interferon - gamma .
a be cell that facilitates development of t - helper 2  ( th2 )  phenotype t cells ,  and secretes high levels of interleukin - 2 ,  interleukin - 10 ,  interleukin - 4 ,  and interleukin - 6 .
a lymphocyte of b lineage with the commitment to express an immunoglobulin complex .
a lymphocyte of b lineage that is devoted to secreting large amounts of immunoglobulin .
a long lived plasma cell that secretes ige .
a class switched memory b cell that expresses ige on the cell surface .
a plasmablast that secretes igd ,  and which occur in a small proportion of b cells in the adult .
a plasmablast that secretes ige .
a short lived plasma cell that secretes ige .
an prebrc - positive large pre - b - ii cell is a large pre - b - ii cell that is pre - b cell receptor - positive ,  composed of surrogate light chain protein  ( sl )  ,  which is composed of vpreb  ,  lambda 5 / 14 .1 ,  in complex with immunoglobulin mu heavy chain  ( ighmu )  on the cell surface .
a pre - bcr - negative large pre - b - ii cell is a large pre - b - ii cell that is pre - b cell receptor - negative ,  composed of surrogate light chain protein  ( sl )  ,  which is composed of vpreb and lambda 5 / 14 .1 ,  in complex with immunoglobulin mu heavy chain  ( ighmu )  ,  on the cell surface ,  and lack a dna rearrangement of immunoglobulin light chain genes .
a small pre - b - ii cell is a pre - b - ii cell that is rag1 - positive ,  rag2 - positive ,  pre - bcr - negative ,  and bcr - negative ,  is not proliferating ,  and carries a dna rearrangement of one or more immunoglobulin light chain genes .
a pre - b - ii cell is a precursor b cell that expresses immunoglobulin mu heavy chain  ( ighmu +  )  ,  and lack expression of cd34 ,  tdt ,  immunoglobulin kappa light chain and immunoglobulin lambda light chain .
a pre - b - i cell is a precursor b cell that expresses cd34 and surrogate immunoglobulin light chain  ( vpreb  ,  lambda 5  ( mouse )  / 14 .1  ( human )  )  on the cell surface ,  and tdt ,  rag1 , and rag2 intracellularly .
a large pre - b - ii cell is a pre - b - ii cell that is proliferating and is rag1 - negative and rag2 - negative .
a transitional stage b cell that migrates from the bone marrow into the peripheral circulation ,  and finally to the spleen .
a transitional stage b cell that has the phenotype surface igm - positive ,  surface igd - postive ,  cd21 - positive ,  cd23 - positive ,  cd62l - negative ,  cd93 - positive and is located in the splenic b follicles .
a transitional stage b cell that expresses surface igm and igd ,  and cd62l .
a follicular b cell that is igd - positive ,  cd23 - negative ,  and cd38 - negative .
a follicular b cell that is igd - positive and cd23 - positive and cd38 - positive .
a germinal center b cell that develops from a bm3 b cell .
a germinal center b cell that founds a germinal center ,  and has the phenotype igd - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  and cd23 - negative .
a germinal center b cell that is rapidly dividing and has the phenotype igd - negative ,  cd38 - positive ,  and cd77 - positive .
a germinal center b cell that has the phenotype cd77 - negative ,  igd - negative ,  and cd38 - positive .
a memory b cell arising in the germinal center that is igd - negative and has undergone somatic mutation of the variable region of the immunoglobulin heavy and light chain genes .
a mature b cell that produces cytokines that can influence cd4 t cell differentiation .
a mature b cell that has the phenotype cd1d - positive and expresses interleukin - 10 .
an unswitched memory b cell is a memory b cell that has the phenotype igm - positive ,  igd - positive ,  cd27 - positive ,  cd138 - negative ,  igg - negative ,  ige - negative ,  and iga - negative .
an igm memory b cell is an unswitched memory b cell with the phenotype igm - positive and igd - negative .
a class switched memory b cell is a memory b cell that has undergone ig class switching and therefore is igm - negative on the cell surface .
a class switched memory b cell that expresses iga .
a fully differentiated plasma cell that lives for years ,  as opposed to months ,  secretes immunoglobulin ,  and has the phenotype weakly cd19 - positive ,  cd20 - negative ,  cd38 - negative ,  strongly cd138 - positive ,  mhc class ii - negative ,  surface immunoglobulin - negative ,  igd - negative ,  and strongly cxcr4 - positive .
a fully differentiated plasma cell that lives for months .
a short lived plasma cell that secretes iga .
a short lived plasma cell that secretes igg .
a short lived plasma cell that secretes igm .
an igg memory b cell is a class switched memory b cell that is class switched and expresses igg on the cell surface .
an activated mature  ( naive or memory )  b cell that is secreting immunoglobulin ,  typified by being cd27 - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  cd138 - negative .
a memory b cell with the phenotype igd - negative and cd27 - negative .
a plasmablast that secretes igg .
a plasmablast that secretes igm .
a plasmablast that secretes iga .
a fully differentiated plasma cell that secretes igg .
a fully differentiated plasma cell that secretes igm .
a fully differentiated plasma cell that secretes iga .
a cell of a hematopoietic lineage .
cd11c - low plasmacytoid dendritic cell is a leukocyte that is cd11c - low ,  cd45r - positive ,  gr1 - positive and cd11b - negative .
conventional dendritic cell is a dendritic cell that is cd11c - high .
cd11c - negative plasmacytoid dendritic cell is a leukocyte is cd11c - negative ,  cd45ra - positive ,  cd85g - positive ( ilt7 )  ,  cd123 - positive ,  cd303 - positive .
immature cd11c - low plasmacytoid dendritic cell is a cd11c - low plasmacytoid dendritic cell that is cd80 - low and cd86 - low .
mature cd11c - low plasmacytoid dendritic cell is a cd11c - low plasmacytoid dendritic cell that is cd83 - high and is cd80 - positive ,  cd86 - positive ,  and mhcii - positive .
immature cd11c - negative plasmacytoid dendritic cell is a cd11c - negative plasmacytoid dendritic cell is cd80 - negative ,  cd86 - low and mhcii - low .
mature cd11c - negative plasmacytoid dendritic cell is a cd11c - negative plasmacytoid dendritic cell is cd80 - high ,  cd86 - high ,  mhcii - high and is cd83 - positive .
immature cd8_alpha - negative cd11b - positive dendritic cell is a cd8_alpha - negative cd11b - positive dendritic cell that is cd80 - low ,  cd86 - low ,  and mhcii - low .
cd8_alpha - negative cd11b - negative dendritic cell is a conventional dendritic cell that is cd11b - negative ,  cd4 - negative cd8_alpha - negative and is cd205 - positive .
cd8_alpha - negative cd11b - positive dendritic cell is a conventional dendritic cell that is cd11b - positive ,  cd4 - positive and is cd205 - negative and cd8_alpha - negative .
cd8_alpha - positive cd11b - negative dendritic cell is a conventional dendritic cell that is cd11b - negative ,  cd4 - negative and is cd205 - positive and cd8_alpha - positive .
immature cd8_alpha - negative cd11b - negative dendritic cell is a cd8_alpha - negative cd11b - negative dendritic cell that is cd80 - low ,  cd86 - low ,  and mhcii - low .
mature cd8_alpha - negative cd11b - negative dendritic cell is a cd8_alpha - negative cd11b - negative dendritic cell that is cd80 - high ,  cd86 - high ,  mhcii - high and is cd83 - positive .
mature cd8_alpha - negative cd11b - positive dendritic cell is a cd8_alpha - negative cd11b - positive dendritic cell that is cd80 - high ,  cd86 - high ,  mhcii - high and is cd83 - positive .
immature cd8_alpha - positive cd11b - negative dendritic cell is a cd8_alpha - positive cd11b - negative dendritic cell that is cd80 - low ,  cd86 - low ,  and mhcii - low .
mature cd8_alpha - positive cd11b - negative dendritic cell is a cd8_alpha - positive cd11b - negative dendritic cell that is cd80 - high ,  cd86 - high ,  mhcii - high and is cd83 - positive .
dermal dendritic cell is a conventional dendritic cell that is cd11b - positive ,  cd205 - positive and cd8 alpha - negative .
interstitial dendritic cell is a conventional dendritic cell that is cd11b - positive ,  cd1a - positive ,  cd206 - positive ,  cd209 - positive ,  and cd36 - positive .
a hematopoietic stem cell that has plasma membrane part kit - positive ,  sca - 1 - positive ,  cd150 - positive and cd34 - negative .
immature dermal dendritic cell is a dermal dendritic cell that is cd80 - low ,  cd86 - low ,  and mhcii - low .
mature dermal dendritic cell is a dermal dendritic cell that is cd80 - high ,  cd86 - high ,  mhcii - high and is cd83 - positive .
immature interstitial dendritic cell is a interstitial dendritic cell that is cd80 - low ,  cd86 - low ,  and mhcii - low .
mature interstitial dendritic cell is a interstitial dendritic cell that is cd80 - high ,  cd86 - high ,  mhcii - high and is cd83 - positive .
cd1a - positive langerhans cell is a langerhans_cell that is cd1a - positive and cd324 - positive .
cd8_alpha - low langerhans cell is a langerhans cell that is cd205 - high and is cd8_alpha - low .
immature cd1a - positive langerhans cell is a cd1a - positive langerhans cell that is cd80 - low ,  cd86 - low ,  and mhcii - low .
mature cd1a - positive langerhans cell is a cd1a - positive langerhans cell that is cd80 - high ,  cd86 - high ,  mhcii - high and is cd83 - positive .
immature cd8_alpha - low langerhans cell is a cd8_alpha - low langerhans cell that is cd80 - low ,  cd86 - low ,  and mhcii - low .
mature cd8_alpha - low langerhans cell is a cd8_alpha - low langerhans cell that that is cd80 - high ,  cd86 - high ,  mhcii - high and is cd83 - positive .
a common lymphoid progenitor that is cd10 - positive ,  cd45ra - positive ,  cd34 - positive and cd38 - positive .
cd115 - positive monocyte is a monocyte that is cd115 - positive and cd11b - positive .
a common myeloid progenitor that is kit - positive and cd34 - positive ,  il7ra - negative ,  and is sca1 - low and fcgr2 - low and fcgr3 - low .
cd133 - positive hematopoietic stem cell is a hematopoietic stem cell that is cd34 - positive ,  cd90 - positive ,  and cd133 - positive .
a common lymphoid progenitor that is kit - low ,  flt3 - positive ,  il7ralpha - positive ,  and sca1 - low .
a common myeloid progenitor that is cd34 - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  il3ra - low ,  cd10 - negative ,  cd7 - negative ,  cd45ra - negative ,  and il - 5ralpha - negative .
cd7 - negative lymphoid progenitor cell is a lymphoid progenitor cell that is cd34 - positive ,  cd7 - negative and cd45ra - negative .
cd7 - positive lymphoid progenitor cell is a lymphoid progenitor cell that is cd34 - positive ,  cd7 - positive and is cd45ra - negative .
common dendritic precursor is a hematopoietic progenitor cell that is cd117 - low ,  cd135 - positive ,  cd115 - positive and lacks plasma membrane parts for hematopoietic lineage markers .
an abnormal cell exhibiting dysregulation of cell proliferation or programmed cell death and capable of forming a neoplasm ,  an aggregate of cells in the form of a tumor mass or an excess number of abnormal cells  ( liquid tumor )  within an organism .
an innate lymphoid cell that is capable of producing the type 1 cytokine ifn - gamma ,  but not th2 or th17 cell - associated cytokines .
an innate lymphoid cell that is capable of producing t - helper 2 - cell associated cytokines upon stimulation .
an innate lymphoid cell that constituitively expresses rorgt and is capable of expressing il17a and / or il - 22 .
an erythroid progenitor cell is kit - positive ,  ly6a - negative ,  cd41 - negative ,  cd127 - negative ,  and cd123 - negative .
a granulocyte monocyte progenitor is cd34 - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  il - 3receptor - alpha - positive and is cd45ra - negative .
a granulocyte monocyte progenitor that is kit - positive ,  cd34 - positive ,  fc - gamma receptor ii / ii - positive ,  and is sca - 1 - negative ,  il7ra - negative ,  cxc3r1 - negative ,  and cd90 - negative .
an erythroid progenitor cell that is cd34 - positive and is glya - negative .
a proerythoblast that is cd34 - negative and glya - negative .
a megakaryocyte erythroid progenitor cell is cd34 - positive ,  cd38 - positive and is il3 - receptor alpha - negative and cd45ra - negative .
a megakaryocyte erythroid progenitor cell that is kit - positive and is sca1 - negative ,  cd34 - negative ,  cd90 - negative ,  il7r - alpha - negative and fcgr ii / iii - low .
a lineage marker - negative ,  cd34 - positive ,  il5r - alpha - positive ,  and sca1 - negative eosinophil progenitor cell .
a lineage marker - negative ,  cd34 - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  il3r - alpha - positive ,  il5r - alpha - positive ,  and cd45ra - negative eosinophil progenitor cell .
a progenitor cell that can give rise to plasmacytoid and myeloid dendritic cells ,  and to monocytes and macrophages .
a lin - negative ,  mhc - ii - negative ,  cd11c - positive ,  flt3 - positive cell with intermediate expression of sirp - alpha .
a progenitor cell that can give rise to plasmacytoid and myeloid dendritic cells ,  and to monocytes and macrophages .
a proerythoblast that is kit - low ,  lyg76 - positive ,  and cd71 - positive .
a basophilic erythroblast that is glya - positive .
a basophilic erythroblast that is lyg 76 - high and is kit - negative .
a polychromatophilic erythroblast that is lyg 76 - high and is kit - negative .
a polychromatiic erythroblast that is gly - a - positive and cd71 - low .
an orthochromatophilic erythroblast that is ter119 - high ,  cd71 - low ,  and kit - negative .
an erythroblast that is glya - positive and cd71 - negative .
a reticulocyte that is ly76 - high and is kit - negative .
a reticulocyte that is glya - positive .
an enucleate erythrocyte that is glya - positive .
an enucleate erythrocyte that is lyg - 76 - high .
a megakaroycotye progenitor cell that is cd34 - positive ,  cd41 - positive and cd42 - positive on the cell surface .
a megakaryocyte progenitor cell that is kit - positive ,  cd41 - positive ,  cd9 - positive ,  sca - 1 - negative ,  il7ralpha - negative ,  cd150 - negative ,  and fcgamma receptor ii / iii - low .
a megakaryocyte progenitor cell that is cd34 - positive ,  cd41 - positive ,  and cd42 - negative .
a megakaryocyte progenitor cell that is cd34 - negative ,  cd41 - positive and cd42 - positive .
a megakaryocyte cell with is cd9 - positive and cd41 - positive .
a cell type that can give rise to basophil and mast cells .
a lineage - negative ,  kit - positive ,  cd45 - positive mast cell progenitor that is fc - epsilon rialpha - low .
a lineage negative ,  sca1 - negative basophil progenitor cell that is fc epsilon rialpha - high .
a hematopoietic progenitor cell that is capable of developing into only one lineage of hematopoietic cells .
a hematopoietic oligopotent progenitor cell that has the ability to differentiate into limited cell types but lacks lineage cell markers and self renewal capabilities .
a hematopoietic stem cell capable of rapid replenishment of myeloerythroid progenitors and limited self renewal capability .
a hematopoietic stem cell with long term self renewal capability .
a hematopoietic progenitor that has restricted self - renewal capability .
a hematopoietic progenitor that has some limited self - renewal capability .
intraepithelial t cells with a memory phenotype of cd2 - positive ,  cd5 - positive ,  and cd44 - positive .
a cd4 - positive ,  cxcr5 - positive ,  ccr7 - negative alpha - beta t cell located in follicles of secondary lymph nodes that expresses is bcl6 - high ,  icos - high and pd1 - high ,  and stimulates follicular b cells to undergo class - switching and antibody production .
a cd24 - high ,  cd4 - low ,  cd8 - low ,  cd44 - negative ,  nk1 .1 - negative nk t cell .
a cd24 - low ,  cd44 - negative ,  nk1 .1 - negative nk t cell .
a cd24 - low ,  cd44 - positive ,  dx5 - low ,  nk1 .1 - negative nk t cell .
a cd24 - low ,  cd44 - positive ,  dx5 - high ,  nk1 .1 - negative nk t cell .
a hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell that is cd34 - positive ,  cd38 - negative ,  cd45ra - negative ,  and cd90 - negative .
a basophil mast progenitor cell that is beta - 7 integrin - high ,  kit - positive fcrgammaii / iii - positive and sca1 - negative .
a pro - b cell that cd45r / b220 - positive ,  cd43 - positive ,  hsa - low ,  bp - 1 - negative and ly6c - negative .
a pro - b cell that is cd22 - positive ,  cd34 - positive ,  cd38 - positive and tdt - positive  ( has tdt activity )  .
a precursor b cell that is cd45ra - positive ,  cd43 - positive ,  cd24 - positive and bp - 1 - negative .
a pre - b cell precursor is cd19 - low ,  cd22 - positive  ,  cd34 - positive ,  cd38 - positive .
a precursor b cell is cd45r - positive ,  cd43 - positive ,  cd24 - positive ,  and bp - positive .
a pre - bcr - positive precursor b cell that is cd24 - high ,  cd25 - positive ,  cd43 - positive ,  cd45r - positive and bp - positive .
a pre - bcr positive b cell that is cd38 - high .
a pre - b cell that is pre - bcr - negative ,  and the kappa -  and lambda -  light immunoglobulin light chain - negative ,  cd43 - low ,  and is bp - 1 - positive ,  cd45r - positive and cd25 - positive .
a small pre - b cell that is cd22 - positive and cd38 - low .
an immature b cell that is igm - positive ,  cd45r - positive ,  cd43 - low ,  cd25 - negative ,  and cd127 - negative .
an immature b cell that is cd38 - negative ,  cd10 - low ,  cd21 - low ,  and cd22 - high .
a mature b cell subset originally defined as having being cd45r - positive ,  igm - positive ,  igd - positive and cd43 - negative .
a classical monocyte that is cd14 - positive ,  cd16 - negative ,  cd64 - positive ,  cd163 - positive .
a resident monocyte that is gr - 1 low ,  cd43 - positive ,  and cx3cr1 - positive .
a conventional thymic dendritic cell that is cd8alpha - positive .
a melanin - containing macrophage that obtains the pigment by phagocytosis of melanosomes .
a t - helper cell that is characterized by secreting interleukin 9 and responding to helminth infections .
a type i pneumocyte is a flattened ,  branched pneumocyte that covers more than 98% of the alveolar surface .
a type ii pneumocyte is a pneumocyte that modulates the fluid surrounding the alveolar epithelium by secreting and recycling surfactants .
epithelial cell found in the ducts of the pancreas .
a leukocyte that lacks granules .
a group 2 innate lymphoid cell in the mouse capable of secreting il - 13 in response to a helminth infection .
a cell found in the bone marrow .
a cd38 - positive naive b cell is a mature b cell that has the phenotype cd38 - positive ,  surface igd - positive ,  surface igm - positive ,  and cd27 - negative ,  and that has not yet been activated by antigen in the periphery .
a cd38 - negative naive b cell is a mature b cell that has the phenotype cd38 - negative ,  surface igd - positive ,  surface igm - positive ,  and cd27 - negative ,  that has not yet been activated by antigen in the periphery .
an igg - positive double negative memory b cell is a double negative memory b cell with the phenotype igg - positive ,  igd - negative ,  and cd27 - negative .
an igg - negative double negative memory b cell is a double negative memory b cell with the phenotype igg - negative ,  igd - negative ,  and cd27 - negative .
a cd38 - positive igg memory b cell is a class switched memory b cell that expresses igg on the cell surface with the phenotype cd38 - positive and igg - positive .
an igd - positive cd38 - positive igg memory b cell is a cd38 - positive igg - positive class switched memory b cell that has class switched and expresses igd on the cell surface with the phenotype igd - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  and igg - positive .
an igd - negative cd38 - positive igg memory b cell is a cd38 - positive igg - positive that has class switched and lacks expression of igd on the cell surface with the phenotype igd - negative ,  cd38 - positive ,  and igg - positive .
a cd38 - negative igg memory b cell is a igg - positive class switched memory b cell that has class switched and expresses igg on the cell surface with the phenotype cd38 - negative ,  igd - negative ,  and igg - positive .
a b220 - positive cd38 - positive naive b cell is a cd38 - positive naive b cell that has the phenotype b220 - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  surface igd - positive ,  surface igm - positive ,  and cd27 - negative ,  and that has not yet been activated by antigen in the periphery .
a b220 - low cd38 - positive naive b cell is a cd38 - positive naive b cell that has the phenotype b220 - low ,  cd38 - positive ,  surface igd - positive ,  surface igm - positive ,  and cd27 - negative ,  that has not yet been activated by antigen in the periphery .
an cd38 - negative unswitched memory b cell is an unswitched memory b cell that has the phenotype cd38 - negative ,  igd - positive ,  cd138 - negative ,  and igg - negative .
a b220 - positive cd38 - negative unswitched memory b cell is a cd38 - negative unswitched memory b cell that has the phenotype b220 - positive ,  cd38 - negative ,  igd - positive ,  cd138 - negative ,  and igg - negative .
a b220 - low cd38 - negative unswitched memory b cell is a cd38 - negative unswitched memory b cell that has the phenotype b220 - low ,  cd38 - negative ,  igd - positive ,  cd138 - negative ,  and igg - negative .
a cd38 - positive unswitched memory b cell is an unswitched memory b cell that has the phenotype cd38 - positive ,  igd - positive ,  cd138 - negative ,  and igg - negative .
a b220 - positive cd38 - positive unswitched memory b cell is a cd38 - positive unswitched memory b cell that has the phenotype b220 - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  igd - positive ,  cd138 - negative ,  and igg - negative .
a b220 - low cd38 - positive unswitched memory b cell is a cd38 - positive unswitched memory b cell that has the phenotype b220 - low ,  cd38 - positive ,  igd - positive ,  cd138 - negative ,  and igg - negative .
a class switched memory b cell that lacks igg on the cell surface .
a cd38 - negative igg - negative memory b cell is a igg - negative class switched memory b cell that lacks igg on the cell surface with the phenotype cd38 - negative and igg - negative .
a cd38 - positive igg - negative memory b cell is an igg - negative class switched memory b cell that lacks igg on the cell surface with the phenotype cd38 - positive and igg - negative .
an cd24 - positive cd38 - negative igg - negative memory b cell is a cd38 - negative igg - negative class switched memory b cell that lacks igg on the cell surface with the phenotype cd24 - positive ,  cd38 - negative ,  and igg - negative .
a cd24 - negative cd38 - negative igg - negative memory b cell is a cd38 - negative igg - negative class switched memory b cell that lacks igg on the cell surface with the phenotype cd24 - negative ,  cd38 - negative ,  and igg - negative .
a b220 - positive cd38 - positive igg - negative memory b cell is a cd38 - positive igg - negative class switched memory b cell that lacks igg on the cell surface with the phenotype b220 - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  and igg - negative .
a b220 - low cd38 - positive igg - negative memory b cell is a cd38 - positive igg - negative class switched memory b cell that lacks igg on the cell surface with the phenotype b220 - low ,  cd38 - positive ,  and igg - positive .
a circulating gamma - delta t cell that is cd27 - positive and capable of producing ifn - gamma .
a circulating gamma - delta t cell that expresses rorgamma ( t )  ,  is cd27 - negative and is capable of il - 17 secretion .
a cd25 - positive ,  cd27 - positive immature gamma - delta t cell found in the thymus that has an immature phenotype  ( i .e .
a t cell with a receptor of limited diversity that is capable of immediate effector functions upon stimulation .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that has the phenotype cxcr3 - negative ,  ccr6 - positive ,  ccr5 - high ,  cd45ra - negative ,  and capable of producing il - 17 and some ifng .
an endothelial cell found in capillaries .
epithelioid macrophage is an activated macrophage that resembles an epithelial cell with finely granular ,  pale eosinophilic cytoplasm and central ,  ovoid nucleus  ( oval or elongate )  .
a promyelocyte that is considerably smaller ,  with more condensed chromatin ,  and nucleoli are no longer conspicuous .
a promyelocyte with a nucleus that is indented and contains more marginated heterochromatin compared to its precursor cell  ( myeloblast )  ;  cytoplasm is deeply basophilic and contains numerous mitochondria and meandering cysternae of endoplasmic reticulum ;  largest of the granulocyte lineages .
a crenated erythrocyte with 30 +  crenations ,  bumps or spurs that are the result of damage due to age or disease .
an endothelial cell found in the glomerulus of the kidney .
a cell involved in the formation of a granulocyte .
a eosinophil precursor in the granulocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between a myelocyte and a band form cell .
a cell type that is the first of the maturation stages of the granulocytic leukocytes normally found in the bone marrow .
a cell involved in the formation of a monocyte  ( monopoiesis )  .
a renal intercalated cell that secretes base and reabsorbs acid in the coritcal collecting duct to mantain acid / base balance .
a cell type found in the gastrointestinal and respiratory tracts that is characterized by the presence of a tuft of blunt ,  squat microvilli  ( 120 - 140 per cell )  .
a trophoblast that leaves the placenta and invades the endometrium and myometrium .
a double negative thymocyte that has a t cell receptor consisting of a gamma chain that has as part a vgamma3 segment ,  and a delta chain .
an epithelial cell of the prostate .
a hematopoeitic stem cell found in the blood .
a tissue macrophage that is in the pleural space .
a pluripotent stem cell has the ability to form cells from all three germ layers  ( ectoderm ,  mesoderm ,  and endoderm )  .
an epithelial cell of the large intestine .
a pp cell located in the islets of the pancreas .
a mesothelial cell capable of circulating in the blood by first losing its squamous character .
a cell that is part of the nervous system .
a cell of the embryo .
a stem cell of embryonic origin .
an epithelial cell of the mammary gland .
an undifferentiated fibroblast that can be stimulated to form a fat cell .
a natural killer cell that is developmentally immature ,  has the phenotype cd34 - negative ,  cd56 - positive ,  cd117 - positive ,  cd122 - positive , and cd161 - positive .
a circulating endothelial cell of the phenotype cd146 - positive ,  cd105 - positive ,  cd45 - negative .
a natural killer cell subset that is found in the decidual of the uterus and is cd56 - high ,  galectin - 1 - positive and cd16 - negative .
a natural killer cell that is developmentally immature ,  has the phenotype cd34 - negative ,  cd56 - negative ,  cd117 - positive ,  cd122 - positive , and cd161 - positive .
an immature natural killer cell that is nk1 .1 - positive ,  dx5 - positive ,  ly49 - positive ,  cd27 - low and cd11b - low .
an immature natural killer cell that is nk1 .1 - positive and dx - 5 negative .
a mature natural killer cell that is cd27 - high and cd11b - high .
a cd27 - low ,  cd11b - high natural killer cell that has a higher threshold of activation due to higher expression of inhibitory receptors .
a natural killer cell that is cd27 - high and cd11b - low .
a multi - fate stem cell that is able to differentiate into the pancreas alpha ,  beta and delta endocrine cells .
a hematopoietic stem cell that exists during embryogenesis .
a hematopoietic stem cell that resides in the fetal liver .
a hematopoietic stem found in the yolk sac .
a large nucleated basophilic erythrocyte found in mammalian embryos .
a primitive erythrocyte that has undergone enucleation .
a fetal liver derived enucleated erythrocyte .
derived from the greek word pyren  ( the pit of a stone fruit )  ,  this is a transient nucleated cell type that results from exclusion of the nucleus from the primitive erythrocyte .
a hematopoietic stem cell of the placenta .
a hematopoietic stem cell from the aorta - gonad - mesonephros region of the developing embryo .
a progenitor cell that is capable of forming colonies of primitive erythrocytes in the blood island of the yolk sac .
a keratocyte is a specialized fibroblastresiding in the cornea stroma that has a flattened ,  dendritic cell located between the lamellae with a large flattened nucleus and lengthy processes which communicate with neighboring cells .
an epithelial cell of the cortical portion of the thymus .
an epithelial cell of the medullary thymus .
an endo - epithelial cell of the respiratory tract .
a simple columnar epithelial cell that secretes mucin .
a cell of an organism that does not pass on its genetic material to the organism's offspring  ( i .e .
a double negative thymocyte that has a t cell receptor consisting of a gamma chain containing a vgamma2 segment ,  and a delta chain .
a monocyte that has characteristics of both patrolling and inflammatory monocytes .
a myeloid dendritic cell found in the blood ,  lymph nodes ,  tonsil ,  bone marrow ,  and spleen that is cd141 - positive  ( bdca - 3 )  ,  xcr1 - positive ,  and clec9a - positive .
a resident monocyte that is gr - 1 high ,  cd43 - negative ,  cx3cr1 - negative ,  cd115 - positive ,  and b220 - negative .
a patrolling monocyte that is cd14 - low and cd16 - positive .
a cd14 - positive monocyte that is also cd16 - positive and ccr2 - negative .
an intermediate monocyte that is gr1 - positive ,  cd43 - positive .
a myeloid dendritic cell found in the blood that is cd1c - positive .
a precursor b cell that is aa4 - positive ,  igm - negative ,  cd19 - positive ,  cd43 - positive and hsa - positive .
a thymocyte that has a t cell receptor consisting of a gamma chain that has as part a vgamma3 segment ,  and a delta chain .
a resting mature b cell within the peyer's patch that is cd19 - positive ,  b220 - positive ,  igm - positive ,  aa4 - negative ,  cd23 - positive ,  cd43 - negative ,  and cd5 - negative .
a thymocyte that has a t cell receptor consisting of a gamma chain containing vgamma2 segment ,  and a delta chain .
a thymocyte found in the fetal thymus .
a post - natal thymocyte expressing components of the gamma - delta t cell receptor .
a double negative post - natal thymocyte that has a t cell receptor consisting of a gamma chain containing a vgamma2 segment ,  and a delta chain .
a thymocyte that has a t cell receptor consisting of a gamma chain containing vgamma2 segment ,  and a delta chain .
a double negative post - natal thymocyte that has a t cell receptor consisting of a gamma chain that does not contain a vgamma2 segment ,  and a delta chain .
a thymocyte that has a t cell receptor consisting of a gamma chain that does not contain the vgamma2 segment ,  and a delta chain .
a cell that is found in the periacinar space of the exocrine pancreas and in perivascular and periductal regions of the pancreas ,  and has long cytoplasmic processes that encircle the base of the acinus .
a gamma - delta receptor that expresses vgamma1 .1 but does not express vdelta6 .3 chains in the t - cell receptor .
a gamma - delta receptor that expresses vgamma1 .1 - vdelta6 .3 chains in the t - cell receptor .
a vgamma1 .1 - positive ,  vdelta6 .3 - negative thymocyte that is cd24 - negative .
a vgamma1 .1 - positive ,  vdelta6 .3 - negative thymocyte that is cd24 - positive .
a vgamma1 .1 - positive ,  vdelta6 .3 - positive thymocyte that is cd24 - positive .
a vgamma1 .1 - positive ,  vdelta6 .3 - positive thymocyte that is cd24 - negative .
an immature or mature cell of the first erythroid lineage to arise during embryonic development .
a t cell that expresses a t cell receptor complex and has completed t cell selection .
a t cell that has not completed t cell selection .
a reticulocyte that retains the nucleus and other organelles .
a reticulocyte lacking a nucleus and showing a basophilic reticulum under vital staining due to the presence of ribosomes .
a dn2 thymocyte that is kit - hi .
a dn2 thymocyte that is kit - low .
a pro - t cell that is lin - negative ,  cd25 - negative ,  cd127 - negative ,  cd44 - positive and kit - positive .
a mature natural killer cell that is cd11b - positive and cd27 - positive .
a double - positive ,  alpha - beta thymocyte that is small and not proliferating .
a double - positive thymocyte that is large  ( i .e .
a double - positive thymocyte that is cd69 - positive and has begun positive selection .
a double - positive thymocyte that is undergoing positive selection ,  has high expression of the alpha - beta t cell receptor ,  is cd69 - positive ,  and is in the process of down regulating the cd4 co - receptor .
a double - positive thymocyte that is undergoing positive selection ,  has high expression of the alpha - beta t cell receptor ,  is cd69 - positive ,  and is in the process of down regulating the cd8 co - receptor .
a cd4 - positive ,  cd8 - negative thymocyte that is cd24 - positive and expresses high levels of the alpha - beta t cell receptor .
a cd4 - positive ,  cd8 - negative thymocyte that expresses high levels of the alpha - beta t cell receptor and is cd69 - positive .
a cd8 - positive ,  cd4 - negative thymocyte that is cd24 - positive and expresses high levels of the alpha - beta t cell receptor .
a cd8 - positive ,  cd4 - negative thymocyte that expresses high levels of the alpha - beta t cell receptor and is cd69 - positive .
a mature cd4 - positive ,  cd8 - negative alpha - beta t cell found in the thymus that is cd24 - low and has high expression of the t cell receptor .
a mature cd8 - positive ,  cd4 - negative alpha - beta t cell found in the thymus that is cd24 - low and has high expression of the t cell receptor .
a mature nk cell that is nk1 .1 - positive .
a nk1 .1 - positive t cell that is nkga2 - positive .
a nk1 .1 - positive t cell that is ly49d - positive .
a nk1 .1 - positive t cell that is cd94 - positive .
a nk1 .1 - positive t cell that is cd94 - negative and ly49cl - negative .
a nk1 .1 - positive t cell that is ly49cl - positive .
a nk1 .1 - positive t cell that is ly49h - positive .
a nk1 .1 - positive t cell that is ly49d - negative .
a nk1 .1 - positive t cell that is ly49cl - negative .
a nk1 .1 - positive t cell that is cd94 - negative .
a nk1 .1 - positive t cell that is ly49h - negative .
a nk1 .1 - positive t cell that is cd94 - positive and ly49cl - positive .
a multi - fate stem cell that is the source of cells for growth of the mammary gland during puberty and gestation .
the cell type from which oligodendrocytes develop .
cd4 - negative ,  cd8_alpha - negative ,  cd11b - positive dendritic cell is a conventional dendritic cell that is cd11b - positive ,  cd4 - negative ,  cd8_alpha - negative and is cd205 - positive .
a cd11c - low plasmacytoid dendritic cell that is cd8alpha - negative and cd4 - positive .
a cd11c - low plasmacytoid dendritic cell that is cd8alpha - positive and cd4 - positive .
a langerhans cell that is in the epidermis and is cd45 - positive ,  mhcii - positive ,  and cd11b - positive .
a dermal dendritic cell that is langerin - positive and cd103 - positive .
a dermal dendritic cell that is langerin - negative ,  cd103 - negative ,  and cd11b - positive .
a conventional thymic dendritic cell that is cd8alpha - negative .
a conventional dendritic cell that is cd103 - positive .
a f4 / 80 - negative dendritic cell located in adipose tissue .
an adipose dendritic cell that is sirpa - positive .
an adipose dendritic cell that is sirpa - negative .
a conventional dendritic cell that expresses cd11b  ( itgam )  .
a cd11b - positive dendritic cell located in the serosal portion of the small intestine epithelium .
a myeloid suppressor cell that is gr1 - high and cd11c - negative .
a myeloid suppressor cell that is gr1 - low and cd11c - positive .
gr1 - high monocyte that lacks mhc - ii receptor complex .
gr1 - high monocyte that has a mhc - ii receptor complex .
gr1 - low non - classical monocyte that lacks expression of a mhc - ii complex .
gr1 - low non - classical monocyte that has low to intermediate expression of the mhc - ii complex .
gr1 - low non - classical monocyte that has high surface expression of a mhc - ii complex .
a mhc - ii - negative classical monocyte located in lymphoid tissue that is f4 / 80 - positive ,  cd11c - negative ,  and cd11b - high .
a mhc - ii - negative classical monocyte located in lymphoid tissue that is f4 / 80 - positive ,  cd11c - intermediate ,  and cd11b - high .
a tissue - resident macrophage located in the bone marrow .
a macrophage located in adipose tissue that is cd45 - positive ,  cd11c - positive ,  and sirpa - positive .
an adipose macrophage that does not express f4 / 80but is mhc - ii - positive .
an adipose macrophage that does not express mhc - ii but is f4 / 80 - positive .
a thymocyte that lacks expression of cd4 and cd8 .
a t cell that is located in the intestinal epithelium and is capable of a mucosal immune response .
a cd11b - positive dendritic cell that is cd11b - high ,  cd45 - positive ,  mhc - ii - positive and cd103 - negative .
a cd11b - positive dendritic cell that is cd11b - low ,  cd45 - positive ,  mhc - ii - high and cd103 - positive that is located in the liver .
a dermal dendritic cell isolated from skin draining lymph nodes that is langerin - positive ,  mhc - ii - positive ,  and cd4 - negative and cd8a - negative .
a dermal dendritic cell isolated from skin draining lymph nodes that is langerin - negative ,  mhc - ii - positive ,  and cd4 - negative and cd8a - negative .
a langerin - positive lymph node dendritic cell that is cd103 - positive and cd11b - low .
a langerin - positive lymph node dendritic cell that is cd103 - negative and cd11b - high .
a langerin - negative lymph node dendritic cell that is cd103 - negative and cd11b - low .
a langerin - negative lymph node dendritic cell that is cd103 - negative and cd11b - high .
a cd8alpha alpha positive gamma - delta intraepithelial t cell that expresses a tcr encoded in part by the vgamma5 gene segment .
a cd8alpha alpha positive gamma - delta intraepithelial t cell that does not express a tcr partially encoded by the vgamma5 gene segment .
a dermal dendritic cell that is cd1a - negative and cd14 - positive .
an immature cd14 - positive dermal dendritic cell is cd80 - low ,  cd86 - low ,  and mhcii - low .
a mature cd14 - positive dermal dendritic cell is cd80 - high ,  cd86 - high ,  mhcii - high and is cd83 - positive .
a dermal dendritic cell that is cd1a - positive and cd14 - negative .
an immature cd1a - positive dermal dendritic cell is cd80 - low ,  cd86 - low ,  and mhcii - low .
a mature cd1a - positive dermal dendritic cell is cd80 - high ,  cd83 - positive ,  cd86 - high ,  and mhcii - high .
a myeloid dendritic cell found in the blood that is cd16 - positive .
an immature cd16 - positive myeloid dendritic cell is cd80 - low ,  cd86 - low ,  and mhcii - low .
a mature cd16 - positive myeloid dendritic cell is cd80 - high ,  cd83 - positive ,  cd86 - high ,  and mhcii - high .
a mesenchymal stem cell that is part of the bone marrow .
a fibroblast that is part of lung .
an epithelial cell of the intestine .
a smooth muscle cell of the uterus .
a neuron of the hippocampus .
a fat cell that is part of the breast .
an endothelial cell of the umbilical vein .
an adult angioblastic cell released from the bone marrow ,  capable of blood circulation and participation in angiogenesis by differentiating into blood vessel endothelial cells .
a basal cell in the respiratory tract .
a cuboidal epithelial cell of the kidney which secretes acid and reabsorbs base to regulate acid / base balance .
ghrelin secreting cells found in the exocrine pancreas .
any cell in the retina ,  the innermost layer or coating at the back of the eyeball ,  which is sensitive to light and in which the optic nerve terminates .
an endothelial cell that is part of the hepatic sinusoid .
an epithelial cell that is part of the glomerular parietal epithelium .
an epithelial cell that is part of the bile duct .
a specialized ,  enlarged ,  connective tissue cell of the decidua with enlarged nucleus ,  dense membranebound secretory granules and cytoplasmic accumulation of glycogen and lipid droplets .
any endothelial cell of artery that is part of a coronary artery .
any osteoblast that is part of a skull .
any leukocyte that is part of a spleen .
oval eosinophilic histiocytes with granules and vacuoles found in placenta ,  which are of mesenchymal origin ,  in mesoderm of the chorionic villus ,  particularly numerous in early pregnancy .
a neurodegenerative disease that is characterized by the abnormal accumulation of aggregates of alpha - synuclein protein in neurons ,  nerve fibres or glial cells .
infection with protozoa of the genus trypanosoma .
an infection of the small intestine caused by the flagellated protozoan giardia lamblia .
sarcoidosis affecting the lung parenchyma .
an infection that is caused by trichomonas .
a common sexually transmitted bacterial infection caused by neisseria gonorrhoeae .
a plant environment involving the application of an abiotic or biotic treatment .
a chemical treatment  ( eo:0007189 )  involving the application of inorganic chemical ( s )  .
an inorganic gas treatment  ( eo:0001055 )  that involves the application of carbon dioxide  ( chebi:16526 )  .
a phosphate treatment  ( eo:0001006 )  involving exposure to limiting amounts or absence of phosphate  ( chebi:18367 )  .
an iron nutrient regimen  ( eo:0007242 )  involving exposure to limiting amounts or the absence of iron  ( chebi:18248 )  .
a nitrate regimen  ( eo:0007406 )  involving exposure to limiting amounts or the absence of nitrate  ( chebi:17632 )  .
an inorganic chemical treatment  ( eo:0001004 )  involving the application of a gas or mixture of gases .
a carbon dioxide treatment  ( eo:0001020 )  involving an increased concentration of carbon dioxide  ( chebi:16526 )  .
treatment involving the use of sodium chloride salt as supplement to liquid and soil growth media to study various types of responses on its application .
the treatment involving growing plants and exposing them to soil growth media with varying contents .
the treatment suggesting the use of liquid growth media for growing the plants .
a growth hormone treatment  ( eo:0007165 )  involving the use of ethylene  ( or its homolog )  growth hormone to study various types of responses on its extrinsic and / or intrinsic application .
in biological experiments often it refer to the length of the exposure time .
a growth hormone treatment  ( eo:0007165 )  involving the use of abscisic acid  ( or its homolog )  growth hormone to study various types of responses on its extrinsic and / or intrinsic application .
the treatment using uv - c light either exclusively or as part of a supplemental electromagnetic radiation in the wavelength range of 280 - 10nm
in biological experiments it refer to the treatment involving radiation in terms of length of the exposure time .
the treatment involving an exposure to a given type of radiation .
the treatment involving continuous exposure of light to the plant .
a chemical treatment  ( eo:0007189 )  involving the use of growth hormones to study various types of responses on their extrinsic and / or intrinsic application .
the treatment involving exposure of plants to varying levels of ph of the growth media .
the treatment involving an exposure to above optimal temperature ,  which may depend on the study type or the regional environment .
the treatment involving an exposure to cold or sub - optimal temperature ,  which may depend on the study type or the regional environment .
a chemical treatment  ( eo:0007189 )  involving use of salts as supplement to liquid and soil growth media to study various types of responses on their application .
an abiotic plant treatment  ( eo:0007191 )  involving the application of chemical ( s )  .
a plant treatment  ( eo:0001001 )  involving the application of chemical or non - biological factors .
the treatment involving day light as the light of the sun or the artificial light in a growth chamber .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to short day light duration followed by a long night cycle .
the treatment using far red light either exclusively or as part of a supplemental light treatment involving red color light in the wavelength range of 800 - 700 nm .
the treatment using red light either exclusively or as part of a supplemental light treatment involving red color light in the wavelength range of 780 - 622 nm .
the treatment using uv - b light either exclusively or as part of a supplemental light involving electromagnetic radiation in the wavelength range of 315 - 10nm .
a plant experimental condition  ( eo:0007359 )  or set of conditions describing what kind of plant growth facility was used for the experiment .
a plant chemical treatment  ( eo:0007189 )  involving a plant nutrient or a combination of plant nutrients .
the treatment where the plants were grown under green house conditions .
the treatment where the plants were grown under field conditions .
the treatment involving study type in which plants were grown in growth chambers .
the treatment involving continuous exposure to darkness  ( no light )  to the plant .
the brown planthopper  ( nilaparvata lugens )  is a typical vascular feeder and considered one of the most serious pests of all rice herbivores .
the treatment involving an exposure to above optimal air temperature ,  which may depend on the study type or the regional environment .
the phylum nematoda  ( roundworms )  is one of the most common phyla of animals ,  estimated to contain over a million species .
a plant treatment  ( eo:0001001 )  involving the application of a biotic or biological factor such as a microbe ,  insect ,  animal ,  or plant or a combination thereof .
an environment in plant experiments to understand how plants respond to episodic drought and watering pulse by depriving the plants of water supply
mesoderm that originates anterior to the cephalic furrow .
primordium of the posterior spiracle of the larva .
the primordium that will develop into the anterior midgut of both larva and adult .
the precursor of the posterior part of the endoderm ,  prior to its invagination during stage 7 .
primordium of the late extended germ band and closure embryo that gives rise to the larval inner optic anlage .
the stomatogastric system of the embryo .
neuropil associated cns glial cell located along the midline in the ventral nerve cord .
any ganglion mother cell  ( fbbt:00005149 )  that is part of some embryo  ( fbbt:00000052 )  .
hemocyte of the embryo and larva .
component of the larval ring gland that is continuous with the corpus cardiacum at its ventroposterior end ,  encircles the aorta ,  and surrounds the medially - located corpus allatum at its dorsoanterior end  ( dai and gilbert ,  1991 ;  de velasco et al . ,  2004 ;  nassel and zandawala ,  2020 )  .
a sac shaped epithelial structure in the larva that gives rise to part of the adult integumentary system .
imaginal disc that ,  in the adults ,  gives rise to the eye ,  antenna ,  head capsule  ( including all bristles and external membranes )  and the maxillary palps  ( cohen ,  1993 )  .
anterior ,  bulbous portion of the eye - antennal disc that gives rise to the eye as well as contributing to the head capsule  ( cohen ,  1993 )  .
imaginal disc of the ventral prothoracic segment .
insulin - producing neuron with a cell body in the pars intercerebralis .
bulbous ,  distal - most segment of the haltere .
specialized region of the female egg cytoplasm characterized by the presence of dense organelles  ( polar granules )  .
small ,  bilaterally paired gland that lies behind the spermathecae and is connected to the uterus by a duct .
the fat body primordium after the gonadal sheath primordium splits from it during stage 14 .
circular fiber of the visceral muscles ,  which surround the intestinal tract .
anlage in statu nascendi of the amnioserosa in a stage 5 embryo that will give rise to the amnioserosa anlage .
anlage in statu nascendi of the hindgut in a stage 5 embryo that will give rise to the hindgut anlage .
anlage of the embryonic foregut .
embryonic structure from which the mushroom body is derived .
primordium of the late embryonic pars intercerebralis .
primordium that will form the secretory body of the embryonic / larval salivary gland .
primordium of the late extended germ band and dorsal closure embryo that will give rise to the embryonic precursor of the adult muscle .
primordium of the embryonic / larval somatic musculature .
primordium of the embryonic central brain in the extended germ band and dorsal closure embryo .
primordium which is formed by the delamination of neuroblasts from the ventral neurogenic region .
neuroblast of the ventral midline of the embryonic ventral nerve cord .
neuron of the embryonic or larval ventral midline .
sense organ of the embryonic antennal segment that gives rise to the dorsal organ of the larval head .
tracheole of the embryo .
foregut of the embryo .
inner layer of the proventriculus of the embryo .
intermediate layer of the proventriculus of the embryo .
outer layer of the proventriculus of the embryo .
imaginal cell ,  set aside during embryonic development ,  that will give rise to the adult posterior foregut .
esophagus of the embryo .it invaginates to form part of the proventriculus .
floor of the embryonic pharynx .
any internal compound sense organ  ( fbbt:00007236 )  that is part of some embryonic foregut  ( fbbt:00005606 )  .
sense organ of the embryonic maxillary segment that gives rise to the terminal organ of the larval head .
posterior region of the embryonic gut ,  posterior to the embryonic midgut .
tip cell of the embryonic malpighian tubule .
imaginal cell ,  set aside during embryonic development ,  that will give rise to the adult hindgut .
brain of the embryo that excludes the optic lobes .
glial cell of the embryonic central brain .
surface glial cell of the embryonic central brain .
neuron of the embryonic central brain .
pars intercerebralis of the late embryo that develops from the pars intercerebralis primordium .
a small paired ganglion of the embryonic stomatogastric nervous system attached to the anterior surface of the brain .
small ganglion of the embryonic stomatogastric nervous system .
epidermis of the dorsal region of the embryo .
dorsal halve of an embryonic apodeme .
cell at the leading edge of the dorsal epidermis during dorsal closure .
anal pad of the embryo .
ventral halve of an embryonic apodeme .
primordium of the late extended germ band and closure embryo that gives rise to the larval outer optic anlage .
imaginal tissue that has a ventral location .
any material anatomical entity  ( fbbt:00007016 )  that capable of some endocrine hormone secretion  ( go:0060986 )  .
anlage of the embryonic central brain in the gastrula embryo that will give rise to the central brain primordium .
anlage in statu nascendi in the blastoderm embryo that will give rise to the embryonic hypopharynx .
primordium of the late extended germ band and closure stage embryo that will give rise to the hypopharyngeal organ of the larva pharynx .
unpaired neuron with its cell body found along the midline of the embryonic / larval ventral nerve cord  ( fontana and crews ,  2012 )  .
primordium of the amnioserosa in the early extended germ band embryo .
tracheal primordium that develops into the embryonic / larval visceral branch .
this primordium first becomes distinct at around stage 11 as a group of cells at the posterior tip of the visceral mesoderm  ( the tail end of the germ - band )  .
region of the tracheal primordium that gives rise to the embryonic / larval dorsal trunk .
primordium that develops into a primary trachea .
a 'whorl' of larval oenocyte precursors which forms transiently around each 'chordotonal precursor cell c1' during stage 11 .
primordium of the gastric caecum of the larva .
primordium of the embryo that will give rise to the adult eye .
temporal ordering number  -  330 .
the inner membrane of a joint capsule surrounding a freely movable joint .
a process in which an organism or part of an organism participates towards the generation of offspring .
 a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
progression through the phases of the mitotic cell cycle ,  the most common eukaryotic cell cycle ,  which canonically comprises four successive phases called g1 ,  s ,  g2 ,  and m and includes replication of the genome and the subsequent segregation of chromosomes into daughter cells .
 a change in the morphology or behavior of a cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand .
an inflammatory response resulting in cell death or dysfunction mediated by activation of the classical complement pathway or induction of effector cell phagocytosis ,  cytolysis mechanisms via complement or fc receptors following the binding of antibodies to cell surface antigens on a target cell ,  or mediated by the direct binding of antibody to cellular receptors .
inflammation which comprises a rapid ,  short - lived ,  relatively uniform response to acute injury or antigenic challenge and is characterized by accumulations of fluid ,  plasma proteins ,  and granulocytic leukocytes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte activation .
a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
a organ system process carried out at the level of a muscle .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the renal system .
the process in which renal water excretion is decreased .
elemental activities ,  such as catalysis or binding ,  describing the actions of a gene product at the molecular level .
the part of a cell or its extracellular environment in which a gene product is located .
 a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
 a small ,  dense body one or more of which are present in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells .
 all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
 a semiautonomous ,  self replicating organelle that occurs in varying numbers ,  shapes ,  and sizes in the cytoplasm of virtually all eukaryotic cells .
 the region between the inner and outer lipid bilayers of the mitochondrial envelope .
 a small lytic vacuole that has cell cycle - independent morphology and is found in most animal cells and that contains a variety of hydrolases ,  most of which have their maximal activities in the ph range 5 - 6 .
 a closed structure ,  found only in eukaryotic cells ,  that is completely surrounded by unit membrane and contains liquid material .
 the irregular network of unit membranes ,  visible only by electron microscopy ,  that occurs in the cytoplasm of many eukaryotic cells .
 the smooth endoplasmic reticulum  ( smooth er or ser )  has no ribosomes attached to it .
 the rough  ( or granular )  endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  has ribosomes adhering to the outer surface ;  the ribosomes are the site of translation of the mrna for those proteins which are either to be retained within the cisternae  ( er - resident proteins )  ,  the proteins of the lysosomes ,  or the proteins destined for export from the cell .
 a compound membranous cytoplasmic organelle of eukaryotic cells ,  consisting of flattened ,  ribosome - free vesicles arranged in a more or less regular stack .
 the network of interconnected tubular and cisternal structures located at the convex side of the golgi apparatus ,  which abuts the endoplasmic reticulum .
 the array of microtubules and associated molecules that forms between opposite poles of a eukaryotic cell during mitosis or meiosis and serves to move the duplicated chromosomes apart .
 the part of the cytoplasm that does not contain organelles but which does contain other particulate matter ,  such as protein complexes .
a multiribosomal structure representing a linear array of ribosomes held together by messenger rna .
 any of the various filamentous elements that form the internal framework of cells ,  and typically remain after treatment of the cells with mild detergent to remove membrane constituents and soluble components of the cytoplasm .
 the membrane surrounding a cell that separates the cell from its external environment .
a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface and of some cytoplasmic parts .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
 any cellular metabolic process involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving a purine nucleotide ,  a compound consisting of nucleoside  ( a purine base linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a purine nucleotide ,  a compound consisting of nucleoside  ( a purine base linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the covalent transfer of a methyl group to either n - 6 of adenine or c - 5 or n - 4 of cytosine
 the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
 a protein modification process that results in the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid ,  e .g .
 a protein glycosylation process in which a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit is added to a protein via the n4 atom of peptidyl - asparagine ,  the omega - n of arginine ,  or the n1' atom peptidyl - tryptophan .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving aromatic compounds ,  any organic compound characterized by one or more planar rings ,  each of which contains conjugated double bonds and delocalized pi electrons ,  as carried out by individual cells .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving any phosphorylated nucleoside .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of atp ,  adenosine 5' - triphosphate ,  a universally important coenzyme and enzyme regulator .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving vitamins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving biotin ,  cis - tetrahydro - 2 - oxothieno ( 3 , 4 - d ) imidazoline - 4 - valeric acid ;  the  (  +  )  enantiomer is very widely distributed in cells and serves as a carrier in a number of enzymatic beta - carboxylation reactions .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving thiamine  ( vitamin b1 )  ,  a water soluble vitamin present in fresh vegetables and meats ,  especially liver .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of the vitamin a compounds ,  retinol ,  retinal  ( retinaldehyde )  and retinoic acid ,  all of which are derivatives of beta - carotene .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element phosphorus or compounds that contain phosphorus ,  usually in the form of a phosphate group  ( po4 )  .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving the phosphate group ,  the anion or salt of any phosphoric acid .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic or inorganic compounds that contain nitrogen ,  including  ( but not limited to )  nitrogen fixation ,  nitrification ,  denitrification ,  assimilatory / dissimilatory nitrate reduction and the interconversion of nitrogenous organic matter and ammonium .
 a programmed cell death process which begins when a cell receives an internal  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle contraction .
a process in which force is generated within smooth muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
 any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the immediate defensive reaction  ( by vertebrate tissue )  to infection or injury caused by chemical or physical agents .
 any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
 a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle within a cell .
the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
 a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the spindle ,  the array of microtubules and associated molecules that forms between opposite poles of a eukaryotic cell during dna segregation and serves to move the duplicated chromosomes apart .
 a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the microtubule spindle during a mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitosis .
 the cellular process in which a signal is conveyed to trigger a change in the activity or state of a cell .
 the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the brain over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the gradual irreversible changes in structure and function of an organism that occur as a result of the passage of time .
the whole of the physical ,  chemical ,  and biochemical processes carried out by multicellular organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
the elimination by an organism of the waste products that arise as a result of metabolic activity .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a visual stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive an auditory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
a neurological process comprising the series of events required for an organism to receive an olfactory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the observable response a person makes to any situation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart contraction .
the activities of living organisms that support life in single -  or multi - cellular organisms from their origin through the progression of life .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
 any biological process that results in permanent cessation of all vital functions of a cell .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
enables the directed movement of folic acid  ( pteroylglutamic acid )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ;  typically the energy - requiring part of metabolism in which simpler substances are transformed into more complex ones .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleoside ,  a nucleobase linked to either beta - d - ribofuranose  ( a ribonucleoside )  or 2 - deoxy - beta - d - ribofuranose ,   ( a deoxyribonucleoside )  ,  e .g .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleotide ,  a nucleoside that is esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the glycose moiety ;  may be mono -  ,  di -  or triphosphate ;  this definition includes cyclic nucleotides  ( nucleoside cyclic phosphates )  .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving any ribonucleoside ,  a nucleoside in which purine or pyrimidine base is linked to a ribose  ( beta - d - ribofuranose )  molecule .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of purine nucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of purine nucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving a purine ribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of ribonucleoside  ( a purine base linked to a ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a purine ribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of ribonucleoside  ( a purine base linked to a ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a ribonucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a ribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving a ribonucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a ribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any one of a family of organic molecules consisting of a purine or pyrimidine base covalently bonded to a sugar ribose  ( a ribonucleoside )  or deoxyribose  ( a deoxyribonucleoside )  .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleotides ,  any nucleoside that is esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the glycose moiety ;  may be mono -  ,  di -  or triphosphate ;  this definition includes cyclic - nucleotides  ( nucleoside cyclic phosphates )  .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine ribonucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of purine ribonucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving a ribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a ribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine ribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of purine ribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving cobalamin  ( vitamin b12 )  ,  a water - soluble vitamin characterized by possession of a corrin nucleus containing a cobalt atom .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving a ribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of ribonucleoside  ( a base linked to a ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a ribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of ribonucleoside  ( a base linked to a ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
 a rigid yet dynamic structure surrounding the plasma membrane that affords protection from stresses and contributes to cell morphogenesis ,  consisting of extensively cross - linked glycoproteins and carbohydrates .
 a lipid bilayer that forms the outermost layer of the cell envelope ;  enriched in polysaccharide and protein ;  the outer leaflet of the membrane contains specific lipopolysaccharide structures .
the controlled release of proteins from a cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
 any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
 any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
 any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
 a chlorophyll - containing plastid with thylakoids organized into grana and frets ,  or stroma thylakoids ,  and embedded in a stroma .
 any member of a family of organelles found in the cytoplasm of plants and some protists ,  which are membrane - bounded and contain dna .
the precursor of other plastids .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
 any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the cascade of biological processes occurring in plants beginning when the pollen lands on the stigma and continuing up to ,  but not including ,  fertilization ,  as defined by sperm - central cell fusion .
 any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that modulates the rate or frequency of platelet activation .
any process in which a lipid is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of magnesium ions within an organism or cell .
 the lipid bilayer surrounding any membrane - bounded vesicle in the cell .
 the lipid bilayer surrounding a vesicle transporting substances from the endoplasmic reticulum to the golgi .
 a subcellular organelle of plant cells surrounded by 'half - unit' or a monolayer membrane instead of the more usual bilayer .
 the postsynaptic density is a region that lies adjacent to the cytoplasmic face of the postsynaptic membrane at excitatory synapse .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process in which force is generated within smooth muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
a process in which force is generated within smooth muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
 the directed movement of proteins into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of folic acid  ( pteroylglutamic acid )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving pantothenate ,  the anion of pantothenic acid ,  the amide of beta - alanine and pantoic acid .
 double layer of lipid molecules that encloses all cells ,  and ,  in eukaryotes ,  many organelles ;  may be a single or double lipid bilayer ;  also includes associated proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carotenes ,  hydrocarbon carotenoids .
the process in which double - stranded rnas silence cognate genes .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a painful stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of aromatic compounds ,  any substance containing an aromatic carbon ring .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving a specific protein ,  rather than of proteins in general .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving organophosphates ,  any phosphate - containing organic compound .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving ribose phosphate ,  any phosphorylated ribose sugar .
 the external membrane of gram - negative bacteria or certain organelles such as mitochondria and chloroplasts ;  freely permeable to most ions and metabolites .
 the cellular process that ensures successive accurate and complete genome replication and chromosome segregation .
 a process in which the transfer of one or more phosphate groups to a substrate transmits a signal to the phosphorylated substrate .
a thylakoid that is derived from and attached to ,  but not necessarily continuous with ,  the plasma membrane ,  and is not enclosed in a plastid .
 the change in morphology and behavior of a natural killer cell in response to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of a cell to another cell or to the extracellular matrix .
the regulated release of pancreatic juice by the exocrine pancreas into the upper part of the intestine .
 a series of progressive ,  overlapping events triggered by exposure of the platelets to subendothelial tissue .
the process in which a myeloid precursor cell acquires specializes features of an erythrocyte .
the regulated release of growth hormone from secretory granules into the blood .
combining with estrogen and transmitting the signal within the cell to trigger a change in cell activity or function .
 a structure that lies outside the plasma membrane and surrounds the entire cell .
 an envelope that surrounds a bacterial cell and includes the cytoplasmic membrane and everything external ,  encompassing the periplasmic space ,  cell wall ,  and outer membrane if present .
the cytoplasm of a host cell .
a readily reversible suspension of sensorimotor interaction with the environment ,  usually associated with recumbency and immobility .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a transport vesicle .
 the lipid bilayer surrounding a cytoplasmic vesicle .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a coated vesicle .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a secretory granule .
 a structure lying external to one or more cells ,  which provides structural support for cells or tissues ;  may be completely external to the cell  ( as in animals and bacteria )  or be part of the cell  ( as in plants )  .
the lipid bilayer surrounding an organelle .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a neurophysiological process ,  an organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of neurological system .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
 either of the lipid bilayers that surround a chloroplast and form the chloroplast envelope .
 the region between the inner and outer lipid bilayers of an organelle envelope .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a gonadotropin .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a gonadotropin .
any biological process ,  occurring at the level of a multicellular organism ,  pertinent to its function .
 a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an integrated living unit: an anatomical structure  ( which may be a subcellular structure ,  cell ,  tissue ,  or organ )  ,  or organism over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a progesterone receptor .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
 the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid in the endoplasmic reticulum .
 any constituent part of a host cell .
 any constituent part of the living contents of a host cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
the multiplication or reproduction of osteoblasts ,  resulting in the expansion of an osteoblast cell population .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving various organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which the liquid and liquid - suspended solid contents of the stomach exit through the pylorus into the duodenum .
the elimination by an organism of sodium in the urine .
any process that modulates the amount of sodium excreted in urine over a unit of time .
any process that decreases the amount of sodium excreted in urine over a unit of time .
any process that increases the amount of sodium excreted in urine over a unit of time .
the regulated release of aldosterone into the circulatory system .
 the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
receiving a signal and transmitting the signal in the cell to initiate a change in cell activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
 a membrane - bounded organelle as it is found in the host cell in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
 a change in morphology and behavior of a macrophage resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
 either of the lipid bilayers that surround a plastid and form the plastid envelope .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving one of a family of organic molecules consisting of a purine base covalently bonded to a sugar ribose  ( a ribonucleoside )  or deoxyribose  ( a deoxyribonucleoside )  .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the duration or quality of rapid eye movement  ( rem )  sleep .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving vitamin e ,  tocopherol ,  which includes a series of eight structurally similar compounds .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any purine nucleoside ,  one of a family of organic molecules consisting of a purine base covalently bonded to a sugar ribose  ( a ribonucleoside )  or deoxyribose  ( a deoxyribonucleoside )  .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any ribonucleoside ,  a nucleoside in which purine or pyrimidine base is linked to a ribose  ( beta - d - ribofuranose )  molecule .
the process of tooth formation .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
 any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of glucose within an organism or cell .
 any process that results in a change in the behavior of an organism as a result of deprivation of water .
a stage in the circadian sleep cycle during which dreams occur and the body undergoes marked changes including rapid eye movement ,  loss of reflexes ,  and increased pulse rate and brain activity .
all sleep stages in the circadian sleep / wake cycle other than rem sleep .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a circadian rhythm .
 a prolongation or process extending from a nerve cell ,  e .g .
the hardening ,  enlarging and rising of the penis which often occurs in the sexually aroused male and enables sexual intercourse .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
 an electrically insulating fatty layer that surrounds the axons of many neurons .
 organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
 organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane .
 organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
 organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring outside the cell .
 organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
 organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the regulated release of cortisol ,  a steroid hormone that in humans is the major circulating hormone of the cortex ,  or outer layer ,  of the adrenal gland .
 the covalent alteration of one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological macromolecule ,  resulting in a change in its properties .
 the covalent attachment of a glycosyl residue to one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological macromolecule .
 the region of a bacterial cell to which the dna is confined .
 the space within a host but external to the plasma membrane of host cells ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a system process ,  a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a digestive system process ,  a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of excretion ,  the elimination by an organism of the waste products that arise as a result of metabolic activity .
 the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving those compounds which are formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  as carried out by individual cells .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving a specific protein ,  rather than of proteins in general ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds .
 any process in which an organism has an effect on an organism of a different species .
 any constituent part of the extracellular region ,  the space external to the outermost structure of a cell .
 any constituent part of an organelle ,  an organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
 any constituent part of the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
 any constituent part of a membrane ,  a double layer of lipid molecules that encloses all cells ,  and ,  in eukaryotes ,  many organelles ;  may be a single or double lipid bilayer ;  also includes associated proteins .
 any constituent part of the nucleus ,  a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
 any constituent part of a mitochondrion ,  a semiautonomous ,  self replicating organelle that occurs in varying numbers ,  shapes ,  and sizes in the cytoplasm of virtually all eukaryotic cells .
 any constituent part of the cytoskeleton ,  a cellular scaffolding or skeleton that maintains cell shape ,  enables some cell motion  ( using structures such as flagella and cilia )  ,  and plays important roles in both intra - cellular transport  ( e .g .
 any constituent part of cytoplasmic vesicle ,  a vesicle formed of membrane or protein ,  found in the cytoplasm of a cell .
 any constituent part of a chloroplast ,  a chlorophyll - containing plastid with thylakoids organized into grana and frets ,  or stroma thylakoids ,  and embedded in a stroma .
 any constituent part of a plastid ,  a member of a family of organelles found in the cytoplasm of plants and some protists ,  which are membrane - bounded and contain dna .
 any constituent part of the cytoplasm ,  all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
 any constituent part of a synapse ,  the junction between a nerve fiber of one neuron and another neuron or muscle fiber or glial cell .
 any constituent part of an external encapsulating structure ,  a structure that lies outside the plasma membrane and surrounds the entire cell .
 any constituent part of a cell ,  the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
 a biological process that involves only one organism .
 a biological process occurring within a single ,  multicellular organism .
 a metabolic process  -  chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances  -  which involves a single organism .
 any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  occurring within a single organism .
 a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an integrated living unit: an anatomical structure  ( which may be a subcellular structure ,  cell ,  tissue ,  or organ )  ,  or organism over time from an initial condition to a later condition ,  involving only one organism .
 any of the small  ( 10 - 200 nm )  ,  heterogeneous ,  highly dynamic ,  sterol -  and sphingolipid - enriched membrane domains that compartmentalize cellular processes .
 the directed movement of a protein to a specific location .
 a change in morphology and behavior of a leukocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart contraction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart contraction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of mitosis .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving atp ,  adenosine triphosphate ,  a universally important coenzyme and enzyme regulator .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving any ribonucleoside ,  a nucleoside in which purine base is linked to a ribose  ( beta - d - ribofuranose )  molecule .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any purine ribonucleoside ,  a nucleoside in which purine base is linked to a ribose  ( beta - d - ribofuranose )  molecule .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of ribose phosphate ,  any phosphorylated ribose sugar .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving folic acid ,  pteroylglutamic acid .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
 a large enclosure of aggregated pigment ,  typically bacteriochlorophyll c  ( bchl c )  ,  that acts as a light - harvesting antenna structure and is characteristic of green photosynthetic bacteria  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of saliva from a cell or a tissue .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of saliva .
the regulated release of hormones ,  substances with a specific regulatory effect on a particular organ or group of cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a hormone from a cell .
 the cell membranes and intracellular regions in a plant are connected through plasmodesmata ,  and plants may be described as having two major compartments: the living symplast and the non - living apoplast .
the self - renewing division of a somatic stem cell ,  a stem cell that can give rise to cell types of the body other than those of the germ - line .
 development of a tissue or tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response ,  the immediate defensive reaction  ( by vertebrate tissue )  to infection or injury caused by chemical or physical agents .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
 any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
 any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell activation ,  the change in the morphology or behavior of a cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand .
 any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the series of events required for an organism to receive a gustatory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required to receive a bitter taste stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required to receive a sweet taste stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
the directed movement of vitamins into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of a cofactor into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a cofactor ,  a substance that is required for the activity of an enzyme or other protein .
 the directed movement of a cell ,  substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  to a specific location .
the process resulting in division and partitioning of components of a cell to form more cells ;  may or may not be accompanied by the physical separation of a cell into distinct ,  individually membrane - bounded daughter cells .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
 a localization process that takes place at the cellular level ;  as a result of a cellular localization process ,  a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within or in the membrane of a cell .
 any process in which a mitochondrion or mitochondria are transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within the cell .
 the directed movement of a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  to a specific location within ,  or in the membrane of ,  a cell .
 an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
 any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the sensory perception of pain ,  the series of events required for an organism to receive a painful stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
 an interaction with a second organism mediated by a substance secreted by the first organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
 an interaction with the host organism mediated by a substance secreted by the other  ( symbiont )  organism .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of phosphate ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of zinc ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within an organism or cell .
 the cellular chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleobase - containing small molecule: a nucleobase ,  a nucleoside ,  or a nucleotide .
an automatic response to a stimulus beginning with a nerve impulse from a receptor and ending with the action of an effector such as a gland or a muscle .
the regulation of body fluids process in which parasympathetic nerves stimulate the bladder wall muscle to contract and expel urine from the body .
a negative regulation of smooth muscle contraction resulting in relaxation of vascular smooth muscle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ovulation ,  the release of a mature ovum / oocyte from an ovary .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ovulation ,  the release of a mature ovum / oocyte from an ovary .
any process that modulates the rate frequency or extent of gastric secretion .
any process that increases the rate frequency or extent of gastric secretion .
any process that decreases the rate frequency or extent of gastric secretion .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
blood vessel formation when new vessels emerge from the proliferation of pre - existing blood vessels and contribute to the series of events that restore integrity to damaged vasculature .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the regulated release of norepinephrine by a cell ,  in which the norepinephrine acts as a neurotransmitter .
 organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane and occurring outside the cell .
 a membrane - bounded vesicle that is released into the extracellular region by fusion of the limiting endosomal membrane of a multivesicular body with the plasma membrane .
 the covalent attachment of a glycosyl residue to a substrate molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of glucagon .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of glucagon .
the attachment ofplateletsto one another .
 any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
 any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving a purine - containing compound ,  i .e .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a purine - containing compound ,  i .e .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a muscle system process ,  a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in a muscle system .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of platelet aggregation .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of platelet aggregation .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the biosynthesis of deoxyribose phosphate ,  the phosphorylated sugar 2 - deoxy - erythro - pentose .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination in a cardiac muscle cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any gastric emptying process ,  the process in which the liquid and liquid - suspended solid contents of the stomach exit through the pylorus into the duodenum .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of any gastric emptying process ,  the process in which the liquid and liquid - suspended solid contents of the stomach exit through the pylorus into the duodenum .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of any gastric emptying process ,  the process in which the liquid and liquid - suspended solid contents of the stomach exit through the pylorus into the duodenum .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of renin secretion into blood stream .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of renin secretion into blood stream .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of renin secretion into blood stream .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate derivative .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrate derivative .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nucleoside phosphate .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic cyclic compound .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic cyclic compound .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene  expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving organonitrogen compound .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organonitrogen compound .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
 the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycosyl compound .
 the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycosyl compound .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of platelet aggregation .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
"any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sensory perception of pain .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sensory perception of pain .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of saliva secretion .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
 the process by which a callus is formed at a wound site .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of defecation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of defecation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil aggregation .
a collective generic term that refers here to a wide variety of dependencies ,  areas of special sovereignty ,  uninhabited islands ,  and other entities in addition to the traditional countries or independent states .
population category defined using ancestry informative markers  ( aims )  based on genetic / genomic data
includes individuals who either self - report or have been described by authors as european ,  caucasian ,  white or one of the sub - populations from this region  ( e .g dutch )  .
includes individuals who either self - report or have been described by authors as south asian or one of the sub - populations from this region  ( e .g asian indian )  .
includes individuals that either self - report or have been described as asian but there was not sufficient information to allow classification as east asian ,  central asian ,  south asian or south - east asian .
includes individuals who either self - report or have been described by authors as east asian or one of the sub - populations from this region  ( e .g chinese )  .
includes individuals that either self - report or have been described as african ,  but there was not sufficient information to allow classification as african american ,  afrocaribbean or sub - saharan african .
includes individuals who either self - report or have been described by authors as subsaharan african or one of the subpopulations from this region  ( e .g .
includes indigenous individuals of north ,  central and south america ,  descended from the original human migration into the americas from siberia .
includes individuals who either self - report or are described by authors as hispanic ,  latino ,  latin american or one of the sub - populations from this region .
includes individuals who self - report or were described by authors as middle eastern ,  north african ,  persian or one of the subpopulations from this region  ( e .g .
includes individuals who either self - report or have been described by authors as african american or afro - caribbean .
includes individuals that either self - report or have been described by authors as oceanian or one of the sub - populations from this region  ( e .g .
a population with increased genetic homogeneity and reduced genetic variation due to cultural or geographic isolation
general characterisation of the ancestry of a population or individual
ancestry that is the result of cultural or geographic isolation .
ancestry which is an admixture of more than one defined ancestral population .
population for which insufficient information is available to allocate it to a specific ancestral group or which contain individuals from a range of known ancestry categories ,  eg american
the pattern in which a particular genetic trait or disorder is passed from one generation to the next .
an abnormality of the female internal genitalia .
a type of bladder dysfunction caused by neurologic damage .
an abnormality of the urinary bladder .
inability to completely empty the urinary bladder during the process of urination .
difficulty in beginning the process of urination .
loss of the ability to control the urinary bladder leading to involuntary urination .
an abnormality of the male internal genitalia .
protrusion of the contents of the abdominal cavity through the inguinal canal .
wasting  ( atrophy )  of the testicle  ( the male gonad )  manifested by a decrease in size and potentially by a loss of fertility .
the presence of inflammation of the epididymis .
abnormal ovarian or testicular function due to insufficient hormonal stimulation from the hypothalamic - pituitary axis .
abnormally small penis .at birth ,  the normal penis is about 3 cm  ( stretched length from pubic tubercle to tip of penis )  with micropenis less than 2 .0 - 2 .5 cm .
undergrowth of the outer labia .
a genital phenotype that is not clearly assignable to a single gender .
an abnormality of the ureter .
the distention of the ureter with urine .
an abnormality of the kidney .
an abnormality of the genital system .
an abnormality of the urinary system .
a reduction in the level of performance of the kidneys in areas of function comprising the concentration of urine ,  removal of wastes ,  the maintenance of electrolyte balance ,  homeostasis of blood pressure ,  and calcium metabolism .
a connection of the right and left kidney by an isthmus of functioning renal parenchyma or fibrous tissue that crosses the midline .
increased levels of protein in the urine .
a height above that which is expected according to age and gender norms .
an increased rate of urine production .
a fluid filled sac in the kidney .
increased number and size of the juxtaglomerular cells .
a nonspecific term referring to disease or damage of the kidneys .
a phenotypic abnormality .
nephrocalcinosis is the deposition of calcium salts in renal parenchyma .
a developmental defect in which a kidney is located in an abnormal anatomic position within the pelvis .
an abnormality of the uterus .
the presence of a leiomyoma of the uterus .
prolonged and excessive menses at regular intervals in excess of 80 ml or lasting longer than 7 days .
the presence of one or more cysts of the ovary .
an abnormality of head and neck .
an abnormality of the mouth .
distance between the oral commissures more than 2 sd above the mean .
erosion of the mucous mebrane of the mouth with local excavation of the surface ,  resulting from the sloughing of inflammatory necrotic tissue .
any abnormality of the tongue .
distance between the commissures of the mouth more than 2 sd below the mean .
a type of cleft lip presenting as a midline  ( median )  gap in the upper lip .
any abnormality of the teeth .
decreased length and width of the tongue .
cleft palate is a fissure type embryopathy that affects the soft and hard palate to varying degrees .
increased thickness of the lower lip ,  leading to a prominent appearance of the lower lip .
a facial appearance characterized by a permanently or nearly permanently opened mouth .
the presence of an abnormally short lingual frenulum .
pierre robin malformation is a sequence of developmental malformations characterized by micrognathia  ( mandibular hypoplasia )  ,  glossoptosis and cleft palate .
the presence of a cleft in the oral cavity ,  the two main types of which are cleft lip and cleft palate .
a gap in the upper lip .
height of the palate more than 2 sd above the mean  ( objective )  or palatal height at the level of the first permanent molar more than twice the height of the teeth  ( subjective )  .
height of the vermilion of the upper lip in the midline more than 2 sd below the mean .
inability of velopharyngeal sphincter to sufficiently separate the nasal cavity from the oral cavity during speech .
hemorrhage affecting the gingiva .
height of the vermilion of the medial part of the lip more than 2 sd below the mean ,  or apparently reduced height of the vermilion of the lip in the frontal view .
an abnormality of the head .
an abnormality of the anterior fontanelle ,  i .e . ,  the cranial fontanelle that is located at the intersection of the coronal and sagittal sutures .
hydrocephalus is an active distension of the ventricular system of the brain resulting from inadequate passage of csf from its point of production within the cerebral ventricles to its point of absorption into the systemic circulation .
an abnormality of skull shape characterized by a decreased anterior - posterior diameter .
head circumference below 2 standard deviations below the mean for age and gender .
occipitofrontal  ( head )  circumference greater than 97th centile compared to appropriate ,  age matched ,  sex - matched normal standards .
enlargement of the anterior fontanelle with respect to age - dependent norms .
oxycephaly  ( from greek oxus ,  sharp ,  and kephalos ,  head )  refers to a conical or pointed shape of the skull .
an abnormality of the mastoid process ,  which is the conical prominence projecting from the undersurface of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone .
an abnormality of skull shape characterized by a increased anterior - posterior diameter ,  i .e . ,  an increased antero - posterior dimension of the skull .
increased convexity of the occiput  ( posterior part of the skull )  .
an abnormality of the face .
underdevelopment of the malar prominence of the jugal bone  ( zygomatic bone in mammals )  ,  appreciated in profile ,  frontal view ,  and / or by palpation .
facial height  ( length )  is more than 2 standard deviations above the mean  ( objective )  ;  or ,  an apparent increase in the height  ( length )  of the face  ( subjective )  .
any abnormality of the mandible ,  the bone of the lower jaw .
an abnormality in which the mandible is mislocalised posteriorly .
absence of fine and sharp appearance of brows ,  nose ,  lips ,  mouth ,  and chin ,  usually because of rounded and heavy features or thickened skin with or without thickening of subcutaneous and bony tissues .
bizygomatic  ( upper face )  and bigonial  ( lower face )  width greater than 2 standard deviations above the mean  ( objective )  ;  or an apparent increase in the width of the face  ( subjective )  .
a fold of skin starting above the medial aspect of the upper eyelid and arching downward to cover ,  pass in front of and lateral to the medial canthus .
distance between the hairline  ( trichion )  and the glabella  ( the most prominent point on the frontal bone above the root of the nose )  ,  in the midline ,  more than two sd below the mean .
abnormal prominence of the chin related to increased length of the mandible .
a marked tapering of the lower face to the chin .
a form of developmental hypoplasia of the mandible in which the mandible is mislocalised posteriorly .
the facial appearance is more circular than usual as viewed from the front .
interpupillary distance more than 2 sd above the mean  ( alternatively ,  the appearance of an increased interpupillary distance or widely spaced eyes )  .
flat skin surface ,  with no ridge formation in the central region of the upper lip between the nasal base and upper vermilion border .
distance between nasal base and midline upper lip vermilion border more than 2 sd below the mean .
facial contour ,  as viewed from the front ,  triangular in shape ,  with breadth at the temples and tapering to a narrow chin .
abnormally small dimension of the maxilla .
decreased vertical distance from the vermilion border of the lower lip to the inferior - most point of the chin .
width of the forehead or distance between the frontotemporales is more than two standard deviations above the mean  ( objective )  ;  or apparently increased distance between the two sides of the forehead .
width of the forehead or distance between the frontotemporales is more than two standard deviations below the mean  ( objective )  ;  or apparently narrow intertemporal region  ( subjective )  .
distance between nasal base and midline upper lip vermilion border more than 2 sd above the mean .
developmental hypoplasia of the mandible .
an abnormally increased height of the forehead .
an abnormality of the external ear .
a type of abnormal location of the ears in which the position of the ears is characterized by posterior rotation  ( the superior part of the ears is rotated towards the back of the head ,  and the inferior part of the ears towards the front )  .
an abnormality of the inner ear .
tinnitus is an auditory perception that can be described as the experience of sound ,  in the ear or in the head ,  in the absence of external acoustic stimulation .
an abnormality of the lobule of pinna .
an abnormality of the sensory perception of sound .
an abnormality of the nose .
ears that are low - set  ( hp:0000369 )  and posteriorly rotated  ( hp:0000358 )  .
upper insertion of the ear to the scalp below an imaginary horizontal line drawn between the inner canthi of the eye and extending posteriorly to the ear .
iwith incomplete partition ii ,  the cochlea consists of 1 .5 turns ;  the apical and middle cochlea turns are undifferentiated and form a cystic apex .
an abnormality of the pinna ,  which is also referred to as the auricle or external ear .
a rudimentary tag of skin often containing ear tissue including a core of cartilage and located just anterior to the auricle  ( outer part of the ear )  .
increased thickness of the helix of the ear .
a condition in which the helix is folded over to a greater degree than normal .
a form of sensorineural deafness with either congenital onset or infantile onset ,  i .e . ,  before the acquisition of speech .
median longitudinal ear length greater than two standard deviations above the mean and median ear width greater than two standard deviations above the mean  ( objective )  ;  or ,  apparent increase in length and width of the pinna  ( subjective )  .
an abnormal narrowing of the external auditory canal .
an abnormality of vibrational conductance of sound to the inner ear leading to impairment of sensory perception of sound .
a type of hearing impairment in one or both ears related to an abnormal functionality of the cochlear nerve .
a progressive form of sensorineural hearing impairment .
angle formed by the plane of the ear and the mastoid bone greater than the 97th centile for age  ( objective )  ;  or ,  outer edge of the helix more than 2 cm from the mastoid at the point of maximum distance  ( objective )  .
absence or failure to form of the external auditory canal .
increased volume and globular shape of the anteroinferior aspect of the nose .
anterior positioning of the nasal root in comparison to the usual positioning for age .
thinned ,  deficient ,  or excessively arched ala nasi .
increased breadth of the nasal bridge  ( and with it ,  the nasal root )  .
nasal ridge curving anteriorly to an imaginary line that connects the nasal root and tip .
interalar distance more than two standard deviations above the mean for age ,  i .e . ,  an apparently increased width of the nasal base and alae .
decreased width of the bony bridge of the nose .
distance between subnasale and pronasale more than two standard deviations above the mean ,  or alternatively ,  an apparently increased anterior protrusion of the nasal tip .
increase in width of the nasal tip .
interalar distance more than 2 sd below the mean for age ,  or alternatively ,  an apparently decreased width of the nasal base and alae .
anteriorly - facing nostrils viewed with the head in the frankfurt horizontal and the eyes of the observer level with the eyes of the subject .
an abnormality of the neck .
pterygium colli is a congenital skin fold that runs along the sides of the neck down to the shoulders .
diminished length of the neck .
dysplasia affecting the vasculature of the gastrointestinal tract .
involuntary contractions of the neck musculature resulting in an abnormal posture of or abnormal movements of the head .
a thickening of the skin thickness in the posterior aspect of the fetal neck .
any abnormality of the eye ,  including location ,  spacing ,  and intraocular abnormalities .
a structural abnormality of the retina .
any abnormality of the cornea ,  which is the transparent tissue at the front of the eye that covers the iris ,  pupil ,  and anterior chamber .
a type of astigmatism associated with abnormal curvatures on the anterior and / or posterior surface of the cornea .
an enlargement of the cornea with normal clarity and function .
a misalignment of the eyes so that the visual axes deviate from bifoveal fixation .
an eye that is more deeply recessed into the plane of the face than is typical .
the palpebral fissure inclination is more than two standard deviations below the mean .
abnormality of eyesight  ( visual perception )  .
visual impairment  ( or vision impairment )  is vision loss  ( of a person )  to such a degree as to qualify as an additional support need through a significant limitation of visual capability resulting from either disease ,  trauma ,  or congenital or degenerative conditions that cannot be corrected by conventional means ,  such as refractive correction ,  medication ,  or surgery .
any abnormality of the electrical responses of various cell types in the retina as measured by electroretinography .
an abnormality of the lens .
an eye that is protruding anterior to the plane of the face to a greater extent than is typical .
mid upper eyelash length  > 10 mm or increased length of the eyelashes  ( subjective )  .
absence of the globe or eyeball .
a reduction of previously attained ability to see .
decreased density / number and / or decreased diameter of eyebrow hairs .
an abnormality in the process of focusing of light by the eye in order to produce a sharp image on the retina .
an abnormality of refraction characterized by the ability to see objects in the distance clearly ,  while objects nearby appear blurry .
paralysis of the external ocular muscles .
an abnormality of refraction characterized by the ability to see objects nearby clearly ,  while objects in the distance appear blurry .
any deviation from the normal motor coordination of the eyes that allows for bilateral fixation on a single object .
a form of strabismus with one or both eyes turned inward  ( 'crossed' )  to a relatively severe degree ,  usually defined as 10 diopters or more .
loss of visual acuity  ( implying that vision was better at a certain timepoint in life )  .
hemorrhage occurring within the retina .
a form of strabismus with one or both eyes deviated outward .
an abnormality of the retina characterized by pigment deposition .
a fixed reduction in the vertical distance between the upper and lower eyelids with short palpebral fissures .
the palpebral fissure inclination is more than two standard deviations above the mean for age  ( objective )  ;  or ,  the inclination of the palpebral fissure is greater than typical for age .
an abnormality of the ear .
an area of depressed vision located at the point of fixation and that interferes with central vision .
any structural abnormality of the choroid .
an abnormality of the nasolacrimal drainage system ,  which serves as a conduit for tear flow from the external eye to the nasal cavity .
abnormal  ( non - physiological )  constriction of the pupil .
blindness is the condition of lacking visual perception defined as visual perception below 3 / 60 and / or a visual field of no greater than 10 degress in radius around central fixation .
lack of sharpness of vision resulting in the inability to see fine detail .
increase in periorbital soft tissue .
abnormality of tear production .
rhythmic ,  involuntary oscillations of one or both eyes related to abnormality in fixation ,  conjugate gaze ,  or vestibular mechanisms .
an anomaly of visually evoked potentials  ( vep )  ,  which are electrical potentials ,  initiated by brief visual stimuli ,  which are recorded from the scalp overlying the visual cortex .
diplopia is a condition in which a single object is perceived as two images ,  it is also known as double vision .
meeting of the medial eyebrows in the midline .
nystagmus consisting of horizontal to - and - fro eye movements .
overlapping teeth within an alveolar ridge .
delayed tooth eruption affecting the primary dentition .
an abnormality of the dental enamel .
agenesis of one or more maxillary lateral incisor ,  comprising the maxillary lateral primary incisor and maxillary lateral secondary incisor .
increased space between two adjacent teeth in the same dental arch .
an abnormality of the nervous system .
an abnormality of mental functioning including various affective ,  behavioural ,  cognitive and perceptual abnormalities .
unstable emotional experiences and frequent mood changes ;  emotions that are easily aroused ,  intense ,  and / or out of proportion to events and circumstances .
a state of exceeding restlessness and excessive motor activity associated with mental distress or a feeling of inner tension .
an exaggeration of emotional affects such as laughing crying ,  or yawning beyond what the person feels .
a loss of global cognitive ability of sufficient amount to interfere with normal social or occupational function .
a stereotypy is a repetitive ,  simple movement that can be voluntarily suppressed .
difficulty in social interactions related to an impairment of characteristics such as eye contact ,  smiling ,  appropriate facial expressions ,  and body postures and characterized by difficulty in forming peer relationships and forming friendships .
reduced attention span characterized by distractibility and impulsivity but not necessarily satisfying the diagnostic criteria for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder .
perceptions in a conscious and awake state in the absence of external stimuli which have qualities of real perception ,  in that they are vivid ,  substantial ,  and located in external objective space .
a degree of language development that is significantly below the norm for a child of a specified age .
an abnormal shift in patterns of thinking ,  acting ,  or feeling .
reduced ability to use nonverbal behavior for communication ,  such as eye - to - eye gaze ,  facial expression ,  body posture ,  and gestures .
a reduction in the speed at which electrical signals propagate along the axon of a neuron .
peripheral neuropathy affecting the sensory nerves .
any abnormality of the thorax  ( the region of the body formed by the sternum ,  the thoracic vertebrae and the ribs )  .
an anomaly of the sternum ,  also known as the breastbone .
a defect of the chest wall characterized by a depression of the sternum ,  giving the chest  ( "pectus" )  a caved - in  ( "excavatum" )  appearance .
a deformity of the chest caused by overgrowth of the ribs and characterized by protrusion of the sternum .
an abnormality of the breast .
abnormal development of large mammary glands in males resulting in breast enlargement .
reduced width of the chest from side to side ,  associated with a reduced distance from the sternal notch to the tip of the shoulder .
any abnormality of the diaphragm ,  the sheet of skeletal muscle that separates the thoracic cavity from the abdominal cavity .
the presence of blood in the urine .
inability to develop or maintain an erection of the penis .
cysts of the cortex of the kidney .
difficulty in looking at another person in the eye .
an abnormality of the endocrine system .
an abnormality of the thyroid gland .
passing the age when puberty normally occurs with no physical or hormonal signs of the onset of puberty .
abnormality of the adrenal glands ,  i .e . ,  of the endocrine glands located at the top of the kindneys .
an increased concentration of insulin in the blood .
a form of diabetes insipidus related to a failure of vasopressin  ( avp )  release from the hypothalamus .
infrequent menses  ( less than 6 per year or more than 35 days between cycles )  .
a bifid rib refers to cleavage of the sternal end of a rib ,  usually unilateral .
complete or partial merging of adjacent ribs .
a developmental anomaly with absence of one or more ribs .
an abnormality of the skeletal system .
any abnormality of the vertebral column .
an abnormality of the skull ,  the bony framework of the head which is comprised of eight cranial and fourteen facial bones .
an abnormality of the fossa cranii posterior  ( the posterior fossa )  ,  which is made up primarily of the occipital bone and which surrounds to the foramen magnum .
an acute episode of pain ,  swelling ,  and redness ,  sometimes associated with fever .
osteopenia is a term to define bone density that is not normal but also not as low as osteoporosis .
an abnormality of the skin .
yellow pigmentation of the skin due to bilirubin ,  which in turn is the result of increased bilirubin concentration in the bloodstream .
the distal and proximal transverse palmar creases are merged into a single transverse palmar crease .
cafe - au - lait spots are hyperpigmented lesions that can vary in color from light brown to dark brown with smooth borders and having a size of 1 .5 cm or more in adults and 0 .5 cm or more in children .
skin characterized by the lack of natural or normal moisture .
a cutaneous indentation resulting from tethering of the skin to underlying structures  ( bone )  of the intergluteal cleft .
eczema is a form of dermatitis .
a condition in which the skin can be stretched beyond normal ,  and then returns to its initial position .
abnormal excessive perspiration  ( sweating )  despite the lack of appropriate stimuli like hot and humid weather .
an ecchymosis  ( bruise )  refers to the skin discoloration caused by the escape of blood into the tissues from ruptured blood vessels .
purpura  ( from latin: purpura ,  meaning "purple" )  is the appearance of red or purple discolorations on the skin that do not blanch on applying pressure .
abnormally pale skin .
pruritus is an itch or a sensation that makes a person want to scratch .
the presence in the axillary region  ( armpit )  of an increased number of freckles ,  small circular spots on the skin that are darker than the surrounding skin because of deposits of melanin .
any manifestation of a skin disease associated with the production of pus .
abnormally increased hair growth referring to a male pattern of body hair  ( androgenic hair )  .
a reduction of skin color related to a decrease in melanin production and deposition .
skin that splits easily with minimal injury .
thinned ,  erythematous ,  depressed bands of atrophic skin .
laminar thickening of skin .
scars that form a depression compared to the level of the surrounding skin because of damage to the collagen ,  fat or other tissues below the skin .
the presence of inflammatory changes in the gallbladder .
a type of anterior uveitis ,  in which there is inflammation of the iris and the ciliary body .
heterochromia iridis is a difference in the color of the iris in the two eyes .
a structural abnormality of the macula lutea ,  which is an oval - shaped highly pigmented yellow spot near the center of the retina .
well - demarcated area ( s )  of partial or complete depigmentation in the fundus ,  reflecting atrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium with associated retinal photoreceptor loss .
increased pigmentation of the skin in the region surrounding the orbit of the eye .
inversion and rubbing of the eyelashes against the globe of the eye .
partial dislocation of the lens of the eye .
supernumerary digits located at the ulnar side of the hand  ( that is ,  on the side with the fifth finger )  .
an anomaly of a finger .
an abnormal structure of the first digit of the hand .
the gradual reduction in girth of the finger from proximal to distal .
single umbilical artery  ( sua )  is the absence of one of the two umbilical arteries surrounding the fetal bladder and in the fetal umbilical cord .
an abnormality of the fetus or the birth of the fetus ,  excluding structural abnormalities .
subnormal intellectual functioning which originates during the developmental period .
a seizure is an intermittent abnormality of nervous system physiology characterised by a transient occurrence of signs and / or symptoms due to abnormal excessive or synchronous neuronal activity in the brain .
cerebellar ataxia refers to ataxia due to dysfunction of the cerebellum .
hypotonia is an abnormally low muscle tone  ( the amount of tension or resistance to movement in a muscle )  .
mild intellectual disability is defined as an intelligence quotient  ( iq )  in the range of 50 - 69 .
a motor disorder characterized by a velocity - dependent increase in tonic stretch reflexes with increased muscle tone ,  exaggerated  ( hyperexcitable )  tendon reflexes .
spasticity and weakness of the leg and hip muscles .
complete absence of wakefulness and content of conscience ,  which manifests itself as a lack of response to any kind of external stimuli .
dysarthric speech is a general description referring to a neurological speech disorder characterized by poor articulation .
a delay in the achievement of motor or mental milestones in the domains of development of a child ,  including motor skills ,  speech and language ,  cognitive skills ,  and social and emotional skills .
reduction of neurologic reflexes such as the knee - jerk reaction .
loss of previously present mental abilities ,  generally in adults .
loss of strength in the arm ,  leg ,  and sometimes face on one side of the body .
a type of developmental delay characterized by a delay in acquiring motor skills .
atrophy  ( wasting )  of the cerebellum .
abnormality of the corpus callosum .
absence of the corpus callosum as a result of the failure of the corpus callosum to develop ,  which can be the result of a failure in any one of the multiple steps of callosal development including cellular proliferation and migration ,  axonal growth or glial patterning at the midline .
a condition in which there is increased muscle tone so that arms or legs ,  for example ,  are stiff and difficult to move .
syncope refers to a generalized weakness of muscles with loss of postural tone ,  inability to stand upright ,  and loss of consciousness .
a condition characterized by intermittent involuntary contraction of muscles  ( spasms )  related to hypocalcemia or occasionally magnesium deficiency .
the term gait disturbance can refer to any disruption of the ability to walk .
generalized muscular hypotonia  ( abnormally low muscle tone )  .
encephalopathy is a term that means brain disease ,  damage ,  or malfunction .
characteristic neurologic anomaly resulting form degeneration of dopamine - generating cells in the substantia nigra ,  a region of the midbrain ,  characterized clinically by shaking ,  rigidity ,  slowness of movement and difficulty with walking and gait .
pachygyria is a malformation of cortical development with abnormally wide gyri with sulci 1 , 5 - 3 cm apart and abnormally thick cortex measuring more than 5 mm  ( radiological definition )  .
sustained involuntary muscle contractions that produce twisting and repetitive movements of the body .
a type of ataxia characterized by the inability to carry out movements with the correct range and motion across the plane of more than one joint related to incorrect estimation of the distances required for targeted movements .
diminution of tendon reflexes ,  which is an invariable sign of peripheral nerve disease .
muscular hypotonia  ( abnormally low muscle tone )  manifesting in the neonatal period .
underdevelopment of the vermis of cerebellum .
underdevelopment of the cerebellum .
reduced strength of muscles .
impairment of certain skills such as reading or writing ,  coordination ,  self - control ,  or attention that interfere with the ability to learn .
an abnormally increased muscular tone that causes fixed abnormal postures .
very brief ,  involuntary random muscular contractions occurring at rest ,  in response to sensory stimuli ,  or accompanying voluntary movements .
an unintentional ,  oscillating to - and - fro muscle movement about a joint axis .
a partial failure of the development of the corpus callosum .
complete lack of development of speech and language abilities .
hyperreflexia is the presence of hyperactive stretch reflexes of the muscles .
tendon reflexes that are noticeably more active than usual  ( conventionally denoted 3 +  on clinical examination )  .
abnormal coordination of muscles involved in speech .
a flexion contracture is a bent  ( flexed )  joint that cannot be straightened actively or passively .
displacement or malalignment of joints .
the ability of a joint to move beyond its normal range of motion .
the presence of developmental dysplasia of the hip .
joint stiffness is a perceived sensation of tightness in a joint or joints when attempting to move them after a period of inactivity .
lack of stability of a joint .
an abnormality of the liver .
the presence of excessive fibrous connective tissue in the liver .
steatosis is a term used to denote lipid accumulation within hepatocytes .
the presence of fibrosis affecting the interlobular stroma of liver .
reduced ability of the liver to perform its functions .
a structural abnormality of the abdomen  ( 'belly' )  ,  that is ,  the part of the body between the pelvis and the thorax .
a delay in closure  ( ossification )  of the anterior fontanelle ,  which generally undergoes closure around the 18th month of life .
slightly elevated lesions on or in the skin with a diameter of over 5 mm .
osteolysis affecting carpal bones .
failure to thrive  ( ftt )  refers to a child whose physical growth is substantially below the norm .
a deficiency or slowing down of growth pre -  and postnatally .
smaller than normal size according to sex and gestational age related norms ,  defined as a weight below the 10th percentile for the gestational age .
the term large for gestational age applies to babies whose birth weight lies above the 90th percentile for that gestational age .
death within the first 24 months of life .
protrusion of abdominal contents through a defect in the abdominal wall musculature around the umbilicus .
accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity .
excessive postnatal growth which may comprise increased weight ,  increased length ,  and / or increased head circumference .
lack of symmetry between the left and right halves of the thorax .
an abnormal reduction in quantity or strength of fetal movements .
abnormality of the amniotic fluid ,  which is the fluid contained in the amniotic sac surrounding the developing fetus .
the presence of excess amniotic fluid in the uterus during pregnancy .
an abnormality of the integument ,  which consists of the skin and the superficial fascia .
a form of nystagmus in which the eyeball makes rotary motions around the axis .
the rib cage has the shape of a wide mouthed bell .
abnormality of the nail .
an abnormality of the larynx .
laryngomalacia is a congenital abnormality of the laryngeal cartilage in which the cartilage is floppy and prolapses over the larynx during inspiration .
a loss of the ability to move the vocal folds .
a type of speech characterized by the presence of an abnormally increased nasal airflow during speech .
an abnormal increase in the pitch  ( frequency )  of the voice .
a position of the fetus at delivery in which the fetus enters the birth canal with the buttocks or feet first .
any abnormality of the cardiovascular system .
any structural anomaly of the heart .
one or both of the leaflets  ( cusps )  of the mitral valve bulges back into the left atrium upon contraction of the left ventricle .
a congenital cardiac malformation comprising pulmonary stenosis ,  overriding aorta ,  ventricular septum defect ,  and right ventricular hypertrophy .
a narrowing of the right ventricular outflow tract that can occur at the pulmonary valve  ( valvular stenosis )  or just below the pulmonary valve  ( infundibular stenosis )  .
in utero ,  the ductus arteriosus  ( da )  serves to divert ventricular output away from the lungs and toward the placenta by connecting the main pulmonary artery to the descending aorta .
the presence of an aortic valve with two instead of the normal three cusps  ( flaps )  .
a rapid heartrate that exceeds the range of the normal resting heartrate for age .
the heart is located in the right hand sided hemithorax .
an abnormality of the mitral valve characterized by insufficiency or incompetence of the mitral valve resulting in retrograde leaking of blood through the mitral valve upon ventricular contraction .
failure of the foramen ovale to seal postnatally ,  leaving a potential conduit between the left and right cardiac atria .
increased time between the start of the q wave and the end of the t wave as measured by the electrocardiogram  ( ekg )  .
a single arterial trunk arises from the cardiac mass .
a slower than normal heart rate  ( in adults ,  slower than 60 beats per minute )  .
an anomaly of the intra - atrial or intraventricular septum .
an abnormality of the aorta .
a kind of atrial septum defect arising from an enlarged foramen ovale ,  inadequate growth of the septum secundum ,  or excessive absorption of the septum primum .
myocardial fibrosis is characterized by dysregulated collagen turnover  ( increased synthesis predominates over unchanged or decreased degradation )  and excessive diffuse collagen accumulation in the interstitial and perivascular spaces as well as by phenotypically transformed fibroblasts ,  termed myofibroblasts .
pattern of blood flow in the heart that deviates from the normal circuit of the circulatory system .
a congenital malformation of the outflow tract of the heart .
a progressive form of hearing impairment .
a cyst of the pancreas that possess a lining of mucous epithelium .
reduced ability to pass air through the nasal cavity often leading to mouth breathing .
abnormal increased size of the spleen .
an abnormality of the skeleton of foot .
the presence of an unusually high plantar arch .
talipes equinovarus  ( also called clubfoot )  typically has four main components: inversion and adduction of the forefoot ;  inversion of the heel and hindfoot ;  equinus  ( limitation of extension )  of the ankle and subtalar joint ;  and internal rotation of the leg .
a foot for which the measured width is above the 95th centile for age ;  or ,  a foot that appears disproportionately wide for its length .
webbing or fusion of the toes ,  involving soft parts only or including bone structure .
a contracture of the achilles tendon .
a measured foot length that is more than 2 sd below the mean for a newborn of 27  -  41 weeks gestation ,  or foot that is less than the 3rd centile for individuals from birth to 16 years of age  ( objective )  .
bilateral clubfoot deformity  ( see hp:0001762 )  .
an anomaly of a toe .
an abnormality of the birth process .
premature rupture of membranes  ( prom )  is a condition which occurs in pregnancy when the amniotic sac ruptures more than an hour before the onset of labor .
aplasia of the nail .
underdevelopment of the toenail .
lateral deviation of the great toe  ( i .e . ,  in the direction of the little toe )  .
reduction inexisting body weight .
polydactyly of the foot most commonly refers to the presence of six toes on one foot .
a toe that appears disproportionately short compared to the foot .
the presence of both a prominent heel and a convex contour of the sole .
the metatarsals are deviated medially  ( tibially )  ,  that is ,  the bones in the front half of the foot bend or turn in toward the body .
describes a foot digit resting on the dorsal surface of an adjacent digit when the foot is at rest .
this is a postural deformity in which the foot is positioned up against the tibia .
bending or curvature of a toe in the tibial direction  ( i .e . ,  towards the big toe )  .
bending or curvature of a fifth toe in the tibial direction  ( i .e . ,  towards the big toe )  .
the presence of unusually deep creases  ( ridges / wrinkles )  on the skin of sole of foot .
an abnormality of the hematopoietic system .
a reduction in the number of circulating thrombocytes .
an abnormal reduction in numbers of all blood cell types  ( red blood cells ,  white blood cells ,  and platelets )  .
any structural abnormality of erythrocytes  ( red - blood cells )  .
increased count of eosinophils in the blood .
an abnormality of leukocytes .
a deformity of foot and ankle that has different subtypes that are talipes equinovarus ,  talipes equinovalgus ,  talipes calcaneovarus and talipes calcaneovalgus .
an abnormal susceptibility to bleeding ,  often referred to as a bleeding diathesis .
the presence of an increased mass of red blood cells in the circulation .
the formation of a blood clot inside a blood vessel that subsequently travels through the blood stream from the site where it formed to another location in the body ,  generally leading to vascular occlusion at the distant site .
aplastic anemia is defined as pancytopenia with a hypocellular marrow .
a form of amyloidosis that affects the kidney .
sudden loss of renal function ,  as manifested by decreased urine production ,  and a rise in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen concentration  ( azotemia )  .
an abnormality of the process of blood coagulation .
this term refers to an abnormally increased susceptibility to bruising  ( purpura ,  petechiae ,  or ecchymoses )  .
a decreased concentration of glucose in the blood .
elevated body temperature due to failed thermoregulation .
depletion of acid or accumulation base in the body fluids .
glucose intolerance  ( gi )  can be defined as dysglycemia that comprises both prediabetes and diabetes .
obesity located preferentially in the trunk of the body as opposed to the extremities .
excessive thirst manifested by excessive fluid intake .
a sensation that the heart is pounding or racing ,  which is a non - specific sign but may be a manifestation of arrhythmia .
diffuse sclerosis of the mesangium ,  as manifestated by diffuse mesangial matrix expansion .
an abnormal increase in the number of leukocytes in the blood .
an abnormality of coagulation related to a decreased concentration of antithrombin - iii .
venous or arterial thrombosis  ( formation of blood clots )  of spontaneous nature and which cannot be fully explained by acquired risk  ( e .g .
a decreased concentration of glucose in the blood associated with a reduced concentration of ketone bodies .
an increased concentration of ammonia in the blood .
an abnormal morphology  ( form )  of the face or its components .
reduced distance from the anterior border of the naris to the subnasale .
accentuated ,  prominent philtral ridges giving rise to an exaggerated groove in the midline between the nasal base and upper vermillion border .
bilateral bulging of the lateral frontal bone prominences with relative sparing of the midline .
a structural abnormality of the central nervous system .
an abnormality of the viscera of the abdomen .
forceful ejection of the contents of the stomach through the mouth by means of a series of involuntary spasmic contractions .
abnormally increased frequency of loose or watery bowel movements .
difficulty in swallowing .
nausea is a commonly encountered symptom that has been defined as an unpleasant painless subjective feeling that one will imminently vomit .
a sensation of unease in the stomach together with an urge to vomit .
infrequent or difficult evacuation of feces .
impaired ability to absorb one or more nutrients from the intestine .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  and perceived to originate in the abdomen .
the presence of chronic diarrhea ,  which is usually taken to mean diarrhea that has persisted for over 4 weeks .
a structural abnormality of the esophagus .
a developmental defect resulting in complete obliteration of the lumen of the esophagus such that the esophagus ends in a blind pouch rather than connecting to the stomach .
an inadequate sucking reflex ,  resulting in the difficult of newborns to be breast - fed .
an abnormaltiy of the rectum ,  the final segment of the large intestine that stores solid waste until it passes through the anus .
protrusion of the rectal mucous membrane through the anus .
the presence of a hernia in which the upper part of the stomach ,  i .e . ,  mainly the gastric cardia protrudes through the diaphragmatic esophageal hiatus .
inflammation ,  or an inflammatory state in the large intestine .
a lack or loss of appetite for food  ( as a medical condition )  .
a pathological narrowing of the esophagus that is caused by the development of a ring of scar tissue that constricts the esophageal lumen .
reduced body temperature due to failed thermoregulation .
atrophy  ( wasting ,  decrease in size of cells or tissue )  affecting the cerebrum .
spasticity  ( velocity - dependent increase in tonic stretch reflexes with increased muscle tone and hyperexcitable tendon reflexes )  in the muscles of the lower limbs ,  hips ,  and pelvis
continuous involuntary sustained muscle contraction .
a type of ataxia characterized by the impairment of the ability to coordinate the movements required for normal walking .
a bilateral tonic - clonic seizure is a seizure defined by a tonic  ( bilateral increased tone ,  lasting seconds to minutes )  and then a clonic  ( bilateral sustained rhythmic jerking )  phase .
a type of ataxia characterized by the impairment of the ability to perform rapidly alternating movements ,  such as pronating and supinating his or her hand on the dorsum of the other hand as rapidly as possible .
underdevelopment of the corpus callosum .
a type of kinetic tremor that occurs during target directed movement is called intention tremor .
an abnormality of the respiratory system ,  which include the airways ,  lungs ,  and the respiratory muscles .
any structural anomaly of the lung .
a functional defect characterized by reduced total lung capacity  ( tlc )  not associated with abnormalities of expiratory airflow or airway resistance .
difficult or labored breathing .dyspnea is a subjective feeling only the patient can rate ,  e .g . ,  on a borg scale .
lack of breathing with no movement of the respiratory muscles and no exchange of air in the lungs .
coughing up  ( expectoration )  of blood or blood - streaked sputum from the larynx ,  trachea ,  bronchi ,  or lungs .
accumulation of air in the pleural cavity leading to a partially or completely collapsed lung .
pneumothorax occurring without traumatic injury to the chest or lung .
segmental ,  irreversible dilation of the bronchial tree resulting in the accumulation of secretions which leads to obstruction .
an increase in size of the ventricular system of the brain .
atrophy of the cortex of the cerebrum .
a generalized non - motor  ( absence )  seizure is a type of a type of dialeptic seizure that is of electrographically generalized onset .
a generalized myoclonic seizure is a type of generalized motor seizure characterised by bilateral ,  sudden ,  brief  (  < 100 ms )  involuntary single or multiple contraction of muscles or muscle groups of variable topography  ( axial ,  proximal limb ,  distal )  .
any structural anomaly that affects the upper motor neuron .
abnormality of the basal ganglia .
the presence of calcium deposition affecting one or more structures of the basal ganglia .
an abnormal gait pattern in which persons stand and walk with their feet spaced widely apart .
acute ischemic stroke  ( ais )  is defined by the sudden loss of blood flow to an area of the brain with the resulting loss of neurologic function .
during normal embryological development ,  the spinal cord first occupies the entire length of the vertebral column but goes on to assume a position at the level of l1 due to differential growth of the conus medullaris and the vertebral column .
an abnormally decreased phosphate concentration in the blood .
an abnormally increased potassium concentration in the blood .
hair on the neck extends more inferiorly than usual .
the presence of developmental dysplasia of the nail .
inward advance of skin over the nail plate .
a decrease in the ability to perceive vibration in the legs .
a series of rhythmic and involuntary muscle contractions  ( at a frequency of about 5 to 7 hz )  that occur in response to an abruptly applied and sustained stretch .
gliosis is the focal proliferation of glial cells in the central nervous system .
a tendency to fall or the inability to keep oneself from falling ;  imbalance .
progressive loss of neural cells and tissue .
a type of motor delay characterized by a delay in acquiring the ability to control the large muscles of the body for walking ,  running ,  sitting ,  and crawling .
an increased susceptibility to respiratory infections as manifested by a history of recurrent respiratory infections .
hair shafts are rough in texture .
absence of axillary hair .
upward and / or sideward growth of anterior hair .
hemorrhage affecting the gastrointestinal tract .
abnormally increased size of the liver .
an abnormality of the intestine .
abnormal loss of protein from the digestive tract related to excessive leakage of plasma proteins into the lumen of the gastrointestinal tract .
the vomiting of blood .
any abnormality of the large intestine .
an abnormality resulting from a lack of intestinal ganglion cells  ( i .e . ,  an aganglionic section of bowel )  that results in bowel obstruction with enlargement of the colon .
the presence of multiple diverticula of the colon .
an exaggerated startle reaction in response to a sudden unexpected visual or acoustic stimulus ,  or a quick movement near the face .
an abnormality resulting from an anomaly of neuronal migration ,  i .e . ,  of the process by which neurons travel from their origin to their final position in the brain .
increase in size of the cisterna magna ,  one of three principal openings in the subarachnoid space between the arachnoid and pia mater ,  located between the cerebellum and the dorsal surface of the medulla oblongata .
unlocalized atrophy of the brain with decreased total brain matter volume and increased ventricular size .
circumscribed depigmentation of the hair of the head or the eyelashes .
inability to initiate changes in activity or movement and to perform ordinary volitional movements rapidly and easily .
habitual flow of saliva out of the mouth .
cephalgia ,  or pain sensed in various parts of the head ,  not confined to the area of distribution of any nerve .
an abnormal sensation of spinning while the body is actually stationary .
moderate mental retardation is defined as an intelligence quotient  ( iq )  in the range of 35 - 49 .
this term describes abnormality of the white matter of the cerebrum resulting from damage to the myelin sheaths of nerve cells .
abnormality observed by electroencephalogram  ( eeg )  ,  which is used to record of the brain's spontaneous electrical activity from multiple electrodes placed on the scalp .
reduced ability to walk  ( ambulate )  .
a febrile seizure is any type of seizure  ( most often a generalized tonic - clonic seizure )  occurring with fever  ( at least 38 degrees celsius )  but in the absence of central nervous system infection ,  severe metabolic disturbance or other alternative precipitant in children between the ages of 3 months and 6 years .
loss of developmental skills ,  as manifested by loss of developmental milestones .
an unintentional ,  oscillating to - and - fro muscle movement affecting the hand .
an acquired language impairment of some or all of the abilities to produce or comprehend speech and to read or write .
focal impaired awareness seizure  ( or focal seizure with impaired or lost awareness )  is a type of focal - onset seizure characterized by some degree  ( which may be partial )  of impairment of the person's awareness of themselves or their surroundings at any point during the seizure .
weakness or partial paralysis in the lower limbs .
an abnormal appearance of the midbrain in axial magnetic resonance imaging in which the elongated superior cerebellar peduncles give the midbrain an appearance reminiscent of a molar or wisdom tooth .
a specific learning disability involving mathematics and arithmetic .
reduced strength of the musculature of the distal extremities .
a delay in the acquisition of the ability to use language to communicate needs ,  wishes ,  or thoughts .
an abnormality of the cerebral white matter .
a developmental structural anomaly of the stalk - like part of the brain that comprises the midbrain  ( aka mesencephalon )  ,  the pons  ( aka pons varolii )  ,  and the medulla oblongata ,  and connects the cerebral hemispheres with the cervical spinal cord .
spastic paralysis affecting all four limbs .
the presence of calcium deposition within brain structures .
weakness of the hip girdle and upper thigh muscles ,  for instance in myopathies ,  leads to an instability of the pelvis on standing and walking .
an abnormality of the gyri  ( i .e . ,  the ridges )  of the cerebral cortex of the brain .
incapability to ambulate .
absence of pubic hair .
an abnormality of the intestinal rotation and fixation that normally occurs during the development of the gut .
a disorder of esophageal motility characterized by the inability of the lower esophageal sphincter to relax during swallowing and by inadequate or lacking peristalsis in the lower half of the body of the esophagus .
the passage of fresh  ( red )  blood per anus ,  usually in or with stools .
an intermittent form of abdominal pain .
an abnormal connection  ( fistula )  between the esophagus and the trachea .
an abnormality of the intestine in which part of the intestine invaginates  ( telescopes )  into another part of the intestine .
abnormal intestinal contractions ,  such as spasms and intestinal paralysis ,  related to the loss of the ability of the gut to coordinate muscular activity because of endogenous or exogenous causes .
an abnormality of the vasculature .
an abnormal localized widening  ( dilatation )  of the aortic root .
abnormal outpouching or sac - like dilatation in the wall of an atery ,  vein or the heart .
enlarged and tortuous veins .
an anomaly of vein .
aortic dissection refers to a tear in the intimal layer of the aorta causing a separation between the intima and the medial layers of the aorta .
a general term describing features characterized by abnormal development of bones and connective tissues .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to bone .
a disorder of bone growth affecting the vertebrae and the ends of the long bones  ( epiphyses )  .
an abnormally increased tendency to fractures of bones caused by an abnormal reduction in bone strength that is generally associated with an increased risk of fracture .
the presence of a high and narrow palate .
a morphological abnormality of the mouth in which the angle of the mouth is downturned .
an abnormality of the immune system .
enlargment  ( swelling )  of a lymph node .
increased susceptibility to infections .
failure of the immune system to protect the body adequately from infection ,  due to the absence or insufficiency of some component process or substance .
a thickened white patch on the oral mucosa that cannot be rubbed off .
a decreased rate of skeletal maturation .
an abnormal curvature of the spine in both a coronal  ( lateral )  and sagittal  ( back - to - front )  plane .
a pathologic fracture occurs when a bone breaks in an area that is weakened secondarily to another disease process such as tumor ,  infection ,  and certain inherited bone disorders .
the repeated occurrence of bone fractures  ( implying an abnormally increased tendency for fracture )  .
an increased susceptibility to upper respiratory tract infections as manifested by a history of recurrent upper respiratory tract infections  ( running ears  -  otitis ,  sinusitis ,  pharyngitis ,  tonsillitis )  .
a reduction in the amount of air transported into the pulmonary alveoli by breathing ,  leading to hypercapnia  ( increase in the partial pressure of carbon dioxide )  .
an anomaly of the rhythm or depth of breathing .
exaggerated anterior convexity of the thoracic vertebral column .
an abnormality of the leg .
an abnormality of the arm .
joint pain .
inflammation of a lymph node .
the legs angle inward ,  such that the knees are close together and the ankles far apart .
hyperventilation refers to an increased pulmonary ventilation rate that is faster than necessary for the exchange of gases .
an abnormally decreased potassium concentration in the blood .
an abnormally decreased calcium concentration in the blood .
an abnormally decreased sodium concentration in the blood .
an increased amount of bilirubin in the blood .
an abnormally increased phosphate concentration in the blood .
microscopic hematuria detected by dipstick or microscopic examination of the urine .
elevations of the levels of sgot and sgpt in the serum .
an abnormality of chromosome segregation .
high levels of ketone bodies  ( acetoacetic acid ,  beta - hydroxybutyric acid ,  and acetone )  in the urine .
an abnormality of the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  .
an abnormal reduction in sensation in the distal portions of the extremities .
an abnormal accentuation of the inward curvature of the spine in the lumbar region .
a positional abnormality marked by outward bowing of the legs in which the knees stay wide apart when a person stands with the feet and ankles together .
a bending or abnormal curvature affecting a long bone of the leg .
bowing  ( abnormal curvature )  of the femur .
a bending or abnormal curvature of the radius .
a chronic loss of elbow joint motion due to structural changes in muscle ,  tendons ,  ligaments ,  or skin that prevent normal movement of the joints of the elbow .
the kneecap normally is located within the groove termed trochlea on the distal femur and can slide up and down in it .
prolongation of the time taken for a standardized skin cut of fixed depth and length to stop bleeding .
abnormality originating in one or more muscles ,  i .e . ,  of the set of muscles of body .
one or more abnormally short long bone .
bending of the diaphysis  ( shaft )  of the ulna .
underdevelopment of the patella .
an abnormally increased calcium concentration in the blood .
reduction in the concentration of albumin in the blood .
an increased concentration of glucose in the blood .
an increased concentration of glucose in the urine .
small hands and feet .
an increased concentration of glycine in the urine .
an abnormality of the composition of urine or the levels of its components .
abnormality of the homeostasis  ( concentration )  of a monoatomic ion .
abnormal rhythm of the heart .
an abnormal concentration of a hormone in the blood .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a lipid in the blood circulation .
a contrqacture  ( chronic loss of joint motion due to structural changes in muscle ,  tendons ,  ligaments ,  or skin )  that prevent normal movement of one or more joints of the limbs .
an increased concentration of cholesterol in the blood .
an abnormally decreased calcium concentration in the urine .
an decreased concentration of cholesterol in the blood .
an increased concentration of glutaric acid in the urine .
an abnormal increased in the concentration of corticotropin ,  also known as adrenocorticotropic hormone  ( acth )  ,  in the blood .
abnormally increased serum levels of alkaline phosphatase activity .
an increased concentration of 5 - aminolevulinic acid  ( chebi:17549 )  in the urine .
intrapelvic bulging of the medial acetabular wall .
distance from nasion to subnasale more than two standard deviations below the mean ,  or alternatively ,  an apparently decreased length from the nasal root to the nasal tip .
an abnormally increased overall level of immunoglobulin e in blood .
an abnormally increased sodium concentration in the blood .
an increased concentration of tyrosine in the blood .
an elevation of the level of the enzyme creatine kinase  ( also known as creatine phosphokinase ,  cpk ;  ec 2 .7 .3 .2 )  in the blood .
location of the urethral opening on the inferior aspect of the penis .
distention of the abdomen .
underdeveloped acetabulae .
abnormally reduced serum levels of alkaline phosphatase .
a functional anomaly of mitochondria .
the closed form of spina bifida with incomplete closure of a vertebral body with intact overlying skin .
reduced ability to move the vertebral column with a resulting limitation of neck and trunk flexion .
any abnormality of the cervical vertebral column .
weakness of the limb - girdle muscles  ( also known as the pelvic and shoulder girdles )  ,  that is ,  lack of strength of the muscles around the shoulders and the pelvis .
pain in muscle .
an abnormal gait pattern that arises from weakness of the pretibial and peroneal muscles due to a lower motor neuron lesion .
an axonal neuropathy of peripheral sensory nerves .
sudden and involuntary contractions of one or more muscles .
abnormal sensations such as tingling ,  pricking ,  or numbness of the skin with no apparent physical cause .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the back .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the lower back .
reduced amount of myelin in the central nervous system resulting from defective myelinogenesis .
the presence of characteristic findings of denervation on electromyography  ( fibrillations ,  positive sharp waves ,  and giant motor unit potentials )  .
abnormal results of investigations using electromyography  ( emg )  .
the presence of abnormal electromyographic patterns indicative of myopathy ,  such as small - short polyphasic motor unit potentials .
paralysis of voluntary muscles means loss of contraction due to interruption of one or more motor pathways from the brain to the muscle fibers .
an abnormality of the primary sensation that is mediated by peripheral nerves  ( pain ,  temperature ,  touch ,  vibration ,  joint position )  .
electromyographic  ( emg )  findings characteristic of axonal neuropathy ,  with normal or slightly decreased nerve conduction velocities ,  normal or slightly prolonged distal latencies ,  but significantly reduced motor potentials and sensory amplitudes .
upturning of the big toe  ( and sometimes fanning of the other toes )  in response to stimulation of the sole of the foot .
a kind of short stature in which different regions of the body are shortened to a comparable extent .
a type of disproportionate short stature characterized by a short trunk but a average - sized limbs .
an increased concentration of glutaric acid in the blood .
a functional motor deficit where individuals whose responses to the challenges of exercise fail to achieve levels considered normal for their age and gender .
the shoulder ,  or pectoral ,  girdle is composed of the clavicles and the scapulae .
any abnormality of the soft tissues ,  including both connective tissue  ( tendons ,  ligaments ,  fascia ,  fibrous tissues ,  and fat )  .
an increased erythrocyte sedimentation rate  ( esr )  .
increased concentration of trimethylamine in the urine .
the age group in which disease manifestations appear .
reduced strength and weakness of the muscles of the arms and legs .
sudden and involuntary contractions of one or more muscles brought on by physical exertion .
hypertrophy  ( increase in size )  of muscle cells in a generalized  ( not localized )  distribution .
the occurrence of an unusually high amount of muscle pain following exercise .
weakness of the muscles of the pelvic girdle  ( also known as the hip girdle )  ,  that is ,  lack of strength of the muscles around the pelvis .
recurrent episodes of muscle flaccidity ,  a type of paralysis in which a muscle becomes soft and yields to passive stretching .
multiple small zones of sarcomeric disorganization and lack of oxidative activity  ( known as minicores )  in muscle fibers .
presence of abnormal vacuoles  ( membrane - bound organelles )  in the sarcolemma .
death within the first 28 days of life .
death of the fetus in utero after at least 20 weeks of gestation .
a bending or abnormal curvature of the humerus .
a hand in which the fingers are of nearly equal length and deflected at the first interphalangeal joint ,  so as to give a forklike shape consisting of separation of the first and second as well as the third and fourth digits .
clinodactyly refers to a bending or curvature of the fifth finger in the radial direction  ( i .e . ,  towards the 4th finger )  .
the presence of a hernia in the abdominal wall .
a height below that which is expected according to age and gender norms .
an abnormal increase or decrease of weight or an abnormal distribution of mass in the body .
abnormally increased body weight .
abnormally low body weight .
severe weight loss ,  wasting of muscle ,  loss of appetite ,  and general debility related to a chronic disease .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a aromatic amino acid in the blood circulation .
this term applies to all changes in bone mineral density which  ( depending on severity )  can be seen on x - rays as a change in density and or structure of the bone .
a reduction of bone mineral density ,  that is ,  of the amount of matter per cubic centimeter of bones .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a carboxylic acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of calcium in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a nitrogen compound in the blood circulation .
an abnormality of temperature homeostasis .
abnormality of glycosaminoglycan metabolism .
abnormality of the anal canal .
inflammation of the alimentary part of the gastrointestinal system .
an ulcer of the gastrointestinal tract .
obstruction of the intestine due to abnormally thick meconium .
an anomaly in the ability to perceive and distinguish scents  ( odors )  .
inflammation of a vein associated with venous thrombosis  ( blood clot formation within the vein )  .
repeated episodes of inflammation of a vein associated with venous thrombosis  ( blood clot formation within the vein )  .
the formation of a blood clot inside an artery .
abnormal increase in systolic blood pressure .
a kind of craniosynostosis affecting the lambdoidal suture .
hepatic failure refers to the inability of the liver to perform its normal synthetic and metabolic functions ,  which can result in coagulopathy and alteration in the mental status of a previously healthy individual .
small indentation anterior to the insertion of the ear .
the anterior fontanelle generally ossifies by around the 18th month of life .
the progressive development of an abnormally large skull .
a relatively mild degree of macrocephaly in which the head circumference is not above two standard deviations from the mean ,  but appears dysproportionately large when other factors such as body stature are taken into account .
excessive ,  increased hair growth located in the sacral region .
a lack of bone mineralization of the vertebral bodies .
syndactyly with fusion of toes two and three .
an increase in amplitude of waves returned in ultrasonography of the kidney ,  which is generally displayed as increased brightness of the signal .
chronic inflammation of the kidney affecting the interstitium of the kidneys surrounding the tubules .
episodes of ventricular tachycardia that have a sudden onset and ending .
supraventricular tachycardia  ( svt )  is an abnormally increased heart rate  ( over 100 beats per minute at rest )  with origin above the level of the ventricles .
polymorphic ventricular arrhythmias of varying morphologythat do not exist under resting conditions but appear only upon physical exercise or catecholamine administration .
an episodic form of supraventricular tachycardia with abrupt onset and termination .
recurrent infection of the gastrointestinal tract .
a form of hemolytic anemia with congenital onset .
a form of severe hemolytic anemia characterized by erythrocyte morphology reminiscent of that seen in patients after a thermal burn .
a type of anemia characterized by an abnormally low concentration of hemoglobin in the erythrocytes and lower than normal size of the erythrocytes .
an abnormality of coagulation related to a decreased concentration of vitamin k - dependent protein s . protein s is a cofactor of protein c .
an abdominal hernia that occurs at a site of weakness in the abdominal wall resulting from an incompletely - healed surgical wound .
a state of respiratory distress that requires a life saving intervention in the form of gaining airway access and instituting positive pressure ventilation .
a form of lactic acidemia with congenital onset .
a chronic form of lactic acidemia .
a separation of the layers within the wall of the ascending aorta .
formation of a blood clot  ( thrombus )  inside a vein ,  causing the obstruction of blood flow .
stenosis of a peripheral branch of the pulmonary artery .
underdevelopment of the distal portion of the ulna .
a limited ability of the knee joint to perform extension and flexion .
abnormal increase in diastolic blood pressure .
reduced time for the pr interval  ( beginning of the p wave to the beginning of the qrs complex )  .
failure of the tricuspid valve to close sufficiently upon contraction of the right ventricle ,  causing blood to regurgitate  ( flow backward )  into the right atrium .
reduction of the diameter of the coronary arteries as the result of an accumulation of atheromatous plaques within the walls of the coronary arteries before age of 45 .
a longer than normal interval  ( corrected for heart rate )  between the q and t waves in the heart's cycle .
watery voluminous diarrhea resulting from an imbalance between ion and water secretion and absorption .
a collection of pus in the area of the rectum .
obstruction affecting the biliary tree .
a congenital defect characterized by the lack of ganglion cells in the entire intestine ,  i .e . ,  the aganglionic segment comprises the entire large and small bowel .
posterior positioning of the nasal root in relation to the overall facial profile for age .
absence of the thymus .this feature may be appreciated by the lack of a thymic shadow upon radiographic examination .
a group of phenotypically heterogeneous genetic disorders characterized by profound deficiencies of t -  and b - cell function ,  which predispose the patients to both infectious and noninfectious complications .
excessive growth  ( overgrowth )  of the facial bones ,  that is of the facial skeleton .
reduced convexity of the occiput  ( posterior part of skull )  .
head circumference which falls below 2 standard deviations below the mean for age and gender because of insufficient head growth after birth .
vertical bony ridge positioned in the midline of the forehead .
disseminated intravascular coagulation is characterized by the widespread activation of coagulation ,  which results in the intravascular formation of fibrin and ultimately thrombotic occlusion of small and midsize vessels .
the presence of many cysts in the kidney .
absence or underdevelopment of the femur .
an abnormally increased rate of skeletal maturation .
the ability of the joints of the hand to move beyond their normal range of motion .
increased mobility and flexibility in the joint due to the tension in tissues such as ligaments and muscles .
the presence of bone fractures in the prenatal period that are diagnosed at birth or before .
multiple bent  ( flexed )  finger joints that cannot be straightened actively or passively .
obstruction of the flow of urine through the ureter .
webbing or fusion of the fingers ,  involving soft parts only or including bone structure .
the presence of multiple creases on the palm of the hand  ( more than the normal three major creases  ( distal transverse crease ,  proximal transverse crease ,  and thenar crease )  .
hypoplasia of all of the distal phalanx of finger .
a swan neck deformity describes a finger with a hyperextended pip joint and a flexed dip joint .
the presence of a supernumerary finger  ( not a thumb )  involving the third or fourth metacarpal with associated osseous syndactyly .
the presence of a single ,  median maxillary incisor ,  affecting both the primary maxillary incisor and the permanent maxillary incisor .
premature tooth eruption of the permanent dentition .
a limitation of the range of movement of the shoulder joint .
a bending or abnormal curvature of a long bone .
accumulation of amorphous pas - positive material in the space betweem alveolar macrophages ,  sometimes as condensed form  ( oval bodies )  are typically found in alveolar proteinosis .
abnormal dilatation of the pulmonary lymphatic vessels .
abnormality of the lung parenchyma extending to the pulmonary interstitium and leading to diffuse pulmonary fibrosis .
obstruction of conducting airways of the lung .
hepatic failure refers to the inability of the liver to perform its normal synthetic and metabolic functions ,  which can result in coagulopathy and alteration in the mental status of a previously healthy individual .
the presence of reduced numbers of intrahepatic bile duct than normal .
a larger than usual distance between the left and right nipple .
increased time for the complex comprised of the q wave ,  r wave ,  and s wave as measured by the electrocardiogram  ( ekg )  . .
a defect of the atrioventricular septum of the heart .
a type of cardiac arrhythmia with premature atrial contractions or beats caused by signals originating from ectopic atrial sites .
a type of pituitary adenoma originating in prolactin secreting cells .
a severe degree of muscular hypotonia characterized by markedly reduced muscle tone .
a cessation of the development of a child in the areas of motor skills ,  speech and language ,  cognitive skills ,  and social and / or emotional skills ,  following the onset of epilepsy .
wasting  ( atrophy )  of the vermis of cerebellum .
underdevelopment of the cerebrum .
an abnormality of the ability  ( skills )  to perform a precise movement of small muscles with the intent to perform a specific act .
amyotrophy  ( muscular atrophy )  affecting the proximal musculature .
muscular atrophy affecting the lower limb .
functional neurological abnormalities related to dysfunction of the pyramidal tract .
a loss of myelin from nerve fibers in the central nervous system .
reduced ability to perceive painful stimuli .
underdevelopment of the frontal lobe of the cerebrum .
weakness of the muscles of the legs .
absence or underdevelopment of the corpus callosum .
the presence of multiple leiomyomas of the skin .
a type of blistering that affects the skin of the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet .
the presence of six or more cafe - au - lait spots .
a developmental anomaly characterized by abnormal smallness of both eyes .
a type of cataract with punctate opacities of the lens .
a functional abnormality of the pupil .
abnormal development  ( dysgenesis )  of the anterior segment of the eye globe .
a melanoma derived from melanocytes of the uveal tract .
atrophy  ( loss or wasting )  of the retinal pigment epithelium observed on fundoscopy or fundus imaging .
underdevelopment of the fovea centralis .
macular dystrophy is a nonspecific term for premature retinal cell aging and cell death ,  generally confied to the macula in which no clear extrinsic cause is evident .
fibrous connective tissue resulting from incomplete healing of a wound  ( i .e . ,  a scar )  located in the choroid and retina or the eye .
a type of cataract characterized by punctate ,  dust - like opacities within the cortical region of the lens .
complete color blindness ,  a complete inability to distinguish colors .
inability to see well at night or in poor light with onset in adulthood .
fibrosis of the external ocular muscles such that the eyes of affected individuals are partially or completely fixed in a strabismic position .
a reduction of corneal clarity .
persistence of the hyaloid artery ,  which is the embryonic artery that runs from the optic disk to the posterior lens capsule may persist ;  the site of attachment may form an opacity .
loss of peripheral vision with retention of central vision ,  resulting in a constricted circular tunnel - like field of vision .
the presence of one or more bullae on the skin ,  defined as fluid - filled blisters more than 5 mm in diameter with thin walls .
an outward deviation of the foot at the talocalcaneal or subtalar joint .
bending or curvature of a third toe in the tibial direction  ( i .e . ,  towards the big toe )  .
hyperapobetalipoproteinemia is defined as the combination of a normal low density lipoprotein  ( ldl )  cholesterol in the face of an increased ldl apolipoprotein b  ( apob )  protein .
amenorrhea due to loss of ovarian function before the age of 40 .
an abnormality of zinc ion homeostasis .
an abnormality of the mitochondria in muscle tissue .
a reduction in immunoglobulin levels of the igg2 subclass in the blood circulation .
an abnormality of the talus .
aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of the nail .
an anomaly of the toenail .
onychodystrophy  ( nail dystrophy )  refers to nail changes apart from changes of the color  ( nail dyschromia )  and involves partial or complete disruption of the various keratinous layers of the nail plate .
the presence of degenerative changes of intervertebral disk .
the presence of a moderate form of sensorineural hearing impairment .
a bilateral type of conductive hearing impairment .
a type of hearing impairment caused by an abnormal functionality of the cochlear nerve with congenital onset .
a severe form of sensorineural hearing impairment .
reduced volume of the testicle  ( the male gonad )  .
the presence of one or more obsessive - compulsive personality traits .
intrauterine growth retardation that is 4 or more standard deviations below average ,  corrected for sex and gestational age .
impaired feeding performance of an infant as manifested by difficulties such as weak and ineffective sucking ,  brief bursts of sucking ,  and falling asleep during sucking .
a type of disproportionate short stature characterized by a short limbs but an average - sized trunk .
slow or limited growth after birth .
muscular hypotonia  ( abnormally low muscle tone )  manifesting in the neonatal period and affecting the entire musculature .
muscular hypotonia  ( abnormally low muscle tone )  affecting the musculature of the trunk .
an acute form of rhabdomyolysis .
muscular hypotonia  ( abnormally low muscle tone )  manifesting in infancy .
progressive muscular atrophy affecting muscles in the distal portions of the extremities .
muscular atrophy affecting proximally located muscles of the legs ,  i .e . ,  of the thigh .
a type of muscle stiffness that occurs following physical exertion .
muscle hypertrophy affecting the calf muscles .
a lack of strength of the proximal muscles of the legs .
a lack of strength of the proximal muscles of the arms .
an abnormally increased tendency towards muscle fatigue induced by physical exercise .
weakness of the muscles responsible for dorsiflexion of the foot ,  that is ,  of the movement of the toes towards the shin .
generalized weakness of the muscles of the arms and legs .
rhabdomyolysis induced by exercise .
atrophy of the peroneous muscles ,  peroneus longus  ( also known as fibularis longus )  ,  peroneus brevis  ( also known as fibularis brevis ,  and peroneus tertius  ( also known as fibularis tertius )  .
reduced strength of the distal musculature of the legs .
progressively reduced strength of the distal musculature .
impairment in the physical production of speech sounds .
an abnormality of adipose tissue ,  which is loose connective tissue composed of adipocytes .
muscular atrophy involving the muscles of the hand .
divergence of the longitudinal axis of the hand at the wrist in a posterior  ( ulnar )  direction  ( i .e . ,  towards the little finger )  .
hypoplastic / small or absent thumb .
proximal mislocalization of the thumb .
cortical tubers in the brain are hamartomatous lesions typically located at the gray - white matter interface ,  commonly in the frontal and parietal lobes .
the presence of a sebaceous adenoma with origin in the sebum secreting cells of the skin .
the presence of small depressions in the dental enamel .
pseudarthrosis ,  or "false joint" of the tibia is the result of a developmental failure in the tibia progressing to spontaneous fracture and subsequent fibrous nonunion .
the presence of pigmented ,  oval and dome - shaped raised hamartomatous nevi of the iris . .
increased volume of the earlobe ,  that is ,  abnormally prominent ear lobules .
excessive wrinkling of the skin of the face .
chronic pain in the limbs with no clear focal etiology .
hypoplasia  ( congenital reduction in size )  of the thumb .
syndactyly with fusion of toes three and four .
maternal diabetes can either be a gestational ,  mostly type 2 diabetes ,  or a type 1 diabetes .
short  ( hypoplastic )  phalanx of finger ,  affecting one or more phalanges .
leg shortening because of underdevelopment of one or more bones of the lower extremity .
arm shortening because of underdevelopment of one or more bones of the upper extremity .
limb shortening because of underdevelopment of one or more bones of the extremities .
distance between the hairline  ( trichion )  and the glabella  ( the most prominent point on the frontal bone above the root of the nose )  ,  in the midline ,  more than two sd above the mean .
attachment of the lobe to the side of the face at the lowest point of the lobe without curving upward .
sharply demarcated ,  typically linear and approximately horizontal ,  indentations in the outer surface of the ear lobe .
a condition associated with a limitation of the horizontal ocular movement with retraction of the globe and narrowing of the palpebral fissure on adduction
abnormally increased lacrimation ,  that is ,  excessive tearing  ( watering eye )  .
slender ,  slit - like aperture of the nostril .
a complete duplication affecting one or more of the phalanges of the thumb .
a partial duplication ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance ,  affecting one or more of the phalanges of the thumb .
diminished length of one or more metacarpal bones in relation to the others of the same hand or to the contralateral metacarpal .
an increase in width in one or more phalanges of the big toe .
stridor is a high pitched sound resulting from turbulent air flow in the upper airway .
the presence of hypertrophy of the breast .
premature development of the breasts .
a structural abnormality of the interventricular septum .
an abnormal narrowing of the lumen of the esophagus .
abnormally increased excretion of porphyrins in the urine .
a condition in which the anterior part of the foot rotates outward away from the midline of the body and the heel remains straight .
toes that appear disproportionately long compared to the foot .
absence or underdevelopment of the thymus .
the presence of ectopic thymus tissue .
the presence of an abnormally thin calvarium .
a soft tissue continuity in the a / p axis between two fingers that extends distally to at least the level of the proximal interphalangeal joints ,  or a soft tissue continuity in the a / p axis between two fingers that lies significantly distal to the flexion crease that overlies the metacarpophalangeal joint of the adjacent fingers .
elevated 7 - dehydrocholesterol levels .
cutaneous skin tags also known as acrochorda or fibroepithelial polyps are small benign tumours that may either form secondarily over time primarily in areas where the skin forms creases ,  such as the neck ,  armpit or groin or may also be present at birth ,  in which case they usually occur in the periauricular region .
an abnormality of the premaxilla  ( the embryonic structure that forms the anterior part of the maxilla )  causing it to appear relatively small in size compared to the other parts of the maxilla or other facial structures .
an abnormality of the zygomatic bone .
a hand or foot with more than five digits that has a recognizable a / p axis of symmetry .
an abnormality of the distribution of hair growth .
diminished length of a metatarsal bone ,  with resultant proximal displacement of the associated toe .
an abnormal distribution of eyebrow hair growth in the medial direction .
loss of elasticity of the upper and lower eyelids causing the skin to sag and bulge .
midline deficiency of the mandible and some or all overlying tissues .
a sinus in the coccygeal region  ( the region of the intergluteal cleft )  .
a hair - containing cyst or sinus usually in the coccygeal region .
redness of the skin ,  caused by hyperemia of the capillaries in the lower layers of the skin .
triangular appearance of the oral aperture with the apex in the midpoint of the upper vermilion and the lower vermilion forming the base .
oral commissures positioned superior to the midline labial fissure .
more than two clockwise hair whorls .
an abnormality in cerebral electrical activity recorded along the scalp by electroencephalography  ( eeg )  and being identified at multiple locations  ( foci )  .
diffuse slowing of cerebral electrical activity recorded along the scalp by electroencephalography  ( eeg )  .
periodically recurring abnormalities in the eeg .
a type of motor delay characterized by a delay in acquiring the ability to control the fingers and hands .
a delay in the acquisition of the ability to understand the speech of others .
severe mental retardation is defined as an intelligence quotient  ( iq )  in the range of 20 - 34 .
an enduring pattern of uncooperative ,  defiant ,  and hostile behavior toward authority figures that does not involve major antisocial violations ,  is not accounted for by the child's developmental stage ,  and results in significant functional impairment .
an abnormality of the umbilical cord ,  which is the cord connecting the developing embryo or fetus to the placenta .
a joint disorder caused by blood deprivation in the subchondral bone causing the subchondral bone to die in a process called avascular necrosis .
an abnormal concentration of sodium .
an abnormality of the renal pelvis .
fetal megacystis is an abnormally enlarged bladder identified at any gestational age .
an abnormality of an erythrocyte cell surface molecule .
a kind of anemia characterized by inadequate production of erythrocytes .
involuntary urine leakage synchronous with exertion ,  or actions such as sneezing ,  or coughing .
sudden appearance of disease manifestations over a short period of time .
slow ,  creeping onset ,  slow progress and long continuance of disease manifestations .
a deviation from the normal concentration of a carbohydrate in the blood circulation .
abnormality of glucose homeostasis .
an abnormality of the concentration of glucose in the blood .
an abnormality in a cellular process .
an abnormality of the gastrointestinal tract .
abnormal functionality of the cardiovascular system .
an abnormality of blood circulation .
an abnormality of the homeostasis  ( concentration )  of iron cation .
an abnormality of the cortex of the kidney .
a decreased rate of urine production .
a tooth that has not erupted because of local impediments  ( overcrowding or fibrous gum overgrowth )  .
the union of two separately developing tooth germs typically leading to one less tooth than normal in the affected dental arch .
maxillary teeth cover the mandibular teeth when biting to an increased degree .
a loss of myelin from the internode regions along myelinated nerve fibers of the peripheral nervous system .
a sudden flexion ,  extension ,  or mixed extension - flexion of predominantly proximal and truncal muscles that is usually more sustained than a myoclonic movement but not as sustained as a tonic seizure .
a type of apraxia that is characterized by difficulty or inability to execute speech movements because of problems with coordination and motor problems ,  leading to incorrect articulation .
an increase in the amount of intravascular fluid ,  particularly in the volume of the circulating blood .
an decrease in the amount of intravascular fluid ,  particularly in the volume of the circulating blood .
recurrent episodes of ulceration of the oral mucosa ,  typically presenting as painful ,  sharply circumscribed fibrin - covered mucosal defects with a hyperemic border .
inflammation of the tonsils that has occurred repeatedly .
nasal ridge curving posteriorly to an imaginary line that connects the nasal root and tip .
any morphological abnormality of the skin .
the presence of inflammation of the skin .
a type of cataract  ( opacification of the lens )  that forms during the course of aging .
a type of age - related cataract that primarily affects the nucleus of the lens .
eeg discharges recorded on the entire scalp typically seen in persons with epilepsy .
eeg with abnormally slow frequencies .
forward prominence of the entire forehead ,  due to protrusion of the frontal bone .
an abnormal elevation of the c - reactive protein level in serum .
a morphological abnormality of a digit ,  i .e . ,  of a finger or toe .
extension of the proximal transverse crease  ( five finger crease )  to the ulnar edge of the palm .
an abnormality of the outline ,  configuration ,  or contour of the mouth .
increased width of the upper lip .
a mild delay in the achievement of motor or mental milestones in the domains of development of a child .
a moderate delay in the achievement of motor or mental milestones in the domains of development of a child .
a severe delay in the achievement of motor or mental milestones in the domains of development of a child .
thickening of the epidermal layer of the skin .
an abnormality of the morphology of the semicircular canal .
increased size of the vestibular aqueduct .
delivery of newborn by means of a ventouse ,  a vacuum device used to assist the delivery of a baby when the second stage of labour has not progressed adequately .
an anomaly of the control or production of movement in the central nervous system .
cognitive ,  psychiatric or memory anomaly .
head circumference below 2 standard deviations below the mean for age and gender at birth .
a subjective manifestation of disease localized to the abdomen .
feeding problem necessitating gastrostomy tube feeding .
complete loss of hearing related to a sensorineural defect .
abnormal dilatation of the iris .
progressive maculopathy characterized by concentric regions of hyper -  and hypo - pigmentation .
the condition in which both atria are joined to the left ventricle each by its own atrioventricular valve .
complete absence of the interatrial septum with common atrioventricular valve and two atrioventricular connections .
non - continuity of the arch of aorta with an atretic point or absent segment .
features of tetralogy of fallot with either rudimentary ridges or the complete absence of pulmonic valve tissue .
delay of conduction through the atrioventricular node ,  which is manifested as prolongation of the pr interval in the electrocardiogram  ( ekg )  .
an intermittent atrioventricular block with failure of some atrial impulses to conduct to the ventricles ,  i .e . ,  some but not all atrial impulses are conducted through the atrioventricular node and trigger ventricular contraction .
a conduction block of the right branch of the bundle of his .
a conduction block of the left branch of the bundle of his .
a form of hyperaldosteronism caused by a defect within the adrenal gland .
posterior positions and / or vertical shortening of the infraorbital and perialar regions ,  or increased concavity of the face and / or reduced nasolabial angle .
a functional abnormality of a skeletal muscle .
a structural abnormality of a skeletal muscle .
decreased intensity of the patellar reflex  ( also known as the knee jerk reflex )  .
an abnormality of one or more of the set of bones that make up the facial skeleton .
a functional anomaly of t cells .
a potentially lethal cardiac arrhythmia characterized by an extremely rapid ,  hemodynamically unstable ventricular tachycardia  ( 150 - 300 beats / min )  with a large oscillating sine - wave appearance .
an abnormality of the form ,  structure ,  or size of the skeletal system .
a type of abdominal pain that comes and goes in waves ,  most often starting and ending suddenly and being of severe intensity .
pain in the lower back and hip radiating in the distribution of the sciatic nerve .
bleeding in the anterior chamber of the eye .
decreased concentration of fibrinogen in the blood .
anomaly in the level or the function of hemoglobin ,  the oxygen - carrying protein of erythrocytes .
hemoglobin f  ( hbf )  contains two globin alpha chains and two globin gamma chains .
a reduction in the ratio of production of beta globin to that of alpha globin .
excessive ,  increased hair growth located in the lumbar region .
bending or curvature of a fourth toe in the tibial direction  ( i .e . ,  towards the big toe )  .
a reduction in the activity of the mitochondrial respiratory chain complex i ,  which is part of the electron transport chain in mitochondria .
a reduction in the activity of the mitochondrial respiratory chain complex iii ,  which is part of the electron transport chain in mitochondria .
inflammation of the bronchioles .
impaired ability to eat related to problems gathering food and getting ready to suck ,  chew ,  or swallow it .
a partial or complete replacement of the bone marrow stroma by fibrous tissue .
a persecutory delusion of supposed hostility of others .
a type of asthma in which aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs  ( nsaids )  that inhibit cyclooxygen - ase 1  ( cox - 1 )  exacerbate bronchoconstriction .
an abnormality of mental functioning affecting the personality and behavioural tendencies of an individual and characterized by a rigid and unhealthy pattern of thinking and behavior .
a personality disorder characterized by impulsive behavior and unpredictable and capricious mood .
an abnormal color of the urine ,  that is ,  the color of the urine appears different from the usual straw - yellow color .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid beneath the skin on the back of the feet .
an anomaly of the mitochondrion ,  the membranous cytoplasmic organelle the interior of which is subdivided by cristae .
inflammation of the liver .
a phenomenon in which persons repetitively pull out their own hair ,  resulting in noticeable hair loss .
transient episodes of weakness of the arm ,  leg ,  and in some cases the face on one side of the body .
a type of headache characterized by repeated attacks of unilateral pain lasting 15 to 180 minutes and associated with local autonomic signs .
any structural anomaly of the acrosome resulting in a round sperm head .
an abnormal reduction in the mobility of ejaculated sperm .
any structural anomaly of the kidney .
an abnormal functionality of the kidney .
an erythematous eruption commonly associated with drug reactions or infection and characterized by inflammatory nodules that are usually tender ,  multiple ,  and bilateral .
narrowing of the urethra associated with inflammation or scar tissue .
a type of headache that last hours with continuous pain of mild or moderate intensity ,  bilateral location ,  a pressing / tightening  ( non - pulsating )  quality and that is not aggravated by routine physical activity such as walking or climbing stairs .
decreased time between the start of the q wave and the end of the t wave as measured by the electrocardiogram  ( ekg )  .
marked decrease in the number of granulocytes .
a type of agranulocytosis related to ingestion of a specific medication .
increased time for the pr interval  ( beginning of the p wave to the beginning of the qrs complex )  .
an anomaly of the dynein arms of motile cilia .
complete absence of the dynein arms of respiratory motile cilia ,  that is ,  absence of the inner and the outer dynein arms ,  which normally are situated inside and outside of the peripheral microtubules of motile cilia .
any anomaly of the normal motility of motile cilia .
inflammation of the flexor digitorum tendon ,  often associated with the kanavel signs:  ( i )  finger held in slight flexion ,   ( ii )  fusiform swelling ,   ( iii )  tenderness along the flexor tendon sheath ,  and  ( iv )  pain with passive extension of the digit .
any deviation from the normal concentration of serine in the blood circulation .
underdevelopment of the arch of aorta .
inflammation of the sacroiliac joint ,  generally accompanied by lower back pain .
a functional abnormality of the autonomic nervous system .
a decreased concentration of potassium ( 1 +  )  in the urine .
a subjective feeling of tiredness characterized by a lack of energy and motivation .
pattern of blood flow in the heart that deviates from the normal circuit of the circulatory system from the left side of the heart to the right .
the distal interphalangeal joint and / or the proximal interphalangeal joint of the fingers or toes cannot be extended to 180 degrees by either active or passive extension .
inflammation of the large airways of the lung with rapid onset and short course usually associated with cough ,  mucus production ,  shortness of breath ,  wheezing ,  and chest tightness .
muscular hypotonia of one or more limbs .
a small tear in the thin ,  moist tissue  ( mucosa )  that lines the anus .
a type of anemia resulting from suppression of erythropoiesis with little or no abnormality of leukocyte or platelet production .
an inflammation of the choroid and retina .
underdevelopment of the cerebral white matter .
a functional anomaly of the gallbladder .
a structural abnormality of the biliary tree .
a structural abnormality of the brain ,  which has as its parts the forebrain ,  midbrain ,  and hindbrain .
partial or complete wasting  ( loss )  of brain tissue that was once present .
any anomaly in the process by which myelin sheaths are formed and maintained around neurons .
delayed myelination .
constipation for longer than three months with fewer than 3 bowel movements per week ,  straining ,  lumpy or hard stools ,  and a sensation of anorectal obstruction or incomplete defecation .
an ophthalmologic sign in young children resulting from upward - gaze paresis .
increased width of the skin of vermilion border region of upper lip .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the leg .
increased dimensions of the virchow - robin spaces  ( also known as perivascular spaces )  ,  which surround the walls of vessels as they course from the subarachnoid space through the brain parenchyma .
persistent pain ,  usually defined as pain that has lasted longer than 3 to 6 months .
hematuria that is visible upon inspection of the urine .
an abnormal amount of urine production .
the presence of moderately increased concentrations of albumin in the urine ,  defined as and albumin - creatinine ratio  ( acr )  of 30 to 299 mg / gm  ( 3 .4 to 34 mg / mmol )  .
mildly increased levels of protein in the urine  ( 150 - 500 mg per day in adults )  .
an abnormal concentration of potassium ( 1 +  )  in the urine .
an abnormal concentration of sodium in the urine .
an anomalous finding in the examination of the urine for cells .
a functional anomaly of the nervous system .
any anomaly of the inflammatory response ,  a response to injury or infection characterized by local vasodilation ,  extravasation of plasma into intercellular spaces and accumulation of white blood cells and macrophages .
a abnormal increase in the inflammatory response to injury or infection .
a diminution of the volumetric fraction of blood pumped out of the ventricle with each cardiac cycle .
an abnormal build up of iron  ( fe )  in brain tissue .
an increase in size of the anatomic space between the arachnoid membrane and pia mater .
abnormal structure of the gastrointestinal tract .
abnormal functionality of the gastrointestinal tract .
a sudden ,  audible expulsion of air from the lungs through a partially closed glottis ,  preceded by inhalation .
a profound delay in the achievement of motor or mental milestones in the domains of development of a child .
distance between the medial and lateral canthi is more than 2 sd below the mean for age  ( objective )  ;  or ,  apparently reduced length of the palpebral fissures .
a deviation from normal of the neurological development of a child ,  which may include any or all of the aspects of the development of personal ,  social ,  gross or fine motor ,  and cognitive abilities .
the presence of atrophy  ( wasting )  of the cerebral white matter .
inequality of refractive power of the two eyes .
a structural anomaly of sperm .
a structural abnormality of the sperm tail .
aplasia  ( congenital absence )  of the vas deferens .
the emission of semen and seminal fluid into the bladder instead of through the penis during orgasm .
difficulty releasing one's grip associated with prolonged first handgrip relaxation times .
a form of esotropia  ( convergent deviation of the eyes )  associated with activation of the accommodative reflex .
an infection of a hair follicle that extends subcutaneously ,  forming an abscess .
medical history of a recent bite injury due to an insect .
absent or significantly reduced efficacy of drug intervention characterized by lack of measurable benefit or deterioration of disease course .
a sudden violent ,  spasmodic ,  audible expiration of breath through the nose and mouth .
an intrauterine state characterized by suboptimal values in the fetal heart rate ,  oxygenation of fetal blood ,  or other parameters indicative of compromise of the fetus .
a symptom or manifestation indicating a systemic or general effect of a disease and that may affect the general well - being or status of an individual .
an undesirable physical event or experience that occur during entry into sleep ,  during sleep ,  or during arousal from sleep .
a sensation of tightness in the neck when attempting to move it ,  especially after a period of inactivity .
deep ,  noisy breathing during sleep accompanied by hoarse or harsh sounds caused by the vibration of respiratory structures  ( especially the soft palate )  resulting in sound due to obstructed air movement during breathing while sleeping .
any physiological abnormality of the esophagus .
complete closure of the normally patent lumen of the blood vessels which carry blood away from the heart .
significant maternal hemorrhage / bleed in the second half of pregnancy and prior to the birth of the baby .
an anomaly of cellular morphology or physiology .
reduced fluid intake  ( drinking )  in a clinical situation where the plasma molarity or sodium concentration normally would induce greater fluid intake .
any anomaly of the structure of the larynx .
a spasm  ( involuntary contraction )  of the vocal cords that can make it difficult to speak or breathe .
a spasm  ( sudden ,  involuntary constriction )  of the bronchioles .
underdevelopment of the hippocampus .
a congenital lesion of the sclera characterized by unilateral patchy but extensive slate - gray or bluish discoloration of the sclera  .
recurrent or persistent genital pain associated with sexual intercourse .
the presence in the inguinal region  ( groin )  of an increased number of freckles ,  small circular spots on the skin that are darker than the surrounding skin because of deposits of melanin .
abnormal consumption of fluids with excessive or insufficient consumption of fluid or any other abnormal pattern of fluid consumption .
an angulation of a digit at an interphalangeal joint in the plane of the palm  ( finger )  or sole  ( toe )  .
a deviation from normal in the amount of dystrophin in muscle fiber tissue .
immunohistochemistry shows complete lack of dysferlin protein in the muscle biopsy .
an extra or unusual sound heard during a heartbeat caused vibrations resulting from the flow of blood through the heart .
an acute or chronic inflammatory process affecting the biliary tract .
inflammation of the uterine cervix .
reduced muscle tone of oral musculature .
reduced velocity and acceleration in the pupillary light response .
abnormalities of the overall muscle bulk based on clinical observation .
thrombosis of the portal vein and / or its tributaries ,  which include the splenic vein and the superior and inferior mesenteric veins .
apparently small scrotum for age .
underdevelopment of the anterior commissure .
vaginal delivery following induction of labor ,  a procedure used to stimulate uterine contractions during pregnancy before labor begins on its own .
an abnormality in the rate and degree to which platelets aggregate after the addition of an agonist that stimulates platelet clumping .
fibrofolliculoma is a clinically asymptomatic ,  2 - 4 mm ,  skin - colored ,  dome - shaped smooth papule .
any structural anomaly of the heart and great vessels .
a pocket of pus located within a region of a tooth .
pain in the ear can be a consequence of otologic disease  ( primary or otogenic otalgia )  ,  or can arise from pathologic processes and structures other than the ear  ( secondary or referred otalgia )  .
an abnormal magnetic resonance tomography signal from a vertebral endplate according to a widely used classification published by dr . michael modic .
a structural anomaly of the jaw ,  the bony structure of the mouth that consists of the mandible and the maxilla .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the neck .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the shoulder .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the hip .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the knee .
any anomaly measure by pulmonary function testing ,  which includes spirometry ,  measures of diffusing capacity ,  and plethysmography .
an anomaly of the muscular contractions that propel food though the gastrointestinal tract .
a reduction in the length of time required for food to pass through the intestines .
an anomaly of the wave - like muscle contractions of the digestive tract .
an anomaly of the electrical conduction physiology of the heart .
a chronic deviation from normal pressure in the systemic arterial system .
an increased blood concentration of carcinoma antigen 125  ( ca - 125 )  .
an abnormal immunoglobulin or part of an ig  ( light chain )  in the circulation .
a type of bicuspid aortic valvue  ( bav )  characterized by the presence of two raphes that each extend from the commissure to the free edge of the two underdeveloped ,  conjoint cusps .
any structural anomaly of the muscular columns which project from the inner surface of the left ventricle of the heart  ( cardiac trabeculae ,  trabeculae carneae )  .
sudden feelings of warmth that are generally most pronounced over the face ,  neck and chest .
the state in which profound and widespread reduction of effective tissue perfusion leads first to reversible ,  and then if prolonged ,  to irreversible cellular injury .
recurrent episodes of redness of the skin together with a sensation of warmth or burning of the affected areas of skin .
a circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the skin .
increase in size of the left atrium .
a pregnancy in which the fertilized egg inserts in a location outside of the main cavity of the uterus  ( usually in the fallopian tube )  .
an inflammation of the adenoid tissue .
any functional anomaly of the mitral valve .
a lesion associated with atherosclerosis ,  a multifactorial and multipart progressive disease manifested by the focal development within the arterial wall of lesions ,  that ranges from teh development of a fatty streak ,  plaque progression ,  and plaque disruption .
any structural anomaly of the ear .
a form of esotropia in which the angle of deviation is not affected by accommodative effort .
any functional anomaly of the vocal cord .
any anomaly of a reflex ,  i .e . ,  of an automatic response mediated by the nervous system  ( a reflex does not need the intervention of conscious thought to occur )  .
a sense of intense joy or happiness that is beyond what would be expected under the given circumstances .
any abnormality in the variability of the time interval between successive heartbeats .
being unable to focus one's attention or mental effort on a particular object or activity .
abnormal appearance of material expectorated  ( coughed up )  from the respiratory system and that is composed of mucus but may contain other substances such as pus ,  blood ,  microorganisms ,  and fibrin .
a fluid - filled mass that is a distention of a preexisting bursa in the popliteal fossa ,  most commonly the gastrocnemio - semimembranosus bursa .
a type of chest pain that arises in the or under the left breast and often described as throbbing ,  stabbing ,  or burning ,  and lasting hours or longer .
a partial dislocation of a joint .
a type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity .
abnormal structure of the meniscus of the knee ,  two crescent shape fibrocartilaginous pads that disperse the weight of the body and reduce friction of the knee joint during movement .
abnormal increase in blood pressure .
a breast lump is any discrete mass in a breast noticed by the patient ,  significant other ,  or physician .
an abnormal decrease of the pressure within the eye .
diffuse alveolar damage  ( dad )  describes a comon histologic injury pattern of the lung .
a conspicuously happy disposition with frequent smiling and laughing that may be context - inappropriate or unrelated to context .
inflammation of the periosteum
reduced level of platelet - activating factor acetylhydrolase .
systemic inflammatory response to infection in newborn babies .
abnormal growth ossification centers in children .
a decreased concentration of insulin in the blood .
pulmonary hemorrhage is a bleeding within the lungs .
deficiency of factor xiii subunit a ,  leading to a reduced factor xiii activity .
blood concentration of insulin like growth factor binding protein acid labile subunit level below normal limits .
a circumscribed ,  solid elevation of skin with no visible fluid ,  varying in size from a pinhead to less than 10mm in diameter at the widest point that is composed of localized hyperkeratosis  ( the latter may be demonstrated histopathologically )  .
an epiretinal membrane is a thin sheet of fibrous tissue that can develop on the surface of the macular area of the retina and cause a disturbance in vision .
an abnormality of movement with a neurological basis characterized by changes in coordination and speed of voluntary movements .
a type of stereotypic behavior in which the affected individual repeatedly waves the hands up and down .
repeated ,  individually recognizable ,  intermittent movements or movement fragments that are almost always briefly suppresable and are usually associated with awareness of an urge to perform the movement .
deposition of calcium salts in muscle tissue .
senile plaques are extracellular deposits of amyloid in the gray matter of the brain .
a condition in which middle parts of the hands and / or feet  ( digits and meta - carpals and  - tarsals )  are missing giving a cleft appearance .
a chronic inflammatory disease of the large intestine  ( colon ,  cecum and rectum )  .
hemorrhage occurring between the dura mater and the arachnoid mater .
an increased susceptibility to bronchiolitis as manifested by a history of recurrent bronchiolitis .
a reduced concentration of vitamin b2 .
an anomaly in the metabolism of a vitamin .
the presence of an abscess of the liver .
an abnormality of phosphate homeostasis or concentration in the body .
inflammation of the episclera ,  a thin layer of tissue covering the white part  ( sclera )  of the eye .
inflammation of fascia ,  the tissue under the skin and over the muscle .
abnormality in the process of thought including the ability to process information .
narrowing or constriction of the inner surface  ( lumen )  of an artery .
breakage  ( tear )  of a tendon .
a difference in length or diameter between the left and right leg .
localized loss of fat tissue .
polypoidal masses arising mainly from the mucous membranes of the nose and paranasal sinuses .
presence of small ,  permanently dilated blood vessels near the surface of the skin ,  visible as small focal red lesions .
an abnormal forward - flexed posture e .g .
an acute and life - threatening complication of pregnancy ,  which is characterized by the appearance of tonic - clonic seizures ,  usually in a patient who had developed pre - eclampsia .
pain during menstruation that interferes with daily activities .
bleeding at irregular intervals .
death between the age of 16 and 40 years .
inflammation of the esophagus .
an anomaly of the cerebral blood vessels .
the presence of neurofibromas in the subcutis .
a form of loss of vision caused by damage to the visual cortex rather than a defect in the eye .
aggression towards oneself .
an excessive number of histiocytes  ( tissue macrophages )  .
abnormal eating habit with excessive or insufficient consumption of food or any other abnormal pattern of food consumption .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the chest .
terminal broadening of the fingers  ( distal phalanges of the fingers )  .
an anomaly of the lymphatic system ,  a network of lymphatic vessels that carry a clear fluid called lymph unidirectionally towards either the right lymphatic duct or the thoracic duct ,  which in turn drain into the right and left subclavian veins respectively .
failure to develop and congenital absence of the breast .
systemic inflammatory response to infection .
the middle finger is more than 2 sd above the mean for newborns 27 to 41 weeks ega or above the 97th centile for children from birth to 16 years of age and the five digits retain their normal length proportions relative to each other  ( i .e . ,  it is not the case that the middle finger is the only lengthened digit )  ,  or ,  fingers that appear disproportionately long compared to the palm of the hand .
testicular torsion is when the spermatic cord to a testicle twists ,  cutting off the blood supply .
an inflammatory process affecting the lip .
deposits of various size ,  shape ,  consistency ,  refractive index ,  and motility within the eye's vitreous humour ,  which is normally transparent .
an abnormality of emotional behaviour .
abnormally persistent clusters of embryonal cells ,  representing microscopic malformations  ( dysplasias )  of the developing kidney .
a painful and harmful medical condition in which the erect penis doesn't return to its flaccid state ,  despite the absence of both physical and psychological stimulation ,  within four hours .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the eye .
grey - green or brownish - pigmented ring in the deep epithelial layers at the outer border of the cornea .
a circumscribed ,  fluid - containing ,  epidermal elevation generally considered less than 10mm in diameter at the widest point .
a discontinuity of the skin exhibiting complete loss of the epidermis and often portions of the dermis and even subcutaneous fat .
disproportionately small hand .
a condition in which epileptiform abnormalities are believed to contribute to the progressive disturbance in cerebral function .
frequent menses ;  menstrual cycles lasting less than 21 days .
an increase in the length of time required for food to pass through the intestines .
a label is a symbol that is part of some other datum and is used to either partially define the denotation of that datum or to provide a means for identifying the datum as a member of the set of data with the same label .
data is an information entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
an information entity is an entity that represents information about some other entity .
a data format specification is the information content borne by the document published defining the specification .
a data set is an information entity that is an aggregate of other information entities that have something in common and are considered to form a unit .
an image is an affine projection to a two dimensional surface ,  of measurements of some quality of an entity or entities repeated at regular intervals across a spatial range ,  where the measurements are represented as color and luminosity on the projected on surface .
the ability of a pathogen to produce an infectious disease or disorder in an organism .
a part of the brain consisting of a three layered cortex located in the forebrain bordering the medial surface of the lateral ventricle .
the generic name for hand ,  paw ,  foot etc
a genetic deficiency of any early component of the classical pathway  ( c1q ,  c1r / s ,  c2 ,  c4 ,  and c3 )  that is associated with autoimmune diseases due to the failure of clearance of immune complexes  ( ic )  and apoptotic materials ,  and the impairment of normal humoral response .
hypophosphatemic rickets is a group of genetic diseases characterized by hypophosphatemia ,  rickets ,  and normal serum levels of calcium .
a microphthalmia that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a common presentation of craniosynostosis and polysyndactyly .
unusually early sexual maturity .
bifid nose is a rare congenital malformation of presumed autosomal dominant or recessive inheritance characterized by clefting of the nose ranging from a minimally noticeable groove in the columella to complete clefting of the underlying bones and cartilage  ( resulting in two half noses )  with a usually adequate airway .
a rare genetic brain malformation characterized by displacement of the brain stem and cerebellum through the foramen magnum .
a congenital cardiac defect in which two heart vessels are reversed  ( transposed )  .
a grouping for huntington disease and similar diseases .
a developmental disorder of the eye characterized by unilateral or bilateral microphthalmia associated with ocular coloboma .
an adult - onset movement disorder characterized by bradykinesia ,  dysarthria and muscle rigidity .
a hypercalcemia disease that occurs between 28 days to one year of life . .
either of two diseases resulting from fungal infection of the hair shafts .
a mycosis that involves the integument and its appendages ,  including hair and nails .
a mycosis that involves subcutaneous tissue .
a mycosis that involves the lungs ,  abdominal viscera ,  bones and or central nervous system .
an inflammation of both larynx and trachea .
a type of lung inflammation resulting from the aspiration of food ,  liquid ,  or gastric contents into the upper respiratory tract .
a disease caused by infection with ichthyosporea .
a systemic mycosis that arises from infection in an immunologically normal host .
a bacterial infectious disease that results in infection by bacteria which are part of the normal human flora when one or more of the defense mechanisms designed to restrict them from the usually sterile internal tissues are breached by accident ,  by intent  ( surgery )  ,  or by an underlying metabolic or an infectious disorder .
nodular goiter characterized by more than one discrete tissue mass .
a poliomyelitis that results in destruction located in motor neurons of central nervous system ,  has material basis in human poliovirus 1 ,  has material basis in human poliovirus 2 ,  or has material basis in human poliovirus 3 ,  which are transmitted by ingestion of food or water contaminated with feces ,  or transmitted by direct contact with the oral secretions .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of methionine catabolic process .
spondylocostal dysplasia is a rare genetic disorder characterized by defects of the bones of the spine  ( vertebrae )  and abnormalities of the ribs .
primary congenital glaucoma  ( pcg )  is characterized by elevated intraocular pressure  ( iop )  ,  enlargement of the globe  ( buphthalmos )  ,  edema ,  and opacification of the cornea with rupture of descemet's membrane  ( haab's striae )  ,  thinning of the anterior sclera and iris atrophy ,  anomalously deep anterior chamber ,  and structurally normal posterior segment except for progressive glaucomatous optic atrophy .
a tuberculosis that occurs at body sites other than the lung .
an extrapulmonary tuberculosis that is located in gastrointestinal tract ,  located in peritoneum ,  located in omentum ,  located in mesentery ,  located in liver ,  located in spleen or located in pancreas .
a malignant neoplasm involving the respiratory system
a malignant epithelial neoplasm arising in the paranasal sinus .
a benign neoplasm that involves the respiratory system .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the male or female reproductive system .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm arising from any part of the digestive system .
a well - differentiated neuroendocrine tumor arising from the digestive system .
anemia in which the circulating rbcs are smaller than the usual size of rbcs  ( microcytic )  and have decreased red color  ( hypochromic )  .
a rare genetic disorder characterized by macular degeneration in the retina resulting in progressive loss of central vision with retention of the peripheral vision .
a form of cerebral palsy wherein spasticity is the exclusive impairment present .
an epilepsy syndrome that is a group of clinical entities showing a cluster of electro - clinical characteristics ,  classified according to age at onset ,  cognitive and developmental antecedents and consequences ,  motor and sensory examinations ,  eeg features ,  provoking or triggering factors ,  and patterns of seizure occurrence with respect to sleep .
an electroclinical syndrome with onset in the neonatal period less than 44 weeks of gestational age .
an electroclinical syndrome with onset in infancy occurring between birth and one year of age .
a electroclinical syndrome that occurs during childhood .
an electroclinical syndrome with onset in adolescence and adulthood .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of l - serine biosynthetic process .
low serum levels of vitamin b12  ( cobalamin )  due to poor intestinal absorption ,  decreased dietary intake ,  or increased physiologic requirement .
x - linked form of disease .
autosomal dominant form of disease .
a monogenic disease that is has material basis in a mutation in a single gene on one of the non - sex chromosomes .
this type of lymphoma is not frequently seen in the western hemisphere .
a neurological syndrome characterised by clumsy and unco - ordinated movement of the limbs ,  trunk ,  and cranial muscles .
an autosomal dominant inherited condition characterized by many cysts of various sizes scattered throughout the liver .
creatine deficiency syndrome  ( cds )  comprises a group of inborn errors of creatine metabolism ,  characterized by a global developmental delay ,  intellectual disability and associated neurological  ( seizures ,  movement disorders ,  myopathy )  and behavioral manifestions .
a heart block that is initiated in the atrioventricular node .
a disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of complete failure of atrial electrical impulse conduction to the ventricles .
a disease involving the sinoatrial node .
a disease involving the endocardium .
an impairment of the structure or function of the blood vessels which carry blood away from the heart .
a disease involving the pericardium .
a dystonia that is localized to a specific part of the body .
a dystonia that involves two or more unrelated body parts .
a focal dystonia that is characterized as dystonia that affects the muscles of the head ,  face ,  and neck .
a brain disease that is characterized by functional impairment of cognition ,  cerebral signal conduction ,  neurotransmission and synaptic plasticity ,  and underlying structural pathology associated with diabetes .
a hardening of the kidney glomerulus caused by scarring of the blood vessels .
an epithelial neoplasm morphologically characterized by the presence of a villous architectural pattern .
a intellectual disability that is part of a larger syndrome .
an intellectual disability that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a squamous cell carcinoma that involves the bone tissue .
a chondrosarcoma  ( disease )  that involves the bone tissue .
a carcinoma that arises from the major or minor salivary glands .
a mixed germ cell cancer that is located in areas of the body other than the ovary or testicle .
an adenoma that arises from the colon .
an adenoma that arises from the rectum .
a lung combined type small cell carcinoma that has material basis in epithelial tissue of glandular origin .
a squamous cell carcinoma that involves the tonsil .
a well differentiated ,  low grade neuroendocrine tumor  ( carcinoid tumor )  that arises from the small intestine .
a melanoma that arises from a mucosal site .
an invasive malignant neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is characterized by a predominance of clear and hobnail malignant epithelial cells .
a neuroblastoma that involves the retroperitoneal space .
infective endocarditis  ( ie )  is an infection of the inner lining of the heart chambers  ( endocardium )  and valves .
a hypersensitivity reaction type ii disease that involves the central nervous system .
a hypersensitivity reaction type ii disease that involves the endocrine system .
a severe combined immunodeficiency that is the result of a mutation on chromosome 6 rag2 gene involving genetic rearrangement of both the t -  and b - lymphocyte receptor genes .
anemia ,  the cause of which is present at birth .
a hypersensitivity reaction type ii disease that involves the exocrine system .
an autoimmune form of otorhinolaryngologic disease .
a hypersensitivity reaction type ii disease that involves the alimentary part of gastrointestinal system .
a hypersensitivity reaction type ii disease that involves the musculoskeletal system .
a hypersensitivity reaction type ii disease that involves the peripheral nervous system .
a cardiomyopathy that is due to abnormalities in heart muscle cells .
a developmental disorder of mental health that categorizes specific learning disabilities and developmental disorders affecting coordination .
a category of developmental disorders characterized by impaired communication and socialization skills .
a category of psychiatric disorders characterized by a disturbance in sexual desire and in the psychophysiological changes that make up the sexual response cycle .
a hypersensitivity reaction type ii disease that involves the genitourinary system .
a hypersensitivity reaction type ii disease that involves the blood .
a hypersensitivity reaction type ii disease that involves the cardiovascular system .
a disease of cellular proliferation that results in abnormal growths in the body ,  which do not invade or destroy the surrounding tissue but ,  given enough time ,  will transform into a cancer .
a malignant neoplasm involving the lymphatic part of lymphoid system
a non - metastasizing neoplasm arising from the breast parenchyma .
a malignant neoplasm involving the immune system
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the female reproductive system .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the male reproductive system .
a non - metastasizing ,  functioning or non - functioning neoplasm that arises from an endocrine organ .
a benign neoplasm that involves the central nervous system .
a benign neoplasm that involves the cardiovascular system .
a neoplasm that arises from the bone or articular cartilage and does not invade adjacent tissues or metastasize to other anatomic sites .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the uterine corpus or the cervix .
a benign neoplasm that involves the sense organ .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm arising from any of the organs of the thoracic cavity .
a benign neoplasm that involves the musculoskeletal system .
a malignant neoplasm involving the musculoskeletal system
a form of glioma without malignant characteristics .
a neuroectodermal tumor that involves the central nervous system .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the vulva .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the ovary .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the vagina .
abnormal growth of cells in the nervous system without evidence of malignant characteristics .
a malignant neoplasm involving the sensory system
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the peritoneal cavity .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the thorax and / or the organs of the thoracic cavity .
a benign neoplasm that involves the integumental system .
a malignant neoplasm involving the integumental system
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the connective and soft tissue .
apraxia is a neurological disorder characterized by the inability to perform tasks or movements ,  despite having the desire and physical ability to perform them .
an amino acid metabolic disorder characterized by impairment of the gaba catabolic pathway .
a migraine disorder characterized by individual and family history of aura that includes motor weakness .
inflammation of the colon due to colonic ischemia resulting from alterations in systemic circulation or local vasculature .
an crohn disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the ileum .
a metabolic metabolic disorder characterized by excess urinary excretion of the purine base xanthine .
a synpolydactyly that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a scoliosis with no known cause .
a muscular dystrophy which begins at the lower legs and affects the shoulder region earlier and more severely than distal arm .
the drooping of the upper eyelid .
a mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation disorder in which multiple mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes .
any corneal dystrophy  ( disease )  in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tgfbi gene .
a corneal dystrophy  ( disease )  that involves the corneal epithelium .
a respiratory system disease with a basis in a pathological type i hypersensitivity reaction .
an autoimmune form of peripheral neuropathy .
a disease involving the vertebral column .
a rare neural tube defect during pregnancy ,  resulting in the absence of a large portion of the brain and skull in the fetus .
a disorder characterized by malformations in the structure of the capillaries in the brain .
infections with bacteria of the genus salmonella .
the formation of a blood clot in the lumen of a vessel or heart chamber ;  causes include coagulation disorders and vascular endothelial injury .
a bone disease that results in formation or resorption abnormalities located in bone .
bone loss due to osteoclastic activity .
any abnormality ,  anatomical or biochemical ,  evident at birth or during the neonatal period .
a genetic ,  non - inheritable disorder caused by osteoblastic differentiation defects that result in the replacement of bone marrow and trabecular bone by fibrous stroma and immature bone .
an acute lymphoblastic leukemia occurring during childhood .
a lymphoma composed of immature small to medium - sized precursor lymphoid cells  ( lymphoblasts )  .
candidiasis of the skin manifested as eczema - like lesions of the interdigital spaces ,  perleche ,  or chronic paronychia .
a group of rare myeloid and lymphoid neoplasms characterized by rearrangement of the pdgfra ,  pdgfrb ,  or fgfr1 genes ,  resulting in the formation of fusion transcripts and aberrant tyrosine kinase activity .
myeloid and rarely lymphoid neoplasms characterized by the rearrangement of the pdgfrb gene ,  most often resulting in the formation of etv6 - pdgfrb fusion transcripts .
a congenital birth syndrome that arises from materal zika infection .
a rare ,  invasive colon adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of sheets of malignant epithelial cells with vesicular nuclei ,  prominent nucleoli ,  and abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm .
a bronchiolo - alveolar adenocarcinoma that is characterized by a tumour cells containing abundant mucin in their cytoplasm and composed of tall columnar cells growing along alveolar walls without stromal invasion .
an infectious disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the intestinal mucosa .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the ampulla of vater .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the duodenum .
a benign or malignant neoplasm involving the ampulla of vater .
pathologic accumulation of air in the interstitium of the lungs ,  which is caused by the rupture of alveoli and terminal bronchioles ,  and is most often seen in premature infants that need mechanical ventilation for respiratory distress syndrome .
disease that disrupts the process by which the vertebrate eye changes optical power to maintain a clear image or focus on an object as its distance varies .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the endometrium .
a neurodegenerative disease that involves the eyelid .
impaired venous blood flow or venous return  ( venous stasis )  ,  usually caused by inadequate venous valves .
a cancer that involves the hindlimb long bone .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the small intestine .
a benign circumscribed tumor composed of spindled cells ,  adipocytes ,  and collagen bundles .
discharge or drainage of fluid from the ear .
a bundle branch block in which the activation of the left ventricle is delayed .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of the heart's electrical conduction system .
a group of genetic neurological disorders caused by mutations in genes involved in the sodium and calcium channels in nerve cells .
a slowly progressing leukemia characterized by a clonal  ( malignant )  proliferation of maturing and mature myeloid cells or mature lymphocytes .
decreased vision that results from abnormal visual development .
a mature b -  or t -  cell leukemia with progressive clinical course .
klippel feil syndrome  ( kfs )  is a congenital ,  musculoskeletal condition characterized by the fusion of at least two vertebrae of the neck .
an inflammatory process that affects the nasopharynx .
a congenital malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the intestine .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the stomach .
an extranodal lymphoma that arises from the stomach with the bulk of the mass located in the stomach .
a malignant neoplasm involving the cardia of stomach .
a rare disorder of the digestive tract characterized by malabsorption and anemia .
a primary or metastatic malignant tumor involving the lymph node .
a genetic or acquired disorder characterized by impairment of the function of the proximal tubules of the kidney .
inflammation of the renal tubules and supporting tissues of the kidney .
a disorder characterized by an enduring pattern of inability to establish close relationships coupled with cognitive or perceptual distortions ,  odd beliefs and speech ,  and eccentric behavior and appearance .
persistent pyelonephritis .
an inherited or acquired condition characterized by abnormally increased levels of methemoglobin in the blood .
a malignant neoplasm involving the nasal cavity
a cranial nerve palsy that involves the trochlear nerve .
a congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column or the cranium .
a congenital or acquired developmental disorder in which the circumference of the head is smaller than normal for the person's age and sex .
systematic and extensive loss of memory caused by organic or psychological factors .
a category of psychiatric disorders which are characterized by a disruption in the usually integrated functions of consciousness ,  memory ,  identity ,  and / or perception of the environment .
a disorder characterized by an enduring pattern of extreme social detachment and lack of involvement in interpersonal activities ,  coupled with emotional coldness .
a category of behaviors that can be loosely defined as the failure to resist an impulsive act or behavior that may be harmful to self or others .
a disorder characterized by an enduring pattern of behavior based on the pervasive belief that the motives of others are malevolent and that they should not be trusted .
a disease involving the tongue .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the bladder .
an instance of thrombocytopenia that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
life - threatening respiratory failure that develops rapidly .
a otitis media which involves transudation of fluid in the middle ear without pus formation .
acute inflammation of the conjunctiva .
a broad classification of inherited disorders presenting at birth that affect the cell - mediated aspect of the immune response .
a malignant neoplasm involving the vermiform appendix
the mildest form of erythroblastosis fetalis in which anemia is the chief manifestation .
anemia in which the red blood cell volume is decreased .
a benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures .
ischemic necrosis of the pituitary gland .
a disorder affecting the sclera .
an inflammatory process that affects the choroid .
endometriosis that affects the vagina .
an instance of night blindness that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
autonomic neuropathy that is caused by diabetes mellitus .
an inherited or acquired peripheral neuropathy affecting the autonomic nervous system .
abnormal enlargement of the heart resulting from long - standing hypertension .
an infectious meningitis caused by infection with streptococcus .
a malignant neoplasm involving the pericardium .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the penis .
an inherited autosomal recessive trait ,  characterized by peripheral resistance to thyroid hormones and the resulting elevation in serum levels of thyroxine and triiodothyronine .
the normal decreasing elasticity of the crystalline lens that leads to loss of accommodation .
a hypertrichosis  ( disease )  that involves the eyelid .
an instance of hyperlipidemia  ( disease )  that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a malignant neoplasm involving the heart
an immunologic deficiency state characterized by selective deficiencies of one or more ,  but not all ,  classes of immunoglobulins .
any disease in which the causes of the disease is a perturbation of the kidney leading to its dysfunction .
anemia caused by the reduction of hemoglobin in relation to the red cell volume .
persistent laryngitis usually caused by smoking ,  heavy alcohol consumption ,  voice abuse ,  or gastroesophageal reflux disease .
fluid collection within the pericardial sac ,  usually due to inflammation .
a malignant mesenchymal cell neoplasm that affects the urinary bladder .
a malignant neoplasm involving the urachus .
the condition in which the individual does not see far distances clearly .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the vagina .
a benign or malignant neoplasm arising from a peripheral nerve or the perineural sheaths .
a malignant neoplasm involving the trachea
an acute or chronic inflammatory disease affecting the esophageal wall .
inflammation of the vagina due to thinning of the vaginal wall and decreased lubrication associated with reduced estrogen levels at menopause .
a rare autosomal dominant inherited disorder characterized by the presence of small areas of increased density throughout the bones .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the female reproductive system .
an endocrine disorder characterized by excessive production of aldosterone by the adrenal glands .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the vagina .
accumulation of iron in internal organs .
a rare lung disorder characterized by the filling of the pulmonary alveoli with proteinaceous material which stains positive with periodic acid - schiff stain .
a parasitic infection caused by trypanosoma cruzi .
disease involving the radial nerve .
a decrease in the number of neutrophils found in the blood .
an abnormality in which a part of a structure in one or both eyes is missing .
a cancer that involves the intrahepatic bile duct .
heart disease which occurs as a result of a primary pulmonary disease .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the retroperitoneal space .
the turning inward  ( inversion )  of the edge of the eyelid ,  with the tarsal cartilage turned inward toward the eyeball .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the vulva .
a usually small tearing of the retina occurring when the vitreous separates from the retina .
a peripheral nerve lesion that involves the sciatic nerve .
acute kidney injury associated with microangiopathic hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia .
secondary glaucoma caused by either excessive size or spheric shape of the lens .
a bursitis that involves the olecranon .
a rare ,  lethal congenital malformation characterized by bilateral renal agenesis and the absence or decreased volume of amniotic fluid  ( oligohydramnios )  .
a disease involving the vestibulocochlear nerve .
abnormally high concentration of calcium in the peripheral blood .
a well - circumscribed benign smooth muscle neoplasm characterized by the presence of spindle cells with cigar - shaped nuclei ,  interlacing fascicles ,  and a whorled pattern .
a disease involving a capillary .
local dilatation of small vessels resulting in red discoloration of the skin or mucous membranes .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the lacrimal duct .
a disease involving the submandibular gland .
loss of intellectual abilities interfering with an individual's social and occupational functions .
preeclampsia with a systolic blood pressure of 160 mmhg or higher ,  or a diastolic blood pressure of 110 mmhg or higher on two occasions at least 4 hours apart while on bedrest .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the brain .
sporadic enlargement of the thyroid gland that is not associated with changes in thyroid function or malignancy .
a malignant neoplasm involving the bronchus
the condition of having at least three loose or liquid bowel movements each day .
inflammation of the colonic diverticula ,  generally with abscess formation and subsequent perforation .
a benign papilloma that arises from the vagina in infants and young women .
inability of the exocrine pancreas to produce and secrete an adequate amount of digestive enzymes into the small intestine .
a learning disability involving difficulty reading resulting primarily from neurological factors which affect any part of the reading process .
anemia characterized by the presence of unusually large erythroblasts in the bone marrow called megaloblasts .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that arises from the vagina and is characterized by the presence of neoplastic glandular epithelial cells .
a disease characterized by normocytic ,  normochromic anemia ,  low hematocrit ,  reticulocytopenia ,  and selective erythroid hypoplasia .
an inborn condition characterized by deficiencies of red cell precursors that sometimes also includes leukopenia and thrombocytopenia .
inflammation of the sclera .
a malignant neoplasm that affects the supraglottic area of the larynx .
the sudden increase of intraocular pressure ,  resulting in pain and an abrupt decrease in visual acuity .
a carcinoma that arises from the maxillary sinus .
impairment of the bile flow caused by obstruction within the liver ,  or outside the liver in the bile duct system .
a malignant neoplasm involving the ethmoid sinus .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the ethmoid sinus .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that arises from the squamous epithelium of the vagina .
conditions with abnormally low levels of lipoproteins in the blood .
a constellation of signs and symptoms which may include syncope ,  fatigue ,  dizziness ,  and alternating periods of bradycardia and atrial tachycardia ,  which is caused by sinoatrial node dysfunction .
non - heritable difficulty in distinguishing colors .
a nerve plexus disease that involves the lumbosacral nerve plexus .
a disorder of the neural pathway from the optic nerve to the visual cortex .
severe or complete loss of facial muscle motor function .
a morphologic variant of uterine corpus leiomyoma characterized by the presence of round or polygonal epithelioid smooth muscle cells forming clusters .
a senile cataract that involves the lens nucleus .
a non - hodgkin or hodgkin lymphoma that arises from the small intestine .
idiopathic painful nonsuppurative swellings of one or more costal cartilages ,  especially of the second rib .
an instance of hypertrophic pyloric stenosis that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
a malignant neoplasm involving the anus
a disease involving the optic choroid .
an instance of agammaglobulinemia that is present from birth .
a group of genetic disorders of the kidney tubules characterized by the accumulation of metabolically produced acids with elevated plasma chloride ,  hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the ureter .
a disease involving the endocrine pancreas .
a non - neoplastic lesion that affects the vulva and is characterized by thinning or thickening of the skin and dryness .
the lack of vision .it is caused by neurological or physiological factors .
a dysentery that involves protozoan infection .
a congenital disorder characterized by the presence of extremely hypoplastic gonads preventing the development of secondary sex characteristics .
increased blood pressure in the arteries of the lungs ;  the etiology is unknown .
swelling around the optic disc ,  usually due to increased intracranial pressure or pressure on the optic nerve by a tumor .
an episode of depression lasting two or more weeks without an intervening episode of mania .
a rare autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations of the mut ,  mmaa ,  mmab ,  mmadhc ,  and mcee genes .
a benign lesion composed of dilated lymphatic channels .
a disorder characterized by behavioral and / or psychological abnormalities ,  often accompanied by physical symptoms .
infection with the organism candida .
a diverse category of psychiatric disorders characterized by behavior that deviates markedly from the expectations of the individual's culture ;  this pattern of deviation is pervasive and inflexible and is stable over time .
pathological developments in the cecum .
a malignant neoplasm involving the caecum
an extranodal lymphoma that arises from the colon .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the penis .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the pleura .
a carcinoma that arises from the head and neck region .
superficial infections of the skin or its appendages by any of various fungi .
an infection caused by a fungus .
the turning outward  ( eversion )  of the edge of the eyelid ,  resulting in the exposure of the palpebral conjunctiva .
an abnormal accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid within the ventricles of the brain that occurs as a consequence of impaired cerebrospinal fluid reabsorption by the arachnoid granulations .
the use of alcoholic beverages to excess ,  either on individual occasions  ( "binge drinking" )  or as a regular practice .
a melancholy feeling of sadness and despair .
acute or chronic inflammation of one or more lymph nodes .
a benign ,  well circumscribed neoplasm that arises from the breast .
an intraluminal papillary epithelial neoplasm arising within the ducts .
primary and metastatic  ( secondary )  tumors of the brain located above the tentorium cerebelli ,  a fold of dura mater separating the cerebellum and brain stem from the cerebral hemispheres and diencephalon  ( i .e . ,  thalamus and hypothalamus and related structures )  .
abnormal presence of air in the pleural cavity .
a congenital disorder characterized by the presence of an abnormal communication between the atria or the ventricles of the heart due to defects in the cardiac septum .
transformation of chronic lymphocytic leukemia into aggressive non - hodgkin's lymphoma ,  usually diffuse large b - cell lymphoma  ( immunoblastic or centroblastic variant )  .
a malignant neoplasm involving the peritoneum
an occlusion of the retinal vasculature .
a neoplasm involving a eccrine sweat gland .
a benign skin neoplasm composed of epithelial cells .
a malignant neoplasm arising from the blood vessels .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the cardiovascular system .
a malignant neoplasm involving the thyroid gland
a malignant neoplasm that arises from the epithelial cells of the exocrine pancreatic tissue .
a malignant neuroendocrine neoplasm composed of cells containing secretory granules that stain positive for nse and chromogranin .
a neuropathy arising from inflammation of one or more nerves .
deposition of calcium in the tissues .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the bone or articular cartilage .
a malignant neoplasm involving the skull .
physiological disturbances in normal sexual performance in either the male or the female .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the optic nerve  ( second cranial nerve )  .
a disorder characterized by decreased function of the gonads .
a malignant neoplasm involving the reproductive organ
neoplastic ,  inflammatory ,  infectious ,  and other diseases of the hypothalamus .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the fallopian tube .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the rectum .
an aggressive malignant melanocytic neoplasm that arises from the rectum .
a benign ,  intermediate ,  or malignant tumor that arises from the bone or soft tissue .
an inflammatory disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the pharyngotympanic tube .
a malignant neoplasm involving the connective tissue
abnormally high levels of insulin in the blood .
a malignant neoplasm involving the placenta .
non - neoplastic overgrowth of bone .
a disorder characterized by an individual's inability to comprehend or share ideas or feelings because of an impairment in language ,  speech ,  or hearing .
excessive thickening of bone .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the vulva .
a benign sweat gland neoplasm usually affecting the lower eyelids and upper cheeks .
a benign ,  precancerous ,  or malignant neoplasm that arises from the squamous epithelium of the vulva .
irregular and infrequent or difficult evacuation of the bowels .
a malignant neoplasm that affects the sweat glands .
a broad classification of disorders where circulating numbers of b lymphocytes are decreased or ineffective .
a sarcoma that arises from the central nervous system .
a rare ,  aggressive malignant mesenchymal neoplasm that arises from the ovary .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant tumor that originates from the surface epithelium of the ovary .
a disease involving the nasal cavity .
a dental caries that involves the enamel .
a non - infectious or infectious inflammatory process affecting the vagina .
a benign or malignant neoplasm affecting the structures of the eye .
an acquired or inherited coagulation disorder due to reduced levels and activity of factor xiii .
congenital or acquired deficiency of one of the coagulation factors .
spontaneous or near spontaneous bleeding caused by a defect in clotting mechanisms  ( blood coagulation disorders )  or another abnormality causing a structural flaw in the blood vessels  ( hemostatic disorders )  .
a coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of factor vii activity in the blood .
disorders caused by abnormalities in platelet count or function .
an otitis externa involving infection of the tissue surrounding the cartilage of the earlobe  ( pinna )  ,  ear canal ,  or both .
a coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of factor x activity in the blood .
a disease characterized by higher than normal platelet counts in the peripheral blood .
a group of signs ,  symptoms ,  and clinicopathological characteristics that may or may not have a genetic basis and collectively define an abnormal condition .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the cervix .
fixation and immobility of a joint .
inflammation of the throat most often caused by viral and bacterial infections .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the testis or the ovary .
an inflammatory disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the apocrine sweat gland .
an inherited metabolic disorder that involves plasma protein metabolism malfunction .
a vascular disorder characterized by thickening and hardening of the walls of the arteries .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm arising from the wall of the colon .
disorders in the processing of iron in the body: its absorption ,  transport ,  storage ,  and utilization .
a reduction in the number of red blood cells ,  the amount of hemoglobin ,  and / or the volume of packed red blood cells .
anemia that is characterized by increased red blood cell volume .
a mosquito - borne viral illness caused by the west nile virus ,  a flavivirus and endemic to regions of africa ,  asia ,  and europe .
a nonspecific term referring both to the pathologic finding of swelling of distal portions of axons in the brain and to disorders which feature this finding .
a disease involving the renal artery .
a disease involving the iris .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that arises from the hair follicles ,  sebaceous glands ,  or sweat glands .
a benign ,  intermediate ,  or malignant neoplasm that arises from the dermis .
protein s deficiency is a disorder that causes abnormal blood clotting .
retinal damage resulting from diminished blood flow / oxygenation due to abnormalities of the retinal vessels .
a mycosis that arises from infection in an immunologically compromised host .
conjunctivitis that is persistent and long - standing .
inflammation or degeneration of the peripheral motor nerves .
an illusion of movement ,  either of the external world revolving around the individual or of the individual revolving in space .
a metabolic disorder that affects the phosphate homeostasis .
an abnormality of the nervous system that is present at birth or detected in the neonatal period .
inflammation or degeneration of the sensory nerves .
a hemangioma arising from the brain and meninges .
pathological processes of the kidney without inflammatory or neoplastic components .
neoplasms of the hematopoietic system ,  including hematopoietic cell neoplasms  ( e .g .
inflammation of the arteries that is characterized by the presence of granulomas .
pathological processes involving the chondral tissue  ( cartilage )  .
an acute or chronic inflammatory process that affects the cervix .
an instance of nephrotic syndrome that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a malignant neoplasm that affects the glottic area of the larynx .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the larynx .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the glottic area of the larynx .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the larynx .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the glottis .
carcinoma that arises from the laryngeal epithelium .
a benign neoplasm of bone surface composed of hyaline cartilage .
a benign well circumscribed neoplasm of hyaline cartilage arising from bone or soft tissue .
a benign epithelial neoplasm that projects above the surrounding epithelial surface and consists of villous or arborescent outgrowths of fibrovascular stroma .
benign and malignant neoplasms which arise from or directly involve the central or peripheral elements of the autonomic nervous system .
primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the kidney .
a malignant cystic serous epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of malignant glandular epithelial cells forming papillary structures .
a benign or borderline cystic epithelial neoplasm arising from the glandular epithelium .
a teratoma of the ovary composed exclusively or predominantly of a single type of tissue derived from the ectoderm or endoderm .
a benign proliferative neoplasm made up of epithelial and mesenchymal cells of the mesothelium which make up part of the serosal covering and lining of various organ surfaces within the body .
a benign ,  well circumscribed neoplasm arising from the sebaceous glands .
a malignant vascular neoplasm arising from the spleen .
a benign or malignant tumor characterized by the presence of cells that show myoepithelial differentiation .
an adenoma arising from the renal cortex .
a malignant soft tissue neoplasm that arises from the liver .
a benign adenofibroma characterized by the presence of epithelial cells which contain intracytoplasmic mucin and a fibrotic stroma .
inflammation of a synovial membrane .
a malignant neoplasm characterized by then presence of atypical giant cells .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic vascular disorder that affects the liver .
an inflammatory process affecting the skin .
a common hemangioma characterized by the presence of capillary - sized vascular channels without prominent epithelioid endothelial cells .
an inherited disorder affecting the metabolism of bilirubin .
a carcinoma that involves the bone element .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the mucosal epithelial surface of the ethmoid sinus .
disorders characterized by recurrent tics that may interfere with speech and other activities .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the rectosigmoid region .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm that arises from the lung .
diseases that affect the structure or function of the cerebellum .
an infection that is caused by protozoans .
a class of diffuse lung diseases that typically affect the pulmonary interstitium ,  although some also have a component affecting the airways  ( for instance ,  cryptogenic organizing pneumonitis )  .
abnormal malignant growth of the cells that comprise the cranial nerve .
a disease involving the nose .
an instance of polycythemia that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
an autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the kcne1 and kcnq1 genes .
focal benign glandular hyperplasia in the prostate gland .
pathological processes involving the vestibulocochlear nerve ;  brainstem ;  or central nervous system .
a adenoma that involves the thyroid gland .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of type iv hypersensitivity .
a cancer that involves the lacrimal apparatus .
a renal disorder characterized by damage in the glomeruli .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the lacrimal gland .
a malignant neoplasm involving the lacrimal gland .
inflammation of the bronchioles characterized by swelling of the bronchioles and mucus accumulation .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the eye
inflammation or irritation of a synovial bursa ,  the fibrous sac that acts as a cushion between moving structures of bones ,  muscles ,  tendons or skin .
a carcinoma arising in a pre - existing pleomorphic adenoma .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the lacrimal gland
a neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the prostate gland .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant epithelial tumor of the female reproductive system characterized by the presence of glands and / or cysts lined by neoplastic cells that resemble endometrial cells .
an epithelial neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the ovary .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that arises in the area of the nipple .
a spectrum of non - invasive neoplastic lesions that arise from the terminal ductal lobular units of the breast .
a benign or malignant epithelial neoplasm that arises anywhere in the ductal system of the breast .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm that arises from the breast .
the use of a drug for a reason other than which it was intended or in a manner or in quantities other than directed .
sudden and sustained deterioration of the kidney function characterized by decreased glomerular filtration rate ,  increased serum creatinine or oliguria .
an invasive adenocarcinoma of the prostate gland composed of secretory cells .
a category of psychiatric disorders which include disorders related to the taking of a drug of abuse  ( including alcohol ,  prescribed medications and recreational drugs )  .
gastrointestinal disturbances ,  skin eruptions ,  or shock due to allergic reactions to allergens in food .
excessive growth of the gingiva either by an increase in the size of the constituent cells  ( gingival hypertrophy )  or by an increase in their number  ( gingival hyperplasia )  .
a disorder involving inflammation of the gums ;  may affect surrounding and supporting structures of the teeth .
a morphologic variant of adenocarcinoma .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the kidney .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving any part of the digestive system .
the mucinoses are a diverse group of disorders which have in common the deposition of basophilic ,  finely granular and stringy material  ( mucin )  in the connective tissues of the dermis  ( dermal mucinoses )  ,  in the pilosebaceous follicles  ( follicular mucinoses )  ,  or in the epidermis and tumors derived therefrom  ( epithelial mucinoses )  .
a dome - shaped ,  rapidly growing skin lesion composed of well differentiated squamous cells .
a benign or malignant soft tissue neoplasm arising exclusively from the synovial membrane .
a carcinoma arising from the squamous cells of the epidermis .
a neoplasm that is composed of squamous epithelial cells .
an adenoma characterized by the presence of papillary epithelial patterns .
an endophytic benign papillary epithelial neoplasm that results from the invagination and proliferation of epithelial cells in the underlying stroma .
a neoplasm that arises from glial cells in the spinal cord .
a benign or malignant neoplasm arising from the perineural cells in the sheaths surrounding the nerves .
a morphologic variant of schwannoma characterized by hypercellularity ,  antoni a pattern ,  and the absence of well - formed verocay bodies .
a rare circumscribed ,  non - encapsulated and grossly pigmented nerve sheath tumor .
a broad group of disorders that affect the myelin sheaths that cover the neurons .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the wall of the jejunum .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the trachea .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm that arises from the orbit .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm with skeletal muscle differentiation that arises from the orbit .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the thymus .
a thymic epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of spindle and / or oval neoplastic epithelial cells .
a bone tumor arising from the remnants of the fetal notochord .
a non - seminomatous germ cell tumor characterized by the presence of various tissues which correspond to the different germinal layers  ( endoderm ,  mesoderm ,  and ectoderm )  .
a neoplasm with perivascular epithelioid cell differentiation often associated with tuberous sclerosis .
a benign or malignant mesenchymal neoplasm arising from the perivascular cells of the connective and soft tissues .
an angiomyolipoma arising from the liver .
an angiomyolipoma composed exclusively or predominantly by polygonal epithelioid cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm ,  often associated with cytologic atypia .
a small blood vessel hemorrhage into the skin and / or mucous membranes .
a localization - related  ( focal )  form of epilepsy characterized by seizures which arise in the frontal lobe .
inflammation of the bone .
a condition marked by the development of widespread xanthomas ,  yellow tumor - like structures filled with lipid deposits .
a benign ,  intermediate ,  or malignant neoplasm that arises from the mesenchyma - derived cells of the soft tissue or bone .
a rare ,  high - grade pleomorphic malignant neoplasm arising from the bone .
a usually aggressive malignant neoplasm arising from the bone .
an osteosarcoma arising from the soft tissue .
an osteosarcoma characterised by the presence of atypical cartilage of variable cellularity .
a usually aggressive malignant bone - forming mesenchymal neoplasm arising from the surface of the bone .
a usually aggressive malignant bone - forming mesenchymal neoplasm arising from the bone .
an osteosarcoma usually arising from the metaphysis of long bones .
a high grade malignant bone - forming mesenchymal neoplasm producing osteoid .
abnormal growth of the cells that comprise the cranial nerves .
an inflammatory process of the gingival tissues and / or periodontal membrane of the teeth ,  resulting in an abnormally deep gingival sulcus ,  possibly producing periodontal pockets and loss of alveolar bone support .
an acute or chronic ,  bacterial or viral inflammatory process affecting the larynx .
an adenocarcinoma arising in the anal canal epithelium ,  including the mucosal surface ,  the anal glands ,  and the lining of fistulous tracts .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the uterine corpus or the cervix .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the uvea .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the extrahepatic bile duct
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm composed of fibroblasts .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm composed of fibroblasts ,  and characterized by collagen production and usually a herringbone architectural pattern .
a malignant neoplasm arising from the deep soft tissues in children .
an ischemic condition of the brain ,  producing a persistent focal neurological deficit in the area of distribution of the cerebral arteries .
an epithelial or non - epithelial malignant neoplasm that arises from the liver .
inflammation of the retina .
primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the uterine corpus and / or the cervix .
a mature or immature teratoma that affects the central nervous system .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that occurs in sella turcica .
ischemic or hemorrhagic necrosis of the pituitary gland .
benign and malignant neoplasms which arise from or metastasize to the olfactory or first cranial nerve .
a disease involving the olfactory nerve .
a kidney neoplasm that occurs during childhood .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the lung parenchyma or the bronchi .
a usually well to moderately differentiated cervical adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant glandular cells that contain significant amount of intracytoplasmic mucin .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the fallopian tube
a neuroblastoma arising from an anatomic site other than the brain .
a well differentiated ,  moderately differentiated ,  or poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the male or female urethra .
the absence of ovulation .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the skull base .
a cancer involving a diencephalon .
a central nervous system embryonal tumor ,  not otherwise specified that occurs in childhood .
a benign epithelial neoplasm arising from the sweat glands .
tumors or cancer of the bronchi .
inflammation of the anatomical structures of the inner ear secondary to an infectious process .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm arising from adipocytes .
a carcinoma involving a adrenal gland .
a disease involving the adrenal cortex .
a malignant neoplasm involving the adrenal gland
a cardiomyopathy that is not due to abnormalities in heart muscle cells .
a transitional cell carcinoma that arises from the male or female urethra .
a poorly differentiated transitional cell carcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant cells with spindle cell morphologic features .
a cancer - related condition in which the gastric wall becomes thickened and rubbery  ( leather - bottle stomach )  .
a malignant neoplasm arising from skeletal muscle .
a benign or malignant mesenchymal neoplasm arising from skeletal muscle .
a rare sarcoma that arises from the mediastinum .
a rare malignant soft tissue neoplasm that arises from the prostate gland .
an aggressive malignant mesenchymal neoplasm of the nervous system or soft tissues .
a rhabdomyosarcoma composed of embryonic and alveolar components .
pathological conditions in the duodenum region of the small intestine  ( intestine ,  small )  .
a tumor that arises from the testis and is composed of neoplastic trophoblastic cells .
a gestational or non - gestational neoplasm composed of neoplastic trophoblastic cells .
a germ cell tumor that arises from the testis and is characterized by the presence of one histologic component .
infestations by parasites which live on ,  or burrow into ,  the surface of their host's epidermis .
a rare malignant mixed epithelial and mesenchymal neoplasm that arises from the cervix and is characterized by the presence of malignant mesenchymal elements and benign epithelial elements .
a mixed epithelial and mesenchymal neoplasm that arises from the cervix and is characterized by the presence of malignant mesenchymal elements and benign or malignant epithelial elements .
a primary polypoid malignant neoplasm of the uterine corpus characterized by the presence of a sarcomatous mesenchymal component and a benign epithelial component .
a primary malignant neoplasm of the uterine corpus characterized by the presence of an epithelial and a mesenchymal component .
a neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the colon .
a neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the small or large intestine .
a disease involving the nail .
a disease involving the common bile duct .
a disease involving the bile duct .
a malignant neoplasm involving the zone of skin
formation or presence of a blood clot  ( thrombus )  in a blood vessel within the skull .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the brain stem .
a benign or malignant  ( primary or metastatic )  tumor involving the cerebellum .
a neoplasm that affects the brain stem and occurs during childhood .
a neoplasm that affects the infratentorial region of the brain and occurs during childhood .
a disease that involves the pilosebaceous unit .
a group of rare genetic muscle disorders characterized by hypotonia ,  muscle weakness ,  and delayed development of motor skills .
a malignant neoplasm arising from smooth muscle .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm composed of spindle - shaped cells .
a malignant tumor composed of a mixture of carcinomatous and sarcomatous elements .
a sarcoma involving a kidney .
abnormally high bone density .
disease involving a spinal nerve root  ( see spinal nerve roots )  which may result from compression related to intervertebral disk displacement ;  spinal cord injuries ;  spinal diseases ;  and other conditions .
a disease involving the ciliary body .
a melanoma characterized by the presence of malignant large epithelioid melanocytes .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the cervix .
a disorder characterized by the degeneration of the nervous system due to autoimmunity .
a well differentiated squamous cell carcinoma characterized by a papillary ,  exophytic growth pattern and hyperkeratosis .
a benign neoplasm composed of fibroblastic spindle cells in a whorled storiform pattern .
a well differentiated ,  low or intermediate grade tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the small intestine .
a meningioma that affects the cavernous sinus .
a meningioma that arises from the skull base .
a unique group of rare tumors of the central nervous system that affect mainly children and adolescents .
a radiosensitive malignant germ cell tumor found in the testis  ( especially undescended )  ,  and extragonadal sites  ( anterior mediastinum and pineal gland )  .
a malignant germ cell tumor characterized by the presence of a monotonous primitive germ cell population .
accumulation of intraretinal fluid and protein in the macula ,  which may result in swelling and decreased central vision .
an instance of renal cell carcinoma  ( disease )  that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
any disorder caused by an insufficient amount or availability of potassium ,  which generally manifests with myalgia ,  tetany ,  hypotension ,  polyuria ,  and polydipsia .
a malignant vascular neoplasm arising from the ovary .
a carcinoma morphologically characterized the presence of cuboidal mucous cells ,  goblet - like mucous cells ,  squamoid cells ,  cystic changes ,  and a fibrotic stromal formation .
a congenital condition ,  usually due to genetic aberrations ,  that is characterized by a lack of hair growth on the head and / or body .
a carcinoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of large malignant cells exhibiting neuroendocrine differentiation .
a malignant neoplasm involving the bile duct
a malignant neoplasm involving the biliary tree
a benign mesenchymal neoplasm arising from smooth ,  skeletal ,  or cardiac muscle tissue .
a benign neoplasm that involves the intestine .
a benign papillary neoplasm composed of transitional cells and characterized by an endophytic growth pattern .
a localized tumor composed of sheets of mast cells without atypia .
a disorder of the thalamus .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the extrahepatic bile duct .
a neurogenic tumor that arises from the mediastinum .
malignant neoplasms which arise or occur within the intracranial cavity below the tentorium cerebelli .
a hemangioma arising from the skin .
a neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the stomach .
a malignant germ cell tumor that arises from the stomach .
a malignant germ cell tumor that develops as a primary tumor in an anatomic site other than the testis or ovary .
a progressive neurodegenerative disorder caused by a disruption in the connection between the striatum and the substantia nigra .
a benign or malignant tumor that arises from the testis .
a primitive neuroectodermal tumor that involves the brain .
a vascular lesion in the papillary dermis resulting from ectasia of pre - existing vessels .
an infiltrating malignant tumor characterized by the presence of atypical cells with myoepithelial differentiation .
pathological processes involving the integrity of blood circulation .
benign and malignant neoplasms of the cerebellum that arise from astrocytes .
a who grade 1 astrocytoma which arises in the cerebellum .
a astrocytoma that involves the diencephalon .
an astrocytoma that arises from the brain stem .
an adenoid cystic carcinoma arising from the salivary gland .
a adenoid cystic carcinoma that involves the skin of body .
a rare usually indolent lung carcinoma characterized by a cribiform and tubular pattern and the presence of glandular epithelial cells .
anterior horn disease is one of a number of medical disorders affecting the anterior horn of the spinal cord .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the middle ear
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the bile duct
a hemangioma that involves the lung .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the vermiform appendix
an adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells with granular cytoplasm .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the anus
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the urethra
an adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of a villous architectural pattern .
a hemangioma that is not present at birth but develops later in life .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the nasal cavity
a carcinoma with apocrine differentiation arising from the sweat glands .
a malignant neoplasm involving the apocrine sweat gland .
a lesion in which the normally situated glands are partially or completely replaced by atypical cells with malignant characteristics .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the esophagogastric junction .
a primary tumor of the central nervous system that arises from leptomeningeal melanocytes .
a solitary fibrous tumor / hemangiopericytoma that arises from the meninges .
any disease of the bone marrow .
an adenomyoma characterized by the presence of marked glandular architectural complexity .
a usually polypoid ,  benign neoplasm that arises from the uterine corpus .
a hemangioma arising from the brain and spinal cord .
a morphologic variant of hepatocellular carcinoma characterized by the presence of clear cells .
abnormal malignant growth of the cells that comprise the pineal parenchyma .
an uncommon granular cell tumor which may metastasize to other anatomic sites .
a low - grade neoplasm that arises from the neurohypophysis .
a neoplasm that affects the cerebellum and occurs during childhood .
a category of psychiatric disorders which are characterized by emotional or behavioral symptoms that develop within 3 months of a stressor and do not persist for more than an additional 6 months after the stressor is no longer present .
a tumor composed of two or more glial cell types  ( astrocytes ,  ependymal cells ,  and oligodendrocytes )  .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the tissues of the thorax .
a malignant neoplasm involving the middle ear
a disease involving the middle ear .
a malignant neoplasm that affects the ear .
a benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the arrector pili muscle ,  tunica media of blood vessels ,  and dartos muscle of the genitalia .
a condition characterized by the presence of numerous small benign smooth muscle neoplasms located throughout the body .
familial embryonal neoplasm derived from nephrogenic blastemal cells .
a teratoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of tissues derived exclusively from one embryonic germ cell layer .
polyneuropathy that is characterized by demyelination of axons .
polyneuropathy that is persistent or long - standing in nature .
acute encephalitis that is characterized by bleeding .
a benign mesenchymal neoplasm arising from the perivascular cells of the connective and soft tissues .
vasculitis affecting the blood vessels of the brain and / or spinal cord .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the heart .
a malignant soft tissue neoplasm that arises from the heart .
a malignant neoplasm involving the dermis .
accumulation of watery fluid in the cavity of a joint .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the mediastinum .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the thymus .
a classification of testicular cancers that arise in specialized sex cells called germ cells .
abnormal sleep - wake schedule or pattern associated with the circadian rhythm which affect the length ,  timing ,  and / or rigidity of the sleep - wake cycle relative to the day - night cycle .
a malignant tumor that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of malignant germ cell components but lacks a teratoma component .
pathological processes in the colon region of the large intestine  ( intestine ,  large )  .
a benign or malignant neoplasm arising from the hair follicle .
a benign neoplasm composed of large cells with abundant eosinophilic granular cytoplasm .
a hormone producing pituitary gland adenoma ,  associated with a hormonal syndrome .
an adenoma or carcinoma of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland that produces prolactin .
a morphologic variant of small cell lung carcinoma in combination with a non - small cell carcinoma .
a movement disorder characterized by sustained or intermittent muscle contractions ,  resulting in abnormal movements and / or postures .
a neoplastic lesion of the urinary tract transitional cell epithelium characterized by papillary formations .
a benign neoplasm arising from the sweat glands .
a benign epithelial neoplasm with eccrine or apocrine differentiation ,  arising from the sweat glands .
a malignant neoplasm involving the conjunctiva .
a non - invasive ,  papillary epithelial neoplasm that arises from the epithelium of the intrahepatic or extrahepatic bile ducts .
a synovial sarcoma characterized by the presence of both an epithelial and a spindle cell component .
a contagious infestation of parasitic insects found on the head  ( pediculus humanus capitis )  ,  body  ( pediculus humanus corporis )  ,  or pubic area  ( pthirus pubis )  that typically cause itching and rash .
an ependymoma that arises from the spinal cord .
an ependymoma that arises from the central nervous system and occurs during childhood .
a squamous cell tumor that arises from the ovary and is not associated with a germ cell tumor .
a squamous cell carcinoma that involves the bile duct .
a malignant tumor predominantly affecting young men and often associated with cryptorchidism .
a benign or malignant soft tissue neoplasm of the mediastinum .
a malignant form of syringoma .
a gastrin - producing neuroendocrine tumor .it is usually located in the pancreas but it is also found at other anatomic sites ,  including the stomach and small intestine .
a neoplasm of lymphoblasts committed to the t - cell lineage ,  typically composed of small to medium - sized blast cells .
an acute lymphoblastic leukemia occurring during adulthood .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the spinal cord .
a disease involving the oculomotor nerve .
an adenosquamous carcinoma that arises from the bile ducts .
an undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma characterized by the presence of osteoclast - like giant cells and cellular pleomorphism .
a neoplastic or non - neoplastic disorder that affects one of the cranial nerves .
a malignant non - seminomatous germ cell tumor that develops as a primary tumor in an anatomic site other than the testis or ovary .
a malignant neoplasm characterized by the presence of a combination of liposarcomatous morphologic subtypes: myxoid / round cell and well differentiated / dedifferentiated liposarcoma or myxoid / round cell and pleomorphic liposarcoma .
a hormone producing or non - producing pituitary gland adenoma or carcinoma ,  not associated with a hormonal syndrome .
a hormone producing pituitary gland tumor ,  associated with a hormonal syndrome .
a malignant neoplasm involving the adrenal medulla
a neuritis that involves the forelimb .
a disorder characterized by loss of optic nerve fibers .
acute or chronic inflammation of the fallopian tube .
a breast adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of serous  ( acinic cell )  differentiation .
inflammation of the endocervix .
a primary or metastatic neoplasm of hematopoietic origin that affects the brain ,  meninges ,  or spinal cord .
a neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the rectum .
a well differentiated ,  low or intermediate grade tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the esophagus .
a hodgkin or non - hodgkin lymphoma that occurs during childhood .
a lymphoma that occurs in an adult .
a lymphoma that arises from the breast .
a chondrosarcoma arising from the surface of bone .
a chondrosarcoma characterized by the presence of myxoid changes .
a rare ,  usually low grade chondrosarcoma characterized by the presence of tumor cells with clear cytoplasm .
a benign or malignant sweat gland neoplasm with apocrine differentiation .
a localized or multifocal mesothelioma arising from the peritoneum and less often the pleura .
a congenital hemolytic anemia caused by defects of the erythrocyte membrane ,  enzyme deficiencies ,  or hemoglobinopathies .
an ovarian malignant germ cell tumor characterized by the presence of at least two different germ cell components .
urachal cancer is a type of bladder cancer ,  making up less than 1% of all bladder cancers .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the renal pelvis .
breast fibrocystic change characterized by the absence of epithelial cell hyperplasia .
a variant of teratoma composed of incompletely differentiated components resembling fetal tissues .
a broad classification of dysgammaglobulinemias characterized by low or undetectable serum levels of one of the five immunoglobulin classes .
a melanoma arising from the choroid ,  ciliary body ,  or the iris .
a germ cell tumor that occurs during childhood .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant epithelial tumor of the ovary characterized by the presence of neoplastic epithelial cells that contain intracytoplasmic mucin and may resemble the epithelial cells of the endocervix or gastrointestinal tract .
a melanoma that arises from leptomeningeal melanocytes .
a primary or metastatic malignant tumor involving the leptomeninges .
a cancer involving a dorsal plus ventral thalamus .
a disorder in which the immune system is unable to mount an adequate immune response .
a broad classification of disorders that affect the cell - mediated aspect of the immune response .
reduction in the number of lymphocytes .
a familial carcinoma inherited in an autosomal dominant trait .
a rare neoplasm of mesothelial origin that arises from the pericardium .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant epithelial tumor of the ovary characterized by the presence of glands and / or cysts lined by neoplastic cells that resemble endometrial cells .
a disease involving the articular cartilage of joint .
a broad classification for humoral immunodeficiencies .
a genetic deficiency of any of the component of the complement system  ( including the classical ,  alternative ,  and terminal pathway components )  ,  that can either be acquired or inherited .
an adenoma or carcinoma of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland that produces thyrotropin .
a form of melanoma occurring most often on the plantar ,  palmar ,  subungual ,  and periungual skin .
an abnormal growth of the cells that comprise the tissues of the brainstem .
an invasive transitional cell carcinoma that arises from the urinary bladder urothelium .
a morphologic variant of lung adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of acinar structures composed of columnar or cuboidal cells .
a histologically benign tumor ,  usually cystic with a vascular mural nodule ,  that is most often found in the cerebellum though it has been reported at other sites within the neuraxis .
a thymic epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic large ,  polygonal epithelial cells with large vesicular nuclei and prominent nucleoli .
an imbalanced nutritional status resulting from excessive intake of nutrients .
a carcinoma arising from the ovary .
the inflammation of a vertebra .
a disease involving the muscle tissue .
a primary immune deficiency disorder characterized by defective cd40 signaling ;  via b cells affecting class switch recombination  ( csr )  and somatic hypermutation .
an aggressive ,  high - grade ,  and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the colon .
a rare non - hodgkin or hodgkin lymphoma that arises in and is confined to the lung at the time of diagnosis .
elevated pressure in a confined space enclosed by fascia or eschar ,  which may lead to vascular compromise and subsequent ischemic injury to the tissue within the space .
a group of non - invasive epithelial proliferations that occur in the ductal system of the breast .
a lymphoma that arises from the mediastinum .
ovarian carcinoma that has developed in relatives of patients that have a history of ovarian carcinoma .
a rare benign condition ,  characterized by a papillary growth in the urinary tract with a central fibrovascular core .
an osteosarcoma usually arising from the metaphysis of long bones .
diseases caused by abnormal function of the mitochondria .
a morphologic variant of large cell lung carcinoma characterized by the presence of a solid nodular or anastomotic trabecular growth pattern ,  peripheral palisading ,  and comedo type necrosis .
a rare morphologic variant of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma .
a group of heterogeneous lymphoid tumors generally expressing one or more b - cell antigens or representing malignant transformations of b - lymphocytes .
a hematologic malignancy that is resistant to treatment .
an aggressive ,  high - grade and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the esophagus .
inflammation of the thyroid gland .
anemia in which the red blood cell volume is normal .
a transitional cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder that arises from the urachal epithelium .
fallopian tube carcinoma that has developed in relatives of patients that have a history of fallopian tube carcinoma .
a combination of distressing physical ,  psychologic ,  or behavioral changes that occur during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the organs that comprise the urinary system .
any nerve disorder affecting the axon of a nerve .
a self - limiting ,  rapidly growing ,  non - encapsulated benign neoplasm that arises from the soft tissues .
a malignant neoplasm involving the urethra
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the adrenal medulla
a malignant glandular epithelial neoplasm arising from the ovary .
a tumor arising from the ependymal lining of the ventricles .
a mucosal erosion that occurs in the esophagus ,  stomach or duodenum .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the small intestine .
a benign or malignant epithelial neoplasm of probable wolffian origin .
an embryonal tumor with multilayered rosettes ,  c19mc - altered that arises from the infratentorial region and occurs in children .
a benign ,  well circumscribed neoplasm that is located within the lumen of a duct in the breast parenchyma .
a conventional osteosarcoma characterized by the presence of spindle shaped cells .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the endometrium and is characterized by the presence of both type i and type ii endometrial adenocarcinoma components .
a adenocarcinoma that involves the urachus .
an intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma characterized by the presence of signet ring adenocarcinoma cells .
an acute or chronic leukemia that occurs during childhood .
a carcinoma of the larynx that arises from the supraglottic area .
a disorder characterized by the presence of one or more nonbizarre delusions that persist for at least 1 month ;  the delusion ( s )  are not due to schizophrenia or a mood disorder ,  and do not impair psychosocial functioning apart from the ramifications of the delusion ( s )  .
a carcinoma that arises from the breast in females .
a sarcoma that involves the dendritic cell .
an adenomyoma that arises from the uterine corpus and is characterized by the presence of marked glandular architectural complexity .
infestations with arthropods of the subclass acari ,  superorder acariformes .
an extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma arising from the structures within the cranium .
a t lymphoblastic leukemia / lymphoma that occurs during childhood .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the supraglottic area of the larynx .
a usually aggressive malignant neoplasm arising from the liver .
a malignant germ cell tumor that occurs during childhood .
a thyroid gland adenoma composed of large cells with abundant granular eosinophilic cytoplasm and large nuclei with prominent nucleoli .
a stage of syphilis that occurs fifteen to thirty years after the initial infection ;  it can include gumma formation and cardiovascular or central nervous system involvement  ( neurosyphilis )  .
chronic inflammation of the nasal cavity mucosa .
a benign or malignant mesenchymal neoplasm of the uterine corpus .
an instance of granular cell tumor that is present from birth .
a myofibroblastoma arising from the inguinal lymph nodes .
a malignant neoplasm involving the auditory system
a fibrosarcoma that occurs in infants .
blockage of the normal flow of the intestinal contents within the bowel .
sequelae of gastrectomy from the second week after operation on .
decrease in peristalsis in the absence of a mechanical bowel obstruction .
an inherited or acquired disorder characterized by splitting of the retina into two layers .
degeneration of the retina .
inflammation of the myocardium in acute rheumatic heart disease .
rheumatoid lung disease is a group of lung problems related to rheumatoid arthritis .
an instance of night blindness that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
inability to see clearly in dim light .
distension of the bartholin gland duct caused by an accumulation of mucus in the duct ,  usually as a result of obstruction of the gland duct orifice .
hypertrophy and dilation of the right ventricle of the heart that is caused by pulmonary hypertension .
disorders characterized by hypersomnolence during normal waking hours that may impair cognitive functioning .
acute or chronic inflammation of the duodenum .
a disease involving the vein .
inflammation of the stomach resulting from alcohol ingestion .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the zone of skin .
a clonal proliferation of myeloid cells and their precursors in the bone marrow ,  peripheral blood ,  and spleen .
a malignant epithelial neoplasm which is confined to the epithelial layer without evidence of further tissue invasion .
a pneumonia caused by anaerobic bacteria .
a condition that is caused by infection with variola ,  and that is characterized by small ,  raised bumps .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the breast .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the colon .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the major or minor salivary glands .
an autoimmune ,  connective tissue chronic inflammatory disorder affecting the skin ,  joints ,  kidneys ,  lungs ,  heart ,  and the peripheral blood cells .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the penis .
inflammation of the distal posterior uveal tract  ( choroid )  and its structural and vascular attachments to the retina .
a heterogenous group of disorders characterized by alterations of mitochondrial metabolism that result in muscle and nervous system dysfunction .
a common fungal infection of the stratum corneum of the skin ,  hair ,  or nails by a dermatophyte .
a group of disorders that affect a person's ability to learn or process specific types of information which is in contrast to his / her apparent level of intellect .
a malignant neoplasm involving the tonsillar ring .
an inherited metabolic disorder that involves metabolic disturbances in the processing or distribution of dietary minerals .
a malignant epithelial neoplasm confined to the squamous epithelium ,  without invasion of the underlying tissues .
a rare lymphoma that arises from the liver and the bulk of the tumor is located in the liver .
a rare condition that usually affects the middle - to - distal esophagus in middle - aged and elderly people .
a carcinoma in situ involving a intestine .
a non - hodgkin or hodgkin lymphoma that arises from any part of the digestive system ,  with the bulk of the disease localized to that site .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the parotid gland .
a solitary fibrous tumor that arises from the liver .
a carcinoma in situ involving a uterus .
a malignant neoplasm involving the submandibular gland .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the rectum .
a cancer that involves the oral opening .
a term referring to disorders characterized by the disruption of normal speech .
a broad classification of disorders which includes 6 subtypes  ( primary central sleep apnea ,  central sleep apnea due to cheyne - stokes breathing pattern ,  central sleep apnea due to medical condition not cheyne - stokes ,  central sleep apnea due to high - altitude periodic breathing ,  central sleep apnea due to drug or substance and primary sleep apnea of infancy )  that are each characterized by interruptions in breathing while asleep .
an inherited disorder that affects the metabolism of the amino acids .
an autosomal recessive inherited metabolic disorder caused by mutations in the cbs ,  mthfr ,  mtr ,  and mtrr genes .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of histidine metabolic process .
a genetic inborn error of metabolism characterized by the deficiency of one of the enzymes necessary for the urea cycle .
an autosomal recessive inherited metabolic disorder caused by mutations in the fah ,  hpd ,  and tat genes .
a myopathy that involves the extra - ocular muscle .
a disease involving the lip .
a category of disorders characterized by an impairment in the development of an individual's language capabilities ,  which is in contrast to his / her non - verbal intellect .
diseases of the bony orbit and contents except the eyeball .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the nasal cavity .
inflammation of both the cornea and the conjunctiva .
an acute inflammatory process affecting the larynx .
a disorder characterized by excretion of large amounts of urine ,  accompanied by excessive thirst .
a asthma with a basis in a pathological type i hypersensitivity reaction .
a reversible condition wherein large vacuoles of triglyceride fat accumulate in liver cells via the process of steatosis .
chronic form of dacryoadenitis .
inflammation and enlargement of the lacrimal gland .
a disease involving leukocytes .
acute form of dacryoadenitis .
a benign ,  usually encapsulated slow growing tumor of the peripheral nervous system composed of schwann cells .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the nasopharynx .
a urolithiasis that involves the lower urinary tract .
inflammation process in fascia .
involuntary movements of the eyeballs .
a cataract with no obvious cause occurring in persons over 50 years old .
inflammation of the mouth mucosa associated with the presence of ulcers .
inflammation of a tendon ,  usually resulting from an overuse injury .
a disease involving the vitreous humor .
a disease involving the upper respiratory tract .
a varicose disease that involves the pelvic region of trunk .
any disease in which the causes of the disease is a perturbation of the lower digestive tract leading to its dysfunction .
a neurodegenerative disease that involves the eye .
a neurodegenerative disease that involves the optic choroid .
a refractive error in which rays of light entering the eye parallel to the optic axis are brought to a focus behind the retina ,  as a result of the eyeball being too short from front to back .
a defect in the focusing of light on the retina as in astigmatism ,  myopia ,  or hyperopia .
vertical strabismus in which there is permanent downward deviation of the visual axis of one eye .
a hordeolum that results from infection of a meibomian gland .
any disorder of the lymph nodes .
hypoplastic left heart syndrome  ( hlhs )  refers to the abnormal development of the left - sided cardiac structures ,  resulting in obstruction to blood flow from the left ventricular outflow tract .
the psychological or physiological need to take a substance in oder to experience its effects or to avoid the effects of its absence .
a malignant soft tissue neoplasm that arises from the structures of the orbit .
infection of the brain or spinal cord by treponema pallidum .
the type species of lentivirus and the etiologic agent of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome  ( aids )  .
a disease involving the head .
lack of blood supply to an area of the body ,  resulting in impairment of tissue oxygenation .
an antiquated term that refers to benign or malignant mesenchymal neoplasms characterized by the presence of neoplastic spindle - shaped to round cells arranged around thin - walled branching vascular spaces .
increased pressure within the pulmonary circulation due to lung or heart disorder .
a malignant epithelial neoplasm composed of large ,  atypical cells .
diminished or absent blood supply to the brain caused by obstruction  ( thrombosis or embolism )  of an artery resulting in neurologic damage .
the most frequently seen skin cancer .
neoplasms that affect the bone marrow .
a malignant neoplasm involving the gall bladder
a malignant glioma that involves the brain .
allergic reaction to eggs that is triggered by the immune system .
a rare disorder of unknown etiology characterized by distention of the lymph node sinuses and sinusoidal histiocytic infiltration .
an inherited metabolic disorder characterized by iron accumulation in the tissues .
a delayed hypersensitivity involving the reaction between sunlight or other radiant energy source and a chemical substance to which the individual has been previously exposed and sensitized .
infections with bacteria of the genus erysipelothrix .
allergic reaction to wheat that is triggered by the immune system .
a condition that is characterized by degeneration of the distal phalanges .
aplasia cutis congenita  ( acc )  is a rare skin disorder characterized by localized absence of skin that is usually located on the scalp but can occur anywhere on the body including the face ,  trunk and extremities .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 3  ( sca3 )  ,  also known as machado - joseph disease ,  is the most common subtype of type 1 autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type 1 )  ,  a neurodegenerative disorder ,  and is characterized by ataxia ,  external progressive ophthalmoplegia ,  and other neurological manifestations .
any brachydactyly type b in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ror2 gene .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the breast .
any variation from the normal rate or rhythm  ( which may include the origin of the impulse and / or its subsequent propagation )  in the heart .
an autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the mybpc3 gene ,  encoding mybpc3 protein .
a cataract that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the gcnt2 gene on chromosome 6p24 .
any cataract  ( disease )  in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hsf4 gene .
a chronic inherited arthropathy characterized by chondrocalcinosis  ( cc ;  i .e .
cirrhosis in which no causative agent can be identified .
a cleft palate that is not part of a larger syndrome .
the most common congenital deformation of the foot ,  occurring in 1 of 1 , 000 live births .
any mitochondrial complex iii deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bcs1l gene .
paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia  ( pkd )  is a form of paroxysmal dyskinesia ,  characterized by recurrent brief involuntary hyperkinesias ,  such as choreoathetosis ,  ballism ,  athetosis or dystonia ,  triggered by sudden movements .
any hereditary elliptocytosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the spta1 gene .
pilomatrixoma is a rare and benign hair cell - derived tumor occurring mostly in young adults  ( usually under the age of 20 )  and characterized as a 3 - 30 mm solitary ,  painless ,  firm ,  mobile ,  deep dermal or subcutaneous tumor ,  most commonly found in the head ,  neck or upper extremities .
primary familial polycythemia is an inherited hematological disorder resulting from mutations in the erythropoietin  ( epo )  receptor and is characterized by an elevated absolute red blood cell mass caused by uncontrolled red blood cell production in the presence of low epo levels .
an instance of acute erythroleukemia that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the esophagus .
any exostoses ,  multiple in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ext1 gene .
this gene is involved in the heparin / heparin sulfate biosynthesis ,  cell organization / biogenesis and development of the cytoskeleton in chondrocytes .
a desmoid tumor  ( dt )  is a benign ,  locally invasive soft tissue tumor associated with a high recurrence rate but with no metastatic potential .
a condition caused by a 520 kb deletion at 16p12 .1 .
an autosomal dominant inherited adenocarcinoma that arises from the gastric mucosa and is characterized by the presence of poorly cohesive malignant cells and absence of glandular formations .
any juvenile glaucoma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myoc gene .
any familial acne inversa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ncstn gene .
any holoprosencephaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the shh gene .
a disorder characterized by a marked pattern of inattention and / or hyperactivity - impulsivity that is inconsistent with developmental level and clearly interferes with functioning in at least two settings  ( e .g .
an instance of hypersensitivity pneumonitis that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of hypertriglyceridemia  ( disease )  that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
immediate hypersensitivity reaction  -  type i reaction ,  involves immunoglobulin e  ( ige )  - mediated release of chemical mediators from mast cells and basophils .
a sporadic or inherited disorder characterized by the focal or diffuse proliferation of the cells of the islets of langerhans in the pancreas .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fgfr1 gene .
a chronic inflammatory process affecting the skin .
an instance of lichen planus that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
any li - fraumeni syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tp53 gene .
a condition in which a finger or toe is larger than normal size secondary to excessive growth of the anatomical structures or abnormal accumulation of substances .
any carney complex in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prkar1a gene .
a benign ,  pigmented skin growth caused by an overgrowth of the epidermis .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the ovary .
any patterned macular dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prph2 gene .
a polyp that arises from the stomach .
any porencephaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col4a1 gene .
an instance of porphyria cutanea tarda that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
a primary or metastatic malignant tumor involving the prostate gland .
pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect  ( pa - vsd )  is a rare cyanotic congenital heart malformation characterized by underdevelopment of the right ventricular outflow tract and atresia of the pulmonary valve ,  ventricular septal defect  ( vsd )  and pulmonary collateral vessels .
ring dermoid of cornea is characterised by annular limbal dermoids  ( growths with a skin - like structure )  with corneal and conjunctival extension .
an autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the gfi1b gene ,  encoding zinc finger protein gfi - 1b .
a hemostatic disorder characterized by a poor anticoagulant response to activated protein c  ( apc )  .
familial thyroglossal duct cyst  ( tdc )  is a very rare inherited form of tdc characterized by a mass measuring 3 cm in diameter or less in the midline area of the neck .
any thyrotoxic periodic paralysis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cacna1s gene .
an autosomal dominant malformation syndrome caused by mutations in trps1 characterized by distinctive craniofacial and skeletal abnormalities .
a trichorhinophalangeal syndrome caused by mutations in trps1 characterized by the presence of severe brachydactyly ,  due to short metacarpals ,  and severe short stature .
a malignant neoplasm involving the ureter
a vascular disease characterized by the presence of enlarged and tortuous veins .
an instance of ventricular tachycardia that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a congenital abnormality in which the intestine is abnormally rotated  ( twisted )  .
watson syndrome is believed to be a variant of neurofibromatosis type 1 .
an instance of adrenal cortex carcinoma that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
beta - ketothiolase  ( t2 )  deficiency is a rare organic aciduria affecting ketone body metabolism and the catabolism of isoleucine and characterized by intermittent ketoacidotic episodes associated with vomiting ,  dyspnea ,  tachypnoea ,  hypotonia ,  lethargy and coma ,  with an onset during infancy or toddlerhood and usually ceasing by adolescence .
amelogenesis imperfecta - nephrocalcinosis ,  also called enamel - renal syndrome ,  is an extremely rare syndrome which is characterized by hypoplastic amelogenesis imperfecta  ( hypoplastic dental enamel )  and nephrocalcinosis  ( precipitation of calcium salts in renal tissue )  .
camptodactyly - arthropathy - coxa - vara - pericarditis  ( cacp )  syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  rheumatologic disease characterized by congenital or early - onset camptodactyly and symmetrical ,  polyarticular ,  non - inflammatory ,  large joint arthropathy with synovial hyperplasia ,  as well as progressive coxa vara deformity and ,  occasionally ,  non - inflammatory pericarditis .
impaired conduction of cardiac impulse that can occur anywhere along the conduction pathway ,  such as between the sinoatrial node and the right atrium  ( sa block )  or between atria and ventricles  ( av block )  .
any seckel syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the atr gene .
a malignant neoplasm involving the lung .
hypoplasia of the cerebellum that is associated with inherited metabolic disorders and neurodegenerative disorders .
ocular cystinosis is the benign ,  adult form of cystinosis ,  a metabolic disease characterized by an accumulation of cystine crystals in the cornea and conjunctiva responsible for tearing and photophobia and associated with no other additional manifestations .
severe generalized recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( rdeb - sev gen )  is the most severe subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( deb )  ,  formerly known as the hallopeau - siemens type ,  and is characterized by generalized cutaneous and mucosal blistering and scarring associated with severe deformities and major extracutaneous involvement .
any combined deficiency of factor v and factor viii in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lman1 gene .
fanconi anemia caused by mutations of the fancc gene .
any complete hydatidiform mole in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nlrp7 gene .
a disorder of the blood that is present at birth .
classical hodgkin lymphoma  ( chl )  is a b - cell lymphoma characterized histologically by the presence of large mononuclear hodgkin cells and multinucleated reed - sternberg  ( hrs )  cells .
any leydig cell hypoplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lhcgr gene .
addison disease  ( ad )  is a chronic and rare endocrine disorder due to autoimmune destruction of the adrenal cortex and resulting in a glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid deficiency .
hypothalamic hamartomas  ( hh )  are rare ,  tumor - like malformations that occur during fetal development and are present at birth .
neurocutaneous melanocytosis  ( ncm )  is a rare congenital neurological disorder characterized by abnormal aggregations of nevomelanocytes within the central nervous system  ( leptomeningeal melanocytosis )  associated with large or giant congenital melanocytic nevi  ( cmn )  .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prss12 gene .
vitamin b12 - unresponsive methylmalonic acidemia is an inborn error of vitamin b12  ( cobalamin )  metabolism characterized by recurrent ketoacidotic crises or transient vomiting ,  dehydration ,  hypotonia and intellectual deficit ,  which does not respond to administration of vitamin b12 .
mucolipidosis iii gamma  ( ml 3 gamma )  is a very rare lysosomal disease ,  that has most often been observed in the middle east ,  characterized by a progressive slowing of the growth rate in early childhood ;  stiffness and pain in shoulders ,  hips ,  and finger joints ;  a gradual ,  mild coarsening of facial features ;  and by a slower progression ,  milder clinical course and longer life expectancy than that seen in mucolipidosis ii and mucolipidosis iii alpha / beta .
any centronuclear myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bin1 gene .
any hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the abcc8 gene .
any autosomal recessive malignant osteopetrosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tcirg1 gene .
any autosomal recessive malignant osteopetrosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tnfsf11 gene .
pepck1 deficiency is a rare inborn error of metabolism disorder ,  characterized by the deficiency of the enzyme pepck1 ,  one of the enzymes needed for gluconeogenesis ,  the process by which organisms produce sugars  ( namely glucose )  from non - carbohydrate precursors  ( such as amino acids )  .
any glycogen storage disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prkag2 gene .
pulmonary arteriovenous malformation  ( pavm )  describes an anatomic communication between a pulmonary artery and a pulmonary vein leading to a right to left extracardiac shunt that can be asymptomatic or can lead to varying manifestations such as dyspnea ,  hemoptysis ,  and neurological symptoms .
an autosomal recessive inherited severe hemolytic anemia .
any spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia with joint laxity in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the b3galt6 gene .
sudden infant death syndrome  ( sids )  is the unexpected ,  sudden death of a child under age 1 which cannot be explained after a thorough investigation is conducted .
congenital thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura is the hereditary form of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura  ( ttp )  characterized by profound peripheral thrombocytopenia ,  microangiopathic hemolytic anemia  ( maha )  and single or multiple organ failure of variable severity .
an instance of thymoma  ( disease )  that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
an autosomal recessive disorder that is associated with mutation ( s )  in the cftr gene ,  encoding cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator .
a rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome .
any non - syndromic x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the il1rapl1 gene .
any non - syndromic x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tspan7 gene .
distal xq duplications refer to chromosomal disorders resulting from involvement of the long arm of the x chromosome  ( xq )  .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  armfield type is characterised by intellectual deficiency ,  short stature ,  seizures ,  and small hands and feet .
an x - linked condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the gata1 gene ,  encoding erythroid transcription factor .
any fg syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cask gene .
a syndromic x - linked intellectual disability characterized by intellectual disability and marfanoid habitus that has material basis in mutation in the zdhhc9 gene on chromosome xq26 .1 .
a hemostatic disorder characterized by a tendency to thrombosis that has x - linked recessive inheritance ,  and can be caused by a gain - of - function mutation in the gene encoding factor ix  ( f9 )  .
any primary immunodeficiency disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the atp6ap1 gene .
any dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dmd gene .
brachytelephalangic chondrodysplasia punctata  ( bcdp )  is a form of nonrhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata ,  a primary bone dysplasia ,  characterized by hypoplasia of the distal phalanges of the fingers ,  nasal hypoplasia ,  epiphyseal stippling appearing in the first year of life ,  and mild and nonrhizomelic shortness of the long bones .
x - linked cleft palate and ankyloglossia is a rare ,  genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome characterized by the association of complete ,  partial or submucous cleft palate and ankyloglossia .
x - linked form of dyskeratosis congenita .
aarskog - scott syndrome  ( aas )  is a rare developmental disorder characterized by facial ,  limbs and genital features ,  and a disproportionate acromelic short stature .
the x - linked inherited form of kallmann syndrome caused by mutation of the kal1 gene mapped to chromosome xp22 .3 .
a usually benign neoplasm composed of large cells with abundant eosinophilic granular cytoplasm .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnq4 gene .
the growth of endometrial tissue inside the muscular wall of the uterine corpus .
an autosomal recessive disease that is characterized by albinism ,  black lock ,  cell migration disorder of the neurocytes of the gut and sensorineural deafness and has material basis in a mutation in the endothelin b receptor gene  ( ednrb )  .
any autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ganab gene .
microtia is a congenital malformation of the external ear ,  seen more frequently in males ,  that occurs sporadically or is inherited ,  that is characterized by unilateral  ( 79 - 93% of cases ,  60% of which involve the right ear )  or bilateral small and abnormally shaped auricles and that is often associated with atresia or stenosis of the ear canal ,  attention deficit disorders and delayed language development .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in mutation in the slc26a4 gene on chromosome 7q22 .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prkag2 gene .
fanconi anemia caused by mutations of the fance gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tmc1 gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the otof gene .
dermatitis herpetiformis is a rare ,  chronic ,  skin disorder characterized by groups of severely itchy blisters and raised skin lesions .
any autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the abca12 gene .
the disorder is characterized by thrombocytopenia of varying severity and a predisposition to hematologic malignancies .
an autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness that is characterized by progressive high - tone hearing loss and has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 1q21 - q23 .
an acute leukemia of ambiguous lineage in which there is a dual population of blasts with each population expressing markers of a distinct lineage  ( myeloid and lymphoid or b - and t - lymphocyte )  .
any hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnj11 gene .
any malignant hyperthermia of anesthesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cacna1s gene .
any essential thrombocythemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mpl gene .
any cone dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the guca1a gene .
pierpont syndrome is a rare subcutaneous tissue disorder characterized by axial hypotonia after birth ,  prolonged feeding difficulties ,  moderate to severe global developmental delay ,  seizures  ( in particular absence seizures )  ,  fetal digital pads ,  distinctive plantar fat pads anteromedial to the heels ,  deep palmar and plantar grooves .
any hemochromatosis type 2 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hjv gene .
any bartter syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bsnd gene .
an inherited muscular dystrophy caused by mutations in the sepn1 gene .
any familial hypercholesterolemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pcsk9 gene .
an autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the scn5a gene ,  encoding sodium channel protein type 5 subunit alpha .
a rare ,  primary immunodeficiency with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance but incomplete penetrance .
any eec syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tp63 gene .
mass  ( mitral valve prolapse ,  aortic enlargement ,  skin and skeletal findings )  syndrome is a genetic disorder of connective tissue caused by mutations in the fbn1 gene .
any hereditary breast ovarian cancer syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the brca1 gene .
any arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tmem43 gene .
polymorphic ventricular tachycardia induced by adrenergic stress .
nde1 - related microhydranencephaly is a rare ,  hereditary syndrome with a central nervous system malformation as major feature characterized by extreme microcephaly and growth restriction ,  severe motor delay and mental retardation ,  and typical radiological findings of gross dilation of the ventricles resulting from the absence  ( or severe delay in the development )  of cerebral hemispheres ,  hypoplasia of the corpus callosum ,  cerebellum ,  and brainstem .
arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy with woolly hair and keratoderma is often associated with the gene dsp ,  encoding desmoplakin .
a cerebral amyloid angiopathy that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of app on chromosome 21q21 .3 .
inherited cancer - predisposing syndrome due to biallelic brca2 mutations is a rare cancer - predisposing syndrome ,  associated with the d1 subgroup of fanconi anemia  ( fa )  ,  characterized by progressive bone marrow failure ,  cardiac ,  brain ,  intestinal or skeletal abnormalities and predisposition to various malignancies .
monogenic diabetes caused by inactivating mutation ( s )  in the pdx1 gene ,  encoding pancreas / duodenum homeobox protein 1 .
monogenic diabetes caused by inactivating mutation ( s )  in the gene neurod1 ,  encoding neurogenic differentiation 1 .
autosomal recessive form of craniosynostosis .
a congenital muscular dystrophy characterized by autosomal recessive inheritance of muscular dystrophy with variable penetrance of intellectual disability and structural brain abnormalities that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the fkrp gene on chromosome 19q13 .3 .
a meningioma that is transmitted from the parents to an offspring .
any arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dsp gene .
any congenital vitamin k - dependent coagulation factors combined deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vkorc1 gene .
a frontotemporal dementia characterized by variable phenotypic expression typically including social ,  behavioral ,  or language deterioration ,  rather than memory or motor deficits and the presence of tardbp - positive inclusions that has material basis in mutation in the grn gene on chromosome 17q21 .31 .
sweet's syndrome  ( the eponym for acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis )  is characterized by a constellation of clinical symptoms ,  physical features ,  and pathologic findings which include fever ,  neutrophilia ,  tender erythematous skin lesions  ( papules ,  nodules ,  and plaques )  ,  and a diffuse infiltrate consisting predominantly of mature neutrophils that are typically located in the upper dermis .
primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the endometrium  ( mucous membrane that lines the endometrial cavity )  .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hydin gene .
acquired partial lipodystrophy ,  or barraquer - simons syndrome ,  is characterised by the association of lipoatrophy of the upper part of the body and lipohypertrophy of the thighs .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myl2 gene .
any colorectal cancer in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the galnt12 gene .
any orofacial cleft in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the irf6 gene .
choanal atresia  ( ca )  is a congenital anomaly of the posterior nasal airway characterized by the obstruction of one  ( unilateral )  or both  ( bilateral )  choanal aperture ( s )  ,  with clinical manifestations ranging from acute respiratory distress to chronic nasal obstruction .
fanconi anemia caused by mutations in the brip1 gene ,  encoding fanconi anemia group j protein .
aplastic anemia without a known cause .
any nemaline myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kbtbd13 gene .
an autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by joint contractures ,  skeletal abnormalities ,  anterior segment anomalies of the eye and early lethality .
any familial or sporadic hemiplegic migraine in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scn1a gene .
holoprosencephaly associated with mutations in the zic2 gene .
a retinitis pigmentosa that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 1p21 .3 - p13 .3 .
any congenital diaphragmatic hernia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the zfpm2 gene .
a female reproductive system disease characterized by rupture of chorioamniotic membranes before 37 weeks of gestation .
any nemaline myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cfl2 gene .
any congenital anomaly of kidney and urinary tract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dstyk gene .
any fanconi anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the palb2 gene .
any coronary artery disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lrp6 gene .
a syndrome characterized by aged bird - like facies ,  lack of subcutaneous fat ,  dwarfism ,  cachexia and microcephaly .
any usher syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the whrn gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lrtomt gene .
any autosomal recessive malignant osteopetrosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the clcn7 gene .
any long qt syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scn4b gene .
any long qt syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the akap9 gene .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the csrp3 gene .
a rare malignant soft tissue neoplasm of uncertain differentiation ,  characterized by the presence of chondroblast - like cells in a myxoid stroma and a multinodular growth pattern .
autosomal dominant form of hereditary thrombophilia due to congenital protein s deficiency .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the chd7 gene .
any hereditary breast ovarian cancer syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the brca2 gene .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fgf8 gene .
an autosomal recessive disease that is characterized by mental retardation ,  cataracts ,  coloboma ,  kyphosis ,  and coarse facial features and has material basis in mutation in the srd5a3 gene .
a hypotrichosis that has material basis in a mutation on chromosome 1p21 .1 - q21 .3 .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ap4m1 gene .
any long qt syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the snta1 gene .
a condition of decreased or absent presence or activity of il2 - inducible t - cell kinase .
any neuroblastoma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the alk gene .
any malignant glioma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pten gene .
any malignant glioma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the brca2 gene .
autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease caused by a mutation in pkd2 .
any hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the epcam gene .
any hemochromatosis type 2 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hamp gene .
reynolds syndrome  ( rs )  is an autoimmune disorder characterized by the association of primary biliary cirrhosis  ( pbc )  with limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis  ( lcssc )  .
any long qt syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnj5 gene .
a nephronophthisis that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the tmem67 gene on chromosome 8q22 .1 .
fetal encasement syndrome is a rare ,  lethal developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by severe fetal malformations ,  including craniofacial dysmorphism  ( abnormal cyst in the cranial region ,  hypoplastic eyeballs ,  two orifices in the nasal region separated by a nasal septum ,  abnormal orifice replacing the mouth )  ,  omphalocele and immotile ,  hypoplastic limbs encased under an abnormal ,  transparent ,  membrane - like skin .
c1q deficiency is a rare disorder associated with recurrent skin lesions ,  chronic infections ,  systemic lupus erythematosus  ( sle )  or sle - like diseases .
any long qt syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcne1 gene .
early infantile epileptic encephalopathy type 12  ( eiee12 )  is an extremely rare nervous system disorder .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ap4e1 gene .
any early - onset non - syndromic cataract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cryab gene .
a rare defect resulting in c1 deficiency and impaired activation of the complement classical pathway .
any classic complement early component deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the c8b gene .
an inherited condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the itpa gene ,  encoding inosine triphosphate pyrophosphatase .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the jph2 gene .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nexn gene .
any fanconi anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slx4 gene .
abnormal clinical manifestations of beta thalassemia that are as a result of the underlying genotype .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ap4b1 gene .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ap4s1 gene .
any hermansky - pudlak syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hps3 gene .
any fanconi anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fancl gene .
an autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of dyrk1a on chromosome 21q22 .13 .
any hydrolethalus syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kif7 gene .
any psoriasis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the il36rn gene .
an autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the kif1a gene ,  encoding kinesin - like protein kif1a .
acute graft - versus - host disease  ( gvhd )  occurs after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant and is a reaction of donor immune cells against host tissues .
any atrioventricular septal defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gata4 gene .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cplane1 gene .
idiopathic membranous glomerulonephritis  ( img )  is a primary glomerular disease characterized by proteinuria ,  usually in the nephrotic range ,  with preserved renal function .
an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder characterized by delayed psychomotor development and lactic acidosis with a normal lactate / pyruvate ratio resulting from impaired mitochondrial pyruvate oxidation .
malan overgrowth syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by moderate postnatal overgrowth ,  macrocephaly ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( including high forehead and anterior hairline ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  prominent chin )  ,  developmental delay ,  and intellectual disability .
any amelogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the odaph gene .
any herpes simplex encephalitis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the traf3 gene .
any herpes simplex encephalitis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ticam1 gene .
any dystonic disorder in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cacna1b gene .
any primary immunodeficiency disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ifngr2 gene .
any perrault syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hars2 gene .
any inherited bleeding disorder ,  platelet - type in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the actn1 gene .
any central precocious puberty in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mkrn3 gene .
an autosomal recessive myopathy caused by mutations in the klhl40 gene ,  encoding kelch - like protein 40 .
an inherited condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the slc25a4 gene ,  encoding adp / atp translocase 1 .
any hypobetalipoproteinemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the apob gene .
any common variable immunodeficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nfkb2 gene .
immunodeficiency - 18 is an autosomal recessive primary immunodeficiency characterized by onset in infancy or early childhood of recurrent infections .
an asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the ift172 gene on chromosome 2p23 .
any nemaline myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the klhl41 gene .
any non - syndromic pontocerebellar hypoplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the clp1 gene .
postaxial polydactyly - anterior pituitary anomalies - facial dysmorphism syndrome is a rare ,  genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized primarily by congenital hypopituitarism and / or postaxial polydactyly .
bleeding disorder due to caldag - gefi deficiency is a rare hematologic disease due to defective platelet function and characterized by mucocutaneous bleeding starting in infancy  ( around 18 months of age )  ,  presenting with prolonged and severe epistaxis ,  hematomas and bleeding after tooth extraction .
severe combined immunodeficiency  ( scid )  due to ctps1 deficiency is a rare primary immunodeficiency disorder due to impaired capacity of activated t -  and b - cells to proliferate in response to antigen receptor - mediated activation characterized by early - onset ,  severe ,  persistent and / or recurrent viral infections due to epstein - barr virus  ( ebv )  and varicella zoster virus  ( vzv )  ,   ( including generalized varicella )  ,  as well as recurrent sino - pulmonary bacterial infections due to encapsulated pathogens .
any combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vars2 gene .
sting - associated vasculopathy with onset in infancy  ( savi )  is a rare ,  genetic autoinflammatory disorder ,  type i interferonopathy due to constitutive sting  ( stimulator of interferon genes )  activation ,  characterized by neonatal or infantile onset systemic inflammation and small vessel vasculopathy resulting in severe skin ,  pulmonary and joint lesions .
any autosomal recessive centronuclear myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the speg gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the eps8 gene .
any isolated congenital breast hypoplasia / aplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ptprf gene .
progressive encephalopathy with leukodystrophy due to decr deficiency is a rare mitochondrial disease ,  which presents with neonatal hypotonia ,  central nervous system abnormalities  ( ventriculomegaly ,  corpus callosum hypoplasia ,  cerebellar atrophy )  ,  acquired microcephaly ,  failure to thrive ,  developmental delay and intermittent lactic acidosis provoked by catabolic stress  ( e .g .
a somatic mutation in the ctla4 gene resulting in only a single functional gene .
any familial cold autoinflammatory syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nlrc4 gene .
any leukodystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rars gene .
pura - related severe neonatal hypotonia - seizures - encephalopathy syndrome due to a point mutation is a rare ,  genetic neurological disease ,  with a highly variable phenotype ,  typically characterized by neonatal hypotonia ,  respiratory and feeding difficulties ,  global development delay  ( often with nonverbal and frequently non - ambulatory progression )  and myopathic facies .
any isolated hereditary giant platelet disorder in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prkacg gene .
a syndrome characterized by a unique combination of cardiac arrhythmias and intestinal pseudo - obstruction .
any thrombocytopenia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the etv6 gene .
any long qt syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the calm1 gene .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the crym gene .
intellectual disability - microcephaly - strabismus - behavioral abnormalities syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  syndromic intellecutal disability disorder characterized by craniofacial dysmorphism  ( microcephaly ,  hypotonic facies ,  strabismus ,  long and flat malar region ,  posteriorly rotated ears ,  flat nasal bridge with broad nasal tip ,  short philtrum ,  thin vermillion border ,  open mouth with down - turned corners ,  high arched palate ,  pointed chin )  ,  global developmental delay ,  intellectual disability and variable neurobehavioral abnormalities  ( autism spectrum disorder ,  aggressivness ,  self injury )  .
a syndrome characterized by malar and mandibular hypoplasia ,  typically associated with abnormalities of the ears and eyelids ,  and with alopecia .
any fatal multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the isca2 gene .
any leukodystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pycr2 gene .
benta disease  ( b cell expansion with n f - n:b and t cell anergy )  is a very rare congenital immune deficiency disorder .
any infantile liver failure in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nbas gene .
a hereditary sensory neuropathy characterized by congenital insensitivity to pain and decreased sweating and tear production that has material basis in homozygous mutation in the prdm12 gene on chromosome 9q34 .
any charcot - marie - tooth disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the naglu gene .
any hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type 6 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc25a46 gene .
any autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myt1l gene .
14q32 duplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 14 that results in a predisposition to a number of adult - onset myeloproliferative neoplasms ,  including acute myeloid leukemia ,  chronic myelomonocytic leukemia ,  and myeloproliferative neoplasms ,  especially essential thrombocythemia .
progressive microcephaly - seizures - cortical blindness - developmental delay syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  neuro - ophthalmological syndrome characterized by post - natal ,  progressive microcephaly and early - onset seizures ,  associated with delayed global development ,  bilateral cortical visual impairment and moderate to severe intellectual disability .
seizures - scoliosis - macrocephaly syndrome is a rare ,  genetic neurometabolic disorder characterized by seizures ,  macrocephaly ,  delayed motor milestones ,  moderate intellectual disability ,  scoliosis with no exostoses ,  muscular hypotonia present since birth ,  as well as renal dysfunction .
any leukodystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vps11 gene .
any rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pex5 gene .
spastic paraplegia - severe developmental delay - epilepsy syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  complex spastic paraplegia disorder characterized by an infantile - onset of psychomotor developmental delay with severe intellectual disability and poor speech acquisition ,  associated with seizures  ( mostly myoclonic )  ,  muscular hypotonia which may be noted at birth ,  and slowly progressive spasticity in the lower limbs leading to severe gait disturbances .
any cadasil in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the htra1 gene .
any prenatal - onset spinal muscular atrophy with congenital bone fractures in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the trip4 gene .
any prenatal - onset spinal muscular atrophy with congenital bone fractures in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ascc1 gene .
any hereditary neoplastic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ddx41 gene .
any leukodystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hikeshi gene .
any mitochondrial dna depletion syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the opa1 gene .
any charcot - marie - tooth disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nefh gene .
any autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tbl1xr1 gene .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mcm2 gene .
any hermansky - pudlak syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ap3d1 gene .
an autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the samd9 gene ,  encoding sterile alpha motif domain - containing protein 9a .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc1a2 gene .
any myofibrillar myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pyroxd1 gene .
congenital myopathy caused by pathogenic mutations in mypn that lead to a wide spectrum of phenotypes .
a who grade i perineurioma that arises within the endoneurium .
a well differentiated ,  low or intermediate grade tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the stomach .
a well differentiated ,  low or intermediate grade tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the duodenum .
a well differentiated ,  low or intermediate grade tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the jejunum .
a well differentiated ,  low or intermediate grade tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the ileum .
a well differentiated ,  low or intermediate grade tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the appendix .
a well differentiated ,  low or intermediate grade tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the colon .
a benign or malignant neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the larynx .
a well differentiated ,  low or intermediate grade tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the gallbladder .
a hormonal disorder that occurs when the adrenal glands fail to release adequate amounts of glucocorticoids  ( cortisol )  ,  mineralocorticoids  ( aldosterone ,  11 - deoxycorticosterone )  ,  and androgens  ( dehydroepiandrosterone )  to meet physiologic needs ,  despite release of acth from the pituitary .
an instance of chronic primary adrenal insufficiency that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
fevers of unknown etiology recurring over months or years .
a disease that involves the medulla oblongata .
an inflammatory disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the brain .
autoimmune pancreatitis  ( aip )  is a rare pancreatic disease characterized by chronic non - alcoholic pancreatitis that presents with abdominal pain ,  steatorrhea ,  obstructive jaundice and responds well to steroid therapy and is seen in two subforms: type 1 aip which affects elderly males ,  involves other organs and has increased immunoglobin g4  ( igg4 )  levels and type 2 aip which affects both sexes equally but presents at a younger age and has no other organ involvement or increased igg4 levels .
short bowel syndrome is an intestinal failure due to either a congenital defect ,  intestinal infarction or extensive surgical resection of the intestinal tract that results in a functional small intestine of less than 200cm in length and is characterized by diarrhea ,  nutrient malabsoption ,  bowel dilation and dysmobility .
hydrops fetalis is a severe and challenging fetal condition usually defined as the excessive accumulation of fetal fluid within the fetal extravascular compartments and body cavities that manifests as edema ,  pleural and pericardial effusion and ascites .
sideroblastic anemias  ( sa )  are a group of rare heterogeneous inherited or acquired bone marrow disorders ,  isolated or part of a syndrome ,  characterized by decreased hemoglobin synthesis ,  because of defective use of iron  ( although plasmatic iron levels may be normal or elevated )  and the presence of ringed sideroblasts in the bone marrow due to the pathologic iron overload in mitochondria as visualized by perls' staining .
a diaphragmatic or abdominal wall malformation that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a diaphragmatic or abdominal wall malformation that is part of a larger syndrome .
a respiratory or mediastinal malformation that is part of a larger syndrome .
a neuroendocrine carcinoma arising from the c - cells of the thyroid gland .
cutaneous amyloidosis refers to a variety of skin diseases characterized histologically by the extracellular accumulation of amyloid deposits in the dermis .
a group of rare genetic disorders which mimic physiological aging ,  making affected individuals appear to be older than they are .
acute transverse myelitis  ( atm )  is an inflammatory demyelinating disorder of the spinal cord that can be either idiopathic  ( iatm )  or secondary to a known cause  ( satm )  .
a disorder characterized by vascular malformations that encompasses a spectrum of phenotypic expression involving arteriovenous malformations  ( avms )  of the cerebral ,  orbital ,  and facial region .
a congenital abnormality consisting of an opening or gap in the face ,  which results from incomplete fusion of one or more of the embryonic facial prominences .
middle aortic coarctation is a rare vascular anomaly characterized by the segmental narrowing of the abdominal and / or distal descending thoracic aorta with varying involvement of the visceral and renal arteries that commonly presents in children and young adults with early onset and refractory hypertension ,  abdominal angina ,  lower - limb claudication and that can lead to life - threatening complications associated with severe hypertension  ( i .e .
intestinal infection with organisms of the genus cryptosporidium .
group of systemic vasculitis with a strong association with anca .
a low - grade malignant blood vessel neoplasm .
a headache disorder characterized by episodes of unilateral ,  short lasting pain and associated ipsilateral cranial autonomic symptoms .
group of disorders which feature accumulations of active histiocytes and lymphocytes ,  but where the histiocytes are not langerhans cells .
hemophagocytic syndrome  ( hps )  is a rare immune disease and a potentially life - threatening disorder characterized by cytokine storm and overwhelming inflammation causing fever ,  hepatosplenomegaly ,  cytopenia ,  hypertriglyceridemia ,  hyperferritinemia ,  and hemophagocytosis in bone marrow ,  liver ,  spleen or lymph nodes .
hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis due to infections ,  autoimmune disorders ,  or underlying malignancies .
castleman disease  ( cd )  is a benign lymphoproliferative disorder that may present as a localized or multicentric form .
chronic cutaneous lupus erythematosus  ( ccle )  is a form of cutaneous lupus erythematosus  ( cle )  that includes five different forms: discoid lupus erythematosus  ( dle )  ,  chilblain lupus ,  hypertrophic or verrucous lupus erythematosus ,  lupus erythematosus tumidus ,  and lupus erythematosus panniculitis .
a urogenital tract malformation that is not part of a larger syndrome .
an epilepsy characterized by seizures triggered by visual stimuli that form patterns in space or time ,  such as flashing lights .
sporadic fetal brain disruption sequence is a rare ,  non - syndromic ,  central nervous system malformation disorder characterized by severe microcephaly  ( average occipitofrontal circumference  - 5 .8 sd )  ,  overlapping sutures ,  keel - like occipital bone prominence ,  scalp rugae with normal hair pattern and signs of neurological impairment .
acute myeloid leukemias that do not fulfill the criteria for inclusion in the group of acute myeloid leukemias which have recurrent genetic abnormalities or myelodysplastic changes ,  or are therapy - related .
primary peritoneal carcinoma  ( ppc )  is a rare malignant tumor of the peritoneal cavity of extra - ovarian origin ,  clinically and histologically similar to advanced - stage serous ovarian carcinoma .
white sponge nevus  ( wsn )  is a rare and autosomal dominant genetic disease in which the oral mucosa is white or greyish ,  thickened ,  folded ,  and spongy .
a non - hodgkin lymphoma of t - cell lineage .
a common ,  self - limiting thyroid disorder seen in preterm infants that is characterized by abnormally low serum levels of thyroxine and free thyroxine with normal serum levels of thyroid stimulating hormone .
a multinodular intermediate fibroblastic neoplasm that arises from soft tissue or viscera ,  in children and young adults .
extranodal lymphoma of lymphoid tissue associated with mucosa that is in contact with exogenous antigens .
mycosis fungoides  ( mf )  and its variants represent the most common forms of cutaneous t - cell lymphomas .
an instance of neutropenia that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
a uterovaginal malformation that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a uterovaginal malformation that is part of a larger syndrome .
a malignant germ cell tumor characterized by the presence of at least two different germ cell components .
a carcinoma arising from the vaginal epithelium .
a cluster of closely related metabolic abnormalities associated with insulin resistance that confer an increased risk of the development of type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease .
primary orthostatic hypotension is a rare type of orthostatic hypotension .
a grade iii or grade iv glioma arising from the central nervous system .
an instance of peripheral neuropathy that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
a non - syndromic urogenital tract malformation that involves the female organism .
a non - syndromic urogenital tract malformation that involves the male organism .
a systemic disease is one that affects a number of organs and tissues ,  or affects the body as a whole .
an autoimmune form of systemic disease .
human ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis describe a group of acute febrile tick - borne diseases characterized by an overlapping clinical picture that includes fever ,  headache ,  myalgias ,  arthralgias ,  skin eruptions ,  gastrointestinal symptoms and neurological manifestations .
fetal trimethadione syndrome is a drug - related embryofetopathy that can occur when an embryo / fetus is exposed to trimethadione and that is characterized by pre -  and post - natal growth retardation ,  intellectual deficit ,  developmental and speech delay ,  craniofacial anomalies  ( with some similarities to those seen in fetal valproate syndrome )  ,  and less commonly ,  cleft palate ,  malformations of the heart ,  urogenital system and limbs .
evans syndrome is a rare chronic hematologic disorder characterized by the simultaneous or sequential association of autoimmune hemolytic anemia  ( aiha ;  a disorder in which auto - antibodies are directed against red blood cells causing anemia of varying degrees of severity )  with immune thrombocytopenic purpura  ( itp ;  a coagulation disorder in which auto - antibodies are directed against platelets causing hemorrhagic episodes )  and occasionally autoimmune neutropenia ,  in the absence of a known underlying etiology .
an infectious process affecting the internal structures of the eye .
a parasitic disease caused by tissue - invasive ,  vector - borne nematodes which can be found anywhere in the human body and that are transmitted to humans through the bite of an infected mosquito or fly or by consumption of unsafe drinking water and which ,  depending on the subtype can manifest with lymphedema ,  dermatitis ,  subcutaneous edema and eye involvement .
a low grade epithelial tumor arising from the ovary .
a malignant germ cell tumor other than dysgerminoma that arises from the ovary .
an infectious process affecting the peripheral nerves .
an instance of skeletal muscle disease that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
optic pathway glioma  ( opg )  is a benign tumor that develop along the optic nerve  ( chiasm ,  tracts ,  and radiations )  characterized by impairment or loss of vision and may be accompanied by diencephalic symptoms such as reduced growth and alteration in sleeping patterns .
chronic form of acquired peripheral neuropathy .
chronic form of polyradiculoneuropathy .
spindle cell hemangioma  ( sch )  ,  also known as spindle cell hemangioendothelioma ,  is a rare benign vascular tumor either solitary or multiple ,  characterized by cavernous blood vessels separated by spindle cells reminiscent of those in kaposibs sarcoma and located in the dermis and subcutis .
kaposiform hemangioendothelioma is a very rare ,  aggressive ,  vascular tumor manifesting in the neonatal period or in infancy as cutaneous vascular tumors to large infiltrative lesions .
solitary fibrous tumor  ( sft )  represents a diverse group of ubiquitous rare spindle cell neoplasms that may be benign or malignant and that most frequently arises from the pleura and peritoneum and rarely from other sites such as head and neck ,  liver and skeletal muscle .
a primary ,  benign or malignant neoplasm of the uterine corpus characterized by the presence of an epithelial and a mesenchymal component .
a rare malignant heterologous neoplasm with skeletal muscle differentiation arising from the uterine corpus .
a adenocarcinoma that involves the uterine cervix .
a adenoid cystic carcinoma that involves the uterine cervix .
neuroendocrine cell hyperplasia of infancy  ( nchi )  is a non - lethal pediatric form of interstitial lung disease  ( ild )  characterized by tachypnea without respiratory failure .
an instance of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
a neuralgia that involves the cranial neuron projection bundle .
an instance of dermis elastic tissue disorder that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
a nonheritable form of pseudoxanthoma elasticum  ( pxe )  ,  lacking the retinal and vascular stigmata associated with the inherited form of the disorder ,  but having skin lesions that are clinically ,  histologically ,  and ultrastructurally similar to those seen in the inherited type .
an instance of cutis laxa that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
an autoimmune disorder ,  similar to systemic lupus erythematosus ,  that is caused by certain drugs .
an instance of secondary polycythemia that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
immune dysregulation - inflammatory bowel disease - arthritis - recurrent infections syndrome is a rare immune dysregulation disease with immunodeficiency characterized by severe ,  progressive infantile onset inflammatory bowel disease with pancolitis ,  perianal disease  ( ulceration ,  fistulae )  ,  recurrent respiratory ,  genitourinary and cutaneous infections ,  arthritis and a high risk of b - cell lymphoma .
systemic mastocytosis  ( sm )  comprises a heterogeneous group of rare acquired and chronic hematological malignancies that are related to an abnormal proliferation of mast cells in tissue ,  including bone marrow ,  with or without skin involvement .
an instance of cerebellar ataxia that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
a congenital abnormality in which the occipitofrontal circumference is greater than two standard deviations above the mean for a given age .
a lipoma usually occurring in the extremities of young children  ( usually boys )  .
an instance of deficiency anemia that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
congenital abnormalities caused by medicinal substances or drugs of abuse given to or taken by the mother ,  or to which she is inadvertently exposed during the manufacture of such substances .
an anaplastic astrocytoma  ( grade iii astrocytic tumor )  or glioblastoma  ( grade iv astrocytic tumor )  .
a diffuse glial tumor which infiltrates the brain extensively ,  involving more than two lobes .
a who grade ll astrocytic tumor with a relatively favorable prognosis .
pilocytic astrocytoma is a rare subtype of low - grade glioma of the central nervous system characterized by a well circumscribed ,  often cystic ,  brain tumor with a discrete mural nodule and long ,  hair - like projections that extend from the neoplastic astrocytes .
an astrocytic tumor of uncertain relation to pilocytic astrocytoma .
a benign ,  slowly growing tumor  ( who grade i )  typically arising in the wall of the lateral ventricles and composed of large ganglioid astrocytes .
anaplastic ependymoma is a rare ,  malignant type of ependymoma that most often arises in the supratentorial region of the brain of children and young adults and that manifests with variable symptoms including headaches ,  nausea ,  vision impairment ,  memory loss and difficulty walking .
astroblastoma is a very rare glial neoplasm of the central nervous system ,  most often with an intra - axial peripheral supratentorial location in one hemisphere of the frontal or parietal lobes and usually presenting in infants and young adults with symptoms of vomiting ,  loss of consciousness ,  epileptic seizures and headaches .
medulloblastoma with extensive nodularity  ( mben )  is a histological variant of medulloblastoma ,  an embryonic malignancy ,  most often located in the inferior medullary velum and then growing into the fourth ventricle ,  and presenting in infants and young children with symptoms of increased intracranial pressure such as headache ,  listlessness ,  vomiting ,  diplopia and papilledema .
classic medulloblastoma is a histological variant of medulloblastoma ,  an embryonic malignancy ,  having a midline location ,  occurring most often in children and manifesting with variable symptoms such as headaches ,  nausea ,  vomiting and ataxia .
a rare ewing sarcoma / peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor that affects the central nervous system either as a primary dural neoplasm or by direct extension from adjacent soft tissues or bone .
ependymoblastoma is a rare type of primitive neuroectodermal tumor  ( pnet )  that usually occurs in young children under the age of 2 and is histologically distinguished by the production of ependymoblastic rosettes .
an intraventricular papillary neoplasm that originates from the choroid plexus epithelium .
a malignant neoplasm arising from the choroid plexus .
a group of central nervous system neoplasms with a variable amount of neuronal and ,  less consistently ,  glial differentiation .
a well differentiated ,  slow growing neuroepithelial neoplasm composed of neoplastic ,  mature ganglion cells .
a who grade i ,  indolent and relatively circumscribed brain tumor .
a central nervous system neoplasm mostly occurring in the fourth ventricle region .
a malignant germ cell tumor of the central nervous system characterized by the presence of at least two types of germ cell neoplasia .
a melanoma that affects the central nervous system .
hemangioblastoma is a rare ,  benign ,  highly vascularized tumor of the central nervous system ,  most often located in the cerebellum or spinal cord ,  presenting in adulthood and manifesting with dizziness ,  nausea ,  malaise ,  headache ,  bladder or bowel dysfunction ,  numbness ,  weakness and pain in the upper or lower extremities ,  and often associated with von hippel - lindau disease  ( vhl )  .
malignant triton tumor  ( mtt )  is a rare aggressive subtype of malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor  ( mpnst )  characterized histopathologically by focal rhabdomyoblastic differentiation .
complete hydatidiform mole is a type of hydatiform mole characterized by abnormal hyperplastic trophoblasts and hydropic villi due to fertilization of an enucleated ovocyte by one or two haploid spermatozoa that can manifest with vaginal bleeding accompanied by nausea and frequent vomiting ,  hyperemesis gravidarum ,  risk of spontaneous miscarriage ,  hyperthyroidism ,  and has the potential of developing into choriocarcinoma .
an epithelial neoplasm arising from the thymus .
an instance of prothrombin deficiency that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
natural killer  ( nk )  - cell enteropathy is a benign nk - cell lymphoproliferative disease characterized by minor abdominal symptoms  ( abdominal pain ,  diverticulosis ,  constipation and reflux )  due to nk cell - derived lesions in the mucosal layer of the gastrointestinal tract and often mistaken for nk or t - cell lymphoma .
a interstitial lung disease that occurs during childhood .
a low grade childhood congenital malignant neoplasm arising from the kidney .
intraocular medulloepithelioma is a rare eye tumor characterized by a white ,  gray or yellow - colored cystic mass that arises from the primitive neuroectodermal ,  nonpigmented epithelium of the ciliary body ,  or occasionally from the optic nerve ,  optic disc ,  retina or iris .
a megalencephaly  ( disease )  that is not part of a larger syndrome .
conditions in which the primary symptom is headache and the headache cannot be attributed to any known causes .
an instance of prion disease that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
syndromic recessive x - linked ichthyosis  ( rxli )  refers to the cases of rxli that are associated with extracutaneous manifestations as part of a syndrome .
a group of diverse conditions that are characterized by spontaneous ,  multi - organ autoimmunity ,  which target both endocrine  ( adrenal ,  gonad ,  pancreatic islet cells ,  parathyroid ,  pituitary ,  thyroid )  and non - endocrine  ( gastrointestinal ,  integumentary ,  lymphatic )  tissues .
a recently described mass - forming lesion that occurs in the pancreas ,  submandibular glands ,  lacrimal glands ,  lymph nodes ,  and hepatobiliary tract .
well - differentiated fetal adenocarcinoma  ( wdfa )  of the lung is a rare ,  primary ,  low - grade ,  bronchopulmonary neoplasm characterized by a well - circumscribed ,  usually large ,  pulmonary mass that is histologically composed of glycogen - rich neoplastic glands and tubules that resemble fetal lungs at 10 to 16 weeks of gestation and benign adjacent stroma .
epstein - barr virus - positive diffuse large b - cell lymphoma of the elderly is a rare form of diffuse large b - cell lymphoma occurring most commonly in patients over the age of 50  ( usually between 70 - 75 years of age )  ,  without overt immunodeficiency ,  and presenting with nodal and extranodal involvement  ( in sites such as the stomach ,  lung ,  skin and pancreas )  and b symptoms  ( fever ,  night sweats ,  weight loss )  .
a usually slow growing ,  subcutaneous nodular neoplasm arising from myopericytes .
neuralgic amyotrophy  ( na )  is an uncommon disorder of the peripheral nervous system characterized by the sudden onset of extreme pain in the upper extremity followed by rapid multifocal motor weakness and atrophy and a slow recovery in months to years .
congenital viral infections with enteroviruses  ( ev )  including coxsackie viruses and echo viruses is an infectious embryofetopathy that have been reported to cause spontaneous abortion ,  stillbirth ,  fetal malformations and acute systemic illness in the newborn .
an aggressive malignant mesenchymal neoplasm with skeletal muscle differentiation ,  occurring in adults and rarely in children .
an aggressive malignant neoplasm of uncertain differentiation ,  characterized by the presence of epithelioid cells forming nodular patterns .
3mc syndrome describes a rare developmental disorder ,  that unifies the overlapping autosomal recessive disorders previously known as carnevale ,  mingarelli ,  malpuech and michels syndromes ,  characterized by a spectrum of developmental anomalies that include distinctive facial dysmorphism  ( i .e .
a rare adenocarcinoma with poor prognosis ,  arising from the adenohypophysial cells of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland or pre - existing adenomas .
a diffuse large b - cell lymphoma arising from the central nervous system .
splenic diffuse red pulp small b - cell lymphoma is a rare ,  indolent b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma characterized by abnormal proliferation of small ,  monomorphous ,  basophilic b - lymphocytes ,  with villous cytoplasm ,  in the splenic red pulp ,  bone marrow and peripheral blood .
renal tubular dysgenesis is a rare disorder of the fetus characterized by absent or poorly developed proximal tubules of the kidneys ,  persistent oligohydramnios ,  leading to potter sequence  ( facial dysmorphism with large and flat low - set ears ,  lung hypoplasia arthrogryposis and limb positioning defects )  ,  and skull ossification defects .
a benign or malignant neoplasm affecting the pituitary gland .
a neurologic disorder classically characterised by pronounced startle responses to tactile or acoustic stimuli and hypertonia
a disease in which focal palmoplantar keratoderma is a major feature . .
congenital pulmonary venous return anomaly is a cardiac malformation where some or all of the pulmonary veins drain into the right atrium or the systemic veins ,  with or without the presence of pulmonary venous obstruction ,  leading to various manifestations such as fatigue ,  exertional dyspnea ,  pulmonary arterial hypertension ,  cyanosis and progressive congestive heart failure .
the most common odontogenic tumor ,  arising from the epithelial component of the embryonic tooth and usually affecting the molar - ramus region of the mandible or maxilla .
a rare non - hodgkin lymphoma or even more rarely ,  a hodgkin lymphoma that arises from the bone ,  without lymph node or other extranodal involvement .
a hypersensitivity reaction type ii disease that involves the skin of body .
hypersensitivity pneumonitis  ( hp )  is a pulmonary disease with symptoms of dyspnea and cough resulting from the inhalation of an antigen to which the subject has been previously sensitized .
congenital radioulnar synostosis is a rare bone disorder that may be isolated or associated with other disorders and that is characterized by failure of segmentation of the radius and ulna during embryological development ,  causing limited rotational movements of the forearm ,  which may lead to difficulties with some activities of daily living .
syringomyelia is characterised by cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  - filled cavities  ( syrinx )  inside the spinal cord ,  either as a result of a known cause  ( secondary syringomyelia ,  ss )  or ,  more rarely ,  due to an unknown cause  ( primary syringomyelia ,  ps )  .
a rare congenital cardiovascular disorder characterized by the failure of the embryologic structure truncus arteriosus to divide into the aorta and pulmonary trunk .
an epithelial neoplasm that affects the thymus gland .
viral hemorrhagic fever is a group of recently discovered contagious viral infections characterized by severe ,  multiple ,  and often fatal hemorrhages .
arbovirosis are polymorphic diseases caused by arboviruses and are classically characterized by encephalitis and hemorrhage ,  however ,  most commonly only aspecific fever is observed .
fulminant viral hepatitis is a rapid and severe impairment of liver functions  ( acute liver failure )  with hepatic encephalopathy developing less than 8 weeks after the onset of jaundice ,  secondary to viral hepatitis mainly due to hbv ,  but also to hav .
nephrotic syndrome for which no cause has been identified .
malignant germ cell tumor of ovary is a rare ovarian cancer arising from germ cells in the ovary ,  frequently unilateral at diagnosis which characteristically presents during adolescence with pelvic mass ,  fever ,  vaginal bleeding and acute abdomen .
dilatation of the intestinal lymphatic system usually caused by an obstruction in the intestinal wall .
a germ cell tumor arising in an anatomic site other than the testis or ovary  ( e .g . ,  central nervous system ,  lung ,  mediastinum ,  and retroperitoneum )  .
a paraneoplastic syndrome that involves the nervous system .
otopalatodigital syndrome spectrum disorder is a primary bone dysplasia and encompasses a group of congenital anomalies that are characterized by skeletal dysplasia of varying clinical severity and an x linked dominant pattern of inheritance .
a disorder of the development of bone in which ossification is affected .
an autoimmune form of hypoparathyroidism .
a small round cell tumor with neural differentiation arising from the soft tissues or bone .
a rare benign or malignant mesenchymal neoplasm arising from cells that resemble the modified smooth muscle cells of the glomus body .
mucinous adenocarcinoma of the appendix is a very rare ,  slow growing ,  well - differentiated epithelial neoplasm of the appendix characterized by abundant mucin production .
a squamous cell carcinoma arising from the penis .
necrotic changes in the bone tissue due to interruption of blood supply .
an instance of rare male infertility due to hypothalamic - pituitary - gonadal axis disorder that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of rare female infertility due to hypothalamic - pituitary - gonadal axis disorder that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
an autoinflammatory disease caused by mutations in the il36rn gene ,  which encodes the il36 receptor antagonist .
renal agenesis  ( ra )  is a form of renal tract malformation characterized by the complete absence of development of one or both kidneys  ( unilateral ra or bilateral ra respectively )  ,  accompanied by absent ureter ( s )  .
a manifestation of von hippel - lindau disease or other familial renal cell cancer syndromes that present as a malignant epithelial neoplasm of the kidney .
hereditary gastric cancer refers to the occurrence of gastric cancer in a familial context and is described as two or more cases of gastric cancer in first or second degree relatives with at least one case diagnosed before the age of 50 .
a epithelial neoplasm that involves the vermiform appendix .
a squamous cell carcinoma that involves the colon .
a very rare rectal carcinoma characterized by the presence of a malignant squamous cell infiltrate .
a squamous cell carcinoma that involves the pancreas .
a carcinoma that arises from the hepatocytes or intrahepatic bile ducts .
undifferentiated carcinoma of liver and intrahepatic biliary tract is an extremely rare epithelial tumor of the liver and biliary tract which presents heterogenous histological findings and not yet fully defined clinicopathological characterisitcs .
squamous cell carcinoma of liver and intrahepatic biliary tract is an extremely rare ,  primary ,  malignant liver and biliray tract epithelial tumor originating in the intrahepatic bile duct epithelium histologically characterized by the presence of keratinization and / or intracellular bridges .
adenocarcinoma of the gallbladder and extrahepatic biliary tract is a rare epithelial carcinoma ,  arising either in the gallbladder itself or from the epithelium lining the extrahepatic biliary tree ,  cystic duct and / or peribiliary gland ,  characterized by nonspecific symptoms ,  such as abdominal pain ,  jaundice and vomiting and sometimes mimicking benign biliary diseases .
squamous cell carcinoma of the gallbladder and extrahepatic biliary tract is a rare hepatic and biliary tract tumor ,  arising either in the gallbladder itself or in the epithelium lining the extrahepatic biliary tree ,  the cystic duct and peribiliary glands .
a precocious puberty that involves the female organism .
congenital urachal anomaly  ( cua )  describes a group of urachal remnants ,  found more frequently in males than females ,  that result from incomplete closure of the urachus  ( an embryological remnant of the allantois )  during prenatal development ,  and that are usually asymptomatic  ( and found as an incidental finding on a radiological study )  but can also present with umbilical discharge  ( in patent urachus or urachal sinus )  ,  infraumblical mass and pain ,  or with complications such as obstruction and infection .
a rare ,  systemic amyloidosis characterized by slowly progressive renal disease presenting with proteinuria ,  hypertension and decreased glomerular filtration rate leading to progressive renal failure .
a hereditary optic neuropathy that is part of a larger syndrome .
hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer  ( hnpcc )  is a cancer - predisposing condition characterized by the development of colorectal cancer not associated with colorectal polyposis ,  endometrial cancer ,  and various other cancers  ( such as malignant epithelial tumor of ovary ,  gastric ,  biliary tract ,  small bowel ,  and urinary tract cancer )  that are frequently diagnosed at an early age .
hereditary amyloidosis refers to a group of inherited conditions that make up one of the subtypes of amyloidosis .
an inherited or acquired disorder of electrolyte metabolism ,  characterized by the inability of the renal tubules to respond to aldosterone .
caudal regression - sirenomelia spectrum is a group of rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis disorders characterized by varying degrees of caudal abdomen ,  pelvic ,  renal ,  anorectal ,  urogenital and / or lumbosacral spine malformations ,  with or without lower limb fusion .
a immunodeficiency disorder caused by loss of function mutation in nik  ( map3k14 )  .
an intraosseous odontogenic neoplasm that usually arises from the mandible .
mosquito - born virus disease characterized by a clinical course that may be asymptomatic or mild with fever ,  conjunctivitis ,  muscle and joint pain ,  headache ,  exanthema ,  but may also be associated with severe neurological  ( meningitis ,  meningoencephalitis and myelitis )  and auto - immune  ( guillain - barre syndrome )  complications ,  as well as a potential increase of birth defects  ( microcephaly )  if the infection occurs during pregnancy .
a igg4 - related disease that involves the eye .
a rare ,  genetic disorder in which symptoms are generally secondary to the abnormal location of the organs within the thoracic ,  abdominal ,  or peritoneal cavities .
a non - hereditary form of ichthyosis characterized by plate - like scales on the legs ,  arms and occasionally the torso .
an instance of creutzfeldt jacob disease that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
corticobasal syndrome  ( cbs )  is a rare neurodegenerative disease characterized by multifaceted motor system dysfunctions and cognitive defects such as asymmetric rigidity ,  bradykinesia ,  limb apraxia ,  and visuospatial dysfunction .
an instance of neuroendocrine tumor of the small intestine that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a hemangioma present and fully formed at birth .
an instance of rare vascular tumor that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
methemoglobinemia that is caused by exposure to certain drugs  ( xylocaine and benzene )  .
oligodendrogliomas are cerebral tumors that are differentiated from other gliomas on the basis of their unique genetic characteristics and better response to chemotherapy .
pemphigus is a group of chronic autoimmune skin diseases characterised by blister formations on the outer layer of the skin and the mucous membranes .
an instance of otorhinolaryngologic disease that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
familial patent arterial duct is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic ,  congenital anomaly of the great arteries characterized by the presence of an isolated patent arterial duct  ( pda )   ( i .e .
microcephalic primordial dwarfism due to rttn deficiency is a rare ,  genetic ,  multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by primary microcephaly ,  profound short stature ,  moderate to severe intellectual disability ,  global developmental delay ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( e .g .
a congenital heart malformation that involves the interventricular septum .
recurrent metabolic encephalomyopathic crises - rhabdomyolysis - cardiac arrhythmia - intellectual disability syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  neurodegenerative disease characterized by episodic metabolic encephalomyopathic crises  ( of variable frequency and severity which are frequently precipitated by an acute illness )  which manifest with profound muscle weakness ,  ataxia ,  seizures ,  cardiac arrhythmias ,  rhabdomyolysis with myoglobinuria ,  elevated plasma creatine kinase ,  hypoglycemia ,  lactic acidosis ,  increased acylcarnitines and a disorientated or comatose state .
an instance of chilblain lupus that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of schizencephaly that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
vasculitis ,  characterized by inflammatory lesions in the wall of vessels ,  may be due to different viruses .
an instance of schizencephaly that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
a embryonal carcinoma that involves the central nervous system .
striate palmoplantar keratoderma is an isolated ,  focal ,  hereditary palmoplantar keratoderma characterized by linear hyperkeratosis along the flexor aspect of the fingers and on palms ,  as well as focal hyperkeratosis of the plantar skin .
thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura  ( ttp )  is an aggressive and life - threatening form of thrombotic microangiopathy  ( tma )  characterized by profound peripheral thrombocytopenia ,  microangiopathic hemolytic anemia  ( maha )  and organ failure of variable severity and is comprised of congenital ttp and acquired ttp .
cutaneous lymphoma is a heterogeneous entity with respect to its clinical and pathological features ,  evolutive profile ,  prognosis ,  molecular aetiology and response to therapy .
follicular lymphoma is a form of non - hodgkin lymphoma characterized by a proliferation of b cells whose nodular structure of follicular architecture is preserved .
carcinoma of the gallbladder  ( gbc )  is the most common and aggressive form of biliary tract cancer  ( btc )  usually arising in the fundus of the gallbladder ,  rapidly metastasizing to lymph nodes and distant sites .
prion diseases are a group of rare transmissible disorders characterized by progressive debilitating neurological manifestations due to spongiform changes with an invariably fatal course .
#160 ;  ( ib )  is a progressive lung disease characterized by chronic dilation of the bronchi and destruction of the bronchial walls in the absence of any underlying cause  ( such as post infectious disease ,  aspiration ,  immunodeficiency ,  congenital abnormalities and ciliary anomalies )  .
a charcot - marie - tooth disease characterized by abnormalities in the axon of the peripheral nerve cell .
an embryonal pediatric tumor of the kidney which may also be seen rarely in adults .
cutis verticis gyrata  ( cvg )  is a progressive cutaneous disorder predominantly affecting males and characterized by hypertrophy and thickening of the skin of the scalp forming convoluted furrows with deep ,  tender ,  and cerebriform cutaneous folds .
an inherited disorder characterized by structural alterations of a globin chain within the hemoglobin molecule .
intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy  ( icp )  is a cholestatic disorder characterized by  ( i )  pruritus with onset in the second or third trimester of pregnancy ,   ( ii )  elevated serum aminotransferases and bile acid levels ,  and  ( iii )  spontaneous relief of signs and symptoms within two to three weeks after delivery .
esophageal carcinoma  ( ec )  is a tumor arising in the epithelial cells lining the esophagus and can be divided into two subtypes: esophageal squamous cell carcinoma  ( escc )  and esophageal adenocarcinoma  ( eac )  .
post - transplant lymphoproliferative disorder  ( ptld )  is a polyclonal  ( benign )  or clonal  ( malignant )  proliferation of lymphoid cells that develops as a consequence of immunosuppression in a recipient of a solid organ or bone marrow allograft .
a hemorrhagic disorder due to a platelet anomaly which occurs from birth .
an autoimmune form of thrombocytopenia .
cancer associated retinopathy  ( car )  is a paraneoplastic disease of the eye associated with the presence of extraocular malignancy and circulating autoantibodies against retinal proteins .
acquired hemophilia a  ( aha )  is a rare , often severe ,  hematological autoimmune disorder characterized by spontaneous hemorrhages into the skin ,  muscles ,  soft tissues , or mucous membranes .
porphyrias constitute a group of eight hereditary metabolic diseases characterized by intermittent neuro - visceral manifestations ,  cutaneous lesions or by the combination of both .
central precocious puberty  ( cpp )  ,  also referred to as gonadotropin dependent precocious puberty ,  is an endocrine - related developmental disease characterized by the onset of pubertal changes ,  with development of secondary sexual characteristics and accelerated growth and bone maturation ,  before the normal age of puberty  ( 8 years in girls and 9 years in boys )  .
igg4 - related dacryoadenitis and sialoadenitis  ( mikulicz disease )  is an igg4 - related sclerosing disease characterized by persistent ,  usually painless ,  bilateral enlargement of the lacrimal ,  parotid ,  and submandibular glands associated with elevated levels of serum immunoglobulin  ( ig )  g4 and with lymphocyte and igg4 - positive plasmacyte infiltration .
acquired generalized lipodystrophy belongs to a group of lipodystrophic syndromes characterized by loss of adipose tissue ,  and is a syndrome of insulin resistance that leads to increased cardiovascular risk .
a malignant fibroblastic neoplasm arising from the soft tissue .
erythropoietic protoporphyria  ( epp )  is an inherited disorder of the heme metabolic pathway characterized by accumulation of protoporphyrin in blood ,  erythrocytes and tissues ,  and cutaneous manifestations of photosensitivity .
a skin disease that involves the epidermis .
disorders of cornification that are characterized by visible scaling and / or hyperkeratosis of most or all of the skin .
a epidermal appendage anomaly that involves the nail .
a epidermal appendage anomaly that involves the sebaceous gland .
a disease that involves the superficial vasculature .
a disease involving the superficial fascia .
a gram - negative bacterial infection caused by rickettsia prowazekii .
a neurological disorder arising from primary rubella infection of the brain ,  characterized by chronic encephalitis .
a usually benign perineurioma not associated with a nerve ,  arising from the soft tissues .
secondary amyloidosis is a form of amyloidosis ,  that complicates chronic inflammatory disorders  ( mainly rheumatoid arthritis )  and is characterized by the aggregation and deposition of amyloid fibrils composed of serum amyloid a protein ,  an acute phase reactant .
this subgroup of myeloproliferative neoplasms includes cases which do not meet the morphologic criteria of any of the defined myeloproliferative neoplasms ,  or which have characteristics that overlap at least two of the myeloproliferative neoplasms .
refractory cytopenias with multilineage dysplasia  ( rcmd )  is a frequent subtype of myelodysplastic syndrome  ( mds )  characterized by 1 or more cytopenias in the peripheral blood and dysplasia in 2 or more myeloid lineages .
an acute myeloid leukemia characterized by bone marrow fibrosis without preexisting primary myelofibrosis .
an acute myeloid leukemia secondary to a myelodysplastic syndrome or therapy - related .
an acute leukemia in which the blasts lack sufficient evidence to classify as myeloid or lymphoid or they have morphologic and / or immunophenotypic characteristics of both myeloid and lymphoid cells .
nodal marginal zone b - cell lymphoma is a rare ,  indolent b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma ,  characterized by abnormal clonal proliferation of mature b - lymphocytes with involvement of the lymph nodes ,  sometimes the bone marrow ,  and rarely the blood .
an aggressive immature hematologic neoplasm formerly known as blastic nk cell lymphoma ,  composed of cells with a lymphoblast - like morphology .
t - cell large granular lymphocyte leukemia  ( t - cell lgl leukemia )  is a lymphoproliferative malignancy that arises from the mature t - cell  ( cd3 +  )  lineage .
a rare ,  highly aggressive ,  epstein - barr virus - associated leukemia ,  also known as aggressive nk - cell leukemia / lymphoma ;  it may represent the leukemic counterpart of nasal type extranodal nk / t - cell lymphomas .
a peripheral  ( mature )  t - cell neoplasm linked to the human t - cell leukemia virus type 1  ( htlv - 1 )  ,  adult t - cell leukemia / lymphoma is endemic in several regions of the world ,  in particular japan ,  the caribbean ,  and parts of central africa .
extranodal nasal nk / t cell lymphoma  ( nktcl )  is a rare ,  malignant neoplasm mainly affecting men in the fifth decade of life ,  that usually arises in the nose ,  paranasal sinuses ,  orbits or upper airway ,  and that can present with a nasal mass ,  nasal bleeding ,  nasal obstruction ,  palate perforation  ( i .e .
an uncommon mature t - cell lymphoma of intraepithelial lymphocytes .
an extranodal ,  mature t - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma that originates from cytotoxic t - cells ,  usually of gamma / delta t - cell type .
an aggressive malignant neoplasm with a poor response to therapy ,  usually presenting as stage iii / iv disease .
extragonadal teratoma is an extremely rare ,  benign or malignant germ cell tumor characterized ,  clinically ,  by a teratoma presenting in an extragonadal location  ( e .g .
hepatic veno - occlusive disease  ( hepatic vod )  is a condition resulting from toxic injury to the hepatic sinusoidal capillaries that leads to obstruction of the small hepatic veins .
a chronic ,  autoimmune skin condition that manifests with a red ,  scaling rash ,  most often found on the face ,  ears ,  and scalp ;  these lesions often lead to permanent scarring and dyspigmentation .
x - linked form of nonsyndromic deafness .
autosomal dominant form of nonsyndromic deafness .
autosomal recessive form of nonsyndromic deafness .
autosomal recessive form of axonal hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy .
a rare adenoma of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland that produces thyrotropin .
acquired angioedema  ( aae )  is characterized by the occurrence of transitory and recurrent subcutaneous and / or submucosal edemas resulting in swelling and / or abdominal pain due to an acquired c1 inhibitor  ( c1 - inh )  deficiency .
secondary glomerular diseases are conditions with glomerular pathology in which an underlying cause can be established
acquired thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura is the non - hereditary form of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura  ( ttp )  ,  characterized by profound peripheral thrombocytopenia ,  microangiopathic hemolytic anemia  ( maha )  and single or multiple organ failure of variable severity .
a group of disorders of the innate immune system characterized by attacks of seemingly unprovoked inflammation without significant levels of either autoantibodies or autoreactive t cells more characteristic of autoimmune disease .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of embryonic morphogenesis .
a tumor of the brain or spinal cord showing astrocytic differentiation .
severe - immune mediated enteropathy describes a variety of intestinal disorders that can range from a serious ,  early - onset systemic disease  ( ipex )  to a mild isolated gastrointestinal disease .
acute adrenal insufficiency  ( aai )  is a rare but severe condition caused by a sudden defective production of adrenal steroids  ( cortisol and aldosterone )  .
an instance of hypopituitarism that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
acquired central diabetes insipidus  ( acquired cdi )  is a subtype of central diabetes insipidus  ( cdi )  ,  characterized by polyuria and polydipsia ,  due to an idiopathic or secondary decrease in vasopressin  ( avp )  production .
an instance of primary ovarian failure that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
an adenoma or carcinoma of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland that produces growth hormone .
an acute inflammatory process affecting the brain parenchyma .
a lymphoma primarily involving the thyroid gland .
thymic endocrine tumor is a rare ,  malignant ,  primary thymic neoplasm originating from neuroendocrine cells ,  presenting as a mass within the anterior mediastinum .
a infectious disease that involves the nervous system .
an acute infectious process that affects the brain tissue .
chronic form of encephalitis .
clonal myeloid disorders that possess both dysplastic and proliferative features but are not properly classified as either myelodysplastic syndromes or myeloproliferative disorders .
a group of acute myeloid leukemias characterized by recurrent genetic abnormalities ,  mainly balanced translocations .
a dendritic cell tumor develops from the cells of the immune system .
an instance of lipodystrophy  ( disease )  that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
autosomal dominant form of disease with diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma as a major feature .
autosomal dominant form of disease with focal palmoplantar keratoderma as a major feature .
autosomal recessive form of disease with focal palmoplantar keratoderma as a major feature .
an umbrella term for diseases which have chronic muscle inflammation and weakness of unknown etiology .
an instance of neuromuscular junction disease that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
an instance of motor neuron disease that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the skin of eyelid .
a benign neoplasm that involves the skin of eyelid .
a spectrum of septal defects involving the atrial septum ;  ventricular septum ;  and the atrioventricular valves  ( tricuspid valve ;  bicuspid valve )  .
aberrant drainage of one or more of the pulmonary veins which causes the return of oxygen - rich blood to the right atrium .
congenital mitral stenosis is a congenital heart malformation comprising a spectrum of morphologically heterogeneous developmental anomalies that result in functional and anatomic obstruction of inflow into the left ventricle .
a congenital cardiovascular abnormality characterized by the presence of subvalvar left ventricular outflow tract obstruction ,  coarctation of the aorta ,  and mitral stenosis .
acquired von willebrand syndrome  ( avws )  is a bleeding disorder marked by the same biological anomalies as those seen in hereditary von willebrand disease  ( vwd )  but which occurs in association with another underlying pathology ,  generally in elderly patients without any personal or family history of bleeding anomalies .
the most frequent type of acute lymphoblastic leukemia .
a rare variant of seminoma characterized by the presence of three cell types: round cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm ,  small cells with dark nucleus and a small amount of cytoplasm ,  and mono - or multinucleated giant cells .
thymic neuroendocrine carcinoma is a type of thymic epithelial neoplasm displaying evidence of neuroendocrine differentiation .
adrenocorticotropic hormone  ( acth )  independent cushing syndrome is a form of endogenous cushing syndrome  ( cs )  that may result from excess secretion of cortisol by either a unilateral and benign  ( adrenocortical adenoma: 55 - 60% )  or malignant  ( adrenocortical carcinoma: 35 - 40 % )  adrenocortical tumor or by bilateral adrenal secretion by macronodular adrenal hyperplasia  ( aimah )  ,  as an isolated disease or as part of mccune - albright syndrome  ( mas )  ,  or by primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease  ( ppnad )  ,  as an isolated disease or as part of carney complex  ( cnc )  .
occupational allergic alveolitis designates a hypersensitivity pneumonitis resulting from the inhalation of an antigen to which an individual has been previously sensitized in his / her occupational environment .
gestational choriocarcinoma is a gestational trophoblastic tumor  ( gtt )  occurring secondary to pregnancy  ( ectopic or normal )  ,  miscarriage ,  voluntary termination of pregnancy  ( vtp )  or a hydatidiform mole .
myxoid / round cell liposarcoma  ( mrcls )  is a type of liposarcoma  ( ls )  mostly located in the limbs ,  with a variable behavior depending on the histological subtype .
a latent susceptibility to disease at the genetic level ,  which may be activated under certain conditions .
germ cell tumors of the central nervous system other than germinoma .
a ventricular tachycardia that is irregular in rate and rhythm .
a term that refers to germinoma ,  seminoma ,  or dysgerminoma .
any form of anemia that results from the absence of ,  or the defective action of ,  any enzyme involved in erythropoiesis .
a coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of factor v activity in the blood .
a coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of factor xi activity in the blood .
a lung tumor that arises from perivascular epithelioid cells  ( pecs )  .
infection due to organisms from the genus mycobacteria .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the pharynx .
a benign hair follicle neoplasm with trichoblastic differentiation .
a disease or disorder that involves the retroperitoneal space .
deficiency of a coagulation factor that is not caused by genetic alterations .
viral encephalitis that is transmitted by mosquitos .
x - linked dominant form of disease .
x - linked recessive form of disease .
a malignant meningioma with aggressive clinical course .
a type of melanoma that typically occurs in light - skinned individuals ranging in age from young adults to the elderly .
a chromosomal abnormality consisting of the absence of one chromosome from the normal diploid number .
a benign or malignant ,  primary or metastatic neoplasm involving the respiratory tract .
a usually autosomal dominant and less frequently autosomal recessive genetic disorder characterized by the presence of numerous cysts in the kidneys leading to end - stage renal failure .
a rare non - hodgkin lymphoma that arises in and is confined to the lung at the time of diagnosis .
autosomal dominant form of osteopetrosis  ( disease )  .
an adenocarcinoma arising from the vagina .
a transitional cell carcinoma that arises from the renal pelvis and ureter .
a malignant neoplasm characterized by the presence of atypical spindle cells .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the paranasal sinuses .
a disorder characterized by occlusion of blood vessels .
disease having a short and relatively severe course .
an ependymal tumor arising from the supratentorial region of the brain .
a deficiency in biotin through either inherited or acquired causes .
rippling muscle disease is a rare ,  genetic ,  neuromuscular disorder characterized by muscle hyperirritability triggered by stretch ,  percussion or movement .
an acute leukemia of ambiguous lineage .
infectious disease causes by viruses in the subfamily orthocoronavirinae  ( coronaviruses )  .
intraepidermal squamous cell carcinoma ,  confined to the epidermis .
a form of squamous cell carcinoma in situ .
a rare ,  invasive colorectal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of sheets of malignant epithelial cells with vesicular nuclei ,  prominent nucleoli ,  and abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm .
a defect of the bundle branches or fascicles in the electrical conduction system of the heart .
any liddle syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scnn1g gene .
mild to severe infections of the eye and its adjacent structures  ( adnexa )  by adult or larval protozoan or metazoan parasites .
infections of the eye caused by minute intracellular agents .
a disease characterized by the presence of syndactyly ,  including syndromic and non - syndromic forms .
a disease characterized by the presence of polydactyly ,  including syndromic and non - syndromic forms .
a disease characterized by the presence of brachydactyly ,  including syndromic and non - syndromic forms .
a rare developmental disorder characterized by facial ,  limbs and genital features ,  and a disproportionate acromelic short stature .
a carcinoma that arises from the salivary glands .
a disease caused by disturbed function of ion channel subunits or the proteins that regulate them .
a disease caused by dysfunction of synapses .
an instance of alopecia that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
a form of dry skin characterised by hair follicles plugged by scale .
a spectrum of malignant tumors ,  affecting mostly males under age 20 ,  characterized morphologically by the presence of small round cells .
a localized neoplasm of probable fibroblastic derivation ,  that arises from the pleura .
a neoplasm composed of at least two distinct cellular populations .
a benign or malignant biphasic neoplasm that arises from the breast parenchyma .
a benign ,  malignant ,  or borderline circumscribed biphasic neoplasm that arises from the breast .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the vulva .
a benign or malignant ,  usually non - functioning ,  extra - adrenal paraganglioma that arises from paraganglia located along the parasympathetic nerves .
a benign or malignant extra - adrenal parasympathetic paraganglioma arising from paraganglia adjacent to or in the bifurcation of the common carotid artery .
a sarcoma that arises from the bone .
an inherited diseases haracterized by the development of adenomas in the rectum and colon ;  classified into classic fap and attenuated fap .
a broad classification for disorders in which the development of neoplasms typically occur in association with a characteristic set of signs or symptoms .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the colon .
a benign or malignant extra - adrenal parasympathetic paraganglioma arising from paraganglia in the base of the skull and middle ear .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that involves the serous membrane that lines the lungs and thoracic cavity .
a benign or malignant ,  primary or metastatic neoplasm involving the urinary system .
a germ cell tumor that arises from the mediastinum .
a malignant neoplasm affecting the endocrine glands .
a benign or malignant paraganglioma arising from the chromaffin cells of the paraganglia that are located along the sympathetic nerves .
a classification for rare disorders of diverse organ systems  ( endocrine ,  neuromuscular ,  gastrointestinal ,  renal ,  dermatologic ,  rheumatologic ,  hematologic )  that are affected by substances secreted by a distant neoplasm but not by the action of the neoplasm itself metastasizing to that organ or tissue .
a pathological process with signs indicating it may become cancerous .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that arises from the epithelial cells of the exocrine pancreatic tissue .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that contains a single or multiple cystic spaces .
a benign or malignant neoplasm arising during childhood .
a neoplasm arising from arteries or veins .
any impairment to the vision .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the upper or lower gingiva .
malignant growth of cells in the peripheral nervous system  ( pns ) or autonomic nervous system  ( ans )  ,  without specification as to location
a serous or mucinous benign or low malignant potential cystic epithelial neoplasm .
a benign or malignant neoplasm affecting the fallopian tube .
disease in which there is a deficiency or defect in the mechanisms of immunity ,  either cellular or humoral .
a group of disorders which feature impaired motor control characterized by bradykinesia ,  muscle rigidity ;  tremor ;  and postural instability .
a rare genetic disorder caused by mutations in genes encoding proteins of the nuclear lamina .
a sleep disorder characterized by a tendency for excessive sleepiness during the day which occurs even after adequate sleep in the nighttime .
a disorder characterized by acute inflammation of the meninges of the brain and / or spinal cord .
an endophytic lesion in the urinary tract which shares several morphologic features with urothelial papilloma .
a benign epithelial neoplasm arising from the sweat glands .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the bartholin gland .
a biologic subset of breast carcinoma defined by low to moderate expression of genes characteristic of luminal epithelial cells including estrogen receptor  ( er )  ,  and high expression of ggh ,  laptm4b ,  and ccne1 .
a biologic subset of breast carcinoma defined by high expression of genes characteristic of luminal epithelial cells ,  including estrogen receptor  ( er )  ,  estrogen regulated protein liv - 1 ,  and the transcription factors hepatocyte nuclear factor 3 ,  hnf3a ,  xbp1 ,  and gata 3 .
a benign or malignant ,  primary or metastatic neoplasm involving the lungs .
a benign or malignant neoplasm involving the small or large intestine .
a hormone producing or non - producing endocrine neoplasm ,  not associated with a hormonal syndrome .
a hormone producing endocrine neoplasm ,  associated with a hormonal syndrome .
a vascular proliferation characterized by the presence of prominent endothelial cells and the formation of vascular channels .
a spectrum of malignant tumors arising from the bone and characterized morphologically by the presence of small round cells .
an characteristic of a disease that varies depending on whether the disease appears as an isolated feature or whether the disease is a syndrome consisting of multiple features .
an characteristic of a disease in which the disease is not manifested as an isolated feature but has multiple distinct features .
an characteristic of a disease in which the disease is manifested as an isolated feature .
an acquired coagulation disorder due to reduced levels and activity of factor xiii .
an bleeding disorder with a decreased antigen and / or activity of factor x  ( fx )  that is acquired .
a disease or disorder is defined as rare in europe when it affects fewer than 1 in 2000 .
malignant neoplasms that either originate from the bone marrow  ( e .g .
a characteristic of a disease in which the disease is present at birth ,  regardless of cause .
the acquired form of rmd .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant epithelial tumor of the ovary that is characterized by a predominance of clear and hobnail cells .
any disease or disorder that disrupts the process development of an anatomical structure .
a benign ,  precancerous ,  or malignant neoplasm that affects the female reproductive system .
a characteristic of a disease in which the cause of the disease is a genetic problem inherited from either or both parents .
a disease that involves the dermis .
x - linked form of cone - rod dystrophy .
an inflammatory disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the prepuce of penis .
a malignant neoplasm composed of large cells with large nuclei ,  prominent nucleoli ,  and abundant pale cytoplasm  ( paget cells )  .
a hemangioma characterized by the presence of epithelioid endothelial cells .
disorders caused by imbalances in the protein homeostasis network  -  synthesis ,  folding ,  and transport of proteins ;  post - translational modifications ;  and degradation or clearance of misfolded proteins .
acquired xanthinuria is generally iatrogenic .
infections caused by the htlv or blv deltaretroviruses .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of intestinal motility .
a malignant form of ependymoma .
a benign or malignant neoplasm arising from tooth - forming tissues .
a neoplasm of the nervous system that arises from the neuroepithelial tissues .
a grouping of diseases based on molecular activity ,  cellular process or subcellular component .
a disease that disrupts the functioning of an organ system .
an inflammatory process affecting the skin ,  caused by bacteria ,  viruses ,  parasites ,  or fungi .
chronic form of otitis media  ( disease )  .
a disease that involves the ear .
chronic form of non - suppurative otitis media .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the placenta .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the lacrimal gland .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the iris .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the uvea .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the brainstem .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the ciliary body .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the uterine cervix .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the retina .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the pineal body .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the ear .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the adrenal medulla .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the cornea .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the parotid gland .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the pharynx .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the nervous system .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the lip .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the tonsil .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the endometrium .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the body of uterus .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the jugular body .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the optic choroid .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the prostate gland .
a villous adenoma that involves the colon .
a mucoepidermoid carcinoma that involves the submandibular gland .
a mucoepidermoid carcinoma that involves the parotid gland .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the caecum .
a adenoid cystic carcinoma that involves the oropharynx .
a adenoma that involves the nipple .
a adenoma that involves the small intestine .
a cancer that involves the neck .
a cancer that involves the parathyroid gland .
a cancer that involves the adrenal cortex .
a cancer that involves the eyelid .
a cancer that involves the minor salivary gland .
a cancer that involves the mouth floor .
a cancer that involves the extrahepatic bile duct .
a cancer that involves the meningeal cluster .
a carcinoma that involves the urethra .
a carcinoma that involves the parotid gland .
a carcinoma that involves the duodenum .
a carcinoma that involves the tonsil .
a superficial dermatitis occurring on skin surfaces in contact with each other ,  such as the axillae ,  neck creases ,  intergluteal fold ,  between the toes ,  etc .
a carcinoma that involves the mouth floor .
a carcinoma that involves the pharynx .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the testis .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the thoracic segment of trunk .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the neck .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the adipose tissue .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the esophagus .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the hypopharynx .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the parathyroid gland .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the oropharynx .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the middle ear .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the major salivary gland .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the minor salivary gland .
a neoplasm involving a cerebral hemisphere .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the duodenum .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the pericardium .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the mouth floor .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the extrahepatic bile ducts .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the mediastinum .
a polyp that involves the large intestine .
a polyp that involves the mammalian vulva .
a polyp that involves the rectum .
a polyp that involves the colon .
a polyp that involves the gall bladder .
a benign neoplasm that involves the pituitary gland .
a benign neoplasm that involves the zone of skin .
a benign neoplasm that involves the large intestine .
a benign neoplasm that involves the stomach .
a benign neoplasm that involves the heart .
a benign neoplasm that involves the brain .
a benign neoplasm that involves the cornea .
a benign neoplasm that involves the eye .
a benign neoplasm that involves the saliva - secreting gland .
a benign neoplasm that involves the rectum .
a benign neoplasm that involves the parathyroid gland .
a benign neoplasm that involves the adrenal medulla .
a benign neoplasm that involves the anus .
a benign neoplasm that involves the pancreas .
a benign neoplasm that involves the ear .
a benign neoplasm that involves the tongue .
a benign neoplasm that involves the optic choroid .
a benign neoplasm that involves the sweat gland .
a benign neoplasm that involves the lip .
a benign neoplasm that involves the cerebellum .
a benign neoplasm that involves the small intestine .
a benign neoplasm that involves the spinal cord .
a benign neoplasm that involves the prostate gland .
a benign neoplasm that involves the adrenal gland .
a benign neoplasm that involves the body of uterus .
a well differentiated ,  low grade neuroendocrine tumor  ( carcinoid tumor )  that arises from the small or large intestine .
a hamartoma  ( disease )  that involves the cutaneous appendage .
a benign or malignant mesenchymal neoplasm arising from smooth ,  skeletal ,  or cardiac muscle .
an ependymal tumor that arises from the spinal cord .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the jaw skeleton .
neoplasms composed of connective tissue ,  including elastic ,  mucous ,  reticular ,  osseous ,  and cartilaginous tissue .
a flat ,  benign ,  pigmented spot on the skin caused by excessive deposition of melanin from an increased number of melanocytes in the cell layer directly above the basement membrane of the epidermis .
a melanocytic neoplasm that involves the zone of skin .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the upper or lower eyelid .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant neoplasm that affects the uterine ligaments .
a astrocytoma  ( excluding glioblastoma )  that involves the brain .
an astrocytoma that arises from the cerebral hemispheres .
a epithelial neoplasm that involves the zone of skin .
that disease that arises from defects in the development of tissues containing cells commonly derived from the embryonic neural crest cell lineage .
a grade i or grade ii glioma arising from the central nervous system .
a grade i or grade ii astrocytic tumor .
a glioma arising from the central nervous system .
a group of malignant gliomas that includes anaplastic astrocytoma ,  anaplastic oligodendroglioma ,  anaplastic oligoastrocytoma ,  and anaplastic ependymoma .
a joint presentation of syndactyly  ( fusion of digits )  and polydactyly  ( production of supernumerary digits )  .
an adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of a diffuse cellular infiltrate which is composed of poorly cohesive cells with minimal or no glandular formations .
a term that refers to teratoma ,  embryonal carcinoma ,  yolk sac tumor ,  choriocarcinoma ,  or mixed forms of these tumors .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is composed of granulosa cells ,  sertoli cells ,  leydig cells ,  theca cells ,  and fibroblasts .
a malignant epithelial neoplasm composed of a mixture of neuroendocrine cells with morphologic and immunohistochemical characteristics of carcinoid tumor and malignant glandular cells .
atherosclerosis of the coronary vasculature .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the intrahepatic or extrahepatic bile ducts .
a poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant cells with spindle cell features .
a viral or bacterial infection that affects the external ,  middle ,  or inner ear .
infections caused by bacteria that show up as pink  ( negative )  when treated by the gram - staining method .
infections caused by bacteria that retain the crystal violet stain  ( positive )  when treated by the gram - staining method .
a disease due to or propagated by sexual contact .
viral diseases which are potentially transmitted or propagated by sexual conduct .
disorders related to or resulting from abuse or mis - use of alcohol .
disorders stemming from the misuse and abuse of alcohol .
inflammation of several peripheral nerves .
a name applied to several itchy skin eruptions of unknown cause .
a infectious disease involving the acanthamoeba .
an inflammatory process affecting a nerve root .
pulmonary or extrapulmonary infection caused by mycobacterium tuberculosis or nontuberculous mycobacteria in a patient with silicosis .
a benign sweat gland neoplasm usually occurring in the scalp or the face .
inflammation of the tracheobronchial tree .
a hearing disorder characterized by impaired transmission of signals through the auditory nerve ,  resulting in mild to severe hearing loss and poor speech perception .
a disorder characterized by the partial or complete loss of the ability to detect sounds due to damage to the ear structures or inability of the brain to properly interpret or process the auditory signals it receives from the anatomic structures of the ear .
scarring of the lung parenchyma caused by pulmonary tuberculosis .
a slow growing ,  locally invasive neoplasm arising from tooth - forming tissues .
a disorder of the skin ,  the oral mucosa ,  and the gingiva ,  that usually presents as a solitary polypoid capillary hemangioma often resulting from trauma .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the blood vessels of the penis .
autoimmune myocarditis is an autoimmune disease that affects the heart .
degeneration of the cerebellum .it may be an inherited condition ,  a paraneoplastic syndrome ,  or secondary to autoimmune disorders .
a abnormal ,  congenital formation or mark on the skin or neighboring mucosa that does not show neoplastic growth .
any disease or disorder in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col2a1 gene .
a who grade i large cystic tumor that occurs almost exclusively in infants ,  with a prominent desmoplastic stroma having a neuroepithelial population consisting mainly of neoplastic astrocytes .
a who grade i large cystic tumor that occurs almost exclusively in infants ,  with a prominent desmoplastic stroma having a neuroepithelial population of neoplastic astrocytes together with a variable neuronal component .
familial colon cancer is a cluster of colon cancer within a family .
a low or intermediate grade well differentiated tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the pancreas .
an instance of reflex epilepsy that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
any glycogen storage disease due to glucose - 6 - phosphatase deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc37a4 gene .
guttate psoriasis is a skin condition in which small ,  red ,  and scaly teardrop - shaped spots appear on the arms ,  legs ,  and middle of the body .it is a relatively uncommon form of psoriasis .
a disease that involves the facial skeleton .
either an isolated neoplasm or a syndrome with neoplasm as a major feature .
hyperprolinemia is when there isan excess of a particular protein building block  ( amino acid )  ,  called proline ,  in the blood .
an infectious process affecting the vagina .
an inherited genetic disorder that affects the connective tissues .
lentigo maligna melanoma  ( lmm )  is a type of skin cancer that usually develops in older ,  fair - skinnedadults .
a carcinoma arising in the lip or oral cavity .
a maple syrup urine disease caused by mutations in bckdha .
a maple syrup urine disease caused by mutations in bckdhb .
an extragonadal non - seminomatous malignant germ cell tumor that arises from the mediastinum .
meralgia paresthetica is a condition characterized by tingling ,  numbness and burning pain in the outer thigh .
a viral or bacterial infectious process affecting the cornea .
melanoma - associated retinopathy  ( mar )  is a rare autoimmune condition that occurs in some people with melanoma  ( a type of skin cancer )  and can affect the vision .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of cardiovascular system development .
an adenocarcinoma with eccrine differentiation arising from the sweat glands .
a non - metastasizing eccrine appendage sweat gland neoplasm .
an instance of skin disease that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
aspiration of meconium ,  blood ,  amniotic fluid or gastric contents around the time of delivery resulting in clinical symptoms from airway obstruction ,  parenchymal injury ,  and ventilation - perfusion mismatch .
a mycosis that is limited to the stratum corneum and essentially elicits no inflammation .
a parasitic helminthiasis infectious disease that involves the intestine .
dysentery caused by intestinal amebic infection ,  chiefly with entamoeba histolytica .
an arthritis affecting five or more separate joints .
an invasive malignant neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells that contain intracytoplasmic mucin and may resemble the epithelial cells of the endocervix or gastrointestinal tract .
a benign neoplasm arising from arteries or veins .
an elimination disorder characterized by urinary incontinence ,  whether involuntary or intentional ,  which is not due to a medical condition and which occurs at or beyond an age at which continence is expected  ( usually 5 years )  .
a polypoid tumor that arises from any part of the gastrointestinal tract and protrudes into the lumen .
skin diseases caused by bacteria ,  fungi ,  parasites ,  or viruses .
skin diseases caused by bacteria .
a benign ,  intermediate ,  or malignant neoplasm arising from vascular tissue including arteries ,  veins ,  venous sinuses ,  lymphatic vessels ,  arterioles and capillaries .
a collective term for nutritional disorders resulting from poor absorption or nutritional imbalance ,  and metabolic disorders resulting from defects in biosynthesis  ( anabolism )  or breakdown  ( catabolism )  of endogenous substances .
a disorder that is caused by the deficiency of a vitamin .
an instance of mineral metabolism disease that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
the most common form of ichthyosis .
an instance of hyperprolactinemia  ( disease )  that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
an instance of lactic acidosis that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
an inherited disorder that causes calcium and other minerals to accumulate in the elastic fibers of the skin ,  eyes ,  and blood vessels ,  and less frequently in other areas such as the digestive tract .
a cancer that involves the limb bone .
infection of the epicondyles by a parasite .
chronic form of disorder involving pain .
a rare neoplasm that arises from the inner ear .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of gpi anchor biosynthetic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of glycosylation .
a neoplasm involving a urothelium .
a neoplasm involving a lymph node .
a neoplasm arising from the neural retina .
an instance of pityriasis rubra pilaris that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a respiratory tract infection caused by a virus .
invasion of the host respiratory system by microorganisms ,  usually leading to pathological processes or diseases .
a distinct form of sleep - disordered breathing characterized as central sleep apnea  ( csa )  ,  and presents in obstructive sleep apnea  ( osa )  patients during initial treatment with a continuous positive airway pressure  ( cpap )  device .
a persistent or recurrent pattern of sleep disruption that is primarily due to an alteration of the circadian system or to a misalignment between the endogenous circadian rhythm and the sleep - wake schedule required by an individual's physical environment or social or professional schedule .
a sex cord - stromal tumor arising from the ovary ,  without metastatic potential .
cognitive disorders characterized by an impaired ability to perceive the nature of objects or concepts through use of the sense organs .
inflammation at the site of insertion of ligaments ,  tendons ,  and other fibrous structures into bone .
a disease that involves the visual system .
an instance of cutaneous melanoma  ( disease )  that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
any combined pituitary hormone deficiencies ,  genetic form in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pou1f1 gene .
a disease that involves the adenohypophysis .
a benign ,  intermediate ,  or malignant cartilaginous matrix - producing neoplasm .
a non - metastasizing cartilaginous matrix - producing neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic chondrocytes .
a precancerous neoplastic process that affects the squamous ,  glandular ,  or transitional cell epithelium without evidence of invasion .
a epithelial neoplasm that involves the rectum .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the liver parenchyma or intrahepatic bile ducts .
a epithelial neoplasm that involves the colon .
a disease that involves the cutaneous appendage .
a hamartoma characterized by localized eccrine sweat gland malformation .
hyperplasia of the transitional epithelium of the urinary tract .
a modifier that can be applied to a tumor class describing abnormal tumor histology or morphology .
a term that refers to the cellular differentiation of a malignant cellular infiltrate .
a morphologic qualifier indicating that a cancerous lesion is well differentiated .
a morphologic qualifier indicating that a cancerous lesion is moderately differentiated .
a morphologic qualifier indicating that a cancerous lesion is poorly differentiated .
a morphologic qualifier indicating that a cancerous lesion is undifferentiated .
a morphologic qualifier indicating that a neoplastic lesion is moderately to poorly differentiated .
used to describe tumor samples that exhibit poorly differentiated or undifferentiated cells .
a benign ,  intermediate ,  or malignant vascular neoplasm that arises from the bone .
a neuroendocrine neoplasm that involves the duodenum .
a neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the appendix .
a neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the gallbladder .
a neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation arising from the digestive system .
a broad grouping of diseases based on major body subdivisions .
an instance of hidradenitis suppurativa that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
any brown - vialetto - van laere syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc52a3 gene .
any primary hypertrophic osteoarthropathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hpgd gene .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that develops in a patient with immunodeficiency .
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy caused by mutations in the genes encoding components of the sarcomere ,  in the absence of predisposing conditions .
hereditary or acquired coagulation disorder characterized by a qualitative or quantitative deficiency of the von willebrand factor .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant neoplasm that affects the male reproductive system .
skin diseases caused by arthropods ;  helminths ;  or other parasites .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the orbit .
an disease or disorder caused by infection with enterovirus c .
a malignant serous cystic neoplasm usually involving the ovary or the pancreas .
an adenocarcinoma arising from the follicular cells of the thyroid gland .
pathological processes of the ear ,  the nose ,  and the throat ,  also known as the ent diseases .
a disease that involves the lacrimal gland .
kidney damage that results from chronically elevated blood pressure ;  complications include glomerular damage resulting in proteinuria and hematuria .
a disease that involves the large intestine .
a disease that involves the small intestine .
an inflammatory disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the heart layer .
a malignant neoplasm arising exclusively from the soft tissues .
a disorder that affects the muscle tissue of the heart .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the retroperitoneum .
stone ( s )  within the urinary tract .
an astrocytoma that affects the optic tract .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the bones and structures of the skull .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects structures of the skull .
an extranodal lymphoma that arises from the colon or rectum .
a usually polypoid neoplasm arising from the glandular epithelium .
an epithelial neoplasm morphologically characterized by the presence of a villous and a tubular architectural pattern .
a neoplasm that arises from the glandular epithelium of the colonic and rectal mucosa .
a hypertensive disorder that develops during pregnancy .
a form of epithelial skin neoplasm without malignant characteristics .
an insulin - producing neuroendocrine tumor arising from the beta cells of the pancreas .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the heart and / or vessels .
a neoplasm originating from the apical lung .
a disease that involves the tendon sheath .
a carcinoma that arises from a pre - existing lower grade epithelial lesion ,  or as a result of a primary carcinoma that has spread to secondary sites ,  or due to a complication of a cancer treatment .
a carcinoma which has spread from the original site of growth to another anatomic site .
a malignant tumor that has spread from its original  ( primary )  site of growth to another site close to or distant from the primary site .
a neoplasm that arises from a pre - existing lower grade lesion ,  or as a result of a primary lesion that has spread to secondary sites ,  or due to a complication of a cancer treatment .
an invasive malignant neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells that ,  in well differentiated tumors ,  resemble the epithelium of the fallopian tube or ,  in poorly differentiated tumors ,  show anaplastic features and marked nuclear atypia .
a benign adenofibroma characterized by the presence of serous secretory cells and minute cystic spaces filled with watery fluid .
a neoplasm arising from the pineocyte ,  a cell with photosensory and neuroendocrine functions .
a soft tissue neoplasm composed of acellular amyloid material .
diseases of domestic cattle of the genus bos .
diseases of freshwater ,  marine ,  hatchery or aquarium fish .
infections or infestations with parasitic organisms .
a reproductive organ benign neoplasm that arises in the ovary or testis and that is composed of granulosa cells ,  leydig cells ,  sertoli cells ,  and / or fibroblasts .
diseases of animals within the order primates .
infestation of animals with parasitic worms of the helminth class .
diseases of old world and new world monkeys .
oculopharyngodistal myopathy  ( opdm )  is a rare ,  adult - onset hereditary muscle disease .
bacterial ,  viral ,  or parasitic diseases transmitted to humans and animals by the bite of infected ticks .
an disease or disorder caused by infection with anaplasma .
virus infections caused by the parvoviridae .
an infectious disease of non - human animals that may be transmitted to humans or may be transmitted from humans to non - human animals ,  caused by a pathogen  ( an infectious agent ,  including bacteria ,  viruses ,  parasites ,  prions ,  etc )  .
acquired defect of cellular immunity that occurs naturally in macaques infected with srv serotypes ,  experimentally in monkeys inoculated with srv or mason - pfizer monkey virus ;   ( mpmv )  ,  or in monkeys infected with simian immunodeficiency virus .
an instance of neuroendocrine neoplasm that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
an autoimmune form of urticaria  ( disease )  .
prurigonodularis  ( pn )  is a skin disease in which hard crusty lumps are formed on the skin that itches intensely .
an autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of ehmt1 on chromosome 9q34 .3 .
almost complete absence of subcutaneous and / or visceral adipose tissue .
loss and redistribution of subcutaneous and / or visceral adipose tissue from specific regions of the body .
a morphologic variant of lung adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of mucin pools containing islands of well differentiated adenocarcinoma cells .
disorders caused by the intentional or unintentional ingestion or exposure to chemical substances such as pharmaceutical preparations ;  noxae ;  and pesticides .
a progressive disorder involving connective tissue ,  bone ,  retina ,  ear ,  and brain ,  characterized by early - onset retinal degeneration ,  sensorineural hearing loss ,  microcephaly ,  intellectual disability ,  and skeletal dysplasia with scoliosis and short stature .
infections with bacteria of the genus klebsiella .
an autoimmune form of glomerulonephritis  ( disease )  .
an autoimmune form of cardiomyopathy .
an autoimmune form of vasculitis .
an autoimmune form of uveitis  ( disease )  .
forms of hereditary angioedema that occur due to mutations in the gene for complement c1 inhibitor protein .
a malignant neoplasm that affects the kidney and occurs in childhood .
a benign or malignant  ( primary or metastatic )  neoplasm affecting the adrenal cortex .
a benign mesenchymal tumor arising from skeletal or cardiac muscle .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the spleen .
a benign or malignant neoplasm arising from the lymphatic vessels .
a neoplasm arising from the epithelial cells .
a phyllodes tumor with sarcomatous stroma .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant epithelial tumor of the ovary characterized by the presence of neoplastic epithelial cells that ,  in well differentiated tumors ,  resemble the epithelial cells of the fallopian tube and ,  in poorly differentiated tumors ,  show anaplastic features .
a cancer that involves the sebaceous gland .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that occurs in brain parenchymal tissue below the tentorium cerebelli .
a rare ,  usually benign fibroblastic neoplasm that arises from the peritoneum .
a malignant neoplasm that arises from the soft tissues of the mediastinum .
a soft tissue tumor of uncertain lineage characterized by the presence of neoplastic spindle - shaped to round cells in a fibromyxoid stroma .
a malignant neoplasm that arises from the vagina and is characterized by the presence of an epithelial and a mesenchymal component .
a injury that involves the vertebral column .
an elevated concentration of lipoproteins .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of carbohydrate metabolic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of glycerol metabolic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of porphyrin - containing compound metabolic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of purine nucleobase metabolic process .
a group of genetic disorders that result from the inability to produce or use an enzyme required to oxidize fatty acids ,  resulting in an inability to generate energy from fatty acid sources .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of valine metabolic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of cellular amino acid metabolic process .
any disease caused by infection with organisms of the genus bordetella .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of pyrimidine nucleobase metabolic process .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of aspartate family amino acid metabolic process .
an instance of auditory system disease that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of glutathione metabolic process .
autosomal recessive form of ocular albinism  ( disease )  .
a benign ,  well circumscribed soft tissue neoplasm characterized by the presence of spindle shaped myofibroblasts and mast cells in a collagenous stroma .
a carcinoma that is not confined to the epithelium ,  and has spread to the surrounding stroma .
a invasive carcinoma that involves the urothelium .
a proliferation of the endometrial cells resulting in glandular enlargement and budding .
the spread of a malignant neoplasm to the colon .
systemic candidiasis occurs when candida yeast enters the bloodstream and may spread  ( becoming disseminated candidiasis )  to other organs ,  including the central nervous system ,  kidneys ,  liver ,  bones ,  muscles ,  joints ,  spleen ,  or eyes .
the inflammation of one or more joints caused by any infectious pathogen within the joint space .
stage 0 includes:  ( tis ,  n0 ,  m0 )  .
infections with true tapeworms of the helminth subclass cestoda .
a constitution or condition of the body which makes the tissues react in special ways to certain extrinsic stimuli and thus tends to make the individual more than usually susceptible to certain diseases .
an extranodal non - hodgkin lymphoma that arises from the stomach with the bulk of the mass located in the stomach .
an instance of mitral valve disease that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of osteosclerosis that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a condition due to deficiency in any member of the vitamin b complex .
a disorder arising from deficiency in the gata2 with a wide spectrum of phenotypes .
a group of disorders characterized by ectodermal - based malformations and neoplastic growths in the skin ,  nervous system ,  and other organs .
an instance of acanthosis nigricans  ( disease )  that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome - variable intellectual disability syndrome that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of lethal multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a congenital disorder characterized by partial or complete absence of melanin pigment in the eyes ,  hair ,  or skin .
a disorder of the nervous system related to a vascular etiology .
a common form of dementia caused by multiple cortical or subcortical cerebral infarctions .
painful sensations in the tongue ,  including a sensation of burning .
a white patch or plaque on a mucous membrane that cannot be characterized clinically or pathologically as any other disease .
a rare abnormality of eosinophil granulocytes characterized by decreased or absent peroxidase activity and decreased volume of the granule matrix .
a viral ,  bacterial ,  fungal ,  or parasitic infectious process that affects the digestive system .
an infectious process caused by adenovirus .
acute and chronic  ( see also brain injuries ,  chronic )  injuries to the brain ,  including the cerebral hemispheres ,  cerebellum ,  and brain stem .
inflammation of the small intestine .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the structures of the mediastinum .
bilateral hearing loss caused by progressive degeneration of cochlear structures and central auditory pathways ,  typically associated with the aging process .
purpura associated with a reduction in circulating blood platelets which can result from a variety of factors .
a cutaneous inflammatory reaction occurring as a result of exposure to biologically effective levels of ionizing radiation .
inflammation of a serous membrane .
a lesion on the surface of the skin or a mucous surface ,  produced by the sloughing of inflammatory necrotic tissue .
a family of inherited disorders characterized by progressive loss of vision secondary to death of the retinal ganglion cell axons that comprise the optic nerve .
an infectious process affecting any part of the eye .
infections with bacteria of the genus burkholderia .
hearing loss characterized by a combination of conductive and sensorineural hearing loss .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of complement activation ,  lectin pathway .
mild non - bh4 - deficient hyperphenylalaninemia  ( hpanbh4 )  is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by increased serum phenylalanine usually detected by newborn screening and associated with highly variable neurologic defects ,  including movement abnormalities and intellectual disability .
neurodevelopmental disorder with epilepsy ,  cataracts ,  feeding difficulties ,  and delayed brain myelination is a syndromic form of severe to profound intellectual disability with onset of delayed psychomotor development and seizures in infancy .
iddgip is an autosomal dominant syndromic neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by delayed psychomotor development ,  intellectual disability with speech delay ,  and behavioral abnormalities .
iddfsda is an autosomal recessive severe multisystem disorder characterized by poor overall growth ,  developmental delay ,  early - onset seizures ,  intellectual disability ,  and dysmorphic features .
intellectual developmental disorder with neuropsychiatric features is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by moderate intellectual disability ,  relatively mild seizures ,  and neuropsychiatric abnormalities ,  such as anxiety ,  obsessive - compulsive behavior ,  and autistic features .
al kaissi syndrome is an autosomal recessive developmental disorder characterized by growth retardation ,  spine malformation ,  particularly of the cervical spine ,  dysmorphic facial features ,  and delayed psychomotor development with moderate to severe intellectual disability  ( summary by {1:windpassinger et al . ,  2017} )  .
dedsm is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by global developmental delay ,  variable intellectual disability ,  and early - onset seizures with a myoclonic component .
pcld4 is an autosomal dominant disease characterized by adult - onset of liver cysts arising from the bile duct epithelium .
a benign ,  intermediate ,  or malignant neoplasm that affects the connective and soft tissue .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the soft tissue .
a disease or disorder that involves the erythrocyte .
an instance of hemoglobinopathy that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
a squamous cell carcinoma that involves the oropharynx .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the mucosal epithelial surface of the ethmoid ,  frontal ,  maxillary ,  or sphenoid sinus .
a squamous cell carcinoma arising from the lip or the oral cavity .
a rare carcinoma with a poor prognosis ,  characterized by the presence of a mixture of exocrine and neuroendocrine malignant epithelial cells in both the pancreas and metastatic sites .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the major salivary glands .
a condition characterized by the congenital or acquired deficiency of prekallikrein .
a bacterial infection that is transmitted from animals to people .
chronic form of diarrheal disease .
nephrotic syndrome ,  occurring in the pediatric population ,  in which proteinuria does not normalize with administration of steroids ;  this condition is unresponsive to a minimum of four weeks administration of oral corticosteroids .
an ulcerated lesion in the esophageal wall .
a benign soft tissue neoplasm characterized by the presence of spindle and stellate cells ,  lobulated growth pattern ,  and myxoid stroma formation .
a melanoma of the skin characterized by a proliferation of atypical spindled melanocytes in the dermis ,  in a background of abundant collagen .
a rare ,  keratinizing or non - keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma arising from the mucosal epithelium of the nasal cavity or the paranasal sinuses .
a rare tumor containing unequivocal elements of both hepatocellular and cholangiocarcinoma that are intimately admixed .
a large ,  or giant ,  congenital melanocytic nevus  ( lcmn or gcmn )  is a pigmented skin lesion of more than 20 cm  -  or 40 cm -  respectively ,  projected adult diameter ,  composed of melanocytes ,  and presenting with an elevated risk of malignant transformation .
a benign ,  acquired or congenital ,  usually single skin lesion .
a benign ,  circumscribed proliferation of melanocytes in the skin .
a rare ,  immune - mediated disorder characterized by cerebellar degeneration due to the presence of an often undetected malignancy  ( usually carcinoma or lymphoma )  in an anatomic site other than the cerebellum .
a neoplasm arising from hematopoietic cells found in the bone marrow ,  peripheral blood ,  lymph nodes and spleen  ( organs of the hematopoietic system )  .
a non - hodgkin lymphoma that arises from the central nervous system .
a term that refers to high grade b - cell lymphoma ,  not otherwise specified or high grade b - cell lymphoma with myc and bcl2 and / or bcl6 rearrangements .
an aggressive ,  high grade adenocarcinoma that arises from the salivary glands .
a rhabdoid tumor which arises in the soft tissues .
the most frequent type of lymphoblastic lymphoma .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the renal pelvis .
a carcinoma arising in the oral cavity .
carcinoma ,  predominantly squamous cell ,  arising from the epithelial cells of the oropharynx .
a malignant epithelial neoplasm that arises from the rectum and invades through the muscularis mucosa into the submucosa .
a mucoepidermoid carcinoma arising from the minor salivary glands in the oral cavity .
a disease or disorder that involves the abdominal segment of trunk .
a disease or disorder that involves the limb .
a disease or disorder that involves the eosinophil .
a benign mesenchymal neoplasm composed of adipose  ( fatty )  tissue .
a disease or disorder that involves the lymphoid system .
a disease or disorder that involves the face .
a disease or disorder that involves the pes .
a disease or disorder that involves the manus .
a disease or disorder that involves the upper digestive tract .
a disease or disorder that involves the mouth mucosa .
a disease or disorder that involves the sympathetic nervous system .
a disease or disorder that involves the parasympathetic nervous system .
a disease or disorder that involves the cerebral cortex .
a disease or disorder that involves the scalp .
a disease or disorder that involves the cardiac ventricle .
a disease or disorder that involves the vertebra .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of cholesterol metabolic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of glycoprotein metabolic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of steroid metabolic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of tetrahydrobiopterin metabolic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of carbohydrate transport .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of cholesterol catabolic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of cholesterol biosynthetic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of creatine biosynthetic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of glycine metabolic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of organic acid metabolic process .
an instance of adrenogenital syndrome that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
any disorder that features disrupted cell proliferation .
a disease or disorder that is induced by either chemical or radiation exposure .
a mycosis that arises from infection in an immunologically compromised host and is systemic .
a characteristic of an infectious disease in which the disease affects an immunologically compromised host .
a characteristic of an infectious disease in which the disease affects an immunologically normal host .
a disease or disorder that involves the broad ligament of uterus .
a disease or disorder that involves the ligament .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of thyroid hormone metabolic process .
a pregnancy induced hypertensive state that occurs after 20 weeks of gestation characterized by an increase in blood pressure ,  along with body swelling and proteinuria .
a cataract  ( disease )  that involves the lens nucleus .
a disorder either associated with an increased risk for malignant transformation  ( e .g . ,  intraepithelial neoplasia ,  leukoplakia ,  dysplastic nevus ,  myelodysplastic syndrome )  or that develops as a result of the presence of an existing malignant neoplasm  ( e .g . ,  paraneoplastic syndrome )  .
an atypical meningioma which may recur in approximately 29 - 40% of the cases .
an adenoma or carcinoma of the pituitary gland that produces corticotropin .
an aggressive carcinoma that arises from the major salivary glands .
an aggressive carcinoma that arises from the minor salivary glands .
a carcinoma that arises from the minor salivary glands .
a melanoma that arises from any part of the digestive system .
abnormal secretion of hormones in conjunction with neoplastic growth occurring anywhere in the body .
any polycystic kidney disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the alg8 gene ,  that presents with or without kidney cysts .
any polycystic kidney disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dnajb11 gene .
a disease or disorder that involves the layer of synovial tissue .
a disease or disorder that involves the synovial bursa .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of sulfur compound metabolic process .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the lung .
a rare carcinoma that arises from the intrahepatic bile ducts and is composed of malignant glandular cells and malignant squamous cells .
a carcinoma arising from the nasal cavity or paranasal sinuses .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the nasal cavity or paranasal sinuses .
a polypoid lesion composed of fibrous tissue and epithelium .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic polypoid lesion that arises from the anus .
fanconi syndrome caused by exposure to noxious agents .
an x - linked syndromic intellectual disability that that includes subtypes of the heterogeneous ,  eponymously named lujan - fryns syndrome ,  x - linked ohdo syndrome ,  and optiz - kaveggia /  fg syndrome ,  which is caused by mutations in the gene med12 .
an autoimmune disease characterized by sudden onset of photopsias and scotomata in patients with no family history of retinitis pigmentosa ,  followed by visual field and central vision loss .
an epilepsy sydrome that has an onset during the neonatal or infantile stage of life .
an epilepsy syndrome that has an onset during the adolescent or adult stage of life .
metabolic epilepsies are conceptualized as having a distinct metabolic abnormality that has been demonstrated to be associated with a substantially increased risk of developing epilepsy in appropriately designed studies .
structural epilepsies are conceptualized as having a distinct structural brain abnormality that has been demonstrated to be associated with a substantially increased risk of epilepsy in appropriately designed studies .
an epilepsy syndrome that has an onset during variable ages and stages of life .
a disorder that involves more than one phenotype associated with the central nervous system ,  including but not limited to intellectual disability ,  autism ,  and seizures  ( epilepsy )  .
a monogenic disease that has material basis in mutation in the cdkl5 gene .
a monogenic disease that has material basis in mutation in the foxg1 gene .
elevated levels of plasma valine and leucine / isoleucine levels ,  associated with symptoms of headache and mild memory loss and attributed to biallelic variants in the bcat2 gene .
a peripheral neuropathy that is characterized by variants in prps1 ,  which causes decreased or impaired function of the prps1 enzyme ,  and presents as a range of peripheral neuropathies that can include features of charcot - marie tooth syndrome ,  arts syndrome ,  or nonsyndromic hearing loss .
a complex neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by a range of developmental delays and epileptic encephalopathy phenotypes .
tyrosine hydroxylase  ( th )  deficiency is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by a spectrum of phenotypic features ,  based on severity and response to levodopa .
a syndromic genetic deafness characterized by segregation of nonsyndromic hearing loss in females and hearing loss with infertility in males .
a disease or disorder that affects the neuroendocrine gland ,  any of the organized aggregations of cells that function as secretory or excretory organs and that release hormones in response to neural stimuli .
cardioectodermal syndromes are those in which phenotypic manifestations occur in the heart ,  skin ,  and / or hair .
a musculoskeletal system disorder that covers a wide spectrum of phenotypes and is caused by pathogenic variants in the skeletal muscle  - actin gene  ( acta1 )  .
a degenerative disease of the brain that causes gradual loss of memory ,  judgment ,  and the ability to function socially .
x - linked cytopenia characterized by anemia and / or thrombocytopenia .
an inheritable form of pseudoxanthoma elasticum  ( pxe )  ,  that causes calcium and other minerals to accumulate in the elastic fibers of the skin ,  eyes ,  and blood vessels ,  and less frequently in other areas such as the digestive tract .
autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder with onset in the first years of life following normal early development ,  with cyclic episodic deterioration in response to stress ,  such as infection or febrile illness .
a disease caused by infection with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 .
myopathy caused by pathogenic variants in selenon that is congenital or present early in childhood with neonatal hypotonia ,  delayed motor development ,  axial muscle weakness ,  scoliosis ,  and significant respiratory involvement .
tpm3 - related myopathy is a disorder of the musculoskeletal system that covers a wide spectrum of phenotypes and is caused by pathogenic variants in the skeletal muscle  - tropomyosin gene .
dry age related macular degeneration is characterized by the presence of age - related deposits called drusen and atrophy .
a viral respiratory infection that is caused by the mers coronavirus  ( mers - cov )  ,  which most often manifests with moderate to severe respiratory symptoms ,  including productive cough and shortness of breath ,  which can progress to pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome .
an infectious disease where a pathogen is carried and transmitted by another organism that acts as disease vector .
naa10 - related syndrome is an x - linked syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the naa10 gene .
an inborn error of proline / orinthine metabolism that covers a wide spectrum of phenotypes and is caused by pathogenic variants in the aldehyde dehydrogenase 18 family member a1  ( aldh18a1 )  gene .
a very severe form of acute pulmonary failure secondary to capillary permeability impairment .
acute respiratory distress syndromet that occurs in pediatric patients and includes findings of new infiltrates  ( unilateral or bilateral )  consistent with acute parenchymal disease ,  edema not fully explained by fluid overload or cardiac failure ,  and may present as new acute lung disease in setting of chronic lung disease and / or heart disease ,  and perinatal lung disease is excluded .
a type of mitochondrial disease charcterized by macrocephaly  ( large head )  with progressive leukodystrophy ,  encephalopathy ,  hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ,  myopathy ,  liver disease ,  leigh syndrome ,  leber hereditary optic neuropathy ,  and some forms of parkinson disease .
accelerated aging syndromes often caused by inheritable gene mutations resulting in decreased telomere lengths .
a covid - 19 infection where individuals test positive for sars - cov - 2 but have no symptoms across the entire course of the disease .
a covid - 19 infection that presents with various signs and symptoms  ( e .g . ,  fever ,  cough ,  sore throat ,  malaise ,  headache ,  muscle pain )  without shortness of breath ,  dyspnea ,  or abnormal imaging .
a covid - 19 infection where individuals who have evidence of lower respiratory disease by clinical assessment or imaging and a saturation of oxygen  ( spo2 )   > 93% on room air at sea level .
a covid - 19 infection where individuals have respiratory frequency  > 30 breaths per minute ,  spo2 93% on room air at sea level ,  ratio of arterial partial pressure of oxygen to fraction of inspired oxygen  ( pao2 / fio2 )   < 300 ,  or lung infiltrates  > 50% .
a covid - 19 infection that involves respiratory failure ,  septic shock ,  and / or multiple organ dysfunction .
variants in the gene atp6ap2 have been associated with a multitude of diseases ,  including x - linked syndromic id hedera type ,  x - linked parkinsonism - spasticity syndrome ,  and congenital disorder of glycosylation type 2r .
a syndromic intellectual disability disorder that is characterized by significant neurodevelopmental disabilities with limited to absent speech ,  behavioral issues ,  and craniofacial anomalies .
a complex neurodevelopmental disorder that is transmitted via x - linked inheritance ,  and is characterized by intellectual disability ,  autism and epilepsy .
any dyskeratosis congenita in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dkc1 gene .
an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by onset of megaloblastic anemia associated with decreased serum vitamin b12  ( cobalamin ,  cbl )  in infancy or early childhood .
permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus  ( pndm )  is a monogenic form of neonatal diabetes  ( ndm ,  see this term )  characterized by persistent hyperglycemia within the first 12 months of life in general ,  requiring continuous insulin treatment .
a disorder of the musculoskeletal system caused by pathogenic variants in the ttn gene encoding the titin protein expressed in striated muscle .
a genetic disorder associated with variation ( s )  in the ap4 genes: ap4b1 ,  ap4e1 ,  ap4m1 ,  and ap4s1 .
any ypoalphalipoproteinemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the abca1 gene .
a severe early presentation of osteoporosis in which young women experience low trauma or spontaneous fractures ,  most commonly vertebral fractures ,  during late pregnancy or lactation .
an x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sox3 gene ,  with variable phenotypes including growth hormone deficiency due to hypopituitarism .
a congenital myopathy of the musculoskeletal system that covers a wide spectrum of phenotypes and is caused by pathogenic variants in the skeletal muscle beta - tropomyosin gene .
an x - linked multiple congenital anomaly disorder with variable severity .
a qualitative or quantitative defect of collagen 6 disorder that covers a wide spectrum of musculoskeletal phenotypes caused by dominant and recessive mutations in the three major collagen vi genes: col6a1 ,  col6a2 ,  and col6a3 .
any muscular dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lama2 gene .
an inherited susceptibility or predisposition to developing psoriatic arthritis .
a rare ,  genetic ,  cardiac rhythm disease characterized by ventricular fibrillation in the absence of any structural or functional heart disease ,  or known repolarization abnormalities .
an instance of cutis laxa that is inherited .
an instance of cutis laxa that is inherited .
an instance of hypertrophic pyloric stenosis that is inherited .
an instance of thrombophilia that is inherited .
an instance of thrombocytopenia that is inherited .
an inherited susceptibility or predisposition to developing glioma .
an inherited susceptibility or predisposition to developing migraines with or without aura .
a rare genetic syndrome with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance .
an x - linked intellectual deficiency in which not enough information is known ,  reported or published to indicate whether a gene causes non - syndromic or syndromic presentations .
pathological structure or process
a tissue reaction to an internal or external injury .
loss of epithelium and the basement membrane  ( full thickness )  .
aberrant reaction of the microcirculation characterized by movement of fluid and leukocytes from the blood into extravascular tissues .
loss of blood from the vascular compartment to the exterior or into nonvascular body space as a result of rupture or severance of the blood vessels .
mus  ( commonly mice )  is a small mammal belonging to the order of rodents .
minute infectious agents whose genomes are composed of dna or rna ,  but not both .
bcdw1 is a botrytis cinerea isolate recovered in 1992 from grape berries  ( vitis vinifera cv .
echinochloa glabrescens is a c4 grass weed that is very competitive with rice when left uncontrolled .
xanthomonas oryzae pv .oryzae is a bacterium which causes a serious blight of rice ,  other grasses and sedges .
brassica carinata x brassica rapa is a synthesised trigenomic allohexaploid  ( aabbcc genome )  that could be produced by crossing brassica carinata  ( bbcc ,  2n = 34 )  with brassica rapa  ( aa ,  2n = 20 )  and followed genome doubling .
plasmopara viticola ,  the causal agent of grapevine downy mildew ,  is a heterothallic oomycete that overwinters as oospores in leaf litter and soil .
marchantia polymorpha subsp .polymorpha is one of the three subspecies of marchantia polymorpha .
xanthomonas translucens pv .cerealis is the causal agent of bacterial leaf streak on true grasses .
puccinia striiformis f . sp .tritici is the causal agent of stripe  ( yellow )  rust ,  a serious disease of wheat occurring in most wheat areas with cool and moist weather conditions during the growing season .
meloidogyne graminicola is the most common root - knot  nematodes species infecting  rice .
pseudomonas syringae pv .japonica ,  which attacks barley ,  is one othe patovars of p . syringae .
aegilops tauschii subsp .strangulata is one of the two subspecies of aegilops tauschii .
pseudomonas is a genus of gram - negative ,  aerobic gammaproteobacteria ,  belonging to the family pseudomonadaceae containing 191 validly described species .
neofusicoccum parvum is a vascular pathogen that causes severe decline and dieback symptoms in grapevines worldwide .
wheat streak mosaic virus  ( wsmv )  is a plant pathogenic virus of the family potyviridae that infects plants in the poaceae family ,  especially wheat  ( triticum spp .
colletotrichum graminicola  ( teleomorph glomerella graminicola )  is a filamentous ascomycete that causes anthracnose disease of maize .
equisetum arvense ,  the field horsetail or common horsetail is a herbaceous perennial plant ,  native throughout the arctic and temperate regions of the northern hemisphere .
viridiplantae are a clade comprising the green algae and land plants .
the eukaryotic supergroup opisthokonta includes animals  ( metazoa )  ,  fungi ,  and choanoflagellates ,  as well as the lesser known unicellular lineages nucleariidae ,  fonticula alba ,  ichthyosporea ,  filasterea and corallochytrium limacisporum .
metazoa or animals are multicellular ,  eukaryotic organisms
the stramenopiles  ( heterokonta )  are one of the phylogenetic groups of eukaryotes and include organisms as diverse as unicellular and multicellular algae ,  fungus - like cells ,  and parasitic and free - living flagellates .
zymoseptoria tritici ipo323 is one isolate of zymoseptoria tritici
burkholderia glumae is bacterial plant pathogen that causes bacterial panicle blight of rice .
xanthomonas is a genus of proteobacteria ,  many of which cause plant diseases .
hirschmanniella oryzae is the most abundant plant - parasitic nematode in flooded rice ecosystems all over the world
botrytis cinerea  ( teleomorph ,  botryotinia fuckeliana )  is an airborne plant pathogen with a necrotrophic lifestyle attacking over 200 crop hosts worldwide .
triticum mosaic virus is a wheat pathogen that belongs to the potyviridae family of positive - strand rna viruses .
oryza punctata is a grass in the rice genus oryza ,  also known as red rice ,  related to cultivated rice oryza sativa .
triticum urartu ,  also known as red wild einkorn ,  is a grass species related to wheat ,  and native to western asia .
aegilops speltoides is an edible plant in the poaceae family native to southeastern europe and western asia ,  which is often used for animal feed ,  and it has grown in cultivated beds .
zea mays subsp .mexicana is one of the two annual diploid species that represents teosinte .
fungi are eukaryotic organisms that belong to their own kingdom ,  separate from the other eukaryotic life kingdoms of plants and animals .
oomycetes form a diverse group of fungus - like eukaryotic microorganisms ,  also known as water molds ,  that include both saprophytes and pathogens of plants ,  insects ,  crustaceans ,  fish ,  vertebrate animals ,  and various microorganisms .
strain or line specific to yeast
triticum dicoccon  ( cultivated emmer wheat )  is one of the earliest domesticated wheat species .
insecta  ( insects )  are a class of invertebrates within the arthropod phylum that have a chitinous exoskeleton ,  a three - part body  ( head ,  thorax and abdomen )  ,  three pairs of jointed legs ,  compound eyes and one pair of antennae .
cabbage leaf curl virus is a bipartite geminivirus that infects a broad range of plants within the brassicaceae ,  including cabbage ,  cauliflower ,  and arabidopsis .
erysiphe necator is a obligate biotrophic fungus that causes grapevine powdery mildew
fusarium is a large genus of filamentous fungi ,  part of a group often referred to as hyphomycetes ,  widely distributed in soil and associated with plants .
fusarium graminearum  ( teleomorph gibberella zeae )  is a plant pathogen which causes fusarium head blight and affects many cereal crops .
trichoderma harzianum is fungus widely recognized as a potential biocontrol agent against several soilborne plant pathogens .
blumeria graminis forma specialis tritici is a fungal pathogen of the blumeria genus that causes powdery mildew on wheat .
heligmosomoides polygyrus ,  previously named nematospiroides dubius ,  is a naturally occurring intestinal roundworm of rodents .
an arthropod  ( from greek arthro -  ,  joint  +  podos ,  foot )  is an invertebrate animal having an exoskeleton  ( external skeleton )  ,  a segmented body ,  and jointed appendages .
sporisorium reilianum f . sp .zeae is a fungus  ( basidiomycota ,  ustilaginaceae )  that causes head smut of corn  ( zea mays l . )  .
vitis vinifera subsp .silvestris is the wild ancestor of the eurasian grape  ( vitis vinifera ssp .
schrenkiella parvula is a close relative of arabidopsis  ( arabidopsis thaliana )  and brassica crop species that thrives on the shores of lake tuz ,  turkey ,  where soils accumulate high concentrations of multiple - ion salts .
impaired ability to focus on a subject or idea .
an uneasy psychological state ;  the anxious feeling you have when you have the jitters .
the sensation of struggling to remain awake .
a role realized through the process of supplying materials such as animal subjects ,  reagents or other materials used in an investigation .
a mass spectrometer is an instrument which is used to measure the mass to charge ratio of ions .
a planned process that consists of parts: planning ,  study design execution ,  documentation and which produce conclusion ( s )  .
an assay is a process with the objective to create as an output information about a material entity  ( bearing evaluant role )  .
a data item which is used to indicate the degree of uncertainty about a measurement .
a gene list is a report of the names or identifiers of genes that are the outcome of an analysis or have been put together for the purpose of an analysis .
a population is a collection of individuals from the same taxonomic class living ,  counted or sampled at a particular site or in a particular area
an organization is a continuant entity which can play roles ,   has members ,  and has a set of organization rules .
a protocol is a plan specification which has sufficient level of detail and quantitative information to communicate it between domain experts ,  so that different domain experts will reliably be able to independently reproduce the process .
analyte role is a role borne by a molecular entity and realized in an analyte assay which achieves the objective to measure the magnitude / concentration / amount of the analyte in the entity bearing evaluant role
pcr is the process in which a dna polymerase is used to amplify a piece of dna by in vitro enzymatic replication .
 ( protein or rna )  or has_part  ( protein or rna )  and has_function some go:0003824  ( catalytic activity ) 
a process in which a population of cells with certain characteristics is isolated from a larger population
reverse transcribe pcr is a process which allow amplification of cdna during a pcr reaction while the cdna results from a retrotranscription of messenger rna isolated from a material entity .
a differential expression analysis data transformation is a data transformation that has objective differential expression analysis
a planned process with the objective of collecting a specimen .
helicos sequencing is a dna sequencing which allows sequence identification of billions of dna molecules immobilized to a surface by using dna polymerase and fluorescently labeled nucleotides added one at a time .
process which results in the creation of a library from fragments of dna using cloning vectors or oligonucleotides with the role of adaptors
illumina sequencing is a dna sequencing which allows sequence identification by relying on use of dna polymerase and reversible terminator .
a material which is collected with the intention of being representative of a greater whole  ( i .e .
a directive information entity that is part of a study design .
controlled variable specification is a part of a study design .
a rna extract that is the output of an extraction process in which rna molecules with poly a tail at its 3 end are purified .
a specimen that has been frozen in order to store it .
a specimen  that has been modified in order to be able to detect it in future experiments .
a specimen that is output of a paraffin storage process in which specimen is embedded in paraffin
a specimen that is output of a specimen creation process used for an investigation without storage .
a specimen that is output of a process that cell culture inoculated into agar for long term storage .
a reference substance role that is borne by a material entity with a known amount which is mixed into the evaluant of assays for quality control or data normalization purposes
a reference substance role that is borne by a material entity used in a dye swap design experiment for quality control or data normalization purposes
a study design in which checks the accuracy or the quality of the result of an assay  by comparing with reverse transcription pcr results
a study design in which the accuracy or the quality of the result of an assay is checked by comparing with real time pcr results
a quantitative confidence value that measures the minimum false discovery rate that is incurred when calling that test significant .
a specimen primarily composed of cells collected from a multicellular organism or a cell culture
a specimen for which it is known whether it has been subjected to storage of a specified type .
a measurement that is the measure of the latitude coordinate of a site .
a measurement that is the measure of the longitude coordinate of a site .
an assay that localizes a specific dna or rna sequence within a portion or section of tissue using artificially induced nucleic hybridization .
an analyte assay in which an input material is mixed with antibodies and bound antigen:antibody complexes are separated out using immunoprecipitation .
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
a material which is obtained and stored for potential use during an investigation .
a planned process that produces output data from input data .
a biexponential transformation is a data transformation that ,  for each  ( one dimensional )  real number input x ,  outputs an approximation  ( found ,  e .g .
a loess transformation is a data transformation that takes as input a collection of real number pairs  ( x ,  y )  and ,  after performing  ( one or more )  loess fittings ,  utilizes the resulting curves to transform each  ( x ,  y )  in the input into  ( x ,  y - f ( x )  )  where f ( x )  is one of the fitted curves .
a normalization data transformation is a data transformation that has objective normalization .
a planned process by which totally or partially complementary ,  single - stranded nucleic acids are  combined into a single molecule called heteroduplex or homoduplex to an extent depending on the amount of complementarity .
a dna sequencer is an instrument that determines the order of deoxynucleotides in deoxyribonucleic acid sequences .
an processed material which acquires images of fluorescence  ( induced with lasers )  from labeled molecules on the surface of the microarray chip
a device which deposits biological material onto a substrate in a defined pattern .
a device with a rapidly rotating container that applies centrifugal force to its contents
a computer is an instrument which manipulates  ( stores ,  retrieves ,  and processes )  data according to a list of instructions .
a heating block is an instrument or part of an instrument which raises or maintains the temperature of a sample to a defined constant temperature during certain parts of an assay
a homogenizer is an instrument for the homogenization of various types of material ,  such as tissue ,  plant ,  food ,  soil ,  and many others .
a device which is used to maintain constant contact of a liquid on an array .
an instrument which is used to maintain the temperature of one or more hybridization_chamber ( s )  at a defined ,  constant temperature .
a device that is used for automated liquid transfer and handling .
an instrument used to chemically synthesize oligonucleotides .
an instrument that converts a variable electrical current to mechanical vibration of a metallic probe .
a spectrophotometer is an instrument that measures the intensity of light as a function of the color ,  or more specifically ,  the wavelength of light ,  transmitted by a substance .
an instrument that is capable of repeatedly altering and maintaining specific temperatures for defined periods of time .
an instrument which removes liquid by the application of negative pressure ,   i .e .
a vortexer is an instrument that mixes small vials of liquid by creating a rotation of the liquid around its own center .
a water bath is a temperature control bath in which a water acts as contact medium enabling temperature transfer from the heating element or cooling element to the sample .
determination of the grade  ( severity / stage )  of a tumor sample ,  used in cancer biology to describe abnormalities / qualities of tumor cells or tissues .
a process with the objective to obtain a material entity that was part of an organism for potential future use in an investigation
group assignment is a process which has an organism as specified input and during which a role is assigned
a protocol application to separate cells and / or cellular secretions from an anatomical space by the introduction and removal of fluid
the clear fluid above a sediment or precipitate of a cell culture .
the detrimental process in which an infectious agent colonizes or replicates in a host environment
abnormal ,  harmful processes caused by or associated with a disease
the totality of all processes through which a given disease instance is realized .
a quality inhering in a substance by virtue of the amount of the bearer's there is mixed with another substance .
the assemblage of physical properties or qualities by which male is distinguished from female ;  the physical difference between male and female ;  the distinguishing peculiarity of male or female .
a property of a single physical entity describing the entity's size or shape or structure .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
the number of entities of this type that are part of the whole organism .
a physical quality of the amount of matter in a material .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence per unit time .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of the bearer's disposition to survive and develop normally or the number of surviving individuals in a given population .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population that only produces gametes that can be fertilised by male gametes .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population whose sex organs contain only male gametes .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's deviation from normal or average .
the state of the organism when it functions optimally without evidence of disease .
an amount which is relatively high .
a rate which is relatively high .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting concentration .
a concentration which is higher relative to the normal or average .
a concentration which is lower relative to the normal or average .
a quality which inheres in an process .
an organism having both male and female sexual characteristics and organs .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's number of homologous sets of chromosomes in the nucleus or primary chromosome - containing compartment of the cell ,  each set essentially coding for all the biological traits of the organism .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing more than two homologous sets of chromosomes .
a polyploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing three homologous sets of chromosomes .
a polyploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing four homologous sets of chromosomes .
a polyploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing four homologous sets of chromosomes .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing an integral multiple of the monoploid number ,  possibly excluding the sex - determining chromosomes .
irreversible cessation of all bodily functions ,  manifested by absence of spontaneous breathing and total loss of cardiovascular and cerebral functions .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having additional processual parts .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processual parts .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being abnormal and having a destructive effect on living tissue .
a quality which inheres in a molecular entity ,  a single molecule ,  atom ,  ion ,  radical etc .
a plant structure  ( po:0005679 )  which is a whole organism .
a vascular leaf  ( po:0009025 )  born in a circular pattern around a stem  ( po:0009047 )  with compressed stem internodes  ( po:0020142 )  .
a phyllome primordium  ( po:0025128 )  that develops from a vascular leaf anlagen  ( po:0025431 )  and is part of a vegetative shoot apex  ( po:0025223 )  and is committed to the development of a vascular leaf  ( po:0009025 )  .
the portion of the root including the meristem and the root cap .
the portion of the primary root including the meristem and root cap .
a maximal portion of vascular tissue  ( po:0009015 )  in a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  ,  collective plant structure  ( po:0025497 )  ,  multi - tissue plant structure  ( po:0025496 )  ,  or cardinal part of multi - tissue plant structure  ( po:0025498 )  .
a shoot axis  ( po:0025029 )  that is the most distal part of a shoot system  ( po:0009006 )  and has as parts a shoot apical meristem  ( po:0020148 )  and the youngest primordia  ( po:0025127 )  .
a shoot - borne nodal root  ( po:0003005 )  formed at a stem base  ( po:0008039 )  .
a root  ( po:0009005 )  that is initiated in a developing plant embryo  ( po:0009009 )  .
an embryo root  ( po:0000045 )  formed within the scutellar node  ( po:0004708 )  of the plant embryo  ( po:0009009 )  in some monocotyledonous plants .
an undeveloped shoot system  ( po:0009006 )  .
a bud that develops into a flower .
a portion of reproductive shoot apical meristem tissue  ( po:0008028 )  that gives rise to the floral organs  ( po:0025395 )  .
a meristem that gives rise to an inflorescence .
a filamentous extension of an epidermal cell near the tip of a rootlet that functions in absorption of water and minerals ; nspecialized unicellular trichome found in roots .
a portion of ground tissue that is part of a cortext and part of a root
one of a pair of cells flanking the stomatal pore .
a multi - tissue plant structure development stage  ( po:0025571 )  that has as primary participant a single fruit  ( po:0009001 )  .
a reproductive shoot system development stage  ( po:0025530 )  that has as primary participant a inflorescence  ( po:0009049 )  .
a multi - tissue plant structure development stage  ( po:0025571 )  that has as primary participant a seed  ( po:0009010 )  .
the epidermal complex consisting of two guard cells and the pore between them .
a root differentiation zone that is part of a primary root .
gall - like structures on the roots of legumes that contain symbiotic nitrogen - fixing bacteria .
a native plant cell  ( po:0025606 )  synthesizing protoplasm and producing new cells by division and with only a primary cell wall .
the earliest stage of seed development immediately following double fertilization .
stage of seed development characterized by seed growth and differentiation .
the tough exterior covering of a woody root or stem ;  specifically: the tissues outside the cambium that include an inner layer especially of secondary phloem and an outer layer of periderm .
a somewhat elongate usually horizontal subterranean plant stem that is often thickened by deposits of reserve food material ,  produces shoots above and roots below ,  and is distinguished from a true root in possessing buds ,  nodes ,  and usually scalelike leaves .
a portion of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  that consists of mass of undifferentiated plant cells  ( po:0009002 )  .
a portion of endodermis that is part of a root cortex .
a portion of vascular tissue  ( po:0009015 )  that has as part one or more tracheary elements  ( po:0000290 )  .
a portion of plant tissue that is the outermost layer of endosperm in a seed ,  its cells being characterized by presence of protein bodies containing seed storage proteins .
a portion of vascular tissue  ( po:0009015 )  that has as parts sieve elements  ( po:0025406 )  .
a lateral meristem  ( po:0020145 )  that has as part a single layer of cambial initial cells  ( po:0000295 )  and their derivatives ,  arranged orderly in radial files .
the chloroplast - containing ,  photosynthetic parenchymatous tissue situated between the two epidermal layers of the foliage leaf .
a lateral plant organ  ( po:0009008 )  produced by a shoot apical meristem  ( po:0020148 )  .
a layer or layers of cells surrounding the vascular bundles of leaves .
a portion of epidermis that is part of a root system .
the abaxial / lower epidermal cell layer of the cotyledon .
the adaxial / upper epidermal cell layer of the cotyledon .
a root apical meristem that is part of a primary root .
a meristem which is part of a root system
a native plant cell  ( po:0025606 )  which is diploid  ( 2n )  ,  and undergoes meiosis  ( go:0007126 )  to produce four haploid  ( 1n )  plant spores  ( po:0025017 )  .
a portion of plant tissue that is the central region of an endosperm ,  composed of cells that are significantly larger than those at the periphery ,  especially the aleurone and sub - aleurone layers .
a vascular leaf that is part of a plant embryo and is one of the first few leaves to develop from the embryonic shoot apical meristem .
a vascular leaf that is distinct from adult leaves ,  being characterized by particular anatomical traits namely ,  wax and trichome distribution ,  presence or absence of epidermal cell types ,  cell wall shape and biochemistry .
the early stage in fruit ripening .
an inflorescence detectable phase during which an inflorescence is just visible ,  but has not yet reach one quarter of its full length .
maturation of the fruit .
an inflorescence detectable phase characterized by a swelling of the flag leaf sheath ,  caused by an increase in the size of the inflorescence as it grows up the leaf sheath .
a root development stage during which a radicle  emerges from the seed coat .
the stage at which any flower ( s )  on the plant are open .
senescence complete ;  ready for seed harvest .
a germination stage during which there is absorption of water by the seed .
the stage at which flowering is complete .
the stage at which the first flower ( s )  open .
a whole plant fruit formation stage  ( po:0007042 )  that spans the interval when the average size of fruits  ( po:0009001 )  on a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  has reached 70% of its final size to its final size .
a whole plant fruit formation stage  ( po:0007042 )  that spans the interval when the average size of fruits  ( po:0009001 )  on a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  has reached 30% to 50% of its final size .
the stage when fruit ripening is midway .
the stage at which fruit ripening is complete .
an inflorescence detectable phase during which an inflorescence emerges from sheathing leaves or bracts .
a whole plant fruit development stage  ( po:0025500 )  that begins when a fruit  ( po:0009001 )  on a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  that is not currently participating in a whole plant fruit development stage begins a fruit initiation stage  ( po:0025503 )  and ends with the onset of a whole plant fruit ripening stage  ( po:0007010 )  .
this term is used only for seed plants .
a sporophyte vegetative stage during which the coleoptile emerges from the seed coat .
a reproductive growth stage during which an inflorescence is detectable .
a seedling development stage  ( po:0007131 )  during which the cotyledon  ( po:0020030 )  emerges from the seed coat  ( po:0009088 )  .
50% of flowers to be produced have opened
the resumption of growth by the embryo in a seed .
the stage at which leaves at seven nodes ,  other than the cotyledonary node ,  are visible above ground .
the stage at which leaves at twelve nodes ,  other than the cotyledonary node ,  are visible above ground .
the stage at which leaves at five nodes ,  other than the cotyledonary node ,  are visible above ground .
the stage at which leaves at seventeen nodes ,  other than the cotyledonary node ,  are visible above ground .
rosette has reached approximately 50% of its final diameter .
the stage at which leaves at eighteen nodes ,  other than the cotyledonary node ,  are visible above ground .
the stage at which the axillary shoots are forming .
rosette has reached approximately 70% of its final diameter .
stage at which rosette no longer increases in diameter ,  its leaf growth and expansion having ceased .
the stage at which the internodes begin to elongate .
the stage at which main shoot and axillary shoots at three nodes are visible .
rosette has reached approximately 20% of its final diameter .
the stage at which leaves at twenty or more nodes ,  other than the cotyledonary node ,  are visible above ground .
the stage at which leaves at thirteen nodes ,  other than the cotyledonary node ,  are visible above ground .
the stage at which leaves at fourteen nodes ,  other than the cotyledonary node ,  are visible above ground .
the stage at which the internodes elongate .
the stage at which leaves at one node ,  other than the cotyledonary node ,  are visible above ground .
the stage at which leaves at eight nodes ,  other than the cotyledonary node ,  are visible above ground .
the stage at which leaves at two nodes ,  other than the cotyledonary node ,  are visible above ground .
the stage at which leaves at nine nodes ,  other than the cotyledonary node ,  are visible above ground .
the stage at which leaves at ten nodes ,  other than the cotyledonary node ,  are visible above ground .
the stage at which leaves at fifteen nodes ,  other than the cotyledonary node ,  are visible above ground .
the stage at which leaves at three nodes ,  other than the cotyledonary node ,  are visible above ground .
the stage at which maximum stem length is reached .
the stage at which vegetative structures are being produced by sam .
stages of growth based on expansion of the rosette in arabidopsis .
the stage at which leaves at four nodes ,  other than the cotyledonary node ,  are visible above ground .
the stage at which leaves at eleven nodes ,  other than the cotyledonary node ,  are visible above ground .
the stage at which two nodes or two internodes are visible .
the stage at which leaves at sixteen nodes ,  other than the cotyledonary node ,  are visible above ground .
the stage at which leaves at nineteen nodes ,  other than the cotyledonary node ,  are visible above ground .
the stage at which leaves at six nodes ,  other than the cotyledonary node ,  are visible above ground .
the embryonic product of the germination of a seed ;  the young shoot and root axis .
the stage at which the leaves produced by sam are visible above the ground in a seedling or mature plant .
a sporophyte development stage  ( po:0028002 )  that occurs during the interval between the first division of a plant zygote  ( po:0000423 )  and the formation of a sporangium  ( po:0025094 )  .
a floral organ formation stage  ( po:0025585 )  which begins with the differentiation of floral organs  ( po:0025395 )  from the floral organ primordium  ( po:0025477 )  and ends with the beginning of the flowering stage  ( po:0007616 )  .
a floral organ formation stage  ( po:0025585 )  which begins with the development of the floral organ meristem  ( po:0000229 )  from a portion of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  and ends with the beginning of the floral organ primordium development stage  ( po:0007602 )  .
a collective phyllome structure development stage  ( po:0025578 )  that has as a primary participant a calyx  ( po:0009060 )  .
a collective phyllome structure development stage  ( po:0025578 )  that has as a primary participant a corolla  ( po:0009059 )  .
a collective phyllome structure development stage  ( po:0025578 )  that has as a primary participant an androecium  ( po:0009061 )  .
a collective phyllome structure development stage  ( po:0025578 )  that has a primary participant a gynoecium  ( po:0009062 )  .
stage of calyx development that begins when the sepal primordia arise .
stage of corolla development defined by differentiation and expansion of petal .
stage of androecium development that begins when the stamens or petal - stamen primordia arise .
a reproductive shoot system development stage  ( po:0025530 )  that occurs in an individual flower  ( po:000904 )  during the interval between the onset of a flower meristem transition stage  ( po:0025588 )  and the end of a flowering stage  ( po:0007616 )  .
a sporophyte vegetative stage  ( po:0007134 )  that occurs during the interval between the first cell division of a plant zygote  ( po:0000423 )  and one of the following: the beginning of the seed germination stage  ( po:0007057 )  in seed plants ,  formation of the first vascular leaf  ( po:0009025 )  in pteridophytes ,  the beginning of development of a sporangium  ( po:0025094 )  in bryophytes ,  or the beginning of the formation of a plant organ  ( po:0009008 )  such as a root  ( po:0009005 )  ,  shoot axis  ( po:0025029 )  ,  or vascular leaf  ( po:0009025 )  in a cultured plant embryo  ( po:0000010 )  .
stage during which the seed storage products  ( storage proteins ,  lipids and starch )  are being accumulated ,  either in the cotyledons or in the endosperm .
a shoot apical meristem  ( po:0020148 )  that gives rise to the apical growth of vegetative tissues and organs .
a multi - tissue plant structure  ( po:0025496 )  that develops from a gynoecium  ( po:0009062 )  and may have as parts one or more seeds  ( po:0009010 )  .
a cell which is a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  .
a plant axis  ( po:0025004 )  that lacks shoot axis nodes  ( po:0005004 )  ,  grows indeterminately ,  and is usually positively geotropic .
a collective plant organ structure  ( po:0025007 )  that produces shoot - borne portions of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  and the plant structures  ( po:0009011 )  that arise from them .
a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  that consists predominantly of similarly specialized plant cells  ( po:0009002 )  of one or more types .
a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  that participates in the plant embryo stage  ( po:0007631 )  .
a multi - tissue plant structure  ( po:0025496 )  that develops from a plant ovule  ( po:0020003 )  and has as parts a plant embryo  ( po:0009009 )  enclosed in a seed coat  ( po:0009088 )  .
an anatomical structure that is or was part of a plant ,  or was derived from a part of a plant .
a stage in the life of a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  during which the plant structure undergoes developmental processes .
undifferentiated plant issue  -  the botanical equivalent of animal stem cells
the supportive and conductive tissue in plants ,  consisting of xylem and phloem .
a leaf  ( po:0025034 )  in a vascular plant .
a microsporophyll bearing one or more microsporangia .
a megasporophyll ,  almost always at the center of a flower ,  its margins more or less fused together or with other carpels to enclose the ovule ( s )  .
a phyllome  ( po:0006001 )  that is usually green ,  and is part of the calyx  ( po:0009060 )  .
a phyllome  ( po:0006001 )  that is part of the corolla  ( po:0009059 )  ,  and is usually colored  ( not green )  .
a division of the perianth of a flower having a virtually indistinguishable calyx and corolla ,  as in tulips and lilies .
the reproductive structure of the anthophyta or angiosperms .
a shoot axis  ( po:0025029 )  that is the primary axis of a plant .
a reproductive shoot system  ( po:0025082 )  that has as parts all of the shoot axes  ( po:0025029 )  distal to the most distal foliage leaf  ( po:0009025 )  of a shoot axis and all of the flowers  ( po:0009046 )  borne by those axes .
an inflorescence branch  ( po:0009081 )  that supports an individual flower in an inflorescence  ( po:0009049 )  .
a multicellular glandular structure found in the flower secreting a liquid containing organic substances especially sugars .
a collective phyllome structure  ( po:0025023 )  composed all of the carpels  ( po:0009030 )  in a flower  ( po:0009046 )  .
a cardinal organ part  ( po:0025001 )  that is the region at the distal end of either a peduncle or a pedicel where the floral appendages  ( e .g .
a collective plant organ structure  ( po:0025007 )  that is the pollen - bearing part of a stamen  ( po:0009029 )  .
a stalk that is part of a stamen
a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  that is the basal portion of a carpel  ( po:0009030 )  or group of fused carpels and encloses the plant ovule ( s )   ( po:0020003 )  .
the usually apical part of the pistil of a flower which receives the pollen grains and on which they germinate .
an elongated part of a carpel or group of fused carpels between the ovary and the stigma ,  and through which the pollen tube grows .
a portion of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  that is the outer layer  ( wall )  of a fruit  ( po:0009001 )  ,  and develops from a plant ovary  ( po:0009072 )  or a carpel  ( po:0009030 )  wall .
a portion of plant tissue that is the covering of a seed derived from ovular  -  mainly integumentary  -  tissue .
a maximal portion of nutritive plant tissue in a seed .
the meristem which gives rise to the female inflorescence or ear in maize .
a plant organ  ( po:0009008 )  that has as parts a nucellus  ( po:0020020 )  in which a female gametophyte  ( po:0025279 )  is located ,  one or two integuments  ( po:0020021 )  ,  and a funicle  ( po:0020006 )  .
the larger ,  in general ,  of the two kinds of spores produced after meiosis in the life cycle of a heterosporous plant ,  and on germination giving rise to the female gametophyte  ( embryo sac )  .
a megasporangium  ( po:0025201 )  in a seed plant ,  composed of fleshy subepidermal tissue that is part of a plant ovule  ( po:0020003 )  and surrounds a megasporocyte  ( po:0000431 )  .
a vascular leaf  ( po:0009025 )  formed at the first shoot node  ( po:0005004 )  of a plant embryo  ( po:0009009 )  or a seedling  ( po:0000003 )  .
an embryo root  ( po:0000045 )  that is the basal continuation of a hypocotyl  ( po:0020100 )  in a plant embryo  ( po:0009009 )  or a seedling  ( po:0000003 )  .
a shoot internode that is the part of an embryo axis or the stem of a seedling above the scutellum and below the coleoptile .
a stalk of a leaf .
a phyllome lamina  ( po:0025396 )  that is the part of a leaf  ( po:0025034 )  exclusive of the petiole  ( po:0020038 )  or leaf sheath  ( po:0020104 )  ,  if either is present .
a phyllome base  ( po:0025140 )  that is part of a leaf  ( po:0025034 )  .
the smaller ,  in general ,  of the two kinds of spores produced after meiosis in the life cycle of a heterosporous plant ,  and on germination giving rise to the male gametophyte .
a native plant cell  ( po:0025606 )  that is the larger cell of a microgametophyte  ( po:0025280 )  in seed plants .
a stem internode  ( po:0020142 )  below the cotyledonary node  ( po:0025321 )  and transitional to a root  ( po:0009005 )  of a plant embryo  ( po:0009009 )  or a seedling  ( po:0000003 )  .
the last mature leaf before the inflorescence in a cereal crop plant .
a tubular portion of the leaf surrounding the stem ,  as in the poaceae .
a root  ( po:0009005 )  that develops from a lateral root primordium  ( po:0000016 )  that is part of another root on the same plant .
a portion of root parenchyma  ( po:0025095 )  tissue that is part of the root tip  ( po:0000025 )  and covers the root apical meristem  ( po:0020147 )  .
a stele that is part of a root
a staminate inflorescence  ( po:0025601 )  in zea species that bears the tassel spikelet  ( po:0006309 )  on a terminal inflorescence axis  ( po:0020122 )  .
a root  ( po:0009005 )  that develops directly from a seedling radicle  ( po:0020127 )  .
a portion of root parenchyma tissue that is part of a root cap and is parallel to the sides of a root axis .
cell that constitutes the central part of the root cap ,  arranged in longitudinal files .
a pistillate inflorescence  ( po:0025598 )  in zea species that is highly compacted and bears the ear spikelets  ( po:0006320 )  on a lateral inflorescence axis  ( po:0020122 )  .
a shoot node that is part of a stem .
a shoot internode that is part of a stem .
a maximal portion of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  located at a shoot apex  ( po:0000037 )  or root tip  ( po:0000025 )  .
a portion of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  that is part of a root apical meristem  ( po:0020147 )  and consists of mitotically and metabolically inactive cells and is located behind the protoderm  ( po:0006210 )  of the root  ( po:0009005 )  .
a cardinal part of multi - tissue plant structure  ( po:0025498 )  that is a proper part of a plant organ  ( po:0009008 )  and includes portions of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  of at least two different types .
a plant axis  ( po:0025004 )  that is part of a shoot system  ( po:0009006 )  .
a phyllome  ( po:0006001 )  that is not associated with a reproductive structure .
a megagametophyte  ( po:0025279 )  that is located in a plant ovary ovule  ( po:0025490 )  .
leaf of a moss or liverwort
a plant sperm cell  ( po:0000084 )  that is part of the pollen  ( po:0025281 )  .
an anatomical entity that is or was part of a plant .
a phyllome tip  ( po:0025141 )  that is part of a leaf apex  ( po:0020137 )  .
a portion of plant tissue that is part of an endosperm and is composed of basal endosperm transfer cells .
a cardinal organ part  ( po:0025001 )  that is the central column of a plant axis that consists of the primary vascular tissue and associated ground tissue .
a shoot apex po:0000037 )  that has as part a vegetative shoot apical meristem  ( po:0008016 )  .
a whole plant in the gametophyte development stage  ( po:0028003 )  that produces only plant egg cells  ( po:0020094 )  .
a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  in the gametophyte development stage  ( po:0028003 )  that produces plant sperm cells  ( po:0000084 )  .
a microgametophyte  ( po:0025280 )  that develops from a microspore  ( po:0020048 )  is located in a pollen sac  ( po:0025277 )  .
a rounded thick modified underground stem base bearing membranous or scaly leaves and buds and acting as a vegetative reproductive structure .
a root development stage during which a coleorhiza emerges from the seed coat .
a fruit development stage  ( po:0001002 )  that begins with the formation of a plant zygote  ( po:0000423 )  that is contained in the fruit  ( po:0009001 )  being studied and ends when that fruit's fruit ripening stage  ( po:0025502 )  begins .
a fruit development stage  ( po:0001002 )  during which a single fruit  ( po:0009001 )  participates in the process of fruit ripening  ( go:0009835 )  .
a fruit formation stage  ( po:0025501 )  that begins when the plant cells  ( po:0009002 )  in a fruit  ( po:0009001 )  begin to divide or expand ,  and ends when the fruit has reached 10% of its final size .
a fruit formation stage  ( po:0025501 )  that spans the interval when a fruit  ( po:0009001 )  has reached 30 to 50% of its final size .
a fruit formation stage  ( po:0025501 )  that spans the interval when a fruit  ( po:0009001 )  has reached 50 to 70% of its final size .
a fruit formation stage  ( po:0025501 )  that spans begins when a fruit  ( po:0009001 )  has reached 70% of its final size and ends when a fruit has reached its final size and a fruit ripening stage  ( po:0025502 )  begins .
a plant axis  ( po:0025004 )  that is radially enlarged .
a flower development stage  ( po:0007615 )  that occurs in an individual flower  ( po:000904 )  during the interval between the onset of a floral organ meristem development stage  ( po:0007601 )  and the onset of a flowering stage  ( po:0007616 )  .
an inflorescence  ( po:0009049 )  that includes as part only pistillate flowers  ( po:0025599 )  .
an inflorescence  ( po:0009049 )  that includes as part only staminate flowers  ( po:0025600 )  .
a plant cell  ( po:0009002 )  that is either part of a multicellular whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  'in vivo' or a unicellular organism 'in natura'  ( i .e .
a collective leaf structure  ( po:0025022 )  consisting of a group of rosette leaves  ( po:0000014 )  ,  generally borne at the base of the plant ,  that are separated by very short stem internodes  ( po:0020142 )  .
a whole plant development stage that has as primary participant a whole plant during the interval between fertilization  ( or apogamy )  and death .
a portion of chlorenchyma tissue that develops directly from a spore and grows by division of an apical cell to form filaments that are one cell wide and dichotomously branching .
a portion of protonema tissue that consists of only chloronema cells .
a single meristematic cell  ( po:0004010 )  at the tip of a plant structure where apical growth occurs .
an apical cell that is part of a whole plant in the gametophytic phase .
a meristematic apical cell that is part of a whole plant in the sporophytic phase .
a primitive plant body of gametophytes that has not differentiated into roots ,  stems or leaves
a protein that is a translation product of the human alb gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human tg gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a small nuclear rna molecule involved in pre - mrna splicing and processing .
an rna transcript that does not encode for a protein rather the rna molecule is the gene product .
a region  ( or regions )  that includes all of the sequence elements necessary to encode a functional transcript .
tolerance to warm temperatures if plant is exposed to above than permissive temperature limits .
a measurable or observable characteristic of a cellular component  ( go:0005575 )  ,  biological process  ( go:0008150 )  or molecular function  ( go:0003674 )  that is part of ,  or has participant a plant anatomical entity  ( po:0025131 )  and / or a plant structure development stage  ( po:0009012 )  .
lower ,  narrow portion of the uterus where it joins with the top end of the vagina .
the olfactory organ of vertebrates ,  consisting of nares ,  olfactory epithelia and the structures and skeletal framework of the nasal cavity .
the clusters of hormone - producing cells that are scattered throughout the pancreas
the pituitary gland is an endocrine gland that secretes hormones that regulate many other glands  [ go ]  .
a major division of the nervous system that contains nerves which connect the central nervous system  ( cns )  with sensory organs ,  other organs ,  muscles ,  blood vessels and glands .
the parasympathetic nervous system is one of the two divisions of the vertebrate autonomic nervous system .
the sympathetic nervous system is one of the two divisions of the vertebrate autonomic nervous system  ( the other being the parasympathetic nervous system )  .
any portion of the organ that covers that body and consists of a layer of epidermis and a layer of dermis .
the part of the pancreas that is part of the endocrine system and is made up of islet cells ,  which produce insulin ,  glucagon and somatostatin .
one of the epidermal growths that form the distinctive outer covering ,  or plumage ,  on birds .
appendage that is shaped in order to produce lift for flight through the air .
major subdivision of an organism that protrudes from the body [ dos ,  caro ]  .
any of the rounded masses of lymphoid tissue that are surrounded by a capsule of connective tissue ,  are distributed along the lymphatic vessels ,  and contain numerous lymphocytes which filter the flow of lymph .
the head is the anterior - most division of the body  [ go ]  .
sensory ganglia located on the dorsal spinal roots within the vertebral column .
a biological tissue mass ,  most commonly a mass of nerve cell bodies .
a tubular structure that contains ,  conveys body fluid ,  such as blood or lymph .
muscular duct that propels urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder ,  or related organs .
the fibromuscular tubular canal through which urine is discharged from the bladder to the exterior via the external urinary meatus ;  in males ,  the urethra is joined by the ejaculatory ducts and serves as a passageway for semen during ejaculation ,  as well as a canal for urine during voiding ;  in females ,  the urethra is shorter and emerges above the vaginal opening
a subdivision of the digestive tract that connects the small intestine to the cloaca or anus .
material anatomical entity that is a single connected structure with inherent 3d shape generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical structure that is part of the respiratory system .
a distinct juvenile stage many animals undergo before metamorphosis into adults .
a life cycle stage of holometabolous insects in which the organism is a pupa and starts with the larval - pupal apolysis and ends with pupal - adult apolysis .
a capillary tuft which forms a close network with the visceral epithelium  ( podocytes )  and the mesangium to form the filtration barrier and is surrounded by bowman's capsule in nephrons of the vertebrate kidney [ go ]  .
the organs associated with producing offspring in the gender that produces spermatozoa .
the second stage of the kidney .
a mass of cells that develop into the body of the embryo and some extraembryonic tissues
the first few specialized divisions of an activated animal egg ;  stage consisting of division of cells in the early embryo .
an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
a stage defined by complex and coordinated series of cellular movements that occurs at the end of cleavage during embryonic development of most animals .
the epithelial layer of the lung .
paired fin located in the abdominal position of the body .
a layer of the ovarian follicle that consists of theca cells .
segment of the alimentary canal extending from the stomach to the anus and ,  in humans and other mammals ,  consists of two segments ,  the small intestine and the large intestine .
the proximal portion of the digestive tract ,  containing the oral cavity and bounded by the oral opening .
a portion of organism substance that is the product of an excretion process that will be eliminated from the body .
a fluid that is composed of blood plasma and erythrocytes .
dorsal part  ( roof region )  of the telencephalon [ go ]  .
ventral part  ( base region )  of the telencephalon .
dense regular connective tissue connecting two or more adjacent skeletal elements or supporting an organ .
the thin innermost layer of the extraembryonic membranes that contains the amniotic fluid ;  the membrane forms a closed sac in which the embryo and later ,  the fetus ,  is suspended and protected
the upper ventral region of the torso of an organism .
mucosa that is part of a colon .
the inner layer of the trophoblast ,  interior to the syncytiotrophoblast in an embryo .
an embryo that is at the late embryonic stage ;  this stage covers late steps of the embryogenesis with a fully formed embryo still developing before birth or egg hatching .
a lining of mostly endodermal origin ,  covered in epithelium ,  which is involved in absorption and secretion .
the mammalian blastocyst is a hollow ball of cells containing two cell types ,  the inner cell mass and the trophectoderm [ go ]  .
the inner portion of the kidney consisting of the renal pyramids
an epithelial tissue layer that lines much of the urinary tract ,  including the renal pelvis ,  the ureters ,  the bladder ,  and parts of the urethra .
the corpus striatum  ( striated body )  is a compound structure consisting of the caudate nucleus and the lentiform nucleus ,  which consists of the putamen and the globus pallidus [ wp ]  .
extraembryonic cells of trophoblastic shell surrounding embryo ,  outside the cytotrophoblast layer ,  involved with implantation of the blastocyst by eroding extracellular matrix surrounding maternal endometrial cells at site of implantation ,  also contribute to villi .
the part of the hindlimb between pelvis and the knee ,  corresponding to the femur .
apocrine sweat glands are sweat glands composed of a coiled secretory portion located at the junction of the dermis and subcutaneous fat ,  from which a straight portion inserts and secretes into the infundibular portion of the hair follicle .
the subdivision of the musculoskeletal system that consists of all the muscles of the body [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
the part of the cerebral cortex responsible for processing visual information .
a merocrine ,  unbranched ,  unbranched ,  coiled ,  tubular gland sweat gland .
the outermost layer of trophoblast ,  produced by cytotrophoblast where there is direct contact with maternal decidua rather than blood .
gray matter structure located on the midline of the forebrain consisting of the septum pellucidum  ( in some species )  and the septal nuclei  ( heimer ,  1996 )  .
the anterior part of the frontal lobes of the brain ,  lying in front of the motor and premotor areas .nnthis brain region has been implicated in planning complex cognitive behaviors ,  personality expression ,  decision making and moderating correct social behavior .
area of uterine endometrium found between the implanted chorionic vesicle and the myometrium .
multicellular ,  connected anatomical structure that has multiple organs as parts and whose parts work together to achieve some shared function .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
a gonad of a male animal .
the organs and associated structures associated with bearing offspring in a female animal .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
one of the repeated divisions of the whole organism .
subdivision of trunk that lies between the head and the abdomen .
the subdivision of the vertebrate body between the thorax and pelvis .
anatomical entity that comprises the organism in the early stages of growth and differentiation that are characterized by cleavage ,  the laying down of fundamental tissues ,  and the formation of primitive organs and organ systems .
primary germ layer that is the outer of the embryo's three germ layers and gives rise to epidermis and neural tissue .
primary germ layer that lies remote from the surface of the embryo and gives rise to internal tissues such as gut .
the middle germ layer of the embryo ,  between the endoderm and ectoderm .
a double row of cells which are located at the midline from the end of gastrulations .
a muscle that acts on the pharynx [ wp ,  vetted ]  .
the pair of closely united ventral longitudinal nerves with their segmental ganglia that is characteristic of many elongate invertebrates  ( as earthworms )  [ bto ]  .
an expanded region of the vertebrate alimentary tract that serves as a food storage compartment and digestive organ .
the main trunk of the systemic arterial system that carries blood from the heart to all the organs and other structures of the body ,  bringing oxygenated blood to all parts of the body in the systemic circulation
a myogenic muscular circulatory organ found in the vertebrate cardiovascular system composed of chambers of cardiac muscle .
anatomical system that consists of the glands and parts of glands that produce endocrine secretions and help to integrate and control bodily metabolic activity .
the brain is the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate ,  and most invertebrate ,  animals .
the thin layer of gray matter on the surface of the cerebral hemisphere that develops from the telencephalon .
the transparent anterior portion of the fibrous coat of the eye that serves as the chief refractory structure
transparent part of camera - type eye that helps to refract light to be focused on the retina .
the retina is the innermost layer or coating at the back of the eyeball ,  which is sensitive to light and in which the optic nerve terminates .
an organ that detects light .
the paired ,  usually multiple jointed ,  sensory organs articulating on the procephalic region of the head capsule ;  its highly versatile sensory structures are capable to detect the various environmental stimuli .
an organism subdivision that extends from the head to the pectoral girdle ,  encompassing the cervical vertebral column .
paired endochondral long bone that extends between the pectoral girdle and the skeletal parts of the forelimb .
the invaginated serous membrane that surrounds the lungs  ( the visceral portion )  and lines the walls of the pleural cavity  ( parietal portion )  .
the portion of the hindlimb that contains both the stylopod and zeugopod .
the major preaxial endochondral bone in the posterior zeugopod [ phenoscape ]  .
a bony prominence near the extremity of the femur that normally serves as attachment points for hip and thigh muscles [ mp , modified ] 
endochondral longbone connecting the pelvic girdle with posterior zeugopodium skeleton .
anatomical cluster that consists of two or more adjacent skeletal structures ,  which may be interconnected by various types of tissue [ vsao ]  .
the capitate stalk on both sides of the thorax having developed from the dorsal metathoracic wing - buds ,  it is freely movable and capable of vibration ,  representing the hind wing of diptera ;  used for flight balance .
the part of the central nervous system lying between the medulla oblongata and the midbrain ,  ventral to the cerebellum .
a intromittent organ in certain biologically male organisms .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with reproduction .
reproductive organ that produces and releases eggs  ( ovary )  or sperm  ( testis )  .
the gonad of a female organism which contains germ cells
a tube or collection of tubes in an animal from the ovaries to the outside of the body .
an organ of the female reproductive tract that functions to receive and store sperm from the male ,  and can sometimes be the site of fertilization when the oocytes are ready .
the female muscular organ of gestation in which the developing embryo or fetus is nourished until birth
a fibromuscular tubular tract leading from the uterus to the exterior of the body in female placental mammals and marsupials ,  or to the cloaca in female birds ,  monotremes ,  and some reptiles [ wp ]  .
external genital organs of the female mammal [ wp ]  .
either of a pair of glandular pouches that lie one on either side of the male reproductive tract posterolateral to the urinary bladder and in the human male secrete a sugar -  and protein - containing fluid into the ejaculatory duct .
the ejaculatory ducts  ( ductus ejaculatorii )  are paired structures in male anatomy ,  about 2 cm in length .
a secretory duct that transports sperm from the testis .
a cuticular covering that is composed primarily of chitin .
the outer epithelial layer of the skin that is superficial to the dermis .
functional system which consists of structures involved in respiration .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs devoted to the ingestion ,  digestion ,  and assimilation of food and the discharge of residual wastes .
the renal system in an anatomical system that maintains fluid balance and contributes to electrolyte balance ,  acid / base balance ,  and disposal of nitrogenous waste products . .
organ system that passes nutrients  ( such as amino acids and electrolytes )  ,  gases ,  hormones ,  blood cells ,  etc .
portion of connective tissue composed of adipocytes enmeshed in areolar tissue
a subdivision of the muscular system corresponding to a subdisivision of an organism .
the nervous system is an organ system containing predominantly neuron and glial cells .
the central nervous system is the core nervous system that serves an integrating and coordinating function .
an enclosed ,  cable - like bundle of axons in the peripheral nervous system originating in a nerve root in the central nervous system  ( or a condensed nervous structure )  connecting with peripheral structures .
anatomical system that overlaps the nervous system and is responsible for receiving and processing sensory information .
the sensory system for the sense of taste .
a filament ,  mostly protein ,  that grows from follicles found in the dermis [ wp ]  .
chordotonal organs are arthropod sensory structures consisting of special sensilla called the scolopidia ,  which are mechano - transducers and respond mainly to stretch or flexion .
a sac - like expansion of the ventral wall of the intestine ,  narrowed into a yolk stalk near the body [ hyman's ]  .
a portion of the respiratory and digestive tracts ;  its distal limit is the superior part of the esophagus and it connects the nasal and oral cavities with the esophagus and larynx ;  it contains the valleculae and the pyriform recesses ;  its upper limits are the nasal cavity and cranial base .
tube that connects the pharynx to the stomach .
saliva - secreting exocrine glands of the oral cavity [ go ] 
middle subdivision of a digestive tract [ cjm ]  .
primordia are populations of contiguous cells that are morphologically distinct and already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue [ fbbt ,  hartenstein ,  v .  ( 2004 )  ]  .
bottom part of the pharynx that connects to the esophagus .
the terminal portion of the intestinal tube ,  terminating with the anus
a system of neurons that has the specialized function to produce and secrete hormones ,  and that constitutes ,  in whole or in part ,  an endocrine organ or system .
a tubule that extends from the posterior part of the digestive tract which absorbs solutes ,  water ,  and wastes from the surrounding hemolymph .
one of a pair of neurohemal organs located on the walls of the aorta just behind the brain .
one of a pair of separate or fused bodies in many insects that are sometimes closely associated with the corpora cardiaca and that secrete hormones  ( as juvenile hormone )  [ bto ]  .
prominent lobed neuropils found in annelids and all arthropods except crustaceans .
a neurosecretory center of the insect brain ,  located along the anterior midline [ wiktionary ]  .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
a pad of fibrocartilage between the articular surfaces of two successive vertebral centra which has nucleus pulposus at its core .
the head of pancreas is a portion of the pancreas that is lodged within the curve of the duodenum ,  and is flattened anteriorly  ( from before )  .
a terminal branch of the left or right common carotid artery which supplies oxygenated blood to to the throat ,  neck glands ,  tongue ,  face ,  mouth ,  ear ,  scalp and dura mater of the meninges [ mp ] 
muscular layer of the cardiac ventricle composed of a compact myocardial layer surrounding the trabecular layer .
excretion that is the output of a kidney
skeletal element within the mouth  ( or in some species ,  upper part of the digestive tract )  that is composed of dentine and is used in procuring or masticating food .
a thin musculomebranous barrier that separates the abdominal and thoracic cavities .
the respiratory muscles that arise from the lower border of one rib and insert into the upper border of the adjoining rib
the right lobe is much larger than the left ;  the proportion between them being as six to one .
the left lobe is smaller and more flattened than the right .
the parathyroid gland is an endocrine gland for secretion of parathyroid hormone ,  usually found as a pair ,  embedded in the connective tissue capsule on the posterior surface of the thyroid gland .
muscle tissue that consists primarily of skeletal muscle fibers .
muscle tissue which is unstriated ,  composed primarily of smooth muscle fibers surrounded by a reticulum of collagen and elastic fibers .
a major subdivision of an organism that is the entire part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
vein that carries blood away from the liver [ zfa ]  .
the body of the pancreas is a subsection of the pancreas organ in the human body .
the tail of the pancreas ,  located anatomically left near the hilum of the spleen ,  is not simply an anatomical distinction .
a pouch in the digestive tract that connects the ileum with the ascending colon of the large intestine .
a blind - ended tube connected to the cecum ,  from which it develops embryologically [ wp ]  .
last portion of the large intestine before it becomes the rectum .
section of colon which is distal to the cecum and proximal to the transversecolon .
the proximal - distal subdivision of colon that runs transversely across the upper part of the abdomen ,  from the right to the left colic flexure .
the portion of the colon between the left colic flexure and the sigmoid colon at the pelvic brim ;  the portion of the descending colon lying in the left iliac fossa is sometimes called the iliac colon .
the part of the large intestine that is closest to the rectum and anus .
the fundus is the portion of the stomach that lies above the cardiac notch ,  and contains the fundic glands [ go ,  kardong ]  .
the area at the bottom of the stomach on the caudal side of the pyloric canal that contains gastrin - producing g cells ,  which stimulate acid production ,  and the luminal ph - sensitive population of somatostatin - producing d cells
the part of the biliary tree formed by the union of the cystic duct and the common hepatic duct
anatomical cavity bounded by visceral and parietal peritoneum
one of two laterally paired arteries that supplies the kidneys .
an artery that supplies the liver .
the protruding lymphoid tissue located on the mucosa of the intestine that is composed of densely packed b cell follicles
a funnel shaped proximal portion of the ureter that is formed by convergence of the major calices  [ mp ]  .
outer cortical portion of the kidney ,  between the renal capsule and the renal medulla .
tip of renal pyramid projecting into a minor calyx .
a cup - like sac at the expanded beginning of a tubular component of a nephron that contains the glomerulus
an epithelial tube that is part of the nephron ,  the functional part of the kidney .
the collecting duct is a portion of the nephron through which water flows ,  moving passively down its concentration gradient
the thick outer layer of the adrenal gland that produces and secretes steroid hormones such as corticosterone ,  estrone and aldosterone
the inner portion of the adrenal gland that consists mainly of chromaffin cells which produce ,  store and secrete neurotransmitters such as epinephrine and norepinephrine
lamina propria that is part_of the small intestine .
distensible musculomembranous organ situated in the anterior part of the pelvic cavity in which urine collects before excretion [ mp ]  .
the mucous membrane lining the urinary bladder
the secretory units of the exocrine pancreas ,  where fluid containing digestive enzymes is produced ;  consists of a group of secretory cells surrounding a luminal space that connects to the pancreatic duct .
an endoderm derived structure that produces precursors of digestive enzymes and blood glucose regulating enzymes [ go ]  .
paired endochondral bone that is the dorsal - most of the pelvic bones ,  offering attachment areas for gluteal muscles on its main surface  [ phenoscape:ad ]  .
epithelial layer that lines the intestine .
wide thin - walled blood vessels in the liver .
the tubules located between the bile canaliculi and interlobular bile ducts near the outer edge of a classic liver lobule
the basic functional unit of the kidney .
the proximal convoluted tubule is the most proximal portion of the proximal tubule and extends from the glomerular capsule to the proximal straight tubule .
the section of the renal tubule in the kidney medulla with a hairpin bend ;  consists of a descending limb and an ascending limb ,  and is situated between the proximal convoluted tubule to the distal convoluted tubule ;  it functions to reabsorb water and ions from the urine
the portion of the renal tubule that constitutes the proximal part of the loop of henle ,  has low permeability to ions and urea ,  and is highly permeable to water ;  it consists of an initial short thick segment lined by low simple cuboidal epithelium and a long thin segment lined by simple squamous epithelium ;  however ,  this distinction is not as important physiologically as in the ascending limb ,  so often the two are treated as one structure
the proximal straight tubule is the part of the descending limb that extends from the proximal convoluted tubule to the descending thin tubule .
the distal sub - portion of the ascending loop of henle which is lined by simple cuboidal epithelium and enters the renal cortex to empty a hypotonic filtrate into the distal convoluted tubule
the first segment of the nephron lying just downstream from the loop of henle ,  immediately after the macula densa .
the glandular mucous membrane lining of the uterine cavity that is hormonally responsive during the estrous / menstrual cycle and during pregnancy
the smooth muscle coat of the uterus ,  which forms the main mass of the organ and surrounds and supports the endometrium
the elongated structure connected to the posterior surface of the testis that transports ,  stores ,  and matures spermatozoa between testis and vas deferens
the umbilical artery is a paired artery  ( with one for each half of the body )  that is found in the abdominal and pelvic regions .
a large nerve that supplies nearly the whole of the skin of the leg ,  the muscles of the back of the thigh ,  and those of the leg and foot .
the tibial nerve is a branch of the sciatic nerve .
a retractable double - layered fold of skin and mucous membrane that covers the glans penis and protects the urinary meatus when the penis is not erect .
connective tissue consisting of fat - storing cells and arranged in lobular groups or along minor blood vessels [ mp , modified ] 
a thermogenic form of adipose tissue that is composed of brown adipocytes [ mp , modified ] 
the anus and surrounding regions .
a clear ,  colorless ,  bodily fluid ,  that occupies the subarachnoid space and the ventricular system around and inside the brain and spinal cord .
the biceps femoris is a muscle of the posterior  ( the back )  thigh .
one of the muscles belong to the group consisting of the rectus femoris and the three heads of the vastus  ( lateralis ,  medialis ,  intermedius )  .
the vastus lateralis  ( vastus externus )  is the largest part of the quadriceps femoris .
the part of the cerebral cortex that receives projections from the motor thalamus and which projects to motor neurons in the brainstem and spinal cord .
a muscle that originates in the upper two - thirds of the lateral surface of the tibia and inserts into the medial cuneiform and first metatarsal bones of the foot .
the most superficial muscle of the triceps surae group ,  in the posterior portion of the lower hindleg .
a deep muscle of the triceps surae group ,  in the superficial posterior compartment of the leg .
the brachial artery is the major blood vessel of the  ( upper )  arm .
the longissimus thoracis is the intermediate and largest of the continuations of the sacrospinalis . [ wp ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the major preaxial endochondral bone in the anterior zeugopod [ phenoscape ]  .
anatomical system that is a multi - element ,  multi - tissue anatomical cluster that consists of the skeleton and the articular system .
subdivision of trunk proper ,  which is demarcated from the neck by the plane of the superior thoracic aperture and from the abdomen internally by the inferior surface of the diaphragm and externally by the costal margin and associated with the thoracic vertebral column and ribcage and from the back of the thorax by the external surface of the posterolateral part of the rib cage ,  the anterior surface of the thoracic vertebral column and the posterior axillary lines ;  together with the abdomen and the perineum ,  it constitutes the trunk proper [ fma ]  .
the major postaxial endochondral bone in the posterior zeugopod [ phenoscape ]  .
the postaxial bone of the proximal tarsals series [ phenoscape ]  .
the part of the forelimb extending from the shoulder to the autopod [ cjm ]  .
the elbow is the region surrounding the elbow - joint - the ginglymus or hinge joint in the middle of the arm .
the hip region is located lateral to the gluteal region  ( i .e .
a segment of the hindlimb that corresponds to the joint connecting a hindlimb stylopod and zeugopod .
a subdivision of the pectoral complex consisting of the structures in the region of the shoulder joint  ( which connects the humerus ,  scapula and clavicle )  .
the loose fold of skin that covers the penis
a vessel that contains or conveys lymph ,  that originates as an interfibrillar or intercellular cleft or space in a tissue or organ ,  and that if small has no distinct walls or walls composed only of endothelial cells and if large resembles a vein in structure [ bto ]  .
skeletal element that is composed of bone tissue .
a muscle of shoulder which attaches to the scapula ,  clavicle and humerus .
the knee joint joins the thigh with the leg and consists of two articulations: one between the femur and tibia ,  and one between the femur and patella .
a joint that connects the hindlimb autopod and zeugopod skeletons .
muscles of the upper chest .
a muscle in the forelimb stylopod which in humans has several functions ,  the most important being to rotate the forearm and to flex the elbow .
the part of the aorta that extends from the origin at the heart to the diaphragm ,  and from which arises numerous branches that supply oxygenated blood to the chest cage and the organs within the chest
abdominal part of aorta: the distal part of the descending aorta ,  which is the continuation of the thoracic part and gives rise to the inferior phrenic ,  lumbar ,  median sacral ,  superior and inferior mesenteric ,  middle suprarenal ,  renal ,  and testicular or ovarian arteries ,  and celiac trunk [ bto ]  .
the short first aortic arch branch and divides into the right subclavian artery and the right common carotid artery
a terminal branch of the left or right common carotid artery which supplies oxygenated blood to the brain and eyes [ mp ] 
an artery that supplies blood to the lateral compartment of the leg and is typically a branch of posterior tibial artery .
pharyngeal arch 1 muscle that participates in oral / pharyngeal behaviors ,  is innervated by masseteric nerve branches of the trigeminal nerve  ( cn v )  ,  and attaches to mandible and zygomatic arch .
skeletal muscle derived from cranial mesoderm and controls eye movements .
an artery that supplies the myocardium .
an epithelial tube or tree of tibes that transports blood away from the heart [ modified from aeo definition ]  .
any of the tubular branching vessels that carry blood from the capillaries toward the heart .
a portal vein that transports nutrients from the digestive tract to the liver [ kardong ]  .
cranial nerve that has three branches  -  the ophthalmic  ( supplying the skin of the nose and upper jaw )  ,  the maxillary and the mandibular  ( supplying the lower jaw )  .
the central retinal vein  ( retinal vein )  is a short vein that runs through the optic nerve and drains blood from the capillaries of the retina into the larger veins outside the eye .
the cranial ganglion that is associated with and extends fibers into the trigeminal nerve .
a dentary bone that is the only bone in one of the lateral halves of the lower jaw skeleton .
sense organ in vertebrates that is specialized for the detection of sound ,  and the maintenance of balance .
part of the ear external to the tympanum  ( eardrum )  .
the group of sensory neuron cell bodies associated with the facial nerve  ( seventh cranial nerve ) 
a horn - like keratin structure covering the dorsal aspect of the terminal phalanges of fingers and toes [ wp ]  .
the nasal septum separates the left and right airways in the nose ,  dividing the two nostrils .
an anatomical cavity that is part of the olfactory apparatus .
a fold of skin that covers and protects part of the eyeball .
the groups of nerve cell bodies associated with the twelve cranial nerves
nuclear complex containing subnuclei that give rise to the axons of the occulomotor nerve ,  both motor and parasympathetic fibers ,  situated at the midline at the level of the superior colliculus in the midbrain tegmentum  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1981 ,  pg 533 - 534 )  .
a muscular organ in the floor of the mouth .
the section of the pharynx that lies above the soft palate
the portion of the pharynx that lies between the soft palate and the upper edge of the epiglottis
the lymph tissue in the roof and posterior wall of the nasopharynx
conic projection from the posterior edge of the middle of the soft palate ,  composed of connective tissue containing a number of racemose glands ,  and some muscular fibers .
either of the paired compound tubuloalveolar  ( aka tubuloacinar )  major salivary glands composed of both serous and mucous secretory cells and situated beneath the mandible .
a continuation of the pharynx that is involved in breathing ,  sound production ,  and protecting the trachea against food aspiration .
portion of connective tissue with various types of white blood cells enmeshed in it ,  most numerous being the lymphocytes [ wp ]  .
the middle ear is the air - filled cavity within the skull of vertebrates that lies between the outer ear and the inner ear .
cranial nerve that branches into the lateral  ( to body sense organs )  and the intestino - accessorial  ( to the skin ,  muscles of shoulder ,  hyoid ,  larynx ,  gut ,  lungs ,  and heart )  .
the adjustable membrane ,  composed of the stroma and pigmented epithelium ,  located just in front of the crystalline lens within the eye
the smooth stratified squamous epithelium that covers the outer surface of the cornea
a skeletal muscle organ that is part of the trunk region .
the lamellated connective tissue of the cornea between the bowman and descemet membranes
the optic disc or optic nerve head is the location where ganglion cell axons exit the eye to form the optic nerve .
the mucous membrane that lines the inner surface of the eyelids and the front of the eyeball
the lacrimal glands are paired almond - shaped glands ,  located in or near the orbital region ,  that secrete the aqueous layer of the tear film .
any of the coil glands of the skin that secrete sweat
the fibrous investing tissue ,  covered by keratinized epithelium ,  that immediately surrounds a tooth and is contiguous with its periodontal ligament and with the mucosal tissues of the mouth [ glossary of periodontal terms 2001 ]  .
one of the smaller ,  largely mucus - secreting ,  exocrine glands of the oral cavity ,  consisting of the labial ,  buccal ,  molar ,  lingual ,  and palatine glands [ mp ]  .
the parotid gland is the largest of the salivary glands .
a fluid produced in the oral cavity by salivary glands ,  typically used in predigestion ,  but also in other functions .
a system of fluid passages in the inner ear ,  including both the cochlea ,  which is part of the auditory system ,  and the vestibular system ,  which provides the sense of balance .
the spiral - shaped bony canal in the inner ear containing the hair cells that transduce sound .
complex labyrinthine structure that comprises sensory endorgans specialized for vestibular ,  auditory ,  and acoustico - vestibular sensation .
one of two bilateral ,  largely symmetrical organ subdivisions within the telencephalon which contain the cerebral cortex and cerebral white matter .
anterior portion of the neocortex ,  lying anterior to the central sulcus in humans .
lower lateral part of the cerebral hemisphere .
upper central part of the cerebral hemisphere .
subcortical nucleus of telecephalic origin consisting of an elongated gray mass lying lateral to and bordering the lateral ventricle .
subcortical nucleus of telencephalic  ,  which together with the caudate nucleus ,  forms the striatum .
subcortical nucleus ,  functionally part of the basal ganglia ,  which consists of two segments the external  ( or lateral )  and internal  ( or medial )  separated by the medial medullary lamina in primates .
subcortical brain region lying anterior to the hippocampal formation in the temporal lobe and anterior to the temporal horn of the lateral ventricle in some species .
a brain structure in the forebrain wrapped around the stria terminalis .
a region of the brain consisting of a collection of neurons located in the forebrain ventral to the caudate and putamen .
part of the hippocampal formation forming a 'v' or 'u' shaped structure with the opening bounded by hippocampal area ca3 .
a network formed by blood vessels and the tela choroidea which secretes csf into the ventricular spaces .
the most anterior region the brain including both the telencephalon and diencephalon .
the midbrain is the middle division of the three primary divisions of the developing chordate brain or the corresponding part of the adult brain  ( in vertebrates ,  includes a ventral part containing the cerebral peduncles and a dorsal tectum containing the corpora quadrigemina and that surrounds the aqueduct of sylvius connecting the third and fourth ventricles )  [ go ]  .
a segment of the developing hindbrain [ zfa ]  .
part of the forebrain consisting of paired olfactory bulbs and cerebral hemispheres .
the division of the forebrain that develops from the foremost primary cerebral vesicle .
organ component of neuraxis that has as its parts the medullary reticular formation ,  inferior olivary complex and cochlear nuclear complex ,  among other structures [ fma ]  .
subcortical brain region consisting of paired gray matter bodies in the dorsal diencephalon and forming part of the lateral wall of the third ventricle of the brain .
a specialized brain region of the ventral diencephalon arising near the end of the segmentation period ;  the embryonic hypothalamic region will give rise to the posterior pituitary gland as well as a number of brain nuclei .
most dorsal part of the thalamus ,  comprising the pineal gland and habenular nuclei in most vertebrates .
an epithelium that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a midline ,  cone like structure located in the dorso - caudal roof of the 3rd ventricle ,  attached by peduncles to the habenular and posterior commissures .
the subthalamic nucleus is the lens - shaped nucleus located in the ventral part of the subthalamus on the inner aspect of the internal capsule that is concerned with the integration of somatic motor function [ go ]  .
a specialized accessory gland of the skin of mammals that secretes milk .
the group of neurons that serve as the primary processor of visual information received from the retina via the optic tract and send processed information to the visual cortex of the occipital lobe
nuclear complex of the thalamus situated on the caudal ,  subpial aspect of the thalamus  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1981 ,  pg 622 )  .
area of the forebrain between the anterior commissure and optic chiasm .
the supraoptic nucleus  ( son )  is a nucleus of magnocellular neurosecretory cells in the hypothalamus of the mammalian brain .
nucleus in the anterior part of the hypothalamus .
part of the midbrain tecturm consisting of paired bodies that sit caudal to the thalamus and surround the pineal gland in the mesencephalon of vertebrate brains .
part of the midbrain tectum ,  consisting of paired predominantly gray matter elevations on the dorsal aspect of the midbrain ,  located caudal to the superior colliculus ,  dorsal to the periaqueductal gray of the cerebral aqueduct and rostral to the cerebellum .
an area of cerebral cortex defined on the basis of cytoarchitecture that have six layers .
a part of the brain consisting of a three layered cortex located in the forebrain bordering the medial surface of the lateral ventricle .
the liquid component of blood ,  in which erythrocytes are suspended .
vital aqueous secretion of the liver that is formed by hepatocytes and modified down stream by absorptive and secretory properties of the bile duct epithelium .
the epithelial layer that lines the luminal space of the esophagus
a vessel through which blood circulates in the body .
any of the smallest blood vessels connecting arterioles with venules .
a monolayer of specialized ,  flattened ,  mitochondria - rich cells that lines the posterior surface of the cornea and faces the anterior chamber of the eye [ wp ]  .
a layer of epithelium that lines the heart ,  blood vessels  ( endothelium ,  vascular )  ,  lymph vessels  ( endothelium ,  lymphatic )  ,  and the serous cavities of the body [ mesh ]  .
organ of metabolic interchange between fetus and mother ,  partly of embryonic origin and partly of maternal origin [ go ]  .
trunk ganglion which is bilaterally paired and located at the anterior end of the sympathetic ganglion chain .
a sensory epithelium inside the nasal cavity that is responsible for detecting odors [ wp ]  .
the enteric nervous system is composed of two ganglionated neural plexuses in the gut wall which form one of the three major divisions of the autonomic nervous system .
an artery that carries deoxygenated blood from heart to the lungs .
posterior part of the cerebral hemisphere  ( msh ) 
the most posterior of the three principal regions of the brain .
an epithelium that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
* an ovoid densely packed collection of small cells of the anterior hypothalamus lying close to the midline in a shallow impression of the optic chiasm .
part of the metencephalon that lies in the posterior cranial fossa behind the brain stem .
predominantly gray matter midbrain structure lying dorsal to the crus cerebri and ventral to the midbrain tegmentum .
a large raphe nucleus extending from the anterior part of the pons through the mesencephalon ;  its neurons are serotoninergic [ nif ]  .
a two - lobed endocrine gland found in all vertebrates ,  located in front of and on either side of the trachea in humans ,  and producing various hormones ,  such as triiodothyronine and calcitonin [ bto ]  .
respiration organ that develops as an outpocketing of the esophagus .
an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure contains fluid that is actively transported around the organism [ zfa ]  .
anatomical structure that is part of an embryo .
an epithelium that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a parasympathetic ganglion located in the posterior orbit that contains preganglionic nerves and postganglionic neurons of the oculomotor nerve ,  connects to the edinger - westphal nucleus via the oculomotor nerve and the eye muscles via the short ciliary nerve .
the femoral artery is a large artery in the muscles of the thigh .
the umbilical vein is a blood vessel present during fetal development that carries oxygenated blood from the placenta to the growing fetus .
the dermis is a layer of skin between the epidermis  ( with which it makes up the skin )  and subcutaneous tissues ,  and is composed of two layers ,  the papillary and reticular dermis [ wp ]  .
a tube - like opening in the epidermis where the hair shaft develops and into which the sebaceous glands open [ go ]  .
a cardiac atrium that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac atrium that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac ventricle that is in the right side of the heart .
cardiac chamber in which blood enters the heart .
cardiac chamber through which blood leaves the heart .
a cardiac ventricle that is in the left side of the heart .
the postcranial subdivision of skeleton structural components forming the long axis of the vertebrate body ;  in danio ,  consisting of the notochord ,  vertebrae ,  ribs ,  supraneurals ,  intermuscular bones ,  and unpaired median fins ;  in human consists of the bones of the vertebral column ,  the thoracic cage and the pelvis [ zfa + fma ]  .
subdivision of skeleton which which consists of all the skeletal elements in in the pectoral and pelvic appendage complexes [ cjm ]  .
cardiac septum which separates the right ventricle from the left ventricle .
the organ covering the body that consists of the dermis and epidermis .
organism subdivision which is the part of the body posterior to the cervical region  ( or head ,  when cervical region not present )  and anterior to the caudal region .
a paired appendage that is evolved from a paired fin .
a  ( free )  limb that is connected to a pectoral girdle .
a  ( free )  limb that is connected to a pelvic girdle region .
the organ that functions to filter blood and to store red corpuscles and platelets
an exocrine gland which secretes bile and functions in metabolism of protein and carbohydrate and fat ,  synthesizes substances involved in the clotting of the blood ,  synthesizes vitamin a ,  detoxifies poisonous substances ,  stores glycogen ,  and breaks down worn - out erythrocytes [ go ]  .
subdivision of digestive tract that connects the stomach to the large intestine and is where much of the digestion and absorption of food takes place  ( with the exception of ruminants )  .
an organ that aids digestion and stores bile produced by the liver [ wp ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a paired organ of the urinary tract which has the production of urine as its primary function .
the first part of the small intestine .
the portion of the small intestine that extends from the duodenum to the ileum
the portion of the small intestine that extends from the jejunum to the colon
in mammals ,  the pronephros is the first of the three embryonic kidneys to be established and exists only transiently .
medullary portion of thymus .the reticulum is coarser than in the cortex ,  the lymphoid cells are relatively fewer in number ,  and there are found peculiar nest - like bodies ,  the concentric corpuscles of hassall .
an atrioventricular valve that is part of the outflow part of the left atrium .
cardiac valve which has as its parts the anterior ,  right posterior and left posterior cusps ,  attached to the fibrous ring of aortic valve .
the locus ceruleus is a dense cluster of neurons within the dorsorostral pons .
the endocardium is an anatomical structure comprised of an endothelium and an extracellular matrix that forms the innermost layer of tissue of the heart ,  and lines the heart chambers [ go ]  .
the small terminal dilation of the alveolar ducts around which the alveoli form pocket - like clusters
the lobe of the right lung that is closest to the head .
the lobe of the right lung that is furtherst from the head .
in the human ,  the right lung is divided into three lobes  ( as opposed to two lobes on the left )  ,  superior ,  middle ,  and inferior ,  by two interlobular fissures:  [ wp , unvetted ]  .
one of two branches of the trachea .
the lobar bronchus is the major airway within the respiratory tree that starts by division of the principal bronchi on both sides and ends at the point of its own subdivision into tertiary or segmental bronchi [ go ]  .
the tertiary bronchi  ( also known as the segmental bronchi )  arise from the secondary bronchi .
the upper conducting airways of the lung ;  these airways arise from the terminus of the trachea
the conducting airway of the lungs found terminal to the bronchi ;  these structures contain neither cartilage nor mucous - secreting glands ;  the epithelium of the bronchioles becomes thinner with each branching
a bronchiole that is the first segment of the respiratory zone .
a portion of adipose tissue that is part of the hypodermis ,  beneath the dermis .
the glandular ,  anterior lobe of the pituitary gland .
the posterior part of the pituitary gland that secretes hormones involved in blood pressure regulation such as oxytocin and antidiuretic hormon .
vasculature that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
vasculature that is part of the eye region .
anatomical system that consists of the muscular and skeletal systems .
the neuroepithelial sensory receptor in the inferolateral wall of the utricle ;  hair cells of the neuroepithelium support the statoconial membrane and have terminal arborizations of vestibular nerve fibers around their bodies ;  normally sensitive to linear acceleration in the longitudinal axis of the body and to gravitational influences
the organ of corti  ( or spiral organ )  is the organ in the inner ear of mammals that contains auditory sensory cells ,  or 'hair cells .'
an intersegmental rod - shaped bone that forms in the peritoneal membrane and attach to the vertebral parapophyses .
part of the central nervous system located in the vertebral canal continuous with and caudal to the brain ;  demarcated from brain by plane of foramen magnum .
a paired regions of the cerebellum that lie outside and lateral to the central vermis [ mp ]  .
the continuation of the femoral artery coursing through the popliteal fossa ;  it divides into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries .
an organ thought to supplement the olfactory system in receiving pheromonic communication .
the upper portion of the spiral ligament contains numerous capillary loops and small blood vessels ,  and is termed the stria vascularis .
a brain ventricle that is part of a telencephalon .
part of ventricular system of brain consisting of a narrow channel in the midbrain connecting the third and fourth ventricles .
organ system subdivision that consists of the organs and ducts that are involved in the production and transportation of bile .
stalk - like part of the brain that includes amongst its parts the medulla oblongata of the hindbrain and the tegmentum of the midbrain [ zfa , mp , generalized ]  .
spherical outcropping of the respiratory bronchioles and primary site of gas exchange with the blood .
the atrial part of middle layer of the heart ,  comprised of involuntary muscle
dorsal part of the midbrain ,  consisting of the superior and inferior colliculi and the pretectal nuclei  ( mm )  .
the connecting cord from the developing embryo to the placenta .
an arterial trunk which is continuous with the heart and branches into the pulmonary arteries .
the macula densa is an area of specialized cells in the distal tubule that makes contact with the vascular pole of the glomerulus [ go ]  .
white matter structure containing massive numbers of commissural fibers connecting cortical areas in the two cerebral hemispheres .it is subdivided into a genu ,  a rostrum ,  a body ,  and a splenium .
the part of the aorta that extends from the arch of the aorta to the diaphragm ,  and from which arises numerous branches that supply oxygenated blood to the chest cage and the organs within the chest .
the middle layer of the heart ,  comprised mainly of striated cardiac muscle fibers
the cardiac conduction system consists of specialized cardiomyocytes that regulate the frequency of heart beat [ go ] 
an area of conducting tissue between the atria and the ventricles of the heart that conducts the normal electrical impulse from the atria to the ventricles .
the lower segment of the trunk ,  inferioposterior to the abdomen proper ,  in the transition area between the trunk and the lower limbs .
subdivision of trunk proper ,  which is demarcated from the pelvis by the inferior surface of the pelvic diaphragm and from the lower limbs by the perineofemoral lines ;  together with the thorax ,  abdomen ,  and pelvis ,  it constitutes the trunk [ fma ]  .
a serous membrane that lines the peritoneal cavity [ vhog , modified ]  .
membrane organ that surrounds the brain and the spinal cord .
the prostate gland is a partly muscular ,  partly glandular body that is situated near the base of the mammalian male urethra and secretes an alkaline viscid fluid which is a major constituent of the ejaculatory fluid .
endocrine glands are glands of the endocrine system that secrete their products directly into the circulatory system rather than through a duct .
anatomical structure of largely lymphoid tissue that functions in cell - mediated immunity by being the site where t cells develop .
the soft tissue that fills the cavities of bones
either of the two small almond - shaped masses of lymph tissue found on either side of the oropharynx
tonsils on the left and right sides at the back of the throat .
a bone that is part of the metacarpal skeleton .
any skeletal muscle that is part of the head region .
the pectoralis major is a thick ,  fan - shaped muscle ,  situated at the upper front of the chest wall .
tissue with cells that deposit non - polarized extracellular matrix including connective tissue fibers and ground substance .
the middle limb segment of the pectoral free limb ,  between the autopod and stylopod segments .
distal portion of the hind limb ,  including tarsal region ,  metatarsal region and digits .
anatomical system that is involved in the production of hematopoietic cells .
lymph is the fluid that is formed when interstitial fluid enters the conduits of the lymphatic system through lymph capillaries [ wp ]  .
any of the ducts that form the biliary tree ,  carrying bile from the liver to the small intestine .
anatomical system that protects the body from foreign substances ,  cells ,  and tissues by producing the immune response and that includes especially the thymus ,  spleen ,  lymphoid tissue ,  lymphocytes including the b cells and t cells ,  and antibodies .
the combination of pericardial sac  ( a double - walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels )  plus fibrous pericardium .
the ossified form of a vertebral element ,  a skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
an external caudal extension of the body .
connected anatomical system that forms a barrier between an animal and its environment .
an individual member of a collection of basal ganglia .
hippocampus  ( proper )  plus dentate gyrus and subiculum [ definition derived from nif comments and ontology alignment ]  .
the part of the digestive system that contains the liver and the biliary system
a bone that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mucous secreting gland associated with the mucuous membrane lining the uterus .
the lymphatic system in vertebrates is a network of conduits that carry a clear fluid called lymph .
a mucosa that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the middle free limb segment ,  between the autopod and stylopod segments .
the proximal free limb segment .
the lymph nodes located in the mesentery ,  of which there are 3 classes: ileocolic ,  juxtaintestinal mesenteric ,  and central superior group .
the crystalline particles composed of calcium carbonate and a protein which adhere to the gelatinous membrane of the maculae of the utricle and saccule  ( otolithic membrane ) 
a lymph node that is part of a mediastinum .
an organ that functions as a secretory or excretory organ
an outgrowth on the lateral trunk of the embryo that develops into a paired fin .
the rapidly proliferating mass of cells at the caudal extremity of the embryo ;  remnant of the primitive node .
sense organ embedded in the integument and consisting of one or a cluster of sensory neurons and associated sensory structures ,  support cells and glial cells forming a single organised unit with a largely bona - fide boundary .
a gonad with both testicular and ovarian aspects [ wp ]  .
the cells of the hatching gland contain enzymes responsible for solubilization of the egg chorion ,  facilitating the hatching process [ go ]  .
one of a series of paired bulges that develop along the lateral walls of the foregut .
a line of sensory organs and associated structures along the sides of fish and amphibia that detect vibrations and pressure changes .
the thickend rim of the blastoderm evident during late blastula and gastrula stages [ fishbase ]  .
a small rigid plate that grows out of an animal's skin to provide protection .
a subdivision of the autopod that has as part a series of phalanges together with associated vasculature ,  musculature ,  integument and nerves .
component of the parietal lobe .
synonym for macrodissected adult human tegmentum  ( vicq d'azyr ,  1784 ;  swanson ,  2000 )  ;  pp .
component of the frontal lobe ,  lateral aspect .
unpaired midbrain region situated in the ventromedial portion of the reticular formation .
component of the frontal lobe .
component of the temporal lobe on the mesial surface .
component of the temporal lobe ,  lateral aspect .
component of the temporal lobe ,  lateral aspect .
the group of neuron cell bodies associated with the eighth cranial nerve during embryogenesis ;  splits in later development to form the cochlear and vestibular ganglia
the terminal nerve ,  located anterior to cranial nerve i ,  is comprised of a group of cells with somata adjacent to the olfactory bulb and processes that extend anteriorly to the olfactory epithelium and posteriorly to the telencephalon .
the cingulate cortex is a part of the brain situated in the medial aspect of the cortex .
periaqueductal gray  ( pag ;  also called the 'central gray' )  is the gray matter located around the cerebral aqueduct within the midbrain .
a thick plate of cells derived from the neural ectoderm in the head region of the embryo that develops into the olfactory region of the nasal cavity .
proliferative region that is part of the ventricular system .
the hypochord is a transient rod - like structure in the embryos of fish ,  lampreys and amphibians that is located immediately ventral to the notochord .
unsegmented field of paraxial mesoderm present posterior to the most recently formed somite pair ,  from which somites will form .
blood islands are structures in the developing embryo which lead to many different parts of the circulatory system .
region at the periphery of the retina where retinal stem cells are located .
the axial mesoderm includes the prechordal mesoderm and the chordamesoderm .
a cranial placode which ,  once specified ,  invaginates to form an otic cup ,  which eventually separates from the surface ectoderm to form the otic vesicle or otocyst ,  a rounded structure without appar -  ent polarity .
a neurogenic placode that arises at the level of the midbrain - hindbrain boundary and develops into a trigeminal ganglion .
portion of tissue that is part of the anterior neural keel and will form the optic vesicle [ zfa ]  .
a thickened portion of ectoderm which serves as the precursor to the lens .
the paraxial mesoderm is the mesoderm located bilaterally adjacent to the notochord and neural tube [ go ] 
focal thickenings of the embryonic ectoderm that form immediately dorsal and caudal of the clefts between the pharyngeal arches and that produce the neuroblasts that migrate and condense to form the distal cranial ganglia .
the specialized glial structure  ( non - neuronal cells )  situated at the ventral midline of the embryonic neural tube ;  this structure spans the anteroposterior axis from the midbrain to the tail regions ,  separating the left and right basal plates of the developing neural tube ,  and serves as an organizer to ventralize tissues in the embryo as well as to guide neuronal positioning and differentiation along the dorsoventral axis of the neural tube .
trunk portion of the neural crest .
extension of the dorsal aorta in the tail .
neural crest cells  ( nccs )  originating in the anterior part of the developing embryo and residing between the mid - diencephalon and the forming hindbrain ;  cranial nccs migrate dorsolaterally to form the craniofacial mesenchyme that differentiates into various craniofacial cartilages and bones ,  cranial neurons ,  glia ,  and connective tissues of the face ;  these cells enter the pharyngeal pouches and arches where they give rise to thymic cells ,  bones of the middle ear and jaw  ( mandible )  ,  and the odontoblasts of the tooth primordia ;  like their counterparts in the trunk ,  cranial nccs also contribute to the developing peripheral nervous system ,  along with the pigmented cell  ( i .e .
anatomical cluster that is located in the anterior region of the cranium and provides structural support for the olfactory organ .
the vessels formed within the first pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the second pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the third pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the fourth pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the fifth pair of pharyngeal arches in embryogenesis .
the vessels formed within the sixth pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the outermost extraembryonic membrane
the trachea is the portion of the airway that attaches to the bronchi as it branches  [ go:dph ]  .
upper portion of the skull that excludes the mandible  ( when present in the organism )  .
an organism at the pupal stage .
organ part that has the form of a hollow cavity [ wp ]  .
a floor plate that is part of a neural tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a floor plate that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
nodular lymphoid structures on the serosal surface of the small intestine .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a hindlimb region .
an artery that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a trachea .
a blood vessel that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the ventral area of the mouth .
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the abdomen proper  ( excluding the pelvic cavity )  .
a fold of peritoneum originating at the stomach and supporting the viscera .
a collection of sacral vertebrae in the sacral region that are fused and part of the bony pelvis .
anatomical space in the abdominal cavity behind  ( retro )  the peritoneum .
the tissues that surround the organs that are present within the abdominal cavity .
the central part of the thoracic cavity enclosed by the left and right pleurae .
a mucous membrane that lines the mouth .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a midbrain .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a telencephalon .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a diencephalon .
posterior part of a vertebra that consists of a pair of pedicles and a pair of laminae ,  and supports seven processes: four articular processes ,  two transverse processes one spinous process [ wp ]  .
part of hippocampus proper bounded by ca2 and the subiculum ,  characterized by pyramidal neurons that receive projections from pyramidal neurons of ca3 via the schaffer collaterals .
part of hippocampus proper bounded by areas ca3 and ca1 ,  characterized by a narrow layer of large pyramidal cells ,  similar in size to ca3 pyramidal cells ,  but which lack the mossy fiber input from the dentate gyrus  ( adapted from paxinos ,  g . the rat central nervous system ,  2nd ed ,  academic press ,  san diego ,  1995 ,  pg .
part of hippocampus proper bounded by the hilus of the dentate gyrus and area ca2 ,  characterized by large pyramidal cells and a dense projection from dentate gyrus granule cell mossy fibers .
the last of four regions in the cornu ammonis of the hippocampus and is also part of the hilus of the dentate gyrus .
initial section of the oviduct through which the ova pass from the ovary to the uterus
a small endodermal thickening in the foregut adjacent to the transverse septum .
a logitudinal sheet of continuous connective tissue partition developing at the apex of the chevron - shaped myotome and separating dorsal  ( epaxial )  and ventral  ( hypaxial )  body wall muscle masses ;  each is destined to become ,  respectively ,  the epaxial and hyopaxial musculature .
an epithelial and lymphoid organ that develops as a dorsal diverticulum of the proctodeal region of the cloaca in birds .
an insect gland dorsal to the insect gut ,  with a function analogous to that of the vertebrate liver .
embryonic structure that develops into pancreatic bud .
the embryonic pancreas develops from two separate anlagen in the foregut epithelium ,  one dorsal and two ventral pancreatic buds [ pmid ]  .
a cartilage element of chondrocranium .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing pectoral fin  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the lymph tissue associated with the pharyngeal opening of the auditory tube
the caudally located ,  distinct elevation of a transient proliferating cell mass of the fetal subventricular zone ,  located adjacent to the lateral ventricle
that portion of the chorionic wall in the region of its uterine attachment ,  which gives rise to chorionic villi ;  it consists of the mesoderm that lines the chorionic vesicle and ,  on the maternal side ,  of the trophoblast that lines the intervillous spaces ;  in the last half of gestation ,  the mesodermal connective tissue is largely replaced by fibrinoid material ,  and the amnionic membrane is adherent to the fetal side of the plate .
the region of the mantle layer of the neural tube that lies ventral to the sulcus limitans and contains primarily motor neurons and interneurons .
the lateral area of the two branches of a horseshoe - shaped mesenchymal swelling in the future nasal region of the embryo ;  it separates the olfactory pit from the developing eye and the ala of the nose / snout develops from it
the central area of the two limbs of a horseshoe - shaped mesenchymal swelling that lie medial to the olfactory placode or pit in the future nasal region of the embryo ;  it joins with the ipsilateral maxillary prominence in the formation of half of the upper jaw ,  and the nasal tip and philtrum of the upper lip develop from it
one of the system of communicating cavities in the brain that are continuous with the central canal of the spinal cord ,  that like it are derived from the medullary canal of the embryo ,  that are lined with an epithelial ependyma ,  and that contain a serous fluid
an internal pocketing of pharyngeal endoderm that contacts a region of ectoderm  ( a pharyngeal cleft )  and interdigitates in the anterior and posterior directions with the pharyngeal arches .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with the production and excretion of urine and those concerned with reproduction .
the layer of the myocardium composed of projections of contractile myocytes .
in mammals ,  the proximal tubule is a nephron tubule that connects bowman's capsule to the loop of henle .
the distal tubule is a nephron tubule that consists of the distal convoluted tubule and distal straight tubule segments
an epithelial tube that will give rise to the mature heart .
the bulbus arteriosus is an elastic heart chamber [ go ]  .
the region of the cerebral cortex covering the basal surface of the frontal lobes ;  this region normally controls emotion and decision making
the glomerular endothelium is an epithelial tissue that covers the internal surfaces of the glomerulus
a sub - portion of the loop of henle in the nephron of the kidney that is permeable to ions but not to water
kidney pyramids are the conical arrangements of tubules that constitute the renal medulla in a multi - lobed mammalian kidney ;  they contain the loops of henle and the medullary collecting ducts .
the cortical collecting duct is the portion of the collecting duct that resides in the renal cortex
the small branching blood vessels in the kidney glomerulus that receives blood from the kidney afferent arterioles ;  these capillaries are under high pressure for filtering within the glomerulus
a zone of skin that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
anatomical cluster that consists of all the skeletal elements  ( eg . ,  bone ,  cartilage ,  and teeth )  of the body .
one of a series of paired embryological vascular structures formed within a pharyngeal arch ;  in the adult ,  some of these vessels give rise to the great vessels [ mp ] 
mesopodial segment of the pes ,  including the tarsal skeleton and associated tissues .
anatomical system that has as its parts the heart and blood vessels .
the blood vessels that branch from the kidney interlobular artery ,  convey blood to the glomerular capillaries ,  and play an important role in the regulation of blood pressure as a part of the tubuloglomerular feedback mechanism
the blood vessels that convey blood from the glomerulocapillary network to the capillary bed of the proximal convoluted tubule
the polygonal structure of the liver that consists of hepatocytes radiating outward from a hepatic vein
a muscularis mucosa that is part of a esophagus .
a stage that follows the blastula ,  gastrula and neurula stages .
in the blood supply of the kidney ,  the vasa recta renis  ( or straight arteries of kidney ,  or straight arterioles of kidney )  form a series of straight capillaries in the medulla .
a basibranchial element that is bone .
dermal bone on the margin of the scapula .
the dentary is a dermal bone that forms the antero - lateral part of the lower jaw in fishes and amphibians ,  extending to the whole lower jaw in mammals [ vhog , modified ]  .
paired ,  endochondral bones forming the anterior ,  and lateral walls of the otic capsules .
anatomical system that consists of all the joints of the body .
an epithelium that is part of a uterine cervix  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thin layer of flat cells that line the aorta and form a barrier between circulating blood in the lumen and the rest of the vessel wall
the central region of trunk mesoderm .
anatomical cluster that connects two or more adjacent skeletal elements or hardened body parts .
the region of the digestive tract extending from the mouth cavity through pharynx esophagus stomach and duodenum .
a dilation of the duodenal papilla that is the opening of the juncture of the common bile duct and the main pancreatic duct .
a mucosa that is part of a tongue  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a solid rod of neurectoderm derived from the neural keel .
the descending thin limb is a part of the loop of henle situated just after the proximal straight tubule  ( s3 )  .
the connecting tubule is a tubular segment of the nephron ;  it connects the distal convoluted tubule to the collecting duct [ go ]  .
a layer of the ovarian follicle that consists of granulosa cells .
portion of primordial embryonic connective tissue of the developing head ,  consisting of mesenchymal cells supported in interlaminar jelly ,  that derive mostly from the mesoderm and contribute to head connective tissue ,  bone and musculature in conjunction with cranial neural crest cells .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing trunk .
a set of structures containing cerebrospinal fluid in the brain .
portion of tissue that is contiguous with the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells that will not contribute to the embryo .
a blastema is a mass of cells capable of growth and regeneration into organs or body parts .
the large group of sensory neuron cell bodies ,  anterior to the jugular vein ,  associated with the vagus nerve  ( tenth cranial nerve ) 
the lobe at the anterior part of each cerebral hemisphere ,  responsible for olfactory functions .
regional part of telencephalon in some species ,  e .g . ,  rodent ,  equivalent to the dorsal striatum  ( caudate nucleus and putamen )  .
one of: the common carotid artery ,  or its branches ,  the external and internal carotid arteries .
a composite structure of the telencephalon that is defined in the striatopallidal system by connectivity and neurochemical staining .
the part of the digestive system that excludes the hepatobiliary system .
a fetal blood vessel connecting the pulmonary artery with the descending aorta [ mesh ]  .
one of a group of muscles used in mastication and swallowing .
hindbrain segment or neuromere 1 .
the third transiently divided segment of the developing rhombencephalon ;  rhombomeres are lineage restricted ,  express different genes from one another ,  and adopt different developmental fates ;  rhombomeres are numbered in caudal to rostral order
the fourth transiently divided segment of the developing rhombencephalon ;  rhombomeres are lineage restricted ,  express different genes from one another ,  and adopt different developmental fates ;  rhombomeres are numbered in caudal to rostral order
the fifth transiently divided segment of the developing rhombencephalon ;  rhombomeres are lineage restricted ,  express different genes from one another ,  and adopt different developmental fates ;  rhombomeres are numbered in caudal to rostral order
the sixth transiently divided segment of the developing rhombencephalon ;  rhombomeres are lineage restricted ,  express different genes from one another ,  and adopt different developmental fates ;  rhombomeres are numbered in caudal to rostral order
the seventh transiently divided segment of the developing rhombencephalon ;  rhombomeres are lineage restricted ,  express different genes from one another ,  and adopt different developmental fates ;  rhombomeres are numbered in caudal to rostral order
the eighth transiently divided segment of the developing rhombencephalon ;  rhombomeres are lineage restricted ,  express different genes from one another ,  and adopt different developmental fates ;  rhombomeres are numbered in caudal to rostral order
a small outgrowth of the pharyngeal epithelium that is the site of lymphocyte cell production [ zfa ]  .
cranial neural crest which gives rise to the trigeminal ganglion .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the immature gonad .
the second transiently divided segment of the developing rhombencephalon ;  rhombomeres are lineage restricted ,  express different genes from one another ,  and adopt different developmental fates ;  rhombomeres are numbered in caudal to rostral order
a rhombomere floor plate that is part of a rhombomere 2 .
a rhombomere floor plate that is part of a rhombomere 3 .
a rhombomere floor plate that is part of a rhombomere 4 .
a rhombomere floor plate that is part of a rhombomere 5 .
a rhombomere floor plate that is part of a rhombomere 6 .
a rhombomere floor plate that is part of a rhombomere 7 .
a rhombomere floor plate that is part of a rhombomere 8 .
any of the arteries that arise from a bifurcation of the aorta supplying the pelvic or abdomen .
a mesoderm that has the potential to develop into a pronephros .
a sensory system that is capable of olfacttion  ( the sensory perception of smell )  .
a single layer of simple squamous epithelium in the glomerular capsule .
an indentation of the olfactory placode which ends when the pits hollows out to form the nasopharynx [ go ]  .
region of cortex near to the rhinal sulcus .
component of the parietal lobe .
the foremost region of the future forebrain that develops into the diencephalon .
the embryonic precursor of the brain .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a forebrain .
liquid components of living organisms .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva .
brodmann area 38 ,  also ba38 or temporopolar area 38  ( h )  ,  is part of the temporal cortex in the human brain .
brodmann area 46 ,  or ba46 ,  is part of the frontal cortex in the human brain .
a substance formed from the secretion of one or more glands of the male genital tract in which sperm cells are suspended .
an organ system subdivision that is a network of vessels capable of removing accumulating protein and fluid from the interstitial space and returning it to the vascular space .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into endoderm .
ossified pars articularis of the palatoquadrate cartilage .
tissue is fated to develop into the hypochord .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into ectoderm .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into mesoderm .
a small conical pouch projections located on the upper anterior portion of each atrium of the heart .
a the thin layer of smooth muscle found in most parts of the gastrointestinal tract ,  located outside the lamina propria mucosae and separating it from the submucosa [ wp ]  .
the edge of the cornea where it joins the sclera ;  the limbus is a common site for the occurrence of corneal epithelial neoplasm
layer of nonkeratinized squamous epithelium lining the conjunctiva ,  overlying scleral tissue
vein that is central to a lobule in the liver .
endochondral bone that is dorsoventrally compressed and provides attachment site for muscles of the pectoral appendage .
a thin membranous ,  sometimes alveolated sac in the dorsal portion of the abdominal cavity .
a diaphysis that is part of a femur [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a metaphysis that is part of a femur .
a head mesenchyme that develops_from a mesoderm .
the paler - colored muscle tissue of some mammals ,  composed of fast twitch muscle fibers .
the vascular cord is the primordial vasculature that will develop into blood vessels by the process of tubulogenesis [ go ]  .
portion of tissue that is posterior to the developing notochord during tail bud extension .
one of the minute vascular projections of the fetal chorion that combines with maternal uterine tissue to form the placenta .
poisonous animal secretions forming fluid mixtures of many different enzymes ,  toxins ,  and other substances .
a pharyngeal pouch that is between pharyngeal arches 1 and 2 .
a pharyngeal puch that is between the pharyngeal arches 2 and 3 .
a pharyngeal pouch that between pharyngeal arches 3 and 4 .
a pharyngeal pouch between pharyngeal arch 4 and arch 5 or 6  ( a fifth arch never establishes in amniotes )  .
a pharyngeal pouch between pharyngeal arches 5 and 6 .
a pharyngeal pouch between pharyngeal arches 6 and 7 .
ganglion which is located in the trunk .
an intermediate stage  ( between the neural plate and neural rod )  during the early segmentation period in the morphogenesis of the central nervous system primordium ;  the keel is roughly triangular shaped in cross section .
an internal carotid artery that branching_part_of a left common carotid artery plus branches .
an internal carotid artery that branching_part_of a right common carotid artery plus branches .
mesenchyme that develops_from a cranial neural crest .
an embryo stage that covers late steps of the embryogenesis with a fully formed embryo still developing before birth or egg hatching .
the lymph tissue on the floor of the oropharyngeal passage ,  near the root of the tongue
the rhombencephalon  ( or hindbrain )  is a developmental categorization of portions of the central nervous system in vertebrates .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the midbrain hindbrain boundary .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a presomitic mesoderm .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a primitive knot .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a neural plate .
the part of the blastula that has the potential to develop into a paraxial mesoderm .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a floor plate .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a forebrain - midbrain boundary .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a rhombomere 3 .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a rhombomere 4 .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a rhombomere 5 .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a rhombomere 6 .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a rhombomere 7 .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a rhombomere 8 .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a pronephric mesoderm .
a duct that collects and carries secretions of the exocrine pancreas to the intestine .
outermost layer of cells surrounding the embryo .
the anterior and posterior arteries created at the bifurcation of the popliteal artery .
the junction between the esophagus and the stomach epithelium
anlagen are populations of contiguous cells ,  typically arranged in one plane ,  that are morphologically indistinct ,  but that already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue .
the serous fluid which accumulates in the peritoneal cavity in ascites .
adipose tissue that is located in the abdominal region .
the external junctural region between the lower part of the abdomen and the thigh .
a pharyngeal arch that is posterior to the hyoid arch .
an external projection of an aquatic animal as a fish used in propelling or guiding the body [ bto ]  .
volcano - shaped lateral line sensory organ located in characteristic positions within the skin epithelium and containing hair cells and their support elements .
area of the parietal lobe concerned with receiving general sensations .
the lobe of the left lung that is closest to the head .
a lower lobe of lung that is part of a left lung .
system pertaining to blood vessels in the brain .
a mature thymus that is entirely part of the cervical region .
a mature thymus that is entirely part of thoracic region .
portion of tissue that projects outward from the gill and is a thread - like ,  soft ,  red respiratory and excretory structure .
the adenohypophyseal placode forms the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland and gives rise to the endocrine secretory cells of the pituitary
the axilla is the area directly under the joint where the forelimb connects to the shoulder .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a midbrain .
the part of the uterus above the isthmus and below the orifices of the uterine tubes .
cranial ectodermal placode with potential to develop into a component of the nervous system ,  such as nerves or ganglia .
an epithelium that is part of a pancreatic duct .
any gland ,  other than the gonad ,  associated with the genital tract ,  such as the ampulla of the ductus deferens and the bulbourethral ,  prostate and vesicular glands of the male .
the core globe - shaped component of the camera - type eye .
portion of tissue that is dorsolateral to the floor plate and part of the midbrain .
a single extraembryonic epithelium ,  which closes the germband dorsally .
paired fin skeleton that consists of the supporting endochondral proximal and distal radials and the dermal fins rays or lepidotrichia .
the collection of all meningeal layers that line a central nervous system .
a thin layer of cartilage ,  usually hyaline ,  on the articular surface of bones in synovial joints .
a cartilage element that is part of a splanchnocranium .
the dorsal portion of the first pharyngeal arch ,  comprising the upper jaw [ zfin , vhog ]  .
subdivision of urinary system which consists of the kidney and the ureters .
any of the glands in silk - spinning insects and spiders that secrete a protein liquid that hardens into silk on exposure to air .
a gill that develops_from a pharyngeal gill precursor .
a lamina propria that is part of a large intestine .
region between capsules formed by anterior tips of neurocranial trabeculae .
a gland that secretes venom .
cartilage form of the hyomandibular element .
a palatal bone which  -  -  like many palatal bones  -  -  may originally have developed as a dermal bone replacing part of the palatoquadrate ,  the primitive upper jaw .
an adductor muscle that acts on the jaw .
plantaris is a vestigial structure and one of the superficial muscles of the posterior crural compartment of the leg .
blood that remains in the placenta and in the attached umbilical cord after childbirth [ wp ]  .
crescent shaped outer zone of the nucleus accumbens ,  defined by a combination of chemoarchitecture and afferent and efferent connections .
the part of the cervix uteri that protrudes into the vagina and is lined with stratified squamous epithelium .
the subdivision of the digestive tract that consists of the colon and the rectum .
the hypogastrium  ( or hypogastric region ,  or pubic region )  is an area of the human abdomen located below the navel .
a zone of soft tissue located on the posterior of the lateral side of the pelvic region corresponding to the gluteal muscles .
the region of the organism associated with the visceral organs .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the telencephalon .
embryoid bodies  ( ebs )  are three - dimensional aggregates of pluripotent stem cells .
subcutaneous adipose tissue that is located in the peritoneal cavity .
a muscle organ that consists of skeletal muscle tissue ensheathed in epimysium ,  that develops from myotome and that is innervated by some somatic motor neuron .
a portion of tissue that will develop into vasculature .
one of the primary blood vessel sprouts that originate from the dorsal aorta and posterior cardinal vein and align dorsoventrally at the myotomal boundaries between somites .
a cluster in the epithalamus that consists of the pineal body and any associated structures ,  such as the parapineal gland or the parietal organ .
the segment of either hepatic duct located in the hilum of the liver .
a capillary that is part of a lung .
frontal lobe is the anterior - most of five lobes of the cerebral hemisphere .
mucus produced in the respiratory tract .
a cervical thymus that is located directly beneath the skin .
a cervical thymus that is located deep in the ventral cervical region ,  superficial to hyoid ,  sternomastoid ,  and depressor neck muscles .
region where blood progenitor markers are expressed .
component of the cingulate cortex .
the ventral topographic division of the midbrain ;  the dorsal topographic division is the tectum .
the stage of being no more dependent of the nest and / or from caregivers for subsistence while having not reach sexual maturity .
any nerve that innervates the fibularis .
the sum of epicardial and paracardial fat deposits .
the upper tract of the renal system .
surface structure that will develop into one of the median fins .
the hatching gland rudiment at the time it underlies the forebrain during the early segmentation period .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
apical ectodermal ridge that is part of the dorsal fin .
ganglion that develops from a cranial ectodermal placode and contains sensory neurons that innervate a lateral line .
neuromast that is part of the mandibular lateral line .
neuromast that is part of the otic lateral line .
cranial nerve which enters the brain between cranial nerves viii and ix ;  contains afferents and sensory efferents to the posterior lateral line ganglion and middle ganglion .
endochondral bone that forms the posteriormost element of the palatal complex .
dermal bone that forms the postero - dorsal part of the opercular series .
dermal bone that is part of the opercular series and bears the preopercular sensory canal .
dermal bone that is part of the opercular series ,  lying below the opercle .
lateral line sensory nucleus located in the cerebellum that processes sensory input from the lateral line .
the portion of the ysl that is outside of the blastoderm margin during epiboly .
endochondral bone that sutures with the orbitosphenoid anteriorly ,  the frontal bone dorsally and the sphenotic and prootic posteriorly .
the retroarticular is a cartilage bone that forms at the posteroventral tip of meckel's cartilage where the interoperculomandibular ligament attaches  ( 5 .1 mm nl )  .
cranial nerve which enters the brain between cranial nerves vi and vii ;  contains afferents and sensory efferents to the anterior lateral line ganglia .
dermal bone of the secondary pectoral girdle that attaches the girdle to the skull .
brain structure which is caudally attached to the rostral medulla oblongata and extends into the tectal ventricle .
connective tissue partitions developing between the myotomes .
replacement bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates anteriorly with the anterior ceratohyal .
musculature that is part of the dorsal fin .
dermal bone that forms the ventro - medial part of the palate and the antero - ventral and ventral wall of the orbit .
dermal bone that is part of the opercular series .
replacement bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates with the hyomandibula and the quadrate .
a multilayer of deep cells of fairly uniform thickness that forms during early epiboly  ( at dome stage ;  upon conversion of the blastodisc to the blastoderm )  ;  during gastrulation the del  ( deep cell layer )  gives rise to the epiblast and hypoblast .
the portion of the ysl that lies deep to the blastoderm during epiboly .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
neuromast that is part of the infraorbital lateral line .
neuromast that is part of the opercular lateral line .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
neuromast that is part of the middle lateral line .
neuromast that is part of the posterior lateral line .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
a neuromast that is part of the occipital lateral line .
a neuromast that is part of the supraorbital lateral line .
connect the outflow of the aortic arches to the dorsal aorta .
precursor to mesencephalic artery
this anteriormost portion of the intestine has the most digestive enzymes and the greatest epithelial surface area .
a protuberance in front of the gential pore and behind the vent .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is the posteriormost tooth in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is posterior to tooth 3v and anterior to tooth 5v in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is posterior to tooth 2v and anterior to tooth 4v in the ventral tooth row .
a migrating group of cells originating from the posterior lateral line placode .
islands of eosinic cells found on the lateroventral surface of the kidney .
stage i follicles  ( less than 140 microns )  are primary growth stage .
stage ii follicles  ( 140 - 340 microns )  are cortical alveolus stage .
stage iii  ( 340 - 690 microns )  are vitellogenesis .
branchiostegal ray that is the anterior - most ray in the adult .
branchiostegal ray that is the third anterior - most ray in the adult .
branchiostegal ray that is the second anterior - most ray in the adult .
the posterior lateral line ganglion develops from a cranial ectodermal placode and contains sensory neurons that innervate the posterior lateral line system .
dorsolateral placode that gives rise to the anterior lateral line .
the anteror lateral line ganglia develops from cranial ectodermal placodes and contain sensory neurons that innervate the anterior lateral line system .
the anterior lateral line system develops from cranial ectodermal placodes ,  situated between the eye and the ear ,  that give rise to both the neuromasts and the anterior lateral line sensory nerves that innervate the neuromasts .
the posterior lateral line system develops from cranial ectodermal placodes ,  situated behind the ear ,  that give rise to both the neuromasts and the posterior lateral line sensory nerves that innervate the neuromasts .
the mesencephalic veins  ( msv )  enter the mid cerebral veins  ( mcev )  at the dorsal midline .
the vessel between the anterior cerebral vein and the mid cerebral vein .
trunk vessel that connects to the primitive hindbrain channel and the basilar artery at the caudal end of the medulla oblongata .
hematopoietic tissue derived from the cephalic mesoderm .
vessels run longitudinally along the horizontal myoseptum .
a migrating group of cells originating from an anterior lateral line placode .
an afferent branch of the vagus nerve .
median fin that is located posterior to the anus .
the caudal fin is the most posterior median fin .
postcranial axial skeleton that is unpaired and located on the sagittal plane of the organism .
brain of the embryo .
a closely associated cluster of three neuroendocrine glands located anterior to the aorta and dorsal to the esophagus .
any labral segment  ( uberon:6000008 )  that is part of some larval head  ( uberon:6001730 )  .
posterior portion of the eye - antennal disc .
dorsal imaginal disc of the mesothorax .
dorsal imaginal disc of the metathorax .
imaginal disc that is a precursor of ventral thoracic structures of the adult .
primordium of a single tracheal metamere of the embryonic / larval tracheal system from its appearance as a placode during stage 11 to the completion of fusion with adjacent tracheal metameres in stage 15 / 16 .
opening of the tracheal system on the surface of the body .
"anlagen in statu nascendi" are domains that do not yet coincide 1:1 with a later organ .
a unit of measurement is a standardized quantity of a physical quality .
a unit which is a standard measure of the distance between two points .
a unit which is a standard measure of the amount of matter / energy of a physical object .
a unit which is a standard measure of the dimension in which events occur in sequence .
an electric current unit is a base unit which is a standard measure of the flow of electric charge .
a unit which is a standard measure of the average kinetic energy of the particles in a sample of matter .
a unit which is a standardised quantity of an element or compound with uniform composition .
a unit which is a standard measure of the wavelength - weighted power emitted by a light source in a particular direction .
a meter is a length unit which is equal to the length of the path traveled by light in vacuum during a time interval of 1 / 299 792 458 of a second .
a mass unit which is equal to the mass of the international prototype kilogram kept by the bipm at svres ,  france .
a time unit which is equal to the duration of 9 192 631 770 periods of the radiation corresponding to the transition between the two hyperfine levels of the ground state of the caesium 133 atom .
an electric current unit which is equal to the constant current which ,  if maintained in two straight parallel conductors of infinite length ,  of negligible circular cross - section ,  and placed 1 m apart in vacuum ,  would produce between these conductors a force equal to 2 x 10^ [  - 7 ]  newton per meter of length .
a thermodynamic temperature unit which is equal to the fraction 1 / 273 .16 of the thermodynamic temperature of the triple point of water .
a substance unit which is equal to the amount of substance of a molecular system which contains as many elementary entities as there are atoms in 0 .012 kilogram of carbon 12 .
a luminous intensity unit which equal to the luminous intensity ,  in a given direction ,  of a source that emits monochromatic radiation of frequency 540 x 1012 hertz and that has a radiant intensity in that direction of 1 / 683 watt per steradian .
a length unit which is equal to one hundredth of a meter or 10^ [  - 2 ]  m .
a millimeter is a length unit which is equal to one thousandth of a meter or 10^ - 3 m .
a micrometer is a length unit which is equal to 1m x 10^ - 6 .
a nanometer is a length unit which is equal to 1m x 10^ - 9 .
a picometer is a length unit which is equal to 1m x 10^ - 12 .
a mass unit which is equal to one thousandth of a kilogram or 10^ [  - 3 ]  kg .
a milligram is a mass unit which is equal to one - millionth of a kilogram .
a microgram is a mass unit which is equal to 1 gram x 10^ - 6
a microgram is a mass unit which is equal to 1 gram x 10^ - 9
a picogram is a mass unit which is equal to 1 gram x 10^ - 12
a microgram is a mass unit which is equal to 1 gram x 10^ - 15
degree celsius is a temperature derived unit which is equal to one kelvin degree .
a time unit which is equal to one millionth of a second or 10^ [  - 6 ]  s .
a time unit which is equal to 60 seconds .
an hour is a derived time unit which is equal to 3600 seconds or 60 minutes .
a time unit which is equal to 24 hours .
a week is a derived time unit which is equal to 7 days .
a month is a derived time unit which is approximately equal to the length of time of one of cycle of the moon's phases which in science is taken to be equal to 30 days .
a year is a derived time unit which is equal to 365 .25 days .
a substance unit equal to a millionth of a mol or 10^ [  - 6 ]  mol .
a substance unit equal to a thousandth of a mol or 10^ [  - 3 ]  mol .
a substance unit equal to one thousandth of one millionth of a mole or 10^ [  - 9 ]  mol .
a substance unit equal to 10^ [  - 12 ]  mol .
a substance unit equal to 10^ [  - 15 ]  mol .
an attomole is a substance unit equal to 10^ - 18 mol .
a unit which is one of a particular measure to which all measures of that type can be related .
a unit which is derived from base units .
an area unit is a derived unit which is a standard measure of the amount of a 2 - dimensional flat surface .
a unit which represents a standard measurement of how much of a given substance there is mixed with another substance .
a unit which is a standard measure of the mass of a homogeneous substance containing 6 .02 x 1023 atoms or molecules .
a unit of molarity is a derived concentration unit which is a standard measure of the number of moles of a given substance per liter of solution .
a unit of concentration which expresses a concentration of 1 mole of solute per liter of solution  ( mol / l )  .
a unit of molarity which is equal to one thousandth of a molar or 10^ [  - 3 ]  m .
a unit of molarity which is equal to one millionth of a molar or 10^ [  - 6 ]  m .
a unit of molarity which is equal to one thousandth of one millionth of a molar or 10^ [  - 9 ]  m .
a unit of molarity which is equal to 10^ [  - 12 ]  m .
a unit of molarity which is equal to 10^ [  - 15 ]  m .
an area unit which is equal to an area enclosed by a square with sides each 1 meter long .
a volume unit is a derived unit which is a standard measure of the amount of space occupied by any substance ,  whether solid ,  liquid ,  or gas .
a volume unit which is equal to one millionth of a cubic meter or 10^ [  - 9 ]  m^ [ 3 ]  ,  or to 1 ml .
a volume unit which is equal to one thousandth of a liter or 10^ [  - 3 ]  l ,  or to 1 cubic centimeter .
a volume unit which is equal to one thousandth of a cubic meter or 10^ [  - 3 ]  m^ [ 3 ]  ,  or to 1 decimeter .
a volume unit which is equal to one millionth of a liter or 10^ [  - 6 ]  l .
a volume unit which is equal to one thousandth of one millionth of a liter or 10^ [  - 9 ]  l .
a volume unit which is equal to 10^ [  - 12 ]  l .
a volume unit which is equal to 10^ [  - 12 ]  l .
a unit which is a standard measure of the force applied to a given area .
a unit which is a standard measure of the luminous flux incident on a unit area .
an illuminance unit which is equal to the illuminance produced by 1 lumen evenly spread over an area 1 meter squared .
a unit which is a standard measure of the figure or space formed by the junction of two lines or planes .
a unit which is a standard measure of the average kinetic energy of the particles in a sample of matter .
a unit which is a standard measure of the amount of radiation emitted by a given radiation source as well as the amount of radiation absorbed or deposited in a specific material by a radiation source .
a unit which is a standard measure of the energy imparted by ionizing radiation to unit mass of matter such as tissue .
an absorbed dose unit which is equal to the absorption of one joule of radiation energy by one kilogram of matter .
an absorbed dose unit which is equal to 0 .01 gray  ( gy )  .
a unit which is a standard measure of the dimension in which events occur in sequence .
a dimensionless concentration unit which denotes the mass of a substance in a mixture as a percentage of the mass of the entire mixture .
a dimensionless concentration unit which denotes the volume of the solute in ml per 100 ml of the resulting solution .
a dimensionless concentration notation which denotes the amount of a given substance in a total amount of 1 , 000 , 000 regardless of the units of measure used as long as they are the same or 1 part in 10^ [ 6 ]  .
a dimensionless concentration notation which denotes the amount of a given substance in a total amount of 1 , 000 , 000 , 000 regardless of the units of measure as long as they are the same or 1 part in 10^ [ 9 ]  .
a mass unit density which is equal to mass of an object in grams divided by the volume in liters .
a milligram per milliliter is a density unit which is equal to mass of an object in milligrams divided by the volume in milliliters .
a unit which is a standard measure of the influence exerted by some mass .
adecimal degree ( in full ,  adegree of arc , arc degree ,  orarcdegree )  ,  usually denoted by ( thedegree symbol )  ,  is a measurement ofplaneangle is a plane angle unit which is equal to 1 / 360 of a full rotation or 1 .7453310^ [  - 2 ]  rad .
a unit which is a standard measure of physical quantity consisting of only a numerical number without any units .
a dimensionless ratio unit which denotes numbers as fractions of 100 .
a dimensionless unit which denotes a simple count of things .
definition: a dimensionless ratio unit which relates the part  ( the numerator )  to the whole  ( the denominator )  .
a temperature unit which is equal to 5 / 9ths of a kelvin .
a concentration unit which denotes the average cell number in a given volume .
a unit of cell concentration which is equal to one cell in a volume of 1 milliliter .
a volume per unit volume unit which is equal to one millionth of a liter of solute in one liter of solution .
a volume unit which is equal to one tenth of a liter or 10^ [  - 1 ]  l .
a colony forming unit which a measure of viable bacterial numbers in one milliliter .
an independently to the base si units defined mass unit which is equal to one twelfth of the mass of an unbound atom of the carbon - 12 nuclide ,  at rest and in its ground state .
a mass unit density which is equal to mass of an object in micrograms divided by the volume in liters .
the whole period of embryogenesis ,  from the formation of an egg till its hatch .
the central axis / core of the 'ear'  ( distal end of the lateral branch / ear shoot )  upon which the kernels  ( caryopses )  are borne .
a group of cells that migrate at the leading edge of shield during gastrulation but do not involute .
apical ectodermal ridge that is part of the pectoral fin bud .
large ,  paired cartilage bones separating the olfactory region from the orbit .
cartilage which is part of the pectoral fin .
specialized neuronal receptor cells of the lateral line and acoustico - vestibular systems .
subdivision of free upper limb ,  which is the proximal segment of an upper limb and links the free upper limb to the trunk ;  it is demarcated by the plane of the surface of the glenoid fossa from the free upper limb ;  together with the free upper limb ,  it constitutes the upper limb .
cells  ( incompletely cleaved before the ysl forms )  ,  located at the surface just at the rim of the blastodisc ,  external to the deep blastomeres .
subdivision of free lower limb ,  which is the proximal segment of a lower limb and links the free lower limb to the trunk ;  it is demarcated by the plane of the surface of the acetabular fossa from the free lower limb ;  together with the free lower limb ,  it constitutes the lower limb .
the zebrafish head kidney consists of fused bilateral lobes located in the anterior part of the kidney .
the hyomandibula is the large ,  dorsal - most member of the hyoid arch .
specialized neuronal receptor cells of the anterior macula .
a cns interneuron located in the spinal cord .
epibranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and appears as a separate center of chondrification  ( 6 .2 mm )  posterior to the lateral tip of epibranchial 4 and immediately anterior to the upper end of ceratobranchial 5 .
the ventral portion of the first pharyngeal arch ,  comprising the lower jaw .
apical ectodermal ridge that is part of the pelvic fin bud .
cells  ( completely cleaved )  ,  located at the surface of the blastodisc ,  above the deep blastomeres .
an experimental factor in array express which are essentially the variable aspects of an experiment design which can be used to describe an experiment ,  or set of experiments ,  in an increasingly detailed manner .
cs57511 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?type=stock&id=1000311932 .
cs57512 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?type=stock&id=1000311933
cs57515 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?type=stock&id=1000311936
cs57520 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?type=stock&id=1000311941
cs57521 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?type=germplasm&id=1005152522
cs57537 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?type=stock&id=1000311958
cs57541 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158565&type=germplasm
cs57543 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158567&type=germplasm
cs57544 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158568&type=germplasm
cs57548 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158572&type=germplasm
cs57549 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158573&type=germplasm
cs57551 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158575&type=germplasm
cs57556 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158580&type=germplasm
cs57560 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158584&type=germplasm
cs57563 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?type=stock&id=1000311984
cs57569 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158593&type=germplasm
cs57570 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158594&type=germplasm
cs57572 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158596&type=germplasm
cs57580 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158604&type=germplasm
cs57581 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158605&type=germplasm
cs57583 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158607&type=germplasm
cs57586 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158610&type=germplasm
cs57587 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158611&type=germplasm
cs57591 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158615&type=germplasm
cs57595 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158619&type=germplasm
cs57596 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158620&type=germplasm
cs57598 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158622&type=germplasm
cs57601 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158625&type=germplasm
cs57603 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158627&type=germplasm
cs57606 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158630&type=germplasm
cs57610 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158634&type=germplasm
cs57615 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158639&type=germplasm
cs57616 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158640&type=germplasm
cs57618 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158642&type=germplasm
cs57619 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158643&type=germplasm
cs57620 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158644&type=germplasm
cs57621 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158645&type=germplasm
cs57622 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158646&type=germplasm
cs57624 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158648&type=germplasm
cs57625 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158649&type=germplasm
cs57626 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158650&type=germplasm
cs57627 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158651&type=germplasm
cs57628 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158652&type=germplasm
cs57629 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158653&type=germplasm
cs57630 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158654&type=germplasm
cs57631 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158655&type=germplasm
cs57637 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158661&type=germplasm
cs57641 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158665&type=germplasm
cs57644 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158668&type=germplasm
cs57646 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158670&type=germplasm
cs57648 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158672&type=germplasm
cs57655 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158679&type=germplasm
cs57658 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158682&type=germplasm
cs57660 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158684&type=germplasm
cs57663 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158687&type=germplasm
cs57664 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158688&type=germplasm
cs57664 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158690&type=germplasm
cs57671 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair  http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158695&type=germplasm
cs57677 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair  http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158695&type=germplasm
cs57691 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair  http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158715&type=germplasm
cs57692 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair  http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158716&type=germplasm
cs57699 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair  http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158723&type=germplasm
cs57701 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158725&type=germplasm
cs57704 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158728&type=germplasm
cs57705 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158729&type=germplasm
cs57706 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158730&type=germplasm
cs57709 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158733&type=germplasm
cs57710 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158734&type=germplasm
cs57714 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158738&type=germplasm
cs57715 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158739&type=germplasm
cs57716 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158740&type=germplasm
cs57717 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158741&type=germplasm
cs57719 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158743&type=germplasm
cs57722 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158746&type=germplasm
cs57727 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158751&type=germplasm
cs57731 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158755&type=germplasm
cs57732 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158756&type=germplasm
cs57733 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158757&type=germplasm
cs57735 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158759&type=germplasm
cs57737 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158761&type=germplasm
cs57740 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158764&type=germplasm
cs57742 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158766&type=germplasm
cs57743 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158767&type=germplasm
cs57750 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158774&type=germplasm
cs57751 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158775&type=germplasm
cs57752 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158776&type=germplasm
cs57753 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158777&type=germplasm
cs57758 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158782&type=germplasm
cs57769 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158793&type=germplasm
a neoplasm of lymphoblasts committed to the b - cell lineage ,  typically composed of small to medium - sized blast cells .
b - cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia  ( b - cll )  is a type of b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma ,  and the most common form of leukemia in western countries ,  affecting elderly adults  ( mean age of 67 and 72 years )  with a slight male predominance  ( 1 .7:1 )  ,  and characterized by a highly variable clinical presentation that can include asymptomatic disease or non - specific b - symptoms such as unintentional weight loss ,  severe fatigue ,  fever  ( without evidence of infection )  ,  and night sweats as well as cervical lymphadenopathy ,  splenomegaly and frequent infections .
a neoplasm of follicle centre b cells which has at least a partial follicular pattern .
immunologically important lymphocyte that is not thymus - dependent ,  is either short - lived and naive or long - lived and of memory phenotype ,  and resembles the bursa - derived lymphocyte of birds in that it is responsible for the production of immunoglobulins .
immunologically important lymphocyte that is not thymus - dependent ,  is either short - lived and naive or long - lived and of memory phenotype ,  and resembles the bursa - derived lymphocyte of birds in that it is responsible for the production of immunoglobulins .
becker muscular dystrophy  ( also known as benign pseudohypertrophic muscular dystrophy )  is an x - linked recessive inherited disorder characterized by slowly progressive muscle weakness of the legs and pelvis .
the ventral part of the diencephalon that forms the floor and part of the lateral wall of the third ventricle .
segment of neural tree organ which is continuous with a set of olfactory nerves and an olfactory tract .
the cord of nervous tissue that extends from the brain lengthwise along the back in the vertebral canal ,  gives off the pairs of spinal nerves ,  carries impulses to and from the brain ,  and serves as a center for initiating and coordinating many reflex acts .
cs57770 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158794&type=germplasm
cs57771 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158795&type=germplasm
cs57776 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158800&type=germplasm
cs57777 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158801&type=germplasm
cs57778 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158802&type=germplasm
cs57779 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158803&type=germplasm
cs57783 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158807&type=germplasm
cs57785 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158809&type=germplasm
cs57789 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158813&type=germplasm
cs57790 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158814&type=germplasm
cs57801 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158825&type=germplasm
cs57803 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158827&type=germplasm
cs57807 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158831&type=germplasm
cs57810 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158834&type=germplasm
cs57811 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158835&type=germplasm
cs57812 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158836&type=germplasm
cs57813 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158837&type=germplasm
cs57816 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158840&type=germplasm
cs57820 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158844&type=germplasm
cs57822 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158846&type=germplasm
cs57823 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158847&type=germplasm
cs57824  is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158848&type=germplasm
cs57825 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158849&type=germplasm
cs57826 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158850&type=germplasm
cs57827 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158851&type=germplasm
cs57828 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158852&type=germplasm
cs57834 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158858&type=germplasm
cs57835 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158859&type=germplasm
cs57836 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158860&type=germplasm
cs57840 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158864&type=germplasm
cs57842 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158866&type=germplasm
cs57843 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158867&type=germplasm
cs57847 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158871&type=germplasm
cs57848 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158872&type=germplasm
cs57850 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158874&type=germplasm
cs57854 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158878&type=germplasm
cs57858 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158882&type=germplasm
cs57859 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158883&type=germplasm
cs57867 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158891&type=germplasm
cs57870 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158894&type=germplasm
cs57871 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158895&type=germplasm
cs57873 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158897&type=germplasm
cs57874 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158898&type=germplasm
cs57875 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158899&type=germplasm
cs57876 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158900&type=germplasm
cs57883 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158907&type=germplasm
cs57884 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158908&type=germplasm
cs57886 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158910&type=germplasm
cs57890 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158914&type=germplasm
cs57896 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158920&type=germplasm
cs57901 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158925&type=germplasm
cs57904 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158928&type=germplasm
cs57905 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158929&type=germplasm
cs57908 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005158932&type=germplasm
cs57923 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005164919&type=germplasm
cs57924 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=1005164920&type=germplasm
cs8581 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?id=4473197&type=germplasm
a daudi burkitt's lymphoma cell line is a cell line .
a malignant tumor of the bone which always arises in the medullary tissue ,  occurring more often in cylindrical bones .
a small round cell tumor that lacks morphologic ,  immunohistochemical ,  and electron microscopic evidence of neuroectodermal differentiation .
fum1 is a yeast strain as described in http: /  / www .genedb .org / genedb / search?organism=cerevisiae&name=ypl262w&isid=true
fisher344 is a rat strain as described in http: /  / www .ratmap .org / showstraindetails .html?strain=72
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the stomach .
goto - kakizaki is a rat strain as described in http: /  / www .taconic .com / wmspage .cfm?parm1=757
the type species of lentivirus and the etiologic agent of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome  ( aids )  .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from any of the following anatomic sites: lip and oral cavity ,  nasal cavity ,  paranasal sinuses ,  pharynx ,  larynx ,  and salivary glands .
a malignant tumor that arises from hepatocytes .
hodgkin lymphoma  ( hl )  is a heterogeneous group of malignant lymphoid neoplasms of b - cell origin characterized histologically by the presence of hodgkin and reed - sternberg  ( hrs )  cells in the vast majority of cases .
the most common type of invasive breast carcinoma ,  accounting for approximately 70% of breast carcinomas .
a multicentric ,  malignant neoplastic vascular proliferation characterized by bluish - red cutaneous nodules ,  usually on the legs ,  toes ,  or feet ,  that slowly increase in size and number and spread to more proximal sites .
an indolent ,  extranodal type of non - hodgkin lymphoma composed of small b - lymphocytes  ( centrocyte - like cells )  .
a mitochondrial disorder characterized by focal or generalized seizures ,  episodes of transient or persistent neurologic dysfunction resembling strokes ,  and ragged - red fibers on muscle biopsy .
an mmhcc  ( mouse models of human cancers consortium )  part is an organism part that has been modelled by the mmhcc ,  a program to develop and refine experimental models that reflect the etiology and progression of human cancer .
neoplasms which arise from nerve sheaths formed by schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system or by oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system .
a combination of medical conditions that ,  when present ,  increase the risk of heart attack ,  stroke ,  and diabetes mellitus .
a carcinoma that arises from the prostate gland and has spread to other anatomic sites .
an invasive adenocarcinoma composed of malignant glandular cells which contain intracytoplasmic mucin .
a clonal hematopoietic disorder characterized by dysplasia and ineffective hematopoiesis in one or more of the hematopoietic cell lines .
a squamous cell carcinoma arising from the oral cavity .
a clonal proliferation of immunoglobulin - secreting plasma cells .
a condition characterized by the abnormal presence of monoclonal immunoglobulins in the blood or urine .
scott syndrome is a rare congenital bleeding disorder that is due to a defect in a platelet mechanism required for blood coagulation .
endometrial cancer is a cancer that arises from the endometrium  ( the lining of the uterus or womb )  .it is the result of the abnormal growth of cells that have the ability to invade or spread to other parts of the body .
endometrial carcinoma is a carcinoma that arises from the endometrium  ( the lining of the uterus or womb )  .
acute lymphoblastic leukemia of t - cell origin .
a cell of the b cell ,  t cell ,  or natural killer cell lineage .
aggressive nodal or extranodal mature  ( peripheral )  t - cell lymphomas that do not belong to the better defined entities of the remainder of mature t - cell lymphomas .
a malignant mixed tumor that affects the kidneys and typically occurs in children .
the portion of the body that lies between the thorax and the pelvis .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the acinar cell
inflammation of the stomach .
an acute myeloid leukemia characterized by a predominant immature erythroid population .
a neoplasm of immature malignant lymphocytes  ( lymphoblasts )  committed to the b - cell or t - cell lineage .
leukemia with an acute onset ,  characterized by the presence of lymphoblasts in the bone marrow and the peripheral blood .
acute monoblastic leukemia  ( aml - m5 )  ,  is one of the most common subtypes of acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml )  that is either comprised of more than 80% of monoblasts  ( aml - m5a )  or 30 - 80% monoblasts with  ( pro ) monocytic differentiation  ( aml - m5b )  .
acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml )  is a group of neoplasms arising from precursor cells committed to the myeloid cell - line differentiation .
an acute leukemia characterized by the proliferation of both neutrophil and monocyte precursors .
acute promyelocytic leukemia  ( apl )  is an aggressive form of acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml )  ,  characterized by arrest of leukocyte differentiation at the promyelocyte stage ,  due to a specific chromosomal translocation t ( 15 ; 17 )  in myeloid cells .
acute quadriplegic myopathy  ( aqm )  is a specific acquired myopathy in icu patients .
is a mandibular muscle that consists of three subdivisions a1 ,  a2 ,  and a3 .
a common cancer characterized by the presence of malignant glandular cells .
the anterior lobe of the hypophysis  ( pituitary gland )  .
a malignant tumor arising from the epithelial cells .
a neoplasm arising from the epithelium .
an aggressive carcinoma with a poor prognosis characterized by a presence of both malignant squamous cells and glandular cells .
the outer portion of the adrenal glands that produces several steroid hormones ,  including cortisol and aldosterone .
a benign or malignant neuroendocrine neoplasm of the sympathetic nervous system that secretes catecholamines .
there are five malpighian tubules that are attached to the alimentary canal posteriorly .
a temporal measurement of the time period elapsed since an identifiable point in the life cycle of an organism .
a syndrome that is characterized by absence or underdeveloped tissue connecting the left and right halves of the brain ,  infantile spasms and chorioretinal lacunae ,  which are defects in the light - sensitive tissue at the back of the eye .
a rapidly growing malignant mesenchymal neoplasm .
a progressive ,  neurodegenerative disease characterized by loss of function and death of nerve cells in several areas of the brain leading to loss of cognitive function such as memory and language .
a dorsal membrane of the embryo .
the one of the four basal ganglia in each cerebral hemisphere that is part of the limbic system and consists of an almond - shaped mass of gray matter in the anterior extremity of the temporal lobe .
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis  ( als )  is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by progressive muscular paralysis reflecting degeneration of motor neurons in the primary motor cortex ,  corticospinal tracts ,  brainstem and spinal cord .
a mature t - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma ,  characterized by systemic disease and a polymorphous infiltrate involving lymph nodes and extranodal sites .
an antibody function  ( or antigen binding function )  is an infection - fighting protein molecule in blood or secretory fluids that tags ,  neutralizes ,  and helps destroy pathogenic microorganisms such as bacteria ,  viruses and toxins .
the major arterial trunk that carries oxygenated blood from the left ventricle into the ascending aorta behind the heart ,  the aortic arch ,  through the thorax as the descending aorta and through the abdomen as the abdominal aorta ;  it bifurcates into the left and right common iliac arteries .
in the same amount or manner ;  to the same degree ;  in the role ,  function ,  or capacity of .
a group of cells at the tip of the stem and root that give rise by cell division to the primary tissues and are ultimately responsible for the structural organization of the entire primary plant body .
an instrument design which describes the design of the array .
a bronchial disease that is characterized by chronic inflammation and narrowing of the airways ,  which is caused by a combination of environmental and genetic factors resulting in recurring periods of wheezing  ( a whistling sound while breathing )  ,  chest tightness ,  shortness of breath ,  mucus production and coughing .
neoplasms of the brain and spinal cord derived from glial cells which vary from histologically benign forms to highly anaplastic and malignant tumors .
a glial tumor of the brain or spinal cord showing astrocytic differentiation .
the atmospheric conditions used to culture or grow an organism .
a chronic inflammatory genetically determined disease of the skin marked by increased ability to form reagin  ( ige )  ,  with increased susceptibility to allergic rhinitis and asthma ,  and hereditary disposition to a lowered threshold for pruritus .
a disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of a supraventricular arrhythmia characterized by the replacement of consistent p waves by rapid oscillations or fibrillatory waves that vary in size ,  shape and timing and are accompanied by an irregular ventricular response .
subdivision of conducting system of heart which is located in the muscular part of the interatrial septum that is continuous with the atrioventricular bundle .
the paired upper chambers of the heart .
inflammation of the pancreas .
complete absence of spermatozoa in the semen .
esophageal lesion lined with columnar metaplastic epithelium which is flat or villiform .
a biologic subset of breast carcinoma defined by high expression of genes characteristic of basal epithelial cells ,  including krt5 and krt17 ,  annexin 8 ,  cx3cl1 ,  and trim29 ,  and usually by lack of expression of the estrogen receptor  ( er )  ,  progesterone receptor  ( pr )  ,  and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2  ( her2 )  .
a treatment applied to a sample where some behaviour is expected as a result e .g .
a non - cancerous nodular enlargement of the prostate gland .
a biopsy number is an information entity about the numerical label given to a partciular biopsy obtained .
the physical site from which tissue has been removed from a living organism .
a disorder of the brain that causes unusual shifts in mood ,  energy ,  activity levels and the ability to carry out day - to - day tasks .
the distensible sac - like organ that functions as a reservoir of urine ,  collecting from the kidneys and eliminating via the urethra .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the urinary bladder
a benign or malignant ,  primary or metastatic neoplasm of the bladder .
the modified blastula of a placental mammal .
a liquid tissue ;  its major function is to transport oxygen throughout the body .
the part of the central nervous system contained within the cranium ,  comprising the prosencephalon ,  mesencephalon ,  and rhombencephalon .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the breast
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the breast
subsets of breast carcinoma defined by expression of genes characteristic of luminal epithelial cells .
a solitary adenocarcinoma arising from the lung measuring 3 cm or less .
burkitt lymphoma is a rare form of malignant mature b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma .
a heterogenous group of inherited muscular dystrophy that can be autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive .
a tumor composed of atypical neoplastic ,  often pleomorphic cells that invade other tissues .
location of cancer ,  primary or metastatic
a malignant tumor arising from epithelial cells .
the lower right and left chambers of the heart .
a disease of the heart muscle or myocardium proper .
a disease involving the cardiovascular system .
an attribute of a cell e .g .
a cell type is a distinct morphological or functional form of cell .
the act of alteration or modification of a cell e .g .
a malignant neoplasm involving the central nervous system
the portion of the brain located at the base of the skull that is responsible for balance ,  equilibrium and movement .
the surface layer of gray matter of the cerebrum that functions chiefly in coordination of sensory and motor information .
the serumlike fluid that circulates through the ventricles of the brain ,  the cavity of the spinal cord ,  and the subarachnoid space ,  functioning in shock absorption .
acute myeloid leukemia occurring in childhood .
a benign ,  chondroid - producing ,  well - circumscribed ,  lytic neoplasm usually arising from the epiphysis of long bones .
an uncommon benign cartilaginous neoplasm arising from the bone .
a malignant cartilaginous matrix - producing mesenchymal neoplasm arising from the bone and soft tissue .
a notochordal cancer that derives_from cellular remnants of the notochord .
chromophobe renal cell carcinoma is a rare subtype of renal cell carcinoma ,  originating from the intercalating cells of the collecting ducts and macroscopically manifesting as a well - circumscribed ,  highly lobulated ,  solid tumor that is usually diagnosed at an early stage .
an irregularity in the number or structure of chromosomes ,  usually in the form of a gain  ( duplication )  ,  loss  ( deletion )  ,  exchange  ( translocation )  ,  or alteration in sequence  ( inversion )  of genetic material .
inflammation of the stomach that is chronic in nature .
a recessive x - linked defect of leukocyte function in which phagocytic cells ingest but fail to digest bacteria ,  resulting in recurring bacterial infections with granuloma formation .
a chronic myeloproliferative neoplasm characterized by the expression of the bcr - abl1 fusion gene .
clonal hematopoetic disorder caused by an acquired genetic defect in pluripotent stem cells .
a chronic and progressive lung disorder characterized by the loss of elasticity of the bronchial tree and the air sacs ,  destruction of the air sacs wall ,  thickening of the bronchial wall ,  and mucous accumulation in the bronchial tree .
a chronic inflammatory process causing damage and fibrosis of the pancreatic parenchyma .
primordium of the circular visceral muscle of the trunk .
a monoclonal b - cell lymphoproliferation in the vast majority of cases .
an extrapolation into the future of data into a class with specified label .
a malignant neoplasm composed of glandular epithelial clear cells .
a malignant epithelial neoplasm of the kidney characterized by the presence of lipid - containing clear cells within a vascular network .
a rare pediatric sarcoma affecting the kidney .
a clincal factors is a biomaterial factor that concerns the observation ,  treatment or measurement of disease within subjects .
is an information entity about the material's  ( i .e . ,  the patient's )  medical record as background information relevant to the experiment .
the time period elapsed since an identifiable point in the life cycle of an organism .
a clinical treatment is a treatment of some organism designed to have some clinical effect ,  for example the treatment of a disease e .g .
the snail shell - shaped auditory component of the inner ear .
type c is a rare form .
the posterior intestine has short longitudinally arranged epithelial folds which are similar to the colon of higher vertebrates .
an adenocarcinoma arising from the colon .
a malignant tumor usually arising from the epithelium lining the large intestinal mucosa .
an invasive adenocarcinoma of the colon characterized by the presence of pools of extracellular mucin .
the most common type of colorectal carcinoma .
heterogeneous group of immunodeficiency syndromes characterized by hypogammaglobulinemia of most isotypes ,  variable b - cell defects ,  and the presence of recurrent bacterial infections .
a congenic strain in which the donor allele transferred to the host strain background is a minor histocompatibility gene .
a treatment process in which a chemical compound is administered to the subject under investigation .
a genetic modification introduced by treatment of an individual by chemical mutagenesis ,  e .g .
congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens  ( cavd )  is a condition in which the two vas deferens ,  male reproductive organs ,  fail to form properly prior to birth .
a form of cardiac muscle disease that is characterized by ventricular dilation ,  ventricular dysfunction ,  and heart failure .
failure of the heart to pump a sufficient amount of blood to meet the needs of the body tissues ,  resulting in tissue congestion and edema .
a thin ,  transparent tissue divided into the palpebral conjunctiva  ( covering the inner side of the eye lid )  and the bulbar conjunctiva  ( covering the eyeball )  .
an array design in which a reporter that could be hybridized to an exogenously added nucleic acid or protein  ( spike )  before or during hybridization is used as a control for data processing .
clear cell carcinoma of kidney is a renal cell carcinoma described as the most common type of renal cell carcinoma .
the transparent part of the coat of the eyeball that covers the iris and pupil and admits light to the interior .
the primordium that will form the embryonic / larval corpus allatum ,  a substructure of the embryonic / larval ring gland .
a pair of neurohemal organs located on the walls of the aorta just behind the brain .
striped gray and white matter consisting of the neostriatum and paleostriatum  ( globus pallidus )  .
the surface layer of gray matter of the cerebrum that functions chiefly in coordination of sensory and motor information .
a gastrointestinal disorder characterized by chronic inflammation involving all layers of the intestinal wall ,  noncaseating granulomas affecting the intestinal wall and regional lymph nodes ,  and transmural fibrosis .
a cultivated plant variety selected and given a name because it has desirable characteristics that distinguish it from otherwise similar plants of the same species .
the measure of movement of electrical charges in a conductor measured in milliamperes .
a primary melanoma arising from atypical melanocytes in the skin .
a congenital metabolic disorder affecting the exocrine glands ,  inherited as an autosomal trait .
a measurement of physical damage ,  e .g .
physiological response to e .g .leaf's response to physical damage by a caterpillar on a plant leaf
a particular type of translocation in which the breakpoints in the two chromosomes occur at or near the centromere ,  followed by centric fusion such that the long arms now form a metacentric chromosome with a single centromere .
an aggressive morphologic variant of chondrosarcoma .
a description of the method used to deliver e .g .
a dermal neurofibroma is a neurofibroma that occurs in situ of the skin .
dermatomyositis  ( dm )  is a type of idiopathic inflammatory myopathy characterized by evocative skin lesions and symmetrical proximal muscle weakness .
a developmental stage is spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of the life cycle of an organism ,  e .g .
a metabolic disorder characterized by abnormally high blood sugar levels due to diminished production of insulin or insulin resistance / desensitization .
progressive kidney disorder caused by vascular damage to the glomerular capillaries ,  in patients with diabetes mellitus .
an adenocarcinoma arising from the stomach .
diffuse large b - cell lymphoma is the most common subtype of non - hodgkin lymphoma  ( nhl )  in adults characterized by a median age of presentation in the sixth decade of life  ( but also rarely occurring in adolescents and children )  with the initial presentation being single or multiple rapidly growing masses  ( that may or may not be painful )  in nodal or extranodal sites  ( such as thyroid ,  skin ,  breast ,  gastrointestinal tract ,  testes ,  bone ,  or brain )  and that can be accompanied by symptoms of fever ,  night sweats and weight loss .
a variant of systemic scleroderma characterized by sclerosis of the skin ,  raynaud phenomenon ,  and organ involvement ,  including pulmonary fibrosis ,  renal disease ,  and gastrointestinal tract involvement .
a disease or disorder that involves the digestive system .
cardiomyopathy which is characterized by dilation and contractile dysfunction of the left and right ventricles .
a disease is a disposition to undergo pathological processes that exists in an organism because of one or more disorders in that organism .
a temporal measurement of the period after successful treatment in which there is no appearance of the symptoms or effects of the disease .
the stage or progression of a disease in an organism .
the name of the pathology diagnosed in the organism from which the biomaterial was derived .
is a temporal measure from a defined start point e .g .
the outer of the three germ layers of the embryo  ( the other two being mesoderm and endoderm )  .
dorsal imaginal disc of the mesothorax .
the total quantity or strength of a substance administered at one time .
an x - linked recessive muscle disease caused by an inability to synthesize dystrophin ,  which is involved with maintaining the integrity of the sarcolemma .
a carcinoma arising from the ducts .
a carcinoma entirely confined to the mammary ducts .
a temporal measurement of the time between two specified points .
a biotype resulting from selection in a particular habitat ,  e .g .
the early developmental stage that ,  through embryological development ,  ultimately becomes an adult individual .
a poorly circumscribed morphologic variant of rhabdomyosarcoma .
a component of the embryonic / larval ring gland composed of a cluster of about 10 cells that sit medially on top of the aorta .
the corpora cardiaca precursor first appear during stage 10 as two pairs of head mesoderm cells between the roof of the stomodeum and the inner surface of the brain primordium .
a heterogenous group of inherited muscular dystrophy without the involvement of nervous system .
a subcategory of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease  ( copd )  .
inflammation of the endocardium .
an adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant glandular epithelial cells resembling endometrial cells .
the external elements and conditions which surround ,  influence ,  and affect the life and development of an organism or population .
the external elements and conditions which surround ,  influence ,  and affect the life and development of an organism or population .
environmental stress is a treatment where some aspect of the environment is perturbed in order to stress the organism or culture ,  e .g .
epigenetic status describes the imprinting state of a sample .
a brain disorder characterized by episodes of abnormally increased neuronal discharge resulting in transient episodes of sensory or motor neurological dysfunction ,  or psychic dysfunction .
a malignant tumor with glandular differentiation arising predominantly from barrett mucosa in the lower third of the esophagus .
a chronic myeloproliferative neoplasm that involves primarily the megakaryocytic lineage .
an event that has caused the permanent cessation of all vital functions ;  the end of life .
a temporal measurement of an occurrence of a metastasis measured from some defined time point such as diagnosis
is the survival of a subject  ( or group of subjects )  measured from the date of diagnosis until  locoregional or systemic recurrence ,   second malignancy ,  or death from any cause or disease progression or relapse ,  institution of new unplanned anticancer treatment ,  or death from any cause .
activity that requires physical or mental exertion ,  especially when performed to develop or maintain fitness .
an experiment type is an experimental factor describing the area of technology that was used to perform an experiment .
experimental design refers to both observational and experimental  ( perturbational )  studies .
the act of subjecting someone or something to an influencing experience .
use of spiked in controls in a measurement of the spiked in external / internal ratio
a benign or malignant sympathetic paraganglioma arising from paraganglia outside the adrenal gland .
the procedure used to obtain something from a mixture or compound by chemical or physical or mechanical means ,  e .g .
an autosomal dominant degenerative muscle disease characterized by slowly progressive weakness of the muscles of the face ,  upper - arm ,  and shoulder girdle .
a type of familial lipid metabolism disorder characterized by a variable pattern of elevated plasma cholesterol and / or triglycerides .
family history is a form of clinicaly history specifically about relevant aspects of genetic preconditions or family member's clinical history .
the process of obtaining quantifiable values from the scanned image of the array .
a fetus that does not grow beyond the 10th percentile of conventionally accepted weight for gestational age .
a poorly circumscribed neoplasm arising from the soft tissues .
a benign ,  encapsulated tumor ,  arising from the follicular cells of the thyroid gland .
a benign neuroblastic tumor of the sympathetic nervous system that occurs in childhood .
a differentiated adenocarcinoma arising from the follicular cells of the thyroid gland .
a neuroblastic tumor characterized by the presence of neuroblastic cells ,  ganglion cells ,  and a stroma with schwannian differentiation constituting more than fifty - percent of the tumor volume .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the stomach
an adenocarcinoma of the stomach arising on a background of intestinal metaplasia .
all tumors in the gastrointestinal tract arising from mesenchymal cells  ( mesoderm )  except those of smooth muscle cells  ( leiomyoma )  or schwann cells  ( schwannoma )  .
the number of cell passages if the organism or organism part that is cultured is unicellular or a cell culture ;  otherwise the number of generations .
a disease that is caused by genetic modifications where those modifications are inherited from a parent's genome .
a genetic modification of the genome of  an organism which may occur naturally by spontaneous mutation ,  or be introduced by some experimental means .
genetic traits are small inherited parts of the phenotype of an organism
a disease involving the reproductive system .
the total sum of the genetic information of an organism that is known and relevant to the experiment being performed ,  including chromosomal ,  plasmid ,  viral or other genetic material which has been introduced into the organism either prior to or during the experiment .
a benign or malignant ,  gonadal or extragonadal neoplasm that originates from germ cells .
a rare histological variant of glioblastoma  ( who grade iv )  with a predominance of bizarre ,  multinucleated giant cells ,  an occasionally abundant stromal reticulin network ,  and a high frequency of tp53 mutations .
increased pressure in the eyeball due to obstruction of the outflow of aqueous humor .
a non - neuronal cell of the nervous system .
the most malignant astrocytic tumor  ( who grade iv )  .
a benign or malignant brain and spinal cord tumor that arises from glial cells  ( astrocytes ,  oligodendrocytes ,  ependymal cells )  .
a role that a material entity can play which enables particular conditions used to grow organisms or parts of the organism .
any disease or disorder affecting the head and / or neck region .
a stem cell from which all cells of the lymphoid and myeloid lineages develop ,  including blood cells and cells of the immune system .
a group of inherited diseases that share similar phenotypes but are genetically diverse .
an animal or plant or part thereof that nourishes and supports a parasite either in a lab or natural environment .
a familial disorder inherited as an autosomal dominant trait and characterized by the onset of progressive chorea and dementia in the fourth or fifth decade of life .
the pressure exerted by a liquid as a result of its potential energy ,  ignoring its kinetic energy .
abnormally high blood glucose level after a meal .
an abnormal increase in the number of cells in an organ or a tissue with consequent enlargement .
persistently high systemic arterial blood pressure .
a condition in which the myocardium is hypertrophied without an obvious cause .
a disorder resulting from an abnormality in the immune system .
the precipitate antibody bound target molecules generated when precipitating an antigen out of a solution during the process of immunoprecipitation .
an individual used as a specimen in an experiment ,  from which a material sample was derived .
the genotype of the individual organism from which the biomaterial was derived .
the state of being infected such as from the introduction of a foreign agent such as serum ,  vaccine ,  antigenic substance or organism .
inability to conceive for at least one year after trying and having unprotected sex .
damage inflicted on the body as the direct or indirect result of an external force ,  with or without disruption of structural continuity .
an instrument is a device which provides a mechanical or electronic function .
an insulin - producing neuroendocrine tumor arising from the beta cells of the pancreas .
bleeding within the cranium .
an invasive ductal breast carcinoma associated with a lobular carcinomatous component .
an infiltrating lobular adenocarcinoma of the breast .
the process of treating a material with radiation
gastrointestinal symptoms characterized by chronic abdominal pain and altered bowel habits in the absence of any organic cause .
a hypoperfusion of the blood through an organ or tissue caused by a pathologic constriction or obstruction of its blood vessels ,  or an absence of blood circulation .
juvenile dermatomyositis  ( jdm )  is the early - onset form of dermatomyositis  ( dm )  ,  a systemic ,  autoimmune inflammatory muscle disorder ,  characterized by proximal muscle weakness ,  evocative skin lesion ,  and systemic manifestations .
a malignant neoplasm characterized by a vascular proliferation which usually contains blunt endothelial cells .
squamous cell carcinomas with morphologically prominent production of keratin .
knock in expression is a process in which a gene is replaced by an altered version of the same gene using homologous recombination resulting in a gain of function .
the process of marking a material in some way for experimental purposes .
a usually aggressive carcinoma composed of large malignant cells which display neuroendocrine characteristics .
an uncommon ,  aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  usually occurring in post - menopausal women .
a malignant  ( clonal )  hematologic disorder ,  involving hematopoietic stem cells and characterized by the presence of primitive or atypical myeloid or lymphoid cells in the bone marrow and the blood .
the photoperiod and type  ( e .g . ,  natural ,  restricted wavelength )  of light exposure .
a usually painless malignant tumor that arises from adipose tissue .
an adenocarcinoma of the breast arising from the lobules .
a carcinoma that arises from the lung and is characterized by the presence of malignant glandular epithelial cells .
often referred to as a blast cell .
a malignant  ( clonal )  proliferation of b -  lymphocytes or t -  lymphocytes which involves the lymph nodes ,  bone marrow and / or extranodal sites .
controlled terms for the state of the biomaterial .
the physical state or matrix used to provide nutrients to the organism  ( e .g . ,  liquid ,  agar ,  soil )  .
an infiltrating breast carcinoma with a relatively favorable prognosis .
inflammation of the meninges of the brain and / or spinal cord caused by an infectious agent  ( viral ,  bacterial ,  or fungal )  .
a usually malignant and aggressive neoplasm of the mesothelium which is often associated with exposure to asbestos .
a congenital disorder  ( due to inherited enzyme abnormality )  or acquired  ( due to failure of a metabolically important organ )  disorder resulting from an abnormal metabolic process .
diseases caused by abnormal function of the mitochondria .
a synovial sarcoma characterized by the presence of an epithelial or a spindle cell component only .
an efferent neuron that passes from the central nervous system or a ganglion toward or to a muscle and conducts an impulse that causes movement .
129 is a mouse strain as described in jackson laboratory http: /  / www .informatics .jax .org / mgihome / nomen / strain_129 .shtml
129s6 is a substrain of the mouse strain 129 as described in jackson laboratory http: /  / www .informatics .jax .org / mgihome / nomen / strain_129 .shtml
129 / sv is a substrain of the mouse strain 129 as described in jackson laboratory http: /  / www .informatics .jax .org / mgihome / nomen / strain_129 .shtml
129x1 / svj is a substrain of the mouse strain 129 as described in jackson laboratory http: /  / jaxmice .jax .org / strain / 000691 .html  note this strain was formerly called 129x1
129xc57bl / 6 is a substrain of the mouse strain 129 as described in article pubmed id 15015938
balb / c is a mouse strain of albion mice .
balb is a mouse strain as described in jackson laboratory http: /  / jaxmice .jax .org / strain / 001026 .html
c57bl / 10 is a mouse strain as described in jackson laboratory http: /  / www .informatics .jax .org / searches / reference .cgi?7550
c57bl / 6 is a mouse strain as described in jackson laboratory http: /  / www .informatics .jax .org / external / festing / mouse / docs / c57bl .shtml
c57bl / 6j is a mouse strain as described in jackson laboratory http: /  / phenome .jax .org / db / q?rtn=strains / details&strainid=7
strain or line specific to mouse
gross necrosis of the myocardium ,  as a result of interruption of the blood supply to the area ,  as in coronary thrombosis .
a liposarcoma characterized by the presence of round non - lipogenic primitive mesenchymal cells and small signet ring lipoblasts within a myxoid stoma with a branching vascular pattern .
narcolepsy with cataplexy is a sleep disorder characterized by excessive day - time sleepiness associated with uncontrollable sleep urges and cataplexy  ( loss of muscle tone often triggered by pleasant emotions )  .
a benign or malignant tissue growth resulting from uncontrolled cell proliferation .
the basic cellular unit of nervous tissue .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the brain ,  spinal cord ,  or peripheral nerves .
neuroblastoma  ( nb )  is the most common solid ,  extracranial childhood tumor .
an intraneural or extraneural neoplasm arising from nerve tissues and neural sheaths .
nevus  ( or naevus ,  plural nevi or naevi ,  from nvus ,  latin for "birthmark" )  is the medical term for sharply circumscribed [ 1 ]  and chronic lesions of the skin or mucosa .
the type of nucleic acid obtained as a result of following a given protocol .
the scalar number of injections administered to a material or organism .
the act of regarding attentively and studying facts and occurrences ,  gathering data through analyzing ,  measuring ,  and drawing conclusions
a who grade ii tumor composed of a conspicuous mixture of two distinct neoplastic cell types morphologically resembling the tumor cells in oligodendroglioma and diffuse astrocytoma .
a relatively slow - growing glioma that is derived from oligodendrocytes and tends to occur in the cerebral hemispheres ,  thalamus ,  or lateral ventricle .
a well - differentiated  ( who grade ii )  ,  diffusely infiltrating neuroglial tumor ,  typically located in the cerebral hemispheres .
a measurement of the effects of different investigators ,  laboratories ,  or organizations on experimental results are studied .
the part of organism's anatomy or substance arising from an organism from which the biomaterial was derived ,  excludes cells .
the stage premortem or postmortem at which the sample was processed for extraction of biomaterials .
a usually aggressive malignant bone - forming mesenchymal neoplasm ,  predominantly affecting adolescents and young adults .
a measurement of the survival rate for a group of individuals suffering from a disease .
a malignant cystic serous or mucinous epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of malignant glandular epithelial cells forming papillary structures .
papillary renal cell carcinoma is a rare subtype of renal cell carcinoma ,  arising from the renal tubular epithelium and showing a papillary growth pattern ,  which typically manifests with hematuria ,  flank pain ,  palpable abdominal mass or nonspecific symptoms ,  such as fatigue ,  weight loss or fever .
a differentiated adenocarcinoma arising from the follicular cells of the thyroid gland .
a biological agent that causes disease or illness to its host
tests and results for pathogens infecting organism from which the biosource is derived
an individual who does some experimental process .
an acute or chronic inflammatory process that affects the tissues that surround and support the teeth .
a contagious bacterial respiratory infection caused by bordetella pertussis .
the observable form taken by some character  ( or group of characters )  in an individual or an organism ,  excluding pathology and disease .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant fibroepithelial neoplasm arising from the breast and rarely the prostate gland .
the specific version  ( such as manufacturer ,  model ,  etc . ) 
an elongated and multinodular neurofibroma ,  formed when the tumor involves either multiple trunks of a plexus or multiple fascicles of a large nerve ,  such as the sciatic .
the number of single sets of chromosomes in the cell or an organism e .g . ,  haploid ,  diploid ,  triploid ,  etc .
a disorder that manifests as multiple cysts on the ovaries .
any fully developed granular leukocyte whose nucleus contains multiple lobes joined by filamentous connections ,  especially a neutrophil .
a usually exophytic mass attached to the underlying tissue by a broad base or a thin stalk .
a mix of specimens from multiple individuals .
a diverse group of metabolic diseases characterized by errors in the biosynthetic pathway of heme in the liver ,  the bone marrow ,  or both .
increased blood pressure in the portal venous system .
preeclampsia is a hypertensive disorder of pregnancy that is characterized by new - onset hypertension with proteinuria presenting after 20 weeks of gestation ,  and depending on mild or severe forms may initially present with severe headache ,  visual disturbances ,  and hyperreflexia .
an abnormal congenital condition ,  associated with defects in the lamin type a gene ,  which is characterized by premature aging in children ,  where all the changes of cell senescence occur .
a population in which a grouping of subjects in some study grouped on the basis of the probable outcome of some disease e .g .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the prostate gland
a protocol factor is an experimental factor which describes factors that describe the protocol design of an experiment .
an autoimmune condition characterized by red ,  well - delineated plaques with silvery scales that are usually on the extensor surfaces and scalp .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of mental process .
a wedge - shaped fibrovascular lesion arising from the bulbar conjunctiva and extending to the cornea .
strain or line specific to rat .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the kidney
clear cell carcinoma of kidney is a renal cell carcinoma described as the most common type of renal cell carcinoma .
a role played by a a biological sample in the context of an experiment where the intent is that biological or technical variation is measured .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the respiratory system .
a chronic ,  systemic autoimmune disorder characterized by inflammation in the synovial membranes and articular surfaces .
the probability that an event will occur generally with unfavorable outcome .
a site from which a sample ,  i .e .
an idiopathic systemic inflammatory granulomatous disorder comprised of epithelioid and multinucleated giant cells with little necrosis .
a usually aggressive malignant neoplasm of the soft tissue or bone .
a major psychotic disorder characterized by abnormalities in the perception or expression of reality .
a benign ,  usually encapsulated slow growing tumor composed of schwann cells .
a viral respiratory infection caused by the sars coronavirus .
a process whereby a stress state is applied parallel or tangential to a face of the material .
a blood disorder characterized by the appearance of sickle - shaped red blood cells and anemia .
a usually aggressive ,  poorly differentiated invasive adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant glandular cells in which the nucleus is pressed to one side by the presence of intracytoplasmic mucus .
an autoimmune disorder in which immune cells attack and destroy the glands that produce tears and saliva .
cell coming from the intergument ,  organ that constitutes the external surface of the body .
any deviation from the normal structure or function of the skin or subcutaneous tissue that is manifested by a characteristic set of symptoms and signs .
small cell lung cancer  ( sclc )  is a highly aggressive malignant neoplasm ,  accounting for 10 - 15% of lung cancer cases ,  characterized byrapid growth ,  and early metastasis .
a benign or malignant neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic spindle cells .
a group of inflammatory rheumatic diseases associated with arthritis and enthesitis ,  and often involving the axial skeleton .
a carcinoma arising from squamous epithelial cells .
a carcinoma arising from squamous bronchial epithelial cells .
a population or type of organisms that is geneticaly different from others of the same species and possessing a set of defined characteristics .
a sudden loss of neurological function secondary to hemorrhage or ischemia in the brain parenchyma due to a vascular event .
intracranial hemorrhage into the subarachnoid space .
time of survival is an information entity which is about the length of time a material entity has survived after some adverse event ,  such as infection from a disease .
the probabilty of continuance of life or existence especially under adverse conditions ;  probably need a parent survival metric or similar
a set of symptoms or conditions that occur together and suggest the presence of a certain disease or an increased chance of developing the disease .
a chronic disorder ,  possibly autoimmune ,  marked by excessive production of collagen which results in hardening and thickening of body tissues .
the temperature that a material is exposed to .
a temporal entity is an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
the recorded value of the outcome of some test .
time point at which a sample or observation is made or taken from a biomaterial as measured from some reference point .
the process of bringing about genetic alteration of any cell or organism by a variety of means including recombinant dna technology ,  viruses ,  chemical mutagens and x - rays .
a planned process intended to modify or alter a condition or characteristic of an organism or individual .
an abnormal mass of tissue that results from excessive cell division .
an inflammatory bowel disease involving the mucosal surface of the large intestine and rectum .
an aggressive malignant mesenchymal neoplasm that arises from the liver and usually occurs in older children .
a benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the body of the uterus .
a carrier or inert medium used as a solvent  ( or diluent )  in which some compound is formulated and or administered .
strain or line specific to virus
a disease characterized by low serum levels of vitamin b12 ,  either inherited or acquired .
the process of applying a solvent  ( e .g .
a locally aggressive malignant neoplasm composed of mature adipocytes showing cell size variation and nuclear atypia .
cancer cells are given a score of 1 to 3 ,  with 1 being assigned when they look similar to normal cells and 3 being used when the cancer cells look very abnormal .
a nucleated cell of the myeloid or lymphoid lineages ,  found in blood or other tissue .
an assay where proteins in a sample are detected ,  quantified or otherwise analysed ,  e .g .
an assay where an antigen array is used  ( antigens deposited on the array )  to detect ,  quantify or otherwise analyse antibodies in solution .
an experiment where chromatin immunoprecipitation  ( chip )  is used in combination with microarray technology .
an assay in which changes in dna sequence copy number are analysed using a microarray .
an assay in which variation in a part of or the whole genome is analysed
an assay in which the methylation state is determined and is compared between samples .
an assay in which one or more metabolites are analysed .
an assay in which a microrna array is used to analyse the microrna component of the transcriptome .
an experiment in which re - sequencing technology  ( solexa / 454 )  is used to generate sequence which can be used to determine nucleic acid sequence ,  analyse the transcibed regions of the genome ,  or to quantitate transcript abundance
a malignant ,  usually aggressive tumor composed of atypical ,  neoplastic melanocytes .
an atrophic muscular disease that causes progressive weakness and degeneration of skeletal muscles used during voluntary movement .
a heterogenous group of inherited muscular dystrophy that can be autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive .
a benign ,  usually painless ,  well - circumscribed lipomatous tumor composed of adipose tissue .
malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor  ( mpnst )  is a rare and often aggressive soft tissue sarcoma occurring in a wide range of anatomical sites .
a benign epithelial neoplasm arising from the hepatocytes .
any disease caused by a virus .
an infection caused by the human immunodeficiency virus .
a syndrome resulting from the acquired deficiency of cellular immunity caused by the human immunodeficiency virus  ( hiv )  .
a disease of the heart muscle or myocardium proper whose cause is unknown .
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis  ( ipf )  is a nonneoplastic pulmonary disease that is characterized by the formation of scar tissue within the lungs in the absence of any known cause .
an infection that is caused by epstein - barr virus .
a malignant neoplasm that arises from mesothelial cells in the pleura and shows a diffuse growth pattern .
an acute infectious disorder that is caused by gram positive or gram negative bacteria ;  representative examples include pneumococcal ,  streptococcal ,  salmonella ,  and meningeal infections .
infections with bacteria of the species streptococcus pneumoniae .
a localization - related  ( focal )  form of epilepsy characterized by recurrent seizures that arise from foci within the temporal lobe ,  most commonly from its mesial aspect .
any of the infectious diseases of man and other animals caused by species of mycobacterium .
a systemic infection caused by the gram - positive bacterium tropheryma whipplei .
aeromonas hydrophila infection is a bacterial disease caused by infection from the aeromonas hydrophila bacteria .
a tick - borne ,  infectious disease caused by anaplasma phagocytophilum ,  an obligate intracellular bacterium that is typically transmitted to humans by ticks of the ixodes ricinus species complex .
an infection caused by bacillus anthracis bacteria .
a virus infection induced by drosophila c virus  ( dcv )  which is a positive - sense rna virus belonging to the dicistroviridae family .
a bacterial infection induced by enterococcus faecalis which is the most prevalent species  ( along with enterococcus faecium )  cultured from humans ,  accounting for more than 90% of clinical isolates .
a bacterial infection induced by pectobacterium carotovorum which is is a bacterium of the family enterobacteriaceae .
"a virus infection caused by hibiscus chlorotic ringspot virus .
an inflammatory disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the muscle tissue .
the system of organs and cells involved in fat storage .
the system of heart and blood vessels .
the larval cranium exclusive of the dorsal apotome .
the organ system involved in the absorption of nutrients .
embryonic structure  ( body structure ) 
endocrine system of the adult .
the bodily system that is composed of skeletal ,  smooth ,  and cardiac muscle tissue and functions in movement of the body or of materials through the body ,  maintenance of posture ,  and heat production .
the nervous system is essentially a biological information highway ,  and is responsible for controlling all the biological processes and movement in the body ,  and can also receive information and interpret it via electrical signals which are used in this nervous system .
functional system which consists of structures involved in respiration .
multicellular anatomical structure with largely bona fide boundary that transduces some sensory stimulus to the nervous system .
set of bones in the entire body .
the taxon - independent term for the outer covering of an organism
anatomical structure ,  which is a subdivision of a cardinal body part ;  it may exclude bones ;  is demarcated from other subdivisions of the same cardinal body part by anatomical surfaces or lines or topographical references ;  together with other contiguous subdivisions of the same cardinal body part ,  it constitutes a cardinal body part .
collective term for the masses and sheets of adipose tissue that are distributed throughout the organism's body .
an adipose tissue associated with the amphibiian gonad
vessels that carry blood away from the heart .
organ with cavitated organ parts ,  which is continuous with the systemic and pulmonary arterial and venous trees .
vessels that carry blood to the heart .
any of the vessels through which blood circulates in the body .
the principal muscle tissue of the vertebrate heart made up of striated fibers that appear to be separated from each other under the electron microscope but that function in long - term rhythmic contraction as if in protoplasmic continuity .
organ cluster which has as its parts the fibrous pericardium and the pericardial sac .
tunica intima which has as its parts the endothelium of endocardium and the fibroelastic connective tissue that surrounds the cavity of a cardiac chamber .
the opening of the adult alimentary canal in the tip of the labrum .
the organ of hearing .
the compound eye is a light sensing organ composed of ommatidia .
any sense organ  ( fbbt:00005155 )  that has function 'detection of chemical stimulus involved in sensory perception  ( go:0050907 ) ' .
any sense organ  ( fbbt:00005155 )  that has function 'detection of chemical stimulus involved in sensory perception of taste  ( go:0050912 ) ' .
the sclerotized skull - like part of the head .
the sensory membrane that lines the eye ,  is composed of several layers including one containing the rods and cones ,  and functions as the immediate instrument of vision by receiving the image formed by the lens and converting it into chemical and nervous signals which reach the brain by way of the optic nerve .
a fleshy movable process of the floor of the mouths of most vertebrates that bears sensory end organs and small glands and functions especially in taking and swallowing food and in humans as a speech organ .
the tubular part of the alimentary canal that extends from the stomach to the anus .
the part of the stomodeum following the pharynx .
the part of the vertebrate alimentary canal between the cavity of the mouth and the esophagus .nthe pharynx of nematodes is an efficient pump and forces food into the intestines .
organ with organ cavity which is continuous proximally with the esophagus and distally with the small intestine .
the modified upper part of the trachea of air - breathing vertebrates that in humans ,  most other mammals ,  and a few lower forms contains the vocal cords .
the posterior intestine has short longitudinally arranged epithelial folds which are similar to the colon of higher vertebrates .
the terminal region of the mid intestine is comprised of specialized enterocytes that appear to play a role in mucosal immunity .
the portion of the colon between the cecum and the right colic flexure .
the portion of the colon that runs transversely across the upper part of the abdomen ,  from the right to the left colic flexure .
the portion of the colon between the left colic flexure and the sigmoid colon at the pelvic brim ;  the portion of the descending colon lying in the left iliac fossa is sometimes called the iliac colon .
the s - shaped part of the colon which lies in the pelvis ,  extending from the pelvic brim to the third segment of the sacrum ,  and continuous above with the descending  ( or iliac )  colon and below with the rectum .
the anus is situated in a small area of membrane between the bases of the cerci .
the terminal part of the intestine from the sigmoid flexure to the anus .
organ with organ cavity which is continuous proximally with the cecum and distally terminates in the tip of the appendix .
the first part of the large intestine ,  forming a dilated pouch into which open the ileum ,  colon ,  and appendix vermiformis .
the first part of the small intestine extending from the pylorus to the jejunum .
the inner ,  reddish - brown portion of the adrenal glands that synthesizes ,  stores ,  and releases epinephrine and norepinephrine .
organ with organ cavity which is continuous proximally with the cystic duct and distally terminates in the fundus of the gallbladder .
the specialized accessory gland of the skin of female mammals that secretes milk .
lobular organ the parenchyma of which consists of glandular acini which communicate via a duct system with the duodenum .
irregular microscopic structures scattered throughout the pancreas and comprising its endocrine part  ( the endocrine pancreas )  .
a small oval endocrine organ that is attached to the infundibulum of the brain ,  consists of an epithelial anterior lobe joined by an intermediate part to a posterior lobe of nervous origin ,  and produces various internal secretions directly or indirectly impinging on most basic body functions .
lobular organ the parenchyma of which has as its parts glandular acini which are continuous with the prostatic part of the urethra .
the glands of the oral cavity whose combined secretion constitutes the saliva .
a glandular structure of largely lymphoid tissue that functions especially in the development of the body's immune system ,  is present in the young of most vertebrates typically in the upper anterior chest or at the base of the neck ,  and tends to atrophy in the adult .
portion of tissue formed form thyroid follicle cells that forms along the midline in pharyngeal mesenchyme .
a transversely oriented set of cells located deep to the enveloping layer on the pericardial membrane ,  especially prominent during pharyngula period because of the brightly refractile cytoplasmic granules  ( containing hatching enzymes )  of the principal cells of the gland ;  the fish hatching gland is a unicellular holocrine gland .
a system of neurons that has the specialized function to produce and secrete hormones ,  and that constitutes ,  in whole or in part ,  an endocrine organ or system .
circumventricular organ of neuraxis which is shaped like a pine cone and  attached on the midline near the posterior and habenular commissures of the epithalamus .
any of the three membranes that envelop the brain and spinal cord .
the soft ,  fatty ,  vascular tissue that fills most bone cavities and is the source of red blood cells and many white blood cells .
a highly vascular ductless organ that is located in the left abdominal region near the stomach or intestine of most vertebrates and is concerned with final destruction of red blood cells ,  filtration and storage of blood ,  and production of lymphocytes .
transudate contained in the lumen of lymphatic vessel .
they are oval or bean shaped bodies  ( 1  -  30 mm in diameter )  located along the lymphatic system .
segment of lymphatic tree organ ,  the wall and lumen of which are continuous with those of the veins ,  directly or indirectly ;  together with other lymphatic vessels and lymph nodes ,  it constitutes the lymphatic tree organ .
paired ,  segmented ,  jointed ,  sensory appendage attached to the anterior of the head capsule ,  between the eyes .
cardinal body part ,  which consists of a maximal set of diverse subclasses of organ and organ part spatially associated with a complete set of bones of the appendicular skeleton ,  it is partially surrounded by skin of limb .
the middle part of the limb  ( e .g .
the proximal part of the limb  ( e .g .
a limb as an arm ,  wing ,  fin ,  or leg that is situated anteriorly .
either of two extremities of four - footed non - primate land animals .
the walking appendages of each segment of the ventral adult external thorax .
in adult pterygotous insects ,  the paired organs of flight occurring on the metathoracic segment .
paired dorsal 'appendage' of the adult mesothoracic segment .
lobular organ which has as its parts lobules connected to the biliary tree .
visceral muscle of the adult .
any of a number of aggregations of neurons ,  glial cells and their processes ,  surrounded by a glial cell and connective tissue sheath  ( plural: ganglia )  .
the peripheral nervous system  ( pns )  connects the central nervous system  ( cns )  to sensory organs  ( such as the eye and ear )  ,  other organs of the body ,  muscles ,  blood vessels and glands .
one of the two divisions of the vertebrate autonomic nervous system  ( the other being the parasympathetic nervous system )  .
one of the two divisions of the vertebrate autonomic nervous sytem .
two ganglionated neural plexuses in the gut wall which form one of the three major divisions of the autonomic nervous system .
the pair of closely united ventral longitudinal nerves with their segmental ganglia that is characteristic of many elongate invertebrates  ( as earthworms )  .
structures containing a collection of nerve cell bodies .
trunk ganglion which is located adjacent to the spine on a dorsal root and contains the cell bodies of afferent sensory nerves .
a prominent collection of touch - sensory neurons of the trigeminal or fifth cranial nerve ,  positioned beside the brain between the eye and the ear .
subcortical masses of gray matter in the forebrain and midbrain that are richly interconnected and so viewed as a functional system .
the smaller and more medial part of the lentiform nucleus of the brain ,  separated from the putamen by the lateral medullary lamina .
a nucleus forming the floor of the caudal part of the anterior prolongation of the lateral ventricle of the brain .
subcortical nucleus of telecephalic origin consisting of an elongated gray mass lying lateral to and bordering the lateral ventricle .
the central nervous system is that part of the nervous system that consists of the brain and spinal cord .
the most anterior region the brain including both the telencephalon and diencephalon .
the largest subdivision of the diencephalon that consists chiefly of an ovoid mass of nuclei in each lateral wall of the third ventricle and functions in the integration of sensory information .
the posterior subdivision of the forebrain .
the telencephalon is the name for a large region within the brain that is attributed many functions .
higher cognitive functions
the upper central lobe of the cerebral hemisphere ,  separated from the temporal lobe below by the lateral sulcus ,  but continuous at the posterior end of that sulcus ,  and separated from the frontal lobe by the central sulcus .
this lobe is located at the back of the head and is involved in vision and reading .
the area of the occipital lobe of the cerebral cortex concerned with vision ;  it consists of the first visual area or striate cortex  ( brodmann's area 17 )  and two other areas ,  the second visual area or parastriate area  ( brodmann's area 18 )  and the third visual area or peristriate area  ( brodmann's area 19 )  .
temporal lobe is the ventrolateral lobe of five lobes comprising each cerebral hemisphere .
the caudal part of the roof and the adjoining lateral walls of the third ventricle of the diencephalon ,  comprising the habenular nuclei and their commissure ,  pineal body ,  and commissure of the epithalamus .
the middle of the three primary divisions of the developing vertebrate brain or the corresponding part of the adult brain .
the dorsal part of the midbrain including the corpora quadrigemina .
the substantia nigra is located in the mesencephalon  ( mid brain )  region of the brain .
the posterior of the three primary divisions of the developing vertebrate brain or the corresponding part of the adult brain that includes the cerebellum ,  the medulla oblongata ,  and in mammals the pons and that controls autonomic functions and equilibrium .
the part of the vertebrate brain that is continuous posteriorly with the spinal cord and that contains the centers controlling involuntary vital functions .
the drosophila mushroom bodies  ( mbs )  ,  paired brain structures composed of vertical and medial lobes ,  achieve their final organization at metamorphosis .
region of the cortex that lies in a medial cleft dividing the left and right protocerebrum .
the first kidney is all vertebrates  -  it is transitional and disappears soon after it has formed .
the functioning kidney in fish and amphibia
1: one of a pair of vertebrate organs situated in the body cavity near the spinal column that excrete waste products of metabolism ,  in humans are bean - shaped organs about 4 1 / 2 inches  ( 11 1 / 2 centimeters )  long lying behind the peritoneum in a mass of fatty tissue ,  and consist chiefly of nephrons by which urine is secreted ,  collected ,  and discharged into a main cavity whence it is conveyed by the ureter to the bladder .n2: any of various excretory organs of invertebrate animals .
the tube that carries urine from the kidney to the bladder .
the tube through which urine leaves the body .
either of the two primary divisions of the trachea that lead respectively into the right and the left lung .
compound organ that consists of gill filaments ,  gill lamellae ,  gill rakers and pharyngeal arches 3 - 7 .
one of the usually paired compound saccular thoracic organs that constitute the basic respiratory organ of air - breathing vertebrates .
cuticle - lined epithelial tube that forms part of the tracheal system .
the thin muscle below the lungs and heart that separates the chest from the abdomen .
a sensillum with a long ,  unicellular ,  setiform outgrowth that is strongly chitinized .
mechanosensory organ ,  generally attached to the body wall and consisting of one or more scolopidia .
a line of neuroblasts along the sides of fish and amphibia that detect vibrations and pressure changes
the post - cranial structural components forming the long axis of the vertebrate body ;  usually consists of the notochord ,  vertebrae ,  ribs ,  supraneurals ,  intermuscular bones ,  and unpaired median fins .
subdivision of skeletal system which consists of the skeleton of the head and its joints .
the outer non - living layer of the integumentary system derived from the epidermis .
the point of contact between elements of an animal skeleton with the parts that surround and support it .
portion of tissue which is connective tissue composed of collagen and / or elastin fibers and chondrocytes .
skeletal system that consists of the paired fins  ( pectoral or pelvic fins )  .
the sensitive vascular inner mesodermic layer of the skin .
the outer epithelial layer of the external integument of the animal body that is derived from the embryonic epiblast ;  specifically: the outer nonsensitive and nonvascular layer of the skin of a vertebrate that overlies the dermis .
any of the light horny epidermal outgrowths that form the external covering of the body of birds and that consist of a shaft bearing on each side a series of barbs which bear barbules which in turn bear barbicels commonly ending in hooked hamuli and interlocking with the barbules of an adjacent barb to link the barbs into a continuous vane .
one of a series of bony or cartilaginous arches that develop in the walls of the mouth cavity and pharynx of a vertebrate embryo ,  consist typically of a curved segmented bar or rod on each side meeting the contralateral bar or rod at the ventral end ,  and correspond to the gill arches of fishes and amphibians .
dermal bone that is thin ,  flexible ,  and platelike ,  and that develops in overlapping skinfolds that cover the body and often the head of fish and the bases of the fins .
one of the repeated divisions of the whole organism .
the rear end or a process or prolongation of the rear end of the body of an animal .
the upper or anterior division of the animal body that contains the brain ,  the chief sense organs ,  and the mouth .
the main middle section of the insect body comprising three thoracic rings: the pro -  ,  the meso -  and the metathoraces which are more or less well fused and cask - like sometimes having on the upper lateral part one of two pairs of wings ,  while on the ventrolateral part each thoracic ring bears a pair of legs .
subdivision of body proper ,  which consists of a maximal set of diverse subclasses of organ and organ part spatially associated with the ribcage ,  thoracic and lumbar vertebral column ,  sacrum and coccyx ,  it is partially surrounded by skin of trunk .
the part of an animal that connects the head with the body .
the third ,  posterior division  ( tagma )  of the insect body .
the reproductive system in women includes the ovaries ,  the fallopian tubes ,  the uterus  ( womb )  ,  the cervix ,  and the vagina  ( birth canal )  .
the reproductive system in men includes the prostate ,  the testes ,  and the penis .
the lateral expansion of the posterior part of the cibarium .
female reproductive organ .
organ with organ cavity which connects the uterine cavity to the peritoneal cavity .
organ with organ cavity which is continuous proximally with the right and left uterine tubes and distally is connected to the vagina .
organ with organ cavity which connects the cervical canal of uterus to the vestibule of vagina .
in most female insects ,  the usual sperm storage organ ;  a posteroventral ectodermal caecum of abdominal segment viii located just behind the common oviduct ;  attached to the anterodorsal end of the vagina if the latter is developed ;  usually single but sometimes up to four are present .
a constricted portion of an organ or part ;  especially: the narrow outer end of the uterus .
the mucous membrane lining the uterus .
a system of ductules emerging posteriorly from the testis that holds sperm during maturation and that forms a tangled mass before uniting into a single coiled duct which is continuous with the vas deferens .
a typically paired male reproductive gland that produces sperm and that in most mammals is contained within the scrotum at sexual maturity .
either of the paired ducts in the human male that are formed by the junction of the duct from the seminal vesicle with the vas deferens ,  pass through the prostate ,  and open into or close to the prostatic utricle .
either of a pair of glandular pouches that lie one on either side of the male reproductive tract and in the human male secrete a sugar -  and protein - containing fluid into the ejaculatory duct .
distal part of the aedeagus consisting of a median ,  scleratised ,  pointed lobe through which the ejaculatory duct discharges .
the individual or generation of a plant exhibiting alternation of generations that bears sex organs .
the usually underground part of a seed plant body that originates usually from the hypocotyl ,  functions as an organ of absorption ,  aeration ,  and food storage or as a means of anchorage and support ,  and differs from a stem especially in lacking nodes ,  buds ,  and leaves .
a matured ovule containing an embryo and food supply and covered by a seed coat .
a sending out of new growth or the growth sent out: as a stem or branch with its leaves and appendages especially when not yet mature .
a lateral outgrowth from a plant stem that is typically a flattened expanded variably shaped greenish organ ,  constitutes a unit of the foliage ,  and functions primarily in food manufacture by photosynthesis .
the slender tube formed by the pollen grain that penetrates an ovule and releases the male gametes .
a mature male germ cell that develops from a spermatid .
the main root of a plant ,  usually stouter than the lateral roots and growing straight downward from the stem .
a thimble - shaped group of cells found at the tip of roots ;  it functions to protect the meristem .
a short fleshy usually underground stem bearing minute scale leaves each of which bears a bud in its axil and is potentially able to produce a new plant .
the layer of active cells between xylem and phloem that gives rise to secondary tissues  ( e .g .
the lower part of the axis of a plant embryo or seedling .
a triploid nutritive tissue resulting from the fusion of a haploid sperm nucleus with the two haploid polar nuclei in the ovule of angiosperms .
the outer layer of a seed that is developed from the integuments of the ovule ;  the testa .
a seed leaf ;  the first leaf formed in a seed .
any small part of the embryo or adult metazoon more or less resembling the bud of a plant and presumed to have potential for growth and differentiation .
the often showy flower component attached just inside the sepals ;  petals are usually colorful to attract pollinators .
one of the modified leaves comprising a calyx .
the mature ovary or ovaries of a seed - bearing plant ,  together with accessory parts ,  containing the seeds and occurring in a wide variety of forms .
a flower cluster with a definite arrangement .
rnai profiling is an assay in which double stranded rna is synthesized with a sequence complementary to a gene ( s )  of interest and introduced into a cell or organism ,  where it is recognized as exogenous genetic material and activates the rnai pathway resulting in knockdown of the transcripts and providing a means to study downstream changes in gene expression .
an assay  in which a tiling path array  ( where probes are arrayed covering target regions e .g .
an assay in which the transcriptome of a biological sample is analysed .
an assay in which surface - bound ,  translationally competent ribosome complexes are used to generate a translation profile for mrna ,  which mrna may be a single molecular species ,  or a combination of species ,  including complex mixtures such as those found in the set of mrnas isolated from a cell or tissue .
leaf of a moss or liverwort
the main trunk of a plant ;  specifically: a primary plant axis that develops buds and shoots instead of roots .
a complex tissue in the vascular system of higher plants that consists of vessels ,  tracheids ,  or both usually together with wood fibers and parenchyma cells ,  functions chiefly in conduction of water and dissolved minerals but also in support and food storage ,  and typically constitutes the woody element  ( as of a plant stem )  .
a complex tissue in the vascular system of higher plants that consists mainly of sieve tubes and elongated parenchyma cells usually with fibers and that functions in translocation and in support and storage .
the fluid between the cell wall and the plasma membrane
a sweet liquid that is secreted by the nectaries of a plant and is the chief raw material of honey .
a resting stage of a plant  ( as the lily ,  onion ,  hyacinth ,  or tulip )  that is usually formed underground and consists of a short stem base bearing one or more buds enclosed in overlapping membranous or fleshy leaves .
the floral organ that produces pollen ;  consisting of an anther and filament .
the female reproductive part of a flower ,  consisting of stigma ,  style ,  and ovary .
the enlarged rounded usually basal portion of the pistil or gynoecium of an angiospermous plant that bears the ovules and consists of one or more carpels .
leprosy is a chronic infectious disease affecting primarily the skin and peripheral nervous system .
a form of leprosy in which there are clinical manifestations of both principal types  ( lepromatous and tuberculoid )  .
a principal or polar form of leprosy in which the skin lesions are few and are sharply demarcated .
a chronic communicable infection which is a principal or polar form of leprosy .
a sensory system disease is a disease which has as location the sensory system .
partial or complete opacity of the crystalline lens of one or both eyes that decreases visual acuity and eventually results in blindness .
an autoimmune genetic disorder with an unknown pattern of inheritance that primarily affects the digestive tract .
a carcinoma arising from either the exocervical squamous epithelium or the endocervical glandular epithelium .
a herpesvirus infection caused by cytomegalovirus .
an inherited or acquired condition characterized by the complete loss of the ability to hear from one or both ears .
down syndrome is a chromosomal abnormality caused by the presence of a third  ( partial or total )  copy of chromosome 21 and that is characterized by variable intellectual disability ,  muscular hypotonia ,  and joint laxity ,  often associated with a characteristic facial dysmorphism and various anomalies such as cardiac ,  gastrointestinal ,  or endocrine defects .
the growth of functional endometrial tissue in anatomic sites outside the uterine body .
an autoimmune demyelinating disease of the central nervous system that is produced experimentally in animals by the injection of homogenized brain or spinal cord in freund's adjuvant .
a successful invasion of a host by an organism that uses the host for food and shelter .
malaria is a serious and sometimes fatal disease caused by a parasite that commonly infects a certain type of mosquito which feeds on humans .
any condition related to a disturbance between proper intake and utilization of nourishment .
a nutritional condition produced by a deficiency of folic acid in the diet .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the lung
a disorder involving an excessive amount of body fat .
an excess of body weight ,  normally defined as an individual with a body mass index greater than 35 or a body weight greater than one hundred percent of ideal body weight .
a malignant neoplasm originating from the surface ovarian epithelium .
infections with bacteria of the genus pseudomonas .
a pseudomonas aeruginosa cf5 infection is a pseudomonas infection of strain cf5 .
a pseudomonas aeruginosa pa14 infection is a pseudomonas infection of strain pa14 .
an inherited neurological developmental disorder that is associated with x - linked inheritance and may be lethal in utero to hemizygous males .
a 267b1 ki ras is a cell line .
a bt20 is a cell line .
a lymphoblastoid cell line derived from ceph / utah pedigree 1444 .
a hcc1007 is a cell line .
a hela is a cell line .
an imr 32 is a cell line .
human fetal lung fibroblast cell line
a ly2 is a cell line .
human breast adenocarcinoma ,  established from the pleural effusion of a 69 - year - old caucasian woman with metastatic mammary carcinoma  ( after radio -  and hormone therapy )  in 1970 ;  cells were described of being positive for cytoplasmic estrogen receptors and having the capability to form domes .
a nci h929 is a cell line .
insect  -  fruitfly  ( drosophila melanogaster )  cell line ,  established from the late embryo of a drosophila melanogaster  ( fruitfly )  in 1972 ;  originally the cells were diploid with 5 - 10% xy ,  currently the cell line has only xx cells that are now 60 - 80% tetraploid .
a skbr3 is a cell line .
a terv is a cell line .
a human cell line derived from peripheral blood monocytes .
a mating type is a biomaterial factor which describes the type of sexual reproduction through isogamy occur in eukaryotes that undergo .
a s . pombe mating type determined by the mat1 - mc and mat1 - mi on the mat1 locus .
a s . cerevisiae mating type cells that secrete a pheromone that stimulates a haploids .
the total number of individuals inhabiting a particular region or area .
a maturity quality inhering in an individual by virtue of the individual having attained sexual maturity and full growth
a s . cerevisiae mating type cells that secrete a pheromone that in alpha haploids stimulates processes that lead to mating .
the pharyngula is a developmental stage in embryonic development which follows the blastula ,  gastrula and neurula stages .
small but distinctive epithelial sac containing fluid ,  located midventrally posterior to the yolk cell or its extension ,  and transiently present during most of the segmentation period .
strain or line specific to drosophila melanogaster
salk_049497 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?type=germplasm&id=4652085
a / j is a mouse strain as described in jackson laboratory http: /  / jaxmice .jax .org / strain / 000646 .html
b6 .cg - tg ( sod1 - g93a ) 1gur / j is a mouse strain as described in jackson laboratory http: /  / jaxmice .jax .org / strain / 004435 .html
c3h / hej is a mouse strain as described in jackson laboratory http: /  / jaxmice .jax .org / strain / 000659 .html
a / j is a mouse strain as described in jackson laboratory http: /  / jaxmice .jax .org / strain / 000664 .html
the section of the small intestine that comprises the first two fifths beyond the duodenum and that is larger ,  thicker - walled ,  and more vascular and has more circular folds than the ileum .
the last division of the small intestine extending between the jejunum and large intestine .
a disease of or relating to the manner that an organism conducts itself involving action and response to stimulation or the response of an individual ,  group ,  or species to its environment .
cba / caj is a mouse strain as described in jackson laboratory http: /  / jaxmice .jax .org / strain / 000654 .html
bdc2 .5 / nod is a mouse strain as described in jackson laboratory http: /  / jaxmice .jax .org / strain / 004460 .html
tbp - 71q - 16 is a mouse strain as described in jackson laboratory http: /  / jaxmice .jax .org / strain / 008216 .html
cb6f1 is a mouse strain as described in jackson laboratory http: /  / jaxmice .jax .org / strain / 100007 .html
b6c3f1 is a mouse strain as described in jackson laboratory http: /  / jaxmice .jax .org / strain / 100010 .html
tbp - 105q is a mouse strain as described in jackson laboratory http: /  / jaxmice .jax .org / strain / 008075 .html
salk_037727 is an arabidopsis thaliana strain as described in tair http: /  / www .arabidopsis .org / servlets / tairobject?type=germplasm&id=4640315
an instance of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is a amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which there is no known cause ,  such as no family history .
an anxiety disorder precipitated by an experience of intense fear or horror while exposed to a traumatic  ( especially life - threatening )  event .
a chronic condition characterized by minimal or absent production of insulin by the pancreas .
a type of diabetes mellitus that is characterized by insulin resistance or desensitization and increased blood glucose levels .
pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  is a group of diseases characterized by elevated pulmonary arterial resistance leading to right heart failure .
increased pressure within the pulmonary circulation due to lung or heart disorder .
the essential organ of hearing and equilibrium that is located in the temporal bone ,  is innervated by the auditory nerve ,  and includes the vestibule ,  the semicircular canals ,  and the cochlea .
the organ ,  resting on the basilar membrane in the cochlear duct ,  that contains the special sensory receptors for hearing ;  it consists of neuroepithelial hair cells and several types of supporting cells ,  including the inner and outer pillar cells ,  inner and outer phalangeal cells ,  border cells ,  and hensen's cells .
age - related loss of vision in the central portion of the retina  ( macula )  ,  secondary to retinal degeneration .
part of the hippocampal formation forming a "v" or "u" shaped structure with the opening bounded by hippocampal area ca3 .
an embryo is a multicellular diploid eukaryote in its earliest stage of development ,  from the time of first cell division until birth ,  hatching ,  or germination .
a muscle located between two ribs .
the post - cranial structural components forming the long axis of the vertebrate body ;  usually consists of the notochord ,  vertebrae ,  ribs ,  supraneurals ,  intermuscular bones ,  and unpaired median fins .
irregular bone that articulates with other vertebrae ,  or with one other vertebra and the skull or the sacrum
an infant during the first month after birth .
synovial sarcoma is an aggressive soft tissue sarcoma ,  occurring most commonly in adolescents and young adults  ( 15 to 40 years )  ,  usually localized near the large joints of the extremities but also in the head and neck ,  mediastinum and viscera  ( lung ,  kidney etc )  ,  clinically presenting as a deep seated swelling or a painful mass often with an initial indolent course and is characterized by its local invasiveness and a propensity to metastasize .
a bone marrow - based plasma cell neoplasm characterized by a serum monoclonal protein and skeletal destruction with osteolytic lesions ,  pathological fractures ,  bone pain ,  hypercalcemia ,  and anemia .
a disease involving the endocrine system .
a condition of diminution or cessation of secretion of one or more hormones from the anterior pituitary gland .
any of numerous large oval patches of closely aggregated nodules of lymphoid tissue in the walls of the small intestine especially in the ileum that partially or entirely disappear in advanced life and in typhoid fever become the seat of ulcers which may perforate the intestines .
the process of sexual maturation mediated by the neuroendocrine system in mammals .
the prefrontal cortex is the anterior part of the frontal lobes of the brain ,  lying in front of the motor and premotor areas .
the fleshy lobe that hangs at the back of the soft palate .
one of two salivary glands in the neck ,  located in the space bound by the two bellies of the digastric muscle and the angle of the mandible .
the portion of the pharynx that lies below the upper edge of the epiglottis and opens into the larynx and esophagus .
paired ,  almond - shaped exocrine glands situated superior and posterior to each orbit of the eye that produce and secrete the watery serous component of tears .
the great band of commissural fibers uniting the cerebral hemispheres of higher mammals including humans .
lens - shaped structure on the inner aspect of the internal capsule .
the middle portion of the brainstem located between the midbrain and the medulla oblongata .
the underside concavity where the arm and the shoulder are joined .
the upper leg bone positioned between the pelvis and the knee .
the upper arm bone between the shoulder and elbow .
an artery that conveys venous blood from the heart to the lungs .
the flat triangle - shaped bone that connects the humerus with the clavicle in the back of the shoulder .
the two organs situated in the throat on either side of the narrow passage from the mouth to the pharynx .
the fifth set of paired nerves of the face that emerge from the brain steam .
one of two or three twisted ,  curved tubules in each lobule of the testis in which spermatozoa develop .
the dorsal area between the base of the neck and the sacrum .
anatomical structure that is contiguous with the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells that will not contribute to the embryo .
the vascular organ in mammals except monotremes and marsupials that unites the fetus to the maternal uterus and mediates its metabolic exchanges through a more or less intimate association of uterine mucosal with chorionic and usually allantoic tissues ;  also: an analogous organ in another animal .
the highest of the tarsal bones and the one that articulates with the tibia and fibula to form the ankle joint .
the largest and most superficial muscle of the calf of the leg arising by two heads from the condyles of the femur and attaching to a tendon that becomes part of the achilles tendon .
a cord arising from the navel that connects the fetus with the placenta ;  also: yolk stalk
an adenocarcinoma arising from the cervical epithelium .
the longest single nerve that is formed by the merging of the ventral rami of the l4 ,  l5 ,  and s1 in the pelvis and passes down the lower limb where it divides into the common peroneal and tibial nerves .
a muscle in the back of the thigh .
the presence of pathogenic microorganisms in the blood stream causing a rapidly progressing systemic reaction that may lead to shock .
a disease involving the liver .
a disorder characterized by replacement of the liver parenchyma with fibrous tissue and regenerative nodules .
inflammation of the brain and the spinal cord .
muscles arising in the zygomatic arch that close the jaw .
ischemic cardiomyopathy is a cardiomyopathy in which a weakness in the muscle of the heart due to inadequate oxygen delivery to the myocardium with coronary artery disease being the most common cause .
a study type is an experimental factor describing the method of investigating particular types of research questions or solving particular types of problems ,  for example ,  a  set of protocols  ( which may specify how and what kinds of data will be gathered )  .
a case - control study design compares two groups of subjects: those with the disease or condition under study  ( cases )  and a very similar group of subjects who do not have the disease or condition  ( controls )  .
a study in which participants are examined at only a single time for characteristics of a disease .
research conducted on members of families ,  examining the affects of genetics ,  the environment ,  or twin offspring .
multidisciplinary study done at the population level or among the population groups ,  generally to find the cause ,  incidence or spread of the disease or to see the response to the treatment ,  nutrition or environment .
a twin study design is a study design in behavior genetics which aid the study of individual differences between genetically identical twins by highlighting the role of environmental and genetic causes on behavior .
an arbitrary classification of a taxonomic group that is a division of a species .
a measurement is an information entity that is a recording of the output of a measurement such as produced by an instrument .
an instrument design is information in the form of a specification that describes the setup and design of an instrument .
an assay with input dna
an assay with input rna
an assay with input protein
uninfected class is a disposition in which the bearer is not known to be affected by a disease withtin the context of a study
the act of directing or determining ;  regulation or maintenance of a function or action ;  a relation of constraint of one entity  ( thing or person or group )  by another .
substance produced by ,  and obtained from ,  certain living cells  ( especially bacteria ,  yeasts and moulds )  ,  or an equivalent synthetic substance ,  which is biostatic or biocidal at low concentrations to some other form of life ,  especially pathogenic or noxious organisms .
an epithelial cell derived cell line is defined as something that derives from an epithelial cell .
a neoplasm composed of a lymphocytic cell population which is usually malignant  ( clonal )  by molecular genetic and / or immunophenotypic analysis .
the upper part of the spiral ligament of the scala media that contains numerous small blood vessels ; na layer of vascular tissue consisting of epithelial cells ,  mesothelial cells ,  and probably some neuroectoderm ;  it covers the outer wall of the cochlear duct and is thought to secrete the endolymph .
narrowing of the coronary arteries due to fatty deposits inside the arterial walls .
an anatomical modifier is a quality which inheres in an organism part .
a tissue modifier is an anatomical modifier which describes some quality about a tissue .
a geometric modifier is an anatomical modifier which describes some quality about the geometric position of some organism part .
an anlage is a tissue modifier describing some tissue which precedes something other ,  such as a precursor or forerunner for a more mature structure .
a placode is a tissue modifier describing the thickening of embryonic ectoderm from which a definitive structure develops .
a precursor is a tissue modifier describing a substance ,  cell ,  or cellular component from which another substance ,  cell ,  or cellular component is formed .
a primordium is a tissue modifier describing an organ or tissue in its earliest recognizable stage of development .
apical is a geometric modifier describing the tip of a pyramidal or rounded structure .
basal is a geometric modifier describing areas associated with the base of an organism or organism part .
distal is a geometric modifier describing the point furthest from the point of attachment to the body or to some point of origin .
dorsal is a geometric modifier describing parts of an organism relating to or situated near or on the back .
lateral is a geometric modifier describing something which is of or pertaining to the side .
left is a geometric modifier describing something which is to the left of the median of an organism or organism part ,  for example left arm .
right is a geometric modifier describing something which is to the right of the median of an organism or organism part ,  for example right arm .
medial is a geometric modifier describing something which is pertaining to ,  in or toward the middle ,  for example medial meniscus .
proximal is a geometric modifier describing the point at which an appendage joins the body or the point nearest to some point of origin ,  for example proximal tibia .
ventral is a geometric modifier describing parts pertaining to the front or anterior of any structure ,  for example ventral striatum .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the prostate gland .
a fold of skin that covers the glans of the penis .
a ruptured aneurysm located in the wall of the proximal portion of the descending aorta proceeding from the arch of the aorta .
an infectious process caused by a human papillomavirus .
a lymph node located in the mediastinum .
an inactive substance ,  treatment or procedure that is intended to provide baseline measurements for the experimental protocol of a clinical trial .
an infection affecting monkeys ,  chimpanzees ,  and other non human primates caused by a hiv - like virus .
size is a morphology quality which describes a material entity's physical magnitude .
an area is a size quality which describes the two dimensional extent of a material entity .
temperature is a physical quality of the thermal energy of a system .
a dervied mass unit is a derived unit which is a measure of the the amount of matter / energy of a physical object ,  derived from the base unit for mass .
a volume is a size quality which describes the amount of 3 - dimensional space an object occupies .
a femtometer is a length unit which is equal to 1m x 10^ - 15 .
a person who provides expert advice professionally .
the person in charge of the care and superintendence of something ,  especially a collection .
an individual who conducts scientific research .
a person who presents or submits something  ( e .g . ,  a proposal or protocol )  for formal consideration or review by others .
an information entity about the status of a publication describing the experiment .
a design in which rna from different cell components is examined .
a cell cycle design study design type is one that assays events that occurs in relation to the cell cycle ,  which is the period between the formation of a cell ,  by division of its mother cell and the time when the cell itself divides to form two daughter cells .
a cell type study design experiment design type compares cells of different type for example different cell lines .
a development or differentiation study design type assays events associated with development or differentiation or moving through a life cycle .
an imprinting study design type compares differences in genetic imprinting of maternally -  and paternally - inherited chromosomes  ( e .g . ,  due to in vivo differences in chemical modification and / or chromatin structure )  .
a genotype study design type compares genotype ,  haplotype ,  or other individual genetic characteristics .
an innate behaviour study design type in which the innate behavior of the organism is examined ,  e .g .
an organism part comparison study design type compares tissues ,  regions ,  organs within or between organisms .
a design that compares samples from live and dead organisms .
a sex study design type assays differences associated with an organism's sex ,  gender or mating type .
a species study design type assays differences between distinct species .
a strain or line study design type assays differences between multiple strains ,  cultivars ,  serovars ,  isolates ,  lines from organisms of a single species .
a compound treatment study design type is where the response to administration of a compound or chemical  ( including biological compounds such as hormones )  is assayed .
a disease state study design type in which the pathological condition of a part ,  organ ,  or system of an organism is studied .
a dose response study design type examines the relationship between the size of the administered dose and the extent of the response of the organism ( s )  .
a genetic modification study design type is where an organism ( s )  has had genetic material removed ,  rearranged ,  mutagenized or added ,  such as knock out .
a growth condition study design type is where some part of the growth condition is changed for the purposes of the experiment ,  examples of growth conditions changed are media ,  temperature ,  humidity ,  light ,  nutrients .
an injury study design type is where the response of an organism ( s )  to injury or damage is studied .
a pathogenicity study design type is where an infective agent such as a bacterium ,  virus ,  protozoan ,  fungus etc .
a stimulus or stress study design type is where the response of an organism ( s )  to the stress or stimulus is studied ,  e .g .
an all pairs study design type is where all labeled extracts are compared to every other labeled extract .
an experiment in which the array platform is compared ,  e .g .
a dye swap study design type where the label orientations are reversed .
a hardware variation study design type compares different types of hardware for performance ,  reproducibility ,  accuracy and precision .
a loop study design is where labeled extracts are compared in consecutive pairs .
a normalization testing study design tests different normalization procedures .
an operator variation study design type assesses the operator performance and relation to data consistency and quality .
an optimization study design type is where different protocols or protocol parameters are compared .
a quality control testing study design type is where some aspect of the experiment is quality controlled for the purposes of quality assurance .
a reference study design type is where all samples are compared to a common reference .
a replicate study design type is where a series of replicates are performed to evaluate reproducibility or as a pilot study to determine the appropriate number of replicates for a subsequent experiments .
a self vs . self study design investigates variance and error estimates in the experimental system ,  and is where the same extract is compared .
a software variation study design type compares different types of software for performance ,  accuracy ,  precision and reproducibility .
a time series study design type examines groups of assays that are related as part of a time series .
a clinical history study design type is where the organisms clinical history of diagnosis ,  treatments ,  e .g .
a family history study design type is where the family history such as traits ,  characteristics ,  susceptibility to disease is studied .
a rna stability study design type examines the stability and / or decay of rna transcripts .
a genotyping experiment design type classifies an individual or group of individuals on the basis of alleles ,  haplotypes ,  snp's .
an operon identification experiment type is designed to identify locations and members of operons in a genome .
a secreted protein identification design type identifies transcripts associated with a secretory pathway during translation and is used to infer which proteins are secreted or membrane bound .
a translational bias is an experiment design which characterizes the association of transcripts and translation machinery .
publication submitted to a journal for publication .
publication in preparation before submitting to a journal .
publication published in a journal .
an ethnic group is a population whose members have a common heritage that is real or presumed such as common culture ,  language ,  religion ,  behaviour or biological trait .
existing or growing in the air rather than in the ground or in water .
a thin layer of cartilage ,  usually hyaline ,  on the articular surface of bones in synovial joints .
the fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
tiny blood vessels that connect the arterioles with the venules .
dorsal skin is a skin found at the dorsal area of an animal .
caudal is a geometric modifier which indicates a position towards the tail .
fin that is the most posterior median fin .
a brain structure developmental tissue is a nervous system developmental tissue from which mature ,  fully developed brain structures will emerge during growth of an organism .
a caudal ganglionic eminence is a transitory brain structure present in the embryonic and fetal stages of brain development and that is located towards the caudal end .
a centrally - located portion of the brain affected by huntington's disease .
any of the system of communicating cavities in the brain that are continuous with the central canal of the spinal cord .
the choroid plexus is tissue located in the spaces inside the brain called ventricles .
stratified squamous epithelium that covers the outer surface of the cornea .
a large raphe nucleus extending from the anterior part of the pons through the mesencephalon ;  its neurons are serotoninergic .
any of six small voluntary muscles that pass between the eyeball and the orbit and control the movement of the eyeball in relation to the orbit .
a bud that will develop into a flower .
the tissue that surrounds the necks of teeth and covers the alveolar parts of the jaws ;  broadly: the alveolar portion of a jaw with its enveloping soft tissues .
the female reproductive organs of a flower ;  the pistil or pistils considered as a group .
the fused compact cephalic plates that comprise the head ,  excluding the eyes ,  antennae and mouthparts .
the inner of the two layers of the blastoderm that forms during gastrulation and give rise to the definitive mesoderm and endoderm .
the part of the axis of a plant embryo or seedling below the cotyledon .
the portion of the pharynx that lies below the upper edge of the epiglottis and opens into the larynx and esophagus .
the vomeronasal organ  ( vno )  ,  or jacobson's organ ,  is an auxiliary olfactory sense organ that is found in many animals .
the division of the quadriceps muscle that covers the outer anterior aspect of the femur ,  arises chiefly from the femur ,  and inserts into the outer border of the patella by a flat tendon which blends with that of the other divisions of the muscle and sends an expansion to the capsule of the knee .
the greater extensor muscle of the front of the thigh that is divided into four parts: rectus femoris ,  vastus intermedius ,  vastus lateralis ,  and vastus medialis .
waste material that is secreted by the kidney in vertebrates ,  is rich in end products of protein metabolism together with salts and pigments ,  and forms a clear amber and usually slightly acid fluid in mammals but is semisolid in birds and reptiles .
a vein that passes through the umbilical cord to the fetus and returns the oxygenated and nutrient blood from the placenta to the fetus .
blood present in the umbilical vessels at the time of delivery .
the uppermost ganglion on the sympathetic trunk ,  lying behind the internal carotid artery and in front of the second and third cervical vertebrae ;  it gives rise to postganglionic fibers to the heart via cervical cardiac nerves ,  to the pharyngeal plexus and thence to the larynx and pharynx ,  and to the head via the external and internal carotid plexuses .
a broad flat muscle of the calf of the leg lying immediately below the gastrocnemius .
the terminal bud  ( 0 .1  -  1 .0 mm )  of a plant ,  which consists of the apical meristem  ( 0 .05  -  0 .1 mm )  and the immediate surrounding leaf primordia and developing leaves and adjacent stem tissue .
a shoot component is a plant component which is specifically part of a plant shoot .
a body tissue consisting of long cells that contract when stimulated and produce motion .
the part of the alimentary canal extending anteriorly from the proventriculus to close to the point where the malpighian tubes are attached .
a heart component is an animal component that is part of some heart .
the partition that separates the left ventricle from the right ventricle ,  consisting of a muscular and a membranous part .
the rostral extensions of the ventricular system of the brain consisting of two cavities ,  one on each side of the brain within the central regions of each cerebral hemisphere .
the part of the brain composed of the mesencephalon ,  pons ,  and medulla oblongata and connecting the spinal cord with the forebrain and cerebrum .
1: the lower jaw of a vertebrate animal .n2: either the upper or lower part of the beak in birds .
the smooth muscle lining the uterus .
pseudostratified epithelium lining the olfactory region of the nasal cavity ,  and containing the receptors for the sense of smell .
a portion of the retina at which the axons of the ganglion cells exit the eyeball to form the optic nerve .
the cavity located at the upper end of the alimentary canal ,  behind the teeth and gums that is bounded on the outside by the lips ,  above by the hard and soft palates and below by the tongue .
the part of the pharynx between the soft palate and the upper portion of the epiglottis .
the tissue that lines the wall of the thoracic cavity and the surface of the lungs .
unsegmented field of paraxial mesoderm present posterior to the most recently formed somite pair ,  from which somites will form .
a leaf component is a plant component which is part of a leaf .
a lung structuret is a respiratory system component which is part of a lung .
the embryonic product of the germination of a seed ;  the young shoot and root axis .
an organization role is a role which is borne by an organization .
a microarray wash station is an instrument used to wash or stain microarrays .
an ara - c - resistant murine leukemia is a cell line .
a gata - 1 - null erythroblast is a cell line .
a b117h is an ara c resistant murine leukemia .
ab140h is an ara - c - resistant murine leukemia .
a g1e er4 is a gata - 1 - null erythroblast .
human acute myeloid leukemia established from the peripheral blood of a 35 - year - old woman with acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml fab m2 )  in 1976 .
human chronic myeloid leukemia in blast crisis established from the pleural effusion of a 53 - year - old woman with chronic myeloid leukemia  ( cml )  in blast crisis in 1970 ;  cells can be used as highly sensitive targets in in - vitro natural killer assays ;  cells produce hemoglobin ;  cells carry the philadelphia chromosome with a b3 - a2 fusion gene .
a kc is a cell line .
a kelly is a cell line .
a lbeta t2 is a cell line .
human prostate carcinoma ,  established from the left supraclavicular lymph node metastasis from a 50 - year - old man with prostate carcinoma in 1977 ;  cells were described to be androgen - sensitive .
human prostate carcinoma cell line ;  established from the bone marrow metastasis isolated post - mortem from a 62 - year - old caucasian man with grade iv prostate cancer ,  poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma ,  after androgen suppression therapy ;  described to form tumors in nude mice ,  to grow in soft agar ,  and to be unresponsive to androgen treatment .
pel - 5 is a human primary effusion lymphoma cell line
r1 is a mouse embryonic stem cell line .
ramos cell line is an ebv - negative ,  hla class 1 positive b - lymphoblastoid cell line derived from a burkitt lymphoma
human ,  caucasian ,  glioblastoma cell line .
tive is a human cell line .
a malignant mesenchymal fibroblastic neoplasm affecting the soft tissue and bone .
a technical replicate is a replicate role where the same biosample is use e .g .
a biological replicate is a replicate role that consists of independent biological replicates made from different individual biosamples .
a dye swap replicate is a replicate role which is borne by one of a pair of replicate assays in which labeledextracts derived from the same biomaterial used for both assays  ( e .g . ,  a hybridization or a 2 - d gel run )  differ only in that the dyes used for labeling have been reversed ,  e .g . ,  assay 1: a - cy3 vs . b - cy5 ,  and assay 2: a - cy5 vs . b - cy3 .
a 22rv1 is a cell line .
an a101d is a cell line .
an arh77 is a cell line .
a bdcm is a cell line .
a bm1604 is a cell line .
a daudi burkitt's lymphoma cell line is a cell line .
a human cell line derived from a pediatric patient initially classified as wilm's tumor ,  reclassified as deriving from a rhabdoid tumor of the kidney .
a human cell line derived from some renal leiomyeloblastoma
a giant cell tumor  ( gct )  cell line derived from a human fibrous histiocytoma  lung metastasis
a cell line derived from a human patient with philadelphia chromosome negative myeloproliferative disorder ,  after transformation to acute myelomonoblastic leukemia .http: /  / www .ncbi .nlm .nih .gov / pubmed / 6296552
a cell line of epithelial morphology derived from adult human brain .
a jiyoye is a cell line .
human caucasian lung small cell carcinoma cell line .
epithelial cells derived from the peripheral zone of a histologically normal adult human prostate were transfected with a single copy of the human papilloma virus 18  ( hpv - 18 )  to establish the rwpe - 1  ( atcc crl - 11609 )  cell line .
sknep1 is a human kidney cell line derived from a patient with nephroblastoma .
cell lines derived from ovarian cancer tissue .
a neoplasm which is characterized by the absence of morphologic features associated with malignancy  ( severe cytologic atypia ,  tumor cell necrosis ,  and high mitotic rate )  .
a benign ,  well - circumscribed ,  bone - forming neoplasm predominantly composed of lamellar bone .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm arising from the fibrous tissue .
a neoplasm arising from immature b and t cells
a group of neoplasms composed of t - lymphocytes with a mature  ( peripheral / post - thymic )  immunophenotypic profile and / or nk - cells .
proliferation of myeloid cells originating from a primitive stem cell .
a clonal hematopoietic stem cell disorder ,  characterized by proliferation in the bone marrow of one or more of the myeloid  ( i .e . ,  granulocytic ,  erythroid ,  megakaryocytic ,  and mast cell )  lineages .
polycythemia vera  ( pv )  is an acquired myeloproliferative disorder characterized by an elevated absolute red blood cell mass caused by uncontrolled red blood cell production ,  frequently associated with uncontrolled white blood cell and platelet production .
myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia is a myeloproliferative disease with annual incidence of approximately 1 case per 100 , 000 individuals and age at diagnosis around 60  ( an increased prevalence is noted in ashkenazi jews )  .
neoplasms which arise from peripheral nerve tissue .
a female germ cell that has entered meiosis .
a convenient source of human endothelial cells are those that line the large vein in the umbilical cord which is usually discarded together with the placenta after childbirth .
hypertrophy is the increase in the volume of an organ or tissue due to the enlargement of its component cells .
a disease involving the skeletal system .
the area of the plant from where the stamen is shed .
a precancerous lesion of the skin composed of atypical keratinocytes .
acute form of hypotension  ( disease )  .
insulitis is an inflammatory infiltration of the islets of langerhans found especially in young patients with recent onset type 1 diabetes .
anaplastic astrocytoma is a rare ,  high - grade ,  malignant glial tumor ,  histologically characterized by abundance of pleomorphic astrocytes and multiple mitotic figures ,  often associated with diffuse infiltration of the surrounding tissue ,  considerable edema and mass effect and involvement of the contralateral brain .
an oligoastrocytoma characterized by the presence of increased cellularity ,  nuclear atypia ,  pleomorphism ,  and high mitotic activity .
a who grade iii oligodendroglioma with focal or diffuse malignant morphologic features  ( prominent nuclear pleomorphism ,  mitoses ,  and increased cellularity )  .
a benign form of insulitis which is an inflammation of the islets of langerhans of the pancreas .
an increase in size of the cardiac tissue ,  not due to increased cell number
a serous neoplasm in which the cysts and papillae are lined by a single layer of cells without atypia ,  architectural complexity or invasion .
a syndrome complex composed of three conditions which represent clinical variants of the same disease process: striatonigral degeneration ;  shy - drager syndrome ;  and the sporadic form of olivopontocerebellar atrophies .
a noninflammatory degenerative joint disease occurring chiefly in older persons ,  characterised by degeneration of the articular cartilage ,  hypertrophy of bone at the margins and changes in the synovial membrane .
a benign adenoma of ovary
a progressive degenerative disorder of the central nervous system characterized by loss of dopamine producing neurons in the substantia nigra and the presence of lewy bodies in the substantia nigra and locus coeruleus .
a mitochondrial myopathy characterized by slowly progressive paralysis of the levator palpebrae ,  orbicularis oculi ,  and extraocular muscles .
a benign neoplasm characterized by the presence of cystic structures lined by serous epithelial cells in a fibrotic stroma .
a benign ovarian surface epithelial - stromal tumor characterized by the presence of cystic structures lined by serous epithelial cells ,  mucinous columnar epithelial cells ,  or endometrial - type well - differentiated cells .
a degenerative disease of the central nervous system characterized by balance difficulties ;  ocular motility disorders  ( supranuclear ophthalmoplegia )  ;  dysarthria ;  swallowing difficulties ;  and axial dystonia .
any of the terminal sacs in the lungs through which gas exchange takes place with the pulmonary capillary blood .
the lamellated connective tissue constituting the thickest layer of the cornea between the bowman and descemet membranes .
an infiltrating adenocarcinoma that arises from the epithelial cells of the pancreas .
either of the two hollow convoluted lateral halves of the cerebrum .
pancreatic beta  - cell line of rat origin .
an islet cell is a pancreatic cell that produces and secretes hormones such as insulin and glucagon .
the distinct stages of the life cycle of a protozoon of the genus plasmodium .
a germ layer lying remote from the surface of the embryo that gives rise to internal tissues such as gut .
an abnormal resistance to glucose ,  i .e . ,  a reduction in the ability to maintain glucose levels in the blood stream within normal limits following oral or intravenous administration of glucose .
single pavement layer of cells which line the luminal surface of the entire vascular system and regulate the transport of macromolecules and blood components from interstitium to lumen ;  this function has been most intensively studied in the blood capillaries .
a principal artery that originates in the aorta .
the initial part of the pyloric canal of the stomach .
the largest of the three paired salivary glands ,  located in front of the ear .
mouse embryo stage at age 11 .5 days
mouse embryo stage at age 12 .5 days
mouse embryo stage at age 13 .5 days
mouse embryo stage at age 14 .5 days
mouse embryo stage at age 15 .5 days
mouse embryo stage at age 16 .5 days
mouse embryo stage at age 17 .5 days
mouse embryo stage at age 18 days
mouse embryo stage at age 18 .5 days
an activity that produces an effect ,  or that is intended to alter the course of a disease in a patient or population .
surgical removal of part or all of the pancreas .
theiler stage 28 is a mouse postnatal stage characterised by postnatal development after a mouse is newly born .
a schizont produced in the liver of the vertebrate host .
a developmental stage of the plasmodium life cycle found within the erythrocyte ,  called such because of the shape observed .
the stage of a sporozoan cell that reproduces by schizogony ,  producing a varied number of daughter trophozoites or merozoites .
a developmental stage of the plasmodium life cycle found within the erythrocyte .
the layer of cells that lines the lumen of the aorta .
a neurologic condition associated with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and characterized by impaired concentration and memory ,  slowness of hand movements ,  ataxia ,  incontinence ,  apathy ,  and gait difficulties associated with hiv - 1 viral infection of the central nervous system .
juvenile idiopathic arthritis  ( jia )  is the term used to describe a group of inflammatory articular disorders of unknown cause that begin before the age of 16 and last over 6 weeks .
a psychologically and socially impaired state ,  with or without physiological changes ,  that develops as a result of using cocaine and which leads to compulsive behaviors to acquire the substance .
an infectious process caused by the human herpesvirus 8 .
a kaposi sarcoma that develops after organ transplantation or immunosuppressive treatment .
diminished effectiveness of insulin in lowering plasma glucose levels
carotid stenosis is a narrowing or constriction of the inner surface  ( lumen )  of the carotid artery ,  usually caused by atherosclerosis .
macroglobulinemia is the presence of increased levels of macroglobulins in the circulating blood .
a melanoma that has spread from its primary site to another anatomic site .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the exocrine pancreas
a neoplastic proliferation of the epithelial cells that line the acini and the ducts of the prostate gland .
infection with any of the rotaviruses .
septic peritonitis is an inflammatory condition of the peritoneum that occurs secondary to microbial contamination .
a group of dominantly inherited ,  predominatly late - onset ,  cerebellar ataxias which have been divided into multiple subtypes based on clinical features and genetic mapping .
presence of structurally anomalous spermatozoa in the semen ;  malformations include the physical bending of the sperm to produce kinks or bends
a neoplasm that affects the thymus .
intraepithelial neoplasia of the vulvar squamous epithelium .
peripartum cardiomyopathy  ( ppcm )  is an idiopathic ,  potentially fatal form of dilated cardiomyopathy that develops during the final month of pregnancy or within five months after delivery .
an dilated cardiomyopathy caused by infection with viruses .
a type of heart disorder referring to the inability of the ventricles to fill with blood because the myocardium  ( heart muscle )  stiffens and looses its flexibility .
a cell taken directly from a living organism ,  which is not immortalized .
etanercept  ( trade name enbrel )  is a drug that treats autoimmune diseases by interfering with tumor necrosis factor  ( tnf ;  a soluble inflammatory cytokine )  by acting as a tnf inhibitor .
cas number: 505 - 44 - 2 molecular weight: 163 .26 molecular formula: c5h9nos2 purity: 97% form: liquid physical appearance: light yellow liquid smiles: cs ( =o ) cccn=c=s
an antiprogestogen ,  also called an antiprogesterone or in the case of a synthetic agent ,  an antiprogestin ,  is a type of hormone antagonist in which that antagonizes or suppresses the actions of progesterone in the body ,  a sex hormone that plays a role in the menstrual cycle and pregnancy .
4 - hydroxy - tempo or tempol ,  formally 4 - hydroxy - 2 , 2 , 6 , 6 - tetramethylpiperidin - 1 - oxyl ,  is a heterocyclic compound .
urocortin is a protein that in humans is encoded by the ucn gene .
urocortin 2  ( ucn2 )  is an endogenous peptide in the corticotrophin - releasing factor  ( crf )  family .
an intermediate usually quiescent stage of a metamorphic insect as a bee ,  moth ,  or beetle that occurs between the larva and the imago ,  is usually enclosed in a cocoon or protective covering ,  and undergoes internal changes by which larval structures are replaced by those typical of the imago .
a genetic predisposition to form ige antibodies in response to exposure to allergens and therefore ,  for the development of immediate  ( type i )  hypersensitivity and atopic conditions ,  such as allergic rhinitis ;  bronchial asthma ,  atopic dermatitis ,  and food allergy .
adverse functional ,  metabolic ,  or structural changes in ischemic tissues resulting from the restoration of blood flow to the tissue  ( reperfusion )  ,  including swelling ;  hemorrhage ;  necrosis ;  and damage from free radicals .
a disorder caused by the presence of autoantibodies directed against phospholipids ,  causing a hypercoaguable state ,  which may result in blood clots ,  stroke ,  heart attack ,  and in women ,  significant pregnancy - related complications ,  including miscarriage and still birth .
an autoimmune multi - organ disease typically associated with vasculopathy and autoantibody production .
chip - seq is an assay in which chromatin immunoprecipitation with high throughput sequencing is used to identify the cistrome of dna - associated proteins .
an assay in which  - sequencing technology  ( e .g .
a process performed as part of an experiment or wider study ,  i .e .
an assay in which sequencing technology  ( e .g .
an assay which uses array based technology to determine information about nucleic acids or proteins
an assay which uses high throughput sequencing technology to determine the sequence of nucleic acids
an instrument which consists of nucleic acid or protein molecules bound to a substrate
a sequencer which supports massively parallel sequencing of nucleic acids .
an array consisting of dna probes bound to a substrate
a protein array is an array which provides a multiplex approach to identify protein - protein interactions ,  to identify the substrates of protein kinases ,  to identify transcription factor protein - activation ,  or to identify the targets of biologically active small molecules .
snp array is an oligonucleotide dna microarray used to detect polymorphisms in dna samples .
a tiling array is an array which has short fragments of nucleic acid immobilized on a substrate .
a scn2 .2 is a cell line .
human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell line ,  established from a 61 year old human female .
a normal pancreas cell line .
panc - 1 is a human pancreatic cancer cell line isolated from a pancreatic carcinoma of ductal cell origin in a 56 - year - old male .
c . elegans second stage larva .
c . elegans third stage larva .
c57bl / 10 derived non - diabetic mouse strain expressing h2g7 .
nonobese diabetic  ( nod )  mouse strain which is homozygous for the scid mutation .
c57bl / 10 derived non - diabetic mouse strain expressing h2g7 and idd3
c57bl / 6 congenically expressing h2g7 mouse strain .
severe combined immunodeficiency  ( scid )  mutant in c57bl6 genetic background mouse strain .
c57bl / 10 derived nonobese diabetic  ( nod )  mouse strain .
c57bl / 6 derived nonobese diabetic  ( nod )  mouse strain .
ir ( lox / lox )  transfection mouse strain maintained on a mixed  ( c57bl / 6 x 129 / sv )  genetic background .
mouse strain with deficiency of the leptin gene  ( obob )  .
the rapidly proliferating mass of cells at the caudal extremity of the embryo ;  remnant of the primitive node .
athero - protected regions of aorta .
athero - susceptible regions of aorta .
for neoplasms ,  a non - infiltrating and non - metastasizing neoplastic process that is characterized by the absence of morphologic features associated with malignancy  ( e .g . ,  severe atypia ,  nuclear pleomorphism ,  tumor cell necrosis ,  and abnormal mitoses )  .
the customary allowance of food and drink taken by a person or an animal from day to day ,  particularly one especially planned to meet specific requirements of the individual ,  including or excluding certain items of food ;  a prescribed course of eating and drinking in which the amount and kind of food ,  as well as the times at which it is to be taken ,  are regulated for therapeutic purposes or selected with reference to a particular state of health .
abstaining from food .
an assay in which the methylation state of dna is determined and is compared between samples using array technology
an assay  where chromatin immunoprecipitation  ( chip )  is used in combination with microarray technology
an assay in which the methylation state of dna is determined and is compared between samples using sequencing based technology
an assay where chromatin immunoprecipitation  ( chip )  is used in combination with tiling  microarray technology
an assay where chromatin immunoprecipitation  ( chip )  is used in combination with snp microarray technology
an experiment where proteins in a sample are detected ,  quantified or otherwise analysed ,  e .g .
an assay where proteins in a sample are detected ,  quantified or otherwise analysed using mass spectrometry
an assay in which an array is used detect polymorphisms in dna samples
an assay in which  the transcriptome of a biological sample is analysed using array technology .
an assay in which the transcriptome of a biological sample is analysed using a tiling path array .
a method used to assess the transcriptome of a biological sample using a high - throughput sequencing platform .
an assay in which high throughput sequencing is used to determine the genotype of a dna sample
h0287 is a cell line derived from normal lymphoblastoid cells
nha is a cell line derived from normal  ( healthy )  human astrocyte cells .
bg02es is a cell line dervied from human embryonic stem cells .
the outer membrane of the two membranes enclosing the embryo in reptiles ,  birds ,  and mammals .
a chorion cell line is a cell line that is derived from the chorion .
glioblastoma h54 is a cell line derived from
gm06990 is a cell line derived from some lymphoblastoid cells from a ceph familiy of utah / mormon ethnicity .
a gm12892 is a cell line .
a gm18507 is a cell line .
a gm19238 is a cell line .
a gm19239 is a cell line .
a gm19240 is a cell line .
a hgf is a cell line .
human acute myeloid leukemia established from the peripheral blood of a 35 - year - old woman with acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml fab m2 )  in 1976 .
human t cell leukemia ,  established from the peripheral blood of a 14 - year - old boy with acute lymphoblastic leukemia  ( all )  at first relapse in 1976 ;  often this cell line is called jm  ( jurkat and jm are derived from the same patient and are sister clones )  ,  occasionally jm may be a subclone with somewhat divergent features .
lhsr is a cell line in which human prostate epithelial cells  ( prec )  were infected with amphotropic retroviruses encoding the sv40 large t antigen  ( l )  ,  the telomerase catalytic subunit htert  ( h )  ,  the sv40 small t antigen  ( s )  and an oncogenic allele of h - ras  ( r )  to create lhsr cells .
saec is a cell line derived from small airway epithelial cells
neuroblastoma cell line differentiated w /  retinoic acid
the inferior portion of the trunk of the body ,  bounded anteriorly and laterally by the two hip bones and posteriorly by the sacrum and coccyx .
a 1205 lu is a cell line .
preadipocyte cell line .
an ab2 .2 is a cell line .
the malignant human b - cell - line bjab is a ebv - negative burkitt - like lymphoma cell line .
a cado es1 is a cell line .
a cm7 - 1 is a cell line .
mouse ,  c57bl / 6 ,  t - lymphocyte cell line .
human caucasian lung small cell carcinoma cell line .
human colon carcinoma cell line ;  established from the primary colon carcinoma of an adult man .
human t cell leukemia ,  established from the peripheral blood of a 14 - year - old boy with acute lymphoblastic leukemia  ( all )  at first relapse in 1976 ;  often this cell line is called "jm  ( jurkat and jm are derived from the same patient and are sister clones )  ,  occasionally jm may be a subclone with somewhat divergent features .
the tumorigenic ks imm cell line derives from kaposi's sarcoma  ( ks )  ,  a highly angiogenic tumor .
a lc - 1f is a cell line .
the murine min6 cell line derived from in vivo immortalized insulin - secreting pancreatic beta cells .
human gastric adenosquamous carcinoma cell line .
well differentiated human gastric adenocarcinoma cell line .
human gastric adenocarcinoma ,  established from the poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the stomach  ( medullary type )  of a 62 - year - old woman .
well differentiated human gastric adenocarcinoma cell line .
homo sapiens  ( human )  lung ;  fibroblast ;  normal cell line .
human mesothelioma cell line ;  established from the pleural effusion of a 62 - year - old caucasian man with mesothelioma  ( malignant biphasic )  who did not have any prior therapy .
a rm 82 is a cell line .
a sbc - 3 is a cell line .
cell lines that are part of the haemopoietic system .
cell lines derived from stem cells .
cell lines derived from mice .
a carcinoma arising from the epithelium of the renal parenchyma or the renal pelvis .
any cell line that is derived from the prostate .
a carcinoma arising from the thyroid gland .
an aggressive malignant tumor arising from trophoblastic cells .
a amelanotic melanoma that involves the zone of skin .
well differentiated human gastric adenocarcinoma cell line .
an assay in which high throughput sequencing technology is used to analyse the microrna component of the transcriptome .
a population growth assay is an assay that measures the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the rapid expansion of a cell population .
a motility assay is an assay which measures the controlled movement of a population of cells .
a microscopy assay is an assay that provides images of molecules at various resolution depending on the technology used .
encode ,  full name the encyclopedia of dna elements ,  is a public research consortium which has the aim of identifying all functional elements in the human genome sequence .
the international hapmap project is a partnership of scientists and funding agencies from canada ,  china ,  japan ,  nigeria ,  the united kingdom and the united states to develop a public resource that will help researchers find genes associated with human disease and response to pharmaceuticals .
a t - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma arising from the skin .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm arising from the wall of the uterine corpus  ( uterine body )  .
a malignant epithelial tumor arising from the esophageal mucosa .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells that ,  in well differentiated tumors ,  resemble the epithelium of the fallopian tube or ,  in poorly differentiated tumors ,  show anaplastic features and marked nuclear atypia .
a rare aggressive malignant mesenchymal neoplasm arising from skeletal muscle .
a carcinoma involving a uterus .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm that arises from the vulva .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the mammalian vulva
a malignant tumor that originates in the nuclear layer of the retina .
a unit of arbitrary substance concentration  ( biologic activity concentration )  defined as the concentration of one international unit per one milliliter of system volume .
cell lines used in experiments under the hapmap project
cell lines derived from rats .
carcinoma ,  predominantly squamous cell ,  arising from the epithelial cells of the hypopharynx .
a malignant ,  invasive embryonal neoplasm arising from the cerebellum .
an assay in which the transcriptome of a biological sample is analysed by serial analysis of gene expression  ( sage ) 
an assay in which the transcriptome of a biological sample is analysed by massively parallel signature sequencing  ( mpss ) 
an assay in which the transcriptome of a biological sample is analysed by reverse transcription pcr  ( rt - pcr ) 
a protocol description in which a material separation to recover the nucleic acid fraction of an input material is performed
an instance of cardiomyopathy that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a lung disease that is characterized as a genetic disorder caused by defective production of alpha 1 - antitrypsin  ( a1at )  ,  leading to decreased a1at activity in the blood and lungs ,  and deposition of excessive abnormal a1at protein in liver cells .
the quality of an organism that has successful reproduced .
the time period after birth .
the status during which female mammals carry their developing young  ( embryos or fetuses )  in utero before birth ,  beginning from fertilization to birth .
the quality of an organism that has never been sexually active .
a property of a cell which is no longer pluripotent
2102ep is an embryonal cell line
experimental cell is a cell which is experimentally derived such as a cell line cell ,  or a cell differentiated in culture .
a human embryonal carcinoma  ( ec )  stem cell line used as a model system for the study of neuronal differentiation
a human embryonic stem cell line
a human embryonal carcinoma  ( ec )  stem cell line used as a model system for the study of neuronal differentiation and differentiated into neuronal like cells
a property of a cell which is able to differentiate into into one or more differentiated cell types
neural stem cells experimentally derived from es cells
collective designation for those tissues capable of secreting hormones .
acquired ,  familial ,  and congenital disorders of skeletal muscle and smooth muscle .
the ilsxiss# / tej recombinant inbred  ( ri )  strains originate from crosses between ils / ibgtejj  ( 009324 )  and iss / ibgtejj  ( 009325 )  they may be used to study the genetics of neurogenetic ,  neuropharmacological and behavioral phenotypes involved in alcohol - related traits and complex or potentially complex physiologic phenotypes  ( including differences in longevity under ad libitum and dietary restriction conditions ,  aging ,  body temperature and body weight )  .
fibrosis associated with cyst formation in the breast parenchyma .
agressive behaviour is the process of engaging on hostile ,  affective ,  or retaliatory aggression and instrumental ,  predatory ,  or goal - oriented aggression towards other individuals .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the collecting duct of renal tubule
a carcinoma that arises from the transitional epithelium of the renal pelvis .
acute megakaryoblastic leukemia  ( amkl )  is a form of acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml )  that occurs predominantly in childhood and particularly in children with down syndrome  ( ds - amkl )  .
an acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml )  in which the blasts do not show evidence of myeloid differentiation by morphology and conventional cytochemistry .
an acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml )  characterized by blasts without evidence of maturation to more mature neutrophils .
an acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml )  characterized by blasts with evidence of maturation to more mature neutrophils .
a rare acute myeloid leukemia in which the immature cells differentiate towards basophils .
an inflammatory process characterized by the accumulation of pus within a newly formed tissue cavity which is the result of a bacterial ,  fungal ,  or parasitic infection or the presence of a foreign body .
anaplastic large cell lymphoma  ( alcl )  is a rare and aggressive peripheral t - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma ,  belonging to the group of cd30 - positive lymphoproliferative disorders ,  which affects lymph nodes and extranodal sites .
an infectious disease caused by bacteria causing sepsis .
inflammation of the dermis and subcutaneous tissues caused by a bacterial infection .
a cell with empty - appearing cytoplasm when viewed with a light microscope .
the eahy 926 cell is a hybridoma line derived from human endothelium and a549 / 8 cells .
h1 human embryonic stem cell line ,  usually called h1 - hesc and on occasion just h1
this human es cell line expresses cell surface markers specific to undifferentiated nonhuman primate es and human ec cells: stage - specific embryonic antigen  ( ssea ) 3 ,  ssea - 4 ,  tra - l - 60 ,  tra - 1 -  81 ,  and alkaline phosphatase .
a body response in rejection to a heart transplant .
a viral infection caused by the hepatitis c virus .
the broad ,  dorsal ,  upper ,  and widest of the three principal bones composing either half of the pelvis .
a poorly differentiated non - small cell lung carcinoma composed of large polygonal cells without evidence of glandular or squamous differentiation .
the human melanoma cell line m14 has been established from surgically removed melanoma metastases .
a group of organs surrounded by loose connective tissue ,  separating the two pleural sacs ,  between the sternum anteriorly and the vertebral column posteriorly as well as from the thoracic inlet superiorly to the diaphragm inferiorly .
a group of at least three distinct histological types of lung cancer ,  including non - small cell squamous cell carcinoma ,  adenocarcinoma ,  and large cell carcinoma .
any one of the three  ( common ,  deep ,  and superficial )  peroneal nerves .
polymyositis  ( pm )  is a rare idiopathic inflammatory myopathy characterized by symmetric proximal muscle weakness and elevated muscle enzymes .
a plasma cell myeloma lacking clinical manifestations and organ impairment .
mouse embryonic stem cell line
a non - neoplastic disorder characterized by a localized collection of histiocytes containing lipid .
an epithelial cell lining the thyroid follicle .
a porelike structure surrounding the entire circumference of the anterior chamber through which aqueous humor circulates to the canal of schlemm .
x - linked agammaglobulinemia .an immunodeficiency state characterized  ( usually )  by profoundly low concentrations of serum immunoglobulins of all classes ,  although occasionally significant amounts of one or more isotypes can be found .
pleomorphic liposarcoma  ( pls )  ,  the rarest subtype of liposarcoma  ( ls )  ,  is an aggressive ,  fast growing tumor located usually in the deep soft tissues of the lower and upper extremities .
a poorly differentiated liposarcoma ,  characterized by the presence of solid sheets of primitive round mesenchymal cells and the absence of myxoid stroma .
dedifferentiated liposarcoma  ( ddls )  is a high - grade subtype of liposarcoma  ( ls )  that progresses from well - differentiated liposarcoma  ( wdls )  ,  and most often occurs in the retroperitoneum .
a disease involving the kidney .
an autosomal dominant hereditary neoplastic syndrome .
a well differentiated ,  slow growing neuroepithelial neoplasm composed of neoplastic ,  mature ganglion cells and neoplastic glial cells .
a term referring to fatty replacement of the hepatic parenchyma which is not related to alcohol use .
a rare neurodegenerative disorder leading to dementia .
an accumulation of pus in a body cavity ,  usually the pleural space .
a tumor of meningothelial cells that are manifested in the central nervous system and arise from the arachnoid "cap" cells of the arachnoid villi in the meninges .
cushing's syndrome  ( cs )  encompasses a group of hormonal disorders caused by prolonged and high exposure levels to glucocorticoids that can be of either endogenous  ( adrenal cortex production )  or exogenous  ( iatrogenic )  origin .
a disorder affecting the peripheral nervous system .
a malignant germ cell tumor arising from the testis .
an acute or chronic inflammation of the bone and its structures due to infection with pyogenic bacteria .
a bacterial infectious process affecting any part of the urinary tract ,  most commonly the bladder and the urethra .
a benign neoplasm that can arise from any of the adrenal cortical layers .
a congenital neural tube defect in which vertebrae are not fully formed .
an acute ,  acute and chronic ,  or chronic inflammation focally or diffusely affecting the lung parenchyma ,  caused by an infection in one or both of the lungs  ( by bacteria ,  viruses ,  fungi ,  or mycoplasma . )  .
a relatively common disorder characterized by a fairly specific pattern of tremors which are most prominent in the upper extremities and neck ,  inducing titubations of the head .
inflammatory process that involves the chorionic villi  ( villitis )  of the placenta .
a group of mostly autosomal recessive inherited neurodegenerative disorders characterized by accumulation of lipofuscin in the neuronal cells and in other tissues including liver ,  spleen ,  kidneys ,  and myocardium .
infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis in which the signs and symptoms appear later in life .
clip - seq also called hits - clip is a method used for finding which rna species interact with a particular rna - binding protein  ( or an rna )  .
inability of the heart to pump blood at an adequate rate to meet tissue metabolic requirements .
high - output heart failure is a heart condition that occurs when the cardiac output is higher than normal .
a heart failure which results in symptoms such as shortness of breath ,  fatigue ,  inability to exerciseb& etc
heart failure characterized by mild symptoms  ( mild shortness of breath and / or angina )  and slight limitation during ordinary activity .
heart failure characterized by marked limitation in activity due to symptoms ,  even during less - than - ordinary activity ,  e .g .
patients with advanced heart failure have severe limitations ,  experiences symptoms even while at rest and are mostly bedbound patients .
a term used in the united states to categorize a population group comprised of persons having origins in any of the black racial groups of africa .
denotes a person having origins in any of the original peoples of the far east ,  southeast asia ,  or the indian subcontinent ,  including cambodia ,  china ,  india ,  japan ,  korea ,  malaysia ,  mongolia ,  pakistan ,  the philippine islands ,  thailand ,  and vietnam .
in north america the term is used to distinguish a person having origins in the original peoples of the indian sub - continent from native americans .
denotes a person having origins in any of the original peoples of hawaii ,  guam ,  samoa ,  or other pacific islands .
denotes person with european ,  middle eastern ,  or north african ancestral origin who identifies ,  or is identified ,  as white .
denotes the inhabitants of china ,  a person from there ,  or their descendants elsewhere .
denotes the inhabitants of the philippine islands ,  a person from there ,  or their descendants elsewhere .
han chinese are an ethnic group native to east asia .
denotes the inhabitants of iran ,  a person from there ,  or their descendants elsewhere .
denotes the inhabitants of ireland ,  a person from there ,  or their descendants elsewhere .
denotes the inhabitants of japan ,  a person from there ,  or their descendants elsewhere .
denotes the inhabitants of korea ,  a person from there ,  or their descendants elsewhere .
a person of mexican ,  puerto rican ,  cuban ,  central or south american or other spanish culture or origin ,  regardless of race .
denotes a person having origins in any of the original peoples of hawaii ,  a person from there ,  or their descendants elsewhere .
a person of mexican ,  puerto rican ,  cuban ,  central or south american or other spanish culture or origin ,  regardless of race .
pleiotrophin  ( ptn )  also known as heparin - binding brain mitogen  ( hbbm )  or heparin - binding growth factor 8  ( hbgf - 8 )  or neurite growth - promoting factor 1  ( negf1 )  or heparin affinity regulatory peptide  ( harp )  or heparin binding growth associated molecule  ( hb - gam )  is a protein that in humans is encoded by the ptn gene .
thrombin is a "trypsin - like" serine protease protein that in humans is encoded by the f2 gene .
erythropoietin ,  or its alternatives erythropoetin or erthropoyetin  (  / rrp .tn /  ,   / rrptn /  ,  or  / rir -  /  )  or epo ,  is a glycoprotein hormone that controls erythropoiesis ,  or red blood cell production .
thrombopoietin  ( thpo )  also known as megakaryocyte growth and development factor  ( mgdf )  is a protein that in humans is encoded by the thpo gene .
neuromedin u  ( or nmu )  is a neuropeptide found in the brain of humans and other mammals ,  which has a number of diverse functions including contraction of smooth muscle ,  regulation of blood pressure ,  pain perception ,  appetite ,  bone growth ,  and hormone release .
tumor necrosis factor  ( tnf ,  cachexin or cachectin formerly known as tumor necrosis factor - alpha or tnf -  )  is a cytokine involved in systemic inflammation and is a member of a group of cytokines that stimulate the acute phase reaction .
vascular endothelial growth factor  ( vegf )  is a signal protein produced by cells that stimulates vasculogenesis and angiogenesis .
hereregulin b1 is a  signaling protein for erbb2 / erbb4 receptor heterodimers on the cardiac muscle cells .
multiply innervated sensillum ,  composed of an anterior and a posterior sensillum ,  located on the floor of the larval pharynx .
neurogenic placode that gives rise to the olfactory neurons that which convey odor information to the cns .
region of the gastrula which gives rise to the neural plate .
primordium of the ear epithelium before it hollows into the otic vesicle ,  present beside the hindbrain rudiment in the midsegmentation period .
the ectodermal rudiment of the trigeminal ganglion ,  distinguishable during much of the segmentation period .
part of the neural plate fated to become floor plate .
neurogenic placodes that generate neurons of the distal facial ,  glossopharyngeal and vagal ganglia ,  which convey sensation from the viscera ,  including pharyngeal endoderm structures ,  to the cns .
neurogenic placodes are transient ectodermal thickenings that form at the border of the neural plate and epidermis and give rise to sensory neurons of the cranial ganglia .
presumptive structure at the animal poll of the blastula that will develop into ectoderm via the epiblast .
extension of the dorsal aorta in the tail .
multi - tissue structure that is the ventral - most aspect of the developing neural tube .
portion of tissue that arises from the arise from the lateral edges of the shield and is located immediately ventral to the notochord .
hindbrain segment or neuromere .
the swim bladder is a double - chambered organ located in the coelom and used to maintain buoyancy and may function as an acoustic resonator .
cranial neural crest which gives rise to the trigeminal ganglion .
nests of developing blood cells arising late in the segmentation period from the intermediate mass ,  and located in the anterior - ventral tail ,  just posterior to the yolk extension .
mesoderm that will give rise ,  along with cranial neural crest cells ,  to connective tissue ,  bone and musculature in the head .
ectodermal primordium of the lens of the eye .
an intermediate stage  ( between the neural plate and neural rod )  during the early segmentation period in the morphogenesis of the central nervous system primordium ;  the keel is roughly triangular shaped in cross section .
an intermediate stage in the development of the central nervous system present during the segmentation period ;  the neural rod is roughly cylindrical in shape ,  forms from the neural keel ,  and is not yet hollowed out into the neural tube .
hindbrain segment or neuromere .
multi - tissue structure that consists of three layers and through which the blood exits the heart .
transversely oriented bone connecting the occipital region of the skull dorsally and pectoral girdle ventrally ;  appears near the end of embryogenesis .
dermal bone that forms the antero - lateral part of the lower jaw .
volcano - shaped lateral line sensory organ located in characteristic positions within the skin epithelium and containing hair cells and their support elements .
mesoderm which is lateral to the neural tube on both sides .
brain structure which is the ventral part of the telencephalon and is consists of periventricular nuclei surrounding the unpaired median ventricle and those which have migrated away from the ependyma .
anatomical cluster that is located in the anterior region of the cranium and provides structural support for the peripheral olfactory organ .
cavitated compound organ that will become the adult heart following looping morphogenesis and valve formation .
cavitated compound organ that is a fluid filed chamber with  a maculae on one surface and associated otolith tethered to the maculae . .
portion of tissue that projects outward from the gill and is a thread - like ,  soft ,  red respiratory and excretory structure .
a connective tissue partition developing at the apex of the chevron - shaped myotome and separating dorsal  ( epaxial )  and ventral  ( hypaxial )  body wall muscle masses .
portion of tissue that is dorsolateral to the floor plate and part of the midbrain .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomere 2 .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomere 5 .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomere 8 .
cranial neural crest that is part of the diencephalon .
cranial neural crest that is part of the telencephalon .
hindbrain segment or neuromere .
hindbrain segment or neuromere .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomere 1 .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomere 3 .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomere 6 .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomere 4 .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomere 7 .
neural crest that is part of the midbrain .
neuromast that is part of the middle lateral line .
skeleton that consists of the supporting endochondral proximal and distal radials and the dermal fins rays or lepidotrichia .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva .
hindbrain segment or neuromere .
hindbrain segment or neuromere .
neuromast that is part of the occipital lateral line .
neuromast that is part of the supraorbital lateral line .
hindbrain segment or neuromere .
hindbrain segment or neuromere .
branches dorsally from the cranial division of the internal carotid artery ,  then curves caudally along the dorsal medial wall of the eye capsule to drain into the pmbc just rostral to the midbrain hindbrain boundary
a segment of the developing hindbrain .
a neural arch encloses the neural canal and typically meets its partner to form a neural spine .
a small outgrowth of the pharyngeal epithelium that is the site of lymphocyte cell production .
portion of tissue that is posterior to the developing notochord during tail bud extension .
proliferative region that is part of the ventricular system .
outpocketings of pharyngeal endoderm that interdigitate with the neural crest derived pharyngeal arches .
neural crest that is part of the head .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the immature gonad .
stage iv  ( 690 - 730 microns )  are oocyte maturation .
a regenerating tissue composed of a proliferative mass of undifferentiated progenitor cells from which new differentiated structures arise .
the dorsal portion of the first pharyngeal arch ,  comprising the upper jaw .
renal duct that collects filtrate from the renal corpuscle and transports it to the collecting duct .
the multi - tissue structure where the glomerular basement membrane supported by mesonephric podocytes ,  filters blood from the glomerular capillaries .
proliferative region at the periphery of the retina where retinal stem cells are located .
the sensory ganglion of the facial nerve .
the terminal nerve ,  located anterior to cranial nerve i ,  is comprised of a group of cells with somata adjacent to the olfactory bulb and processes that extend anteriorly to the olfactory epithelium and posteriorly to the telencephalon .
bilaterally paired neurocranium cartilage which is initially plate - like and formed from the anterior fusion between the bilaterally paired trabecula cranii .
bilaterally paired large cartilage that articulates with the chondrocranium dorsally ,  the opercle posteriorly ,  and the palatoquadrate cartilage anteriorly .
artery that is part of the pharyngeal arches .
the primordial vasculature that will develop into blood vessels  by the process of tubulogenesis .
an assay in which sequencing technology  ( e .g .
an assay in which sequencing technology  ( e .g .
an assay that exploits a sequencer as the instrument to find results .
an assay in which dna is the input molecule derived from pooled clones  ( for example bacs and fosmids )  is sequenced using high throughput technology using shotgun methodology .
an assay in which dna is the input molecule derived from clones which are mapped then sequenced in small fragments .
an assay in which dna is the input molecule derived from a clone and 5' , 3' or both ends of a clone are sequenced
an assay in which dna is the input molecule derived from fragmented whole genome preparation is sequenced
an assay in which dna is the input molecule derived from chromosome or other replicon is sequenced .
an assay in which dna is the input molecule derived from exons is sequenced .
an assay in which a dna or rna input molecule amplified by pcr is sequenced .
an assay in which dna us the input molecule derived from cleavage of dna by use of methylation sensitive restriction enzymes to fragment dna at methylation sites before sequencing
an assay in which dna is the input molecule derived from an antibody based selection process using antibodies targeting methylated dna ,  which is then sequenced using high throughput sequencing technology .
an assay in which dna is the input molecule derived from a selection process using methyl binding domain protein to enrich for methylated fractions of dna ,  then sequenced using high throughput sequencing .
an assay in which dna is the input molecule derived from a micrococcal nuclease digestion followed by high throughput sequencing ,  a method that distinguishes nucleosome positioning based on the ability of nucleosomes to protect associated dna from digestion by micrococcal nuclease .
an assay in which dna is the input molecule derived from a dnase - hypersensitivity digest of chromatin with the aim of identifying regulatory elements .
an assay in which dna is the input molecule derived from a bisulphite treatment of dna to convert cytosine residues to uracil to determine methylation status .
an assay in which rna derived from an est is sequenced
an assay in which rna derived from a full length cdna template is sequenced
a spectrum of developmental disorders that includes autism ,  and asperger syndrome .
a disorder most often diagnosed in the pediatric years in which the individual displays marked impairment in social interaction and a repetitive ,  stereotyped pattern of behavior .
persistent deficits in social interaction and communication and interaction as well as a markedly restricted repertoire of activity and interest as well as repetitive patterns of behavior .
an autism spectrum disorder that involves some autistic symptoms occuring after age 3 with an abscence of all the traits necessary for a diagnosis of autism .
a congenital or acquired cyst that is present in the central nervous system .
a mood disorder having a clinical course involving one or more episodes of serious psychological depression that last two or more weeks each ,  do not have intervening episodes of mania or hypomania ,  and are characterized by a loss of interest or pleasure in almost all activities and by some or all of disturbances of appetite ,  sleep ,  or psychomotor functioning ,  a decrease in energy ,  difficulties in thinking or making decisions ,  loss of self - esteem or feelings of guilt ,  and suicidal thoughts or attempts .
a nutritional condition produced by a deficiency of vitamin d in the diet ,  insufficient production of vitamin d in the skin ,  inadequate absorption of vitamin d from the diet ,  or abnormal conversion of vitamin d to its bioactive metabolites .
a disorder resulting from inadequate blood flow in the vessels that supply the brain .
a brief attack  ( from a few minutes to an hour )  of cerebral dysfunction of vascular origin ,  with no persistent neurological deficit .
objective evidence of disease perceptible to the examining physician  ( sign )  and subjective evidence of disease perceived by the patient  ( symptom )  .
sensation of discomfort ,  distress ,  or agony in the abdominal region ;  generally associated with functional disorders ,  tissue injuries ,  or diseases .
a spectrum of small and large bowel inflammatory diseases of unknown etiology .
physical and psychological dependence on nicotine .
a benign or malignant neoplasm arising from the epithelial cells of an endocrine organ .
a chronic ,  pathological complication associated with diabetes mellitus ,  where retinal damages are incurred due to microaneurysms in the vasculature of the retina ,  progressively leading to abnormal blood vessel growth ,  and swelling and leaking of fluid from blood vessels ,  resulting in vision loss or blindness .
fatty tissue inside the abdominal cavity ,  including visceral fat and retroperitoneal fat .
conditions with excess lipids in the blood .
primary immunodeficiency syndrome characterized by recurrent infections and hyperimmunoglobulinemia e . most cases are sporadic .
surgical therapy of ischemic coronary artery disease achieved by grafting a section of saphenous vein ,  internal mammary artery ,  or other substitute between the aorta and the obstructed coronary artery distal to the obstructive lesion .
a disease involving the heart and / or pericardium .
joint inflammation associated with psoriasis .
an autoimmune disorder caused by the production of autoantibodies against thyroid tissue .
bechet disease  ( bd )  is a chronic ,  relapsing ,  multisystemic vasculitis characterized by mucocutaneous lesions ,  as well as articular ,  vascular ,  ocular and central nervous system manifestations .
a disease involving the carotid artery segment .
a disease involving the motor neuron .
progressive bulbar palsy involves the brain stem .
coloration of the skin .
an immune response that occurs following re - exposure to an innocuous antigen ,  and that requires the presence of existing antibodies against that antigen .
a gene expression protocol is a  protocol which is designed to be used in a gene expression experiment performed on arrays or by high throughput sequencing .
a growth protocol is a protocol which provides instructions on the growth of a biological sample .
a hybridization protocol is the set of instructions or plan for performing a nucleic acid hybridization on an microarray such as those provided by affymetrix
a myelodysplastic syndrome characterized mainly by dysplasia of the erythroid series .
a labelling protocol is a set of instructions or plan which is realised
a sample treatment protocol is a protocol used in a biological experiment and defines instructions on how a sample should be treated in a given experimental scenario .
a myelodysplastic syndrome characterized by the presence of 5 - 19% myeloblasts in the bone marrow or 2 - 19% blasts in the peripheral blood .
acquired idiopathic sideroblastic anaemia is one of a group of disorders known as the myelodysplastic syndromes  ( mds )  characterised by ineffective haemopoiesis affecting one or more blood cell lineages  ( myeloid ,  erythroid or megakaryocytic )  leading to peripheral blood cytopenias and an increased risk of developing leukaemia .
a protocol description in which input nucleic acid material is labeled .
a protocol describing an image acquisition process that generates an image and features extracted in numerical form from an array .
a protocol describing the hybridisation of the target nucleic acid sample to a fixed probe on the array .
a protocol describing a data transformation in which data transformation has the objective normalization .
a benign or malignant neoplasm involving the larynx .
a disease involving the lung .
the decay of a tooth ,  in which it becomes softened ,  discolored ,  and / or porous .
a benign ,  intermediate ,  or malignant neoplasm involving the bone or articular cartilage .
a common ,  severe type of vascular headache often associated with increased sympathetic activity ,  resulting in nausea ,  vomiting ,  and light sensitivity .
the presence of an increased amount of blood in a part or organ ;  engorgement .
a group of disorders marked by progressive degeneration of motor neurons in the spinal cord resulting in weakness and muscular atrophy ,  usually without evidence of injury to the corticospinal tracts .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the eye .
an adenocarcinoma that is characterized by the presence of papillary patterns and cellular budding .
tumors of the salivary glands .
the obstruction of the pulmonary artery or one of its branches by an embolus ,  sometimes associated with infarction of the lung .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the spinal cord .
physical and psychological dependence on alcohol .
an infectious or non - infectious inflammatory process affecting the prostate gland .
clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material  ( either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment )  .
a disease involving the gall bladder .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the brain .
an autoimmune disorder that manifests as different lupus - specific skin disorders ;  it can occur with systemic lupus erythematosus ,  or as a singular disease .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the anal canal or anal margin .
lipid - protein complexes involved in the transportation and metabolism of lipids in the body .
process by which organic tissue becomes hardened by the physiologic deposit of calcium salts .
a pathological process characterized by injury or destruction of tissues caused by a variety of cytologic and chemical reactions .
any disease or disorder of the retina .
a form of multiple sclerosis characterized by a progressive deterioration in neurologic function which is in contrast to the more typical relapsing remitting form .
a benign or malignant neoplasm affecting the thyroid gland .
an unpleasant sensation induced by noxious stimuli which are detected by nerve endings of nociceptive neurons .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the ureter .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the urethra .
subnormal intellectual functioning which originates during the developmental period .
congenital ,  inherited ,  or acquired anomalies of the cardiovascular system ,  including the heart and blood vessels .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the hard palate ,  soft palate ,  or uvula .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the adrenal gland .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the meninges .
disorders in which there is a delay in development based on that expected for a given age level or stage of development .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the respiratory system .
metabolic disorder associated with fractures of the femoral neck ,  vertebrae ,  and distal forearm .
discrete abnormal tissue masses that protrude into the lumen of the intestine .
the separation and isolation of tissues for surgical purposes ,  or for the analysis or study of their structures .
a rare ,  non - progressive congenital disorder characterized by multiple joint contractures which are present at birth .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the uterus .
a benign or malignant neoplasm involving the pancreas .
an acquired organic mental disorder with loss of intellectual abilities of sufficient severity to interfere with social or occupational functioning .
tumors or cancer of the urogenital system in either the male or the female .
a benign or malignant neoplasm affecting the kidney .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the paranasal sinuses .
a clinical syndrome resulting from direct or indirect muscle injury and subsequent release of myoglobin into the plasma .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the oral cavity .
a benign or malignant neoplasm of the breast parenchyma .
a congenital or acquired aneurysm within the cranium .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the tongue .
inflammation of the colon .
an anatomic deformity in which the arch of the foot collapses ,  resulting in the entire sole of the foot coming into complete or near - complete contact with the ground .
any disorder affecting blood flow through the veins or arteries outside of the heart .
a symptom complex characterized by pain and weakness in skeletal muscle group associated with exercise ,  such as leg pain and weakness brought on by walking .
a disorder characterized by multiple cessations of respirations during sleep that induce partial arousals and interfere with the maintenance of sleep .
inflammation of the urethra .
the valve between the left ventricle and the ascending aorta which prevents backflow into the left ventricle .
a benign or malignant neoplasm involving the appendix .
excision of the uterus .
a condition of reduced bone mass ,  with decreased cortical thickness and a decrease in the number and size of the trabeculae of cancellous bone  ( but normal chemical composition )  ,  resulting in increased fracture incidence .
localized reduction of blood flow to brain tissue due to arterial obstruction or systemic hypoperfusion .
impairment of the renal function secondary to chronic kidney damage persisting for three or more months .
a progressive autoimmune disorder affecting the central nervous system resulting in demyelination .
the five cylindrical bones of the metacarpus ,  articulating with the carpal bones proximally and the phalanges of fingers distally .
a mental disorder characterized by inattention ,  easy distraction ,  careless mistakes and avoidance of tasks that require sustained mental focus .
behavioral manifestations of cerebral dominance in which there is preferential use and superior functioning of either the left or the right side ,  as in the preferred use of the right hand or right foot .
drug dependence  -  replaced the term "drug addiction" and is defined as a state ,  psychic and sometimes also physical ,  resulting from the interaction between a living organism and a drug ,  characterized by behavioral and other responses that always include a compulsion to take the drug on a continuous or periodic basis in order to experience its psychic effects ,  and sometimes to avoid the discomfort of its absence .
a neoplasm that involves the biliary tract .
measurement of the various processes involved in the act of respiration: inspiration ,  expiration ,  oxygen and carbon dioxide exchange ,  lung volume and compliance ,  etc .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant neoplasm involving the ovary .
an inflammatory process of the sebaceous glands which is characterized by comedones ,  nodules ,  papules and / or pustules on the skin .
bleeding from the nose .
enlargement of the left ventricle of the heart .
a benign or malignant neoplasm involving the stomach .
an autoimmune chronic inflammatory disorder characterized by inflammation in the vertebral joints of the spine and sacroiliac joints .
prolonged shortening of the muscle or other soft tissue around a joint ,  preventing movement of the joint .
a ciliopathy is a genetic disorder of the cellular cilia or the cilia anchoring structures ,  the basal bodies ,  or of ciliary function .
painful urination .it is often associated with infections of the lower urinary tract .
traumatic or pathological injury to the spine in which the continuity of a vertebral bone is broken .
a rare ,  x - linked immunodeficiency syndrome characterized by eczema ;  lymphopenia ;  and ,  recurrent pyogenic infection .
surgical insertion of synthetic material to repair injured or diseased heart valves .
the formation or presence of a blood clot  ( thrombus )  within a deep vein in the lower extremity
deviations from the average or standard indices of refraction of the eye through its dioptric or refractive apparatus .
group of hemorrhagic disorders in which the von willebrand factor is either quantitatively or qualitatively abnormal .
a disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of an organized ,  regular atrial rhythm with atrial rate of 240 - 340 beats per minute .
comparison of the blood pressure between the brachial artery and the posterior tibial artery .
the symptom of paroxysmal pain consequent to myocardial ischemia usually of distinctive character ,  location and radiation .
build - up of fatty material and calcium deposition in the arterial wall resulting in partial or complete occlusion of the arterial lumen .
malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero .
congenital vascular anomalies in the brain characterized by direct communication between an artery and a vein without passing through the capillaries .
childbirth before 37 weeks of pregnancy  ( 259 days from the first day of the mother's last menstrual period ,  or 245 days after fertilization )  .
cessation of air flow during sleep due to upper airway obstruction .
any aspect of an individual's life ,  behavior ,  an environmental exposure ,  or an inborn or inherited characteristic that increases the likelihood of a disease ,  condition or injury .
congenital fissure of the soft and / or hard palate ,  due to faulty fusion .
acute inflammation in the intestinal mucosa of the continent ileal reservoir  ( or pouch )  in patients who have undergone ileostomy and restorative proctocolectomy  ( proctocolectomy ,  restorative )  .
the last menstrual period .permanent cessation of menses  ( menstruation )  is usually defined after 6 to 12 months of amenorrhea in a woman over 45 years of age .
the amount of mineral per square centimeter of bone .
color of hair or fur .
intellectual or mental process whereby an organism becomes aware of or obtains knowledge .
tests designed to assess neurological function associated with certain behaviors .
a refractive error in which rays of light entering the eye parallel to the optic axis are brought to a focus in front of the retina when accommodation  ( accommodation ,  ocular )  is relaxed .
necrotizing enterocolitis  ( nec )  is a devastating disease that affects mostly the intestine of premature infants .
the most common clinical variant of multiple sclerosis ,  characterized by recurrent acute exacerbations of neurologic dysfunction followed by partial or complete recovery .
the first menstrual cycle marked by the initiation of menstruation .
breaks in bones .
infection caused by bacterial overgrowth in the vagina .
the valve between the left atrium and left ventricle of the heart .
lipid infiltration of the hepatic parenchymal cells resulting in a yellow - colored liver .
the state wherein the person is well adjusted .
the activities of living organisms that support life in single -  or multi - cellular organisms from their origin through the progression of life .
a type of stomatitis that is characterized by small white ulcerative lesions ,  single or multiple ,  round or oval ,  lasting for 7 - 14 days and healing without scarring .
total number of calories taken in daily whether ingested or by parenteral routes .
the physical activity of a human or an animal as a behavioral phenomenon .
http: /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / sex_hormone - binding_globulin
transplantation between animals of different species .
a traumatic or pathologic injury to the humerus in which the continuity of the humerus is broken .
traumatic or pathological injury to the tibia in which the continuity of the bone is broken .
excessive uterine bleeding during menstruation .
disorder caused by loss of endothelium of the central cornea .
behavior - response patterns that characterize the individual .
a chronic disorder characterized by reflux of the gastric and / or duodenal contents into the distal esophagus .
color of the iris .
fractures of the larger bone of the forearm .
dilation of an occluded coronary artery  ( or arteries )  by means of a balloon catheter to restore myocardial blood supply .
fever in which the etiology cannot be ascertained .
excision of the prepuce of the penis  ( foreskin )  or part of it .
a hereditary disorder occurring in two forms: the complete form  ( franceschetti's syndrome )  is characterized by antimongoloid slant of the palpebral fissures ,  coloboma of the lower lid ,  micrognathia and hypoplasia of the zygomatic arches ,  and microtia .
bacterial diseases that are potentially transmitted or propagated by sexual conduct .
allergic rhinitis caused by outdoor allergens .
traumatic or pathological injury to the radius bone in which the continuity of the bone is broken .
an inflammatory reaction from ultraviolet radiation characterized by transient redness ,  tenderness and occasional blistering .
congenital defect in the upper lip where the maxillary prominence fails to merge with the merged medial nasal prominences .
a computed tomography scan  ( ct scan )  is the output of an imaging technology which produces a 3d iimage of the subject .
therapeutic use of hormones to alleviate the effects of hormone deficiency .
echocardiography applying the doppler effect ,  with velocity detection combined with range discrimination .
disorders of increased melanin pigmentation that develop without preceding inflammatory disease .
traumatic or pathological injury to the hip in which the continuity of either the femoral head ,  femoral neck ,  intertrochanteric or subtrochanteric regions is broken .
an infant whose weight at birth is less than 1500 grams  ( 3 .3 lbs )  ,  regardless of gestational age .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the eye .
a sarcoma arising from vascular tissue including arteries ,  veins ,  venous sinuses ,  arterioles and capillaries .
a malignant tumor arising from the endothelial cells of the blood vessels .
a protocol in which the aim is to treat a sample ,  collection of samples ,  organism or group of organisms for some experimental analysis of outcome .
a mouse embryonic stem cell hybrid cell line
a designator of mouse strain information indicating the genetic homo or heterogenetity e .g .
a mouse strain type whereby the strain is propagated by random mating within the stock .
a coisogentic strain is a strain that differs from its progenitor inbred strain at only one locus .
a congenic strain is an  inbred strain that contains a small genetic region  ( ideally a single gene )  from another strain ,  but which is otherwise identical to the original inbred strain .
an inbred strain that contains a single entire chromosome from another strain .
an inbred strain carrying one or more phenotypic mutations .
an inbred strain carrying one or more phenotypic mutations .
strains formed by crossing two inbred strains ,  followed by a few backcrosses to one of the parental strains ,  with subsequent inbreeding without selection .
an inbred strain created by crossing two different inbred strains ,  followed by brother x sister matings for at least 20 generations .
an inbred strain that is kept in forced heterozygosity for one or more loci .
strains formed by brother x sister matings or other inbreeding schemes from mice originally caught in the wild .
a congenic strain in which the donor allele transferred to the host strain background is a major histocompatibility gene .
a reciprocal translocation in which no genetic material is gained or lost in the resulting fusion chromosomes
a genetic modification in which part of the genome is duplicated
a genetic modification which has arisen by a spontaneous mutation in an individual .
a genetic modification in which a targeted mutation has been introduced into the genome of an individual
a genetic modification in which a transgene has been inserted into an individual
a genetic modification introduced into an individual as the result of transposase activity
a type of chromosome rearrangement in which two nonhomologous chromosomes are each broken and then repaired in such a way that the resulting chromosomes each contain material from the other chromosome  ( a reciprocal translocation )  .
a type of chromosome rearrangement in which two nonhomologous chromosomes are each broken and then repaired
c . elegans daf - d ,  weak heterochronic phenotypes in seam ,  somatic gonad ,  intestine .
c . elegans daf - c ,  gonadal mig ,  weak heterochronic phenotypes in intestine and seam .
c . elegans daf - c . gonald mig .
c . elegans wild isolate var bristol .
drosophila simulans isofemale line ;  sii haplotype ;  originally collected from honolulu ,  hawaii in 1998
a genetic modification induced by insertion of a nucleic acid construct containing a reporter gene sequence downstream of a splice acceptor site that is capable of integrating into random chromosomal locations integration of the gene trap into an intron allows the expression of a new mrna containing one or more upstream exons followed by the reporter gene .
crosophila simulans isofemale line ;  sii haplotype ;  originally collected from noumea ,  new caledonia in 1991
drosophila simulans isofemale line ,  siii haplotype ;  originally collected from ansirabe ,  madagascar in 1998
mouse embryonic fibroblast cell line
mouse embryonic stem cell
mouse embryonic fibroblast cell
mouse neural progenitor cell line
strain of c . elegans described with phenotypes such as ;  increased social feeding ,  foraging behavior variant ,  carbon dioxide response variant ,  bordering
strain of c . elegans
strain of c . elegans described as small ,  recessive ,  abnormal bursae ,  males abnormal with m - mating - no success .
strain of c . elegans
c . elegans strain described as "small dpy"
strain of c . elegans described as "semi - dominant dpy .
c . elegans strain described with phenotypes "long .
strain of c . elegans described with phenotypes "small .
strain of c . elegans described as "long .
c . elegans strain described with phenotypes ;  solitary feeding increased ,  foraging behavior variant .
c . elegans strain with phenotypes ;  social feeding increased ,  foraging behavior variant ,  carbon dioxide response variant ,  bordering .
c . elegans strain described with phenotypes ;  social feeding increased ,  foraging behavior variant ,  bordering .
c . elegans strain with phenotypes ;  social feeding increased ,  foraging behavior variant ,  bordering .
c . elegans strain with phenotypes ;  social feeding increased ,  cryophilic ,  pathogen susceptibility increased  ( esp )  ,  biofilm absent head  ( bah )  ,  carbon dioxide response variant ,  pathogen load variant
c . elegans strain described with phenotypes ;  solitary feeding increased ,  foraging behavior variant ,  bordering .
c . elegans strain described with phenotypes ;  social feeding increased ,  foraging behavior variant ,  bordering
c . elegans strain described as "long" .
c . elegans strain described with phenotypes ;  social feeding increased ,  foraging behavior variant ,  bordering .
c . elegans strain with phenotypes ;  solitary feeding increased ,  foraging behavior variant .
c . elegans strain with phenotypes ;  solitary feeding increased ,  foraging behavior variant .
c . elegans strian .additional remarks include "homozygous rrf - 3 deletion allele .
strain of c . briggsae described with phenotypes ;  biofilm absent head  ( bah )  ,  carbon dioxide response variant ,  mate finding defective
strain of c . briggsae defined as having biofilm absent head  ( bah )  .
strain of c . briggsae
strain of c . remanei described as having biofilm absent head  ( bah )  .
strain of r . remanei
strain of o dolichura ,  collected by a belgian expedition to the galapagos archipelago .
strain of o . dolichuroides ,  isolated by w . sudhaus in april 1978 from decaying matter in a hole in a tree in malindi ,  kenya .
strain of o . myriophila ,  isolated by d . fitch in june 1990 from soil in scott emmons' compost heap in the fort greene section of brooklyn ,  ny .
strain of o . tipulae ,  isolated in 1991 by carlos e . winter in soil samples taken at the university of sao paulo in brazil .
strain of c . elegans .
strain of c . elegans ,  remarked as a "twitcher" .
strain of c . elegans ,  remarked as uncoordinated and may contain a weak daf - 2 mutation  ( sa875 )  .
strain of c . elegans ,  remarked as coiler unc ,  severe ,  recessive .
strain of c . elegans ,  remarked as growth slow ,  unc and small ,  revertible .
strain of c . elegans levamisole resistant ,  recessive ,  kinky unc .
strain of c . elegans ,  remarked as temperature sensitive dauer constitutive ,  maintan at 15c ,  100% dauers at 25c .
c . elegans strain remarked as defective dauer formation .
strain of c . elegans ,  described as dauer defective - leaky .
c . elegans ,  described as temperature sensitive dauer constitutive .
c . elegans strain ,  described as temperature sensitive ,  leaky at 25c .
c . elegans strain ,  described as temperature - sensitive dauer - consitutive ,  long - lived ,  intrinsically thermotolerant .
strain of c . elegans ,  described as class 1 allele of daf - 2 .
strain of c . elegans ,  described as class 1 allele of daf - 2 .
c . elegans strain described as daf - c at 27c .
c . elegans strain .remarks include: the embryos from homozygous mutant mothers display defects in the unequal cell divisions of p2 and p3 ,  defects in partitioning of germ granules during these divisions ,  and defects in formation of the germ - line precursor cell p4 .
c . elegans strain ,  described as having slow development and behavior .
c . elegans strain ,  described as methylviologen  ( paraquat )  sensitive ,  oxygen sensitive and having a short life span .
c . elegans strain ,  described as superficially wild type .
strain of c . elegans .
an image prodcued as the result of a scan ,  such as a medical scanner or array scanner .
a file stored for use on a computer containing data .
a data file containing array data which has been processed in some way using a data transformation .
an array data file which has been transformed into a matrix format as defined by mage - tab specification .
a data file which contains data produced as the result of running an array .
amage - tab array data matrix file which has been transformed using some data processing / transformation method .
an interleukin is a multifunctional cytokine produced by leukocytes for regulating immune responses .
type of factor that can be used in the atlas database
sequencing library strategy permitted in atlas
sequencing file type permitted in atlas
sequencing library source permitted in atlas
sequencing library selection permitted in atlas
sequencing instrument model included in atlas
quality control type permitted in atlas
experiment type permitted in atlas
factor type permitted in atlas
flag to mark any term permitted in atlas
flag for atlas sequencing file types
flag for atlas sequencing library strategies
flag for atlas sequencing library sources
flag for atlas sequencing library selections
flag for atlas sequencing instrument models
flag for atlas quality control types
flag for atlas experiment types
flag for atlas factor types
flag for arrayexpres experiment types
experiment type permitted specifically in arrayexpress
a synostosis that results in craniosynostosis and syndactyly .
darier's disease is anautosomaldominantdisorder discovered by frenchdermatologistferdinand - jean darier .
mild forms of the disease are the most common ,  consisting solely of skin rashes that flare - up under certain conditions such as high humidity ,  high stress or tight - fitting clothes .
a rare syndrome characterized by an abnormally dilated pupil ,  hypoflexia ,  and diaphoresis .
abnormally elevated thyroxine level in the blood .
a group of inherited conditions characterized initially by hematuria and slowly progressing to renal insufficiency .
familial amyloid polyneuropathy  ( fap )  or transthyretin  ( ttr )  amyloid polyneuropathy is a progressive sensorimotor and autonomic neuropathy of adulthood onset .
diamondblackfan anemia  ( dba )  ,  is a congenital erythroid aplasia that usually presents in infancy and results in low red blood cell counts  ( anemia )  .
the physical size of a tumor .
machadojoseph disease  ( mjd )  is a rare autosomal ,  dominantly inherited neurodegenerative disease that causes progressive cerebellar ataxia ,  which results in a lack of muscle control and coordination of the upper and lower extremities
basal cell nevus syndrome is a group of defects ,  passed down through families ,  that involve the skin ,  nervous system ,  eyes ,  endocrine glands ,  and bones .
a rare skin disease which involves the clumping of keratin filaments and initally presents as a fragile layer of skin which blisters on touch ofen followed by scaling of the skin .
a bundle branch block refers to a defect of the heart's electrical conduction system in which the bundle branch may cease to conduct electrical impulses appropriately .
a bone inflammation disease that causes bone changes ,  soft tissue swelling and irritability in infants .
an osteochondrodysplasia that is caused by a mutation in chromosome 17 which results in bowing in the  tibia or femur .
subdivision of trunk proper ,  which is demarcated from the pelvis by the inferior surface of the pelvic diaphragm and from the lower limbs by the perineofemoral lines ;  together with the thorax ,  and abdomen ,  it constitutes the trunk proper .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the colon or rectum .
entrapment of the median nerve in the wrist that is characterized by numbness ,  tingling and painful movement .
acatalasemia is a congenital disorder resulting from a deficiency in erythrocyte catalase ,  an enzyme responsible for the breakdown of hydrogen peroxide .
a disease of the muscle in which the muscle fibers do not function properly .
central core myopathy ,  is an autosomal dominant congenital myopathy  ( inborn muscle disorder )  which presents commonly with hypotonia  ( decreased muscle tone )  at birth ,  mild delay in child development  ( highly variable between cases )  ,  weakness of the facial muscles ,  and skeletal malformations such as scoliosis and hip dislocation .
a genetic disorder that occurs rarely and is characterized by excessive physical growth during the first 2 to 3 years of life .
a disorder affecting the nervous system that manifests with pain ,  tingling ,  numbness ,  and / or muscle weakness .
a neurological condition affecting the involuntary movements .
an osteochondrodysplasia that is caused by mutations in the runx2 gene which results in underveloped or absent clavicle along with delayed closing of fontanels in the skull .
sequence read file forma is a generic format for dna sequence data capable of storing data generated by any dna sequencing technology .
fastq format is a text - based format for storing both a biological sequence  ( usually nucleotide sequence )  and its corresponding quality scores .
standard flowgram format  ( sff )  is a binary file format used to encode results of pyrosequencing from the 454 life sciences platform for high - throughput sequencing .
bam is the compressed binary version of the sequence alignment / map  ( sam )  format
a sequencing assay which has been used to finish the sequence of an organism or sample ,  i .e .
rapd is a type of pcr reaction in which the segments of dna are amplified at random using randomly generated primers .
methyl - filtration is a cloning strategy that enriches for the coding regions of the genome
a protocol describing the processes performed and equipment used to determine the order of nucleotide bases in a nucleic acid sample
a type of cot filtration in which single / low copy sequences and the repetitive sequences of a genome to be studied independently of each other .
a type of cot filtration in which moderately repetitive sequences and highly repetitive sequences of a genome can be separated to be studied independently of each other .
methylation - spanning linker library  ( msll )  processing uses clones which span large methylated dna blocks and thereby link unmethylated genic regions .
chromatin immunoprecipitation  ( chip )  is an experimental process used to investigate the interaction between proteins and dna in the cell via the immunoprecipitation of transcriptionally active chromatin from mammalian cells .
micrococcal nuclease digestion is the process of using an endo - exonuclease in order to digest single - stranded and double - stranded nucleic acids and rna .
an experimental process for producing a reduced target genome often generated by restriction fragment size selection ,  containing a manageable number of loci to facilitate re - sampling .
a restriction digest is an experimental process used to prepare dna for analysis or other processing by the use of restriction enzymes to cleave dna at desired sites for extraction .
an experimental process for selecting dna which uses 5 - methylcytidine antibody .
cap analysis gene expression  ( cage )  is an experimental process which allows high - throughput identification of sequence tags corresponding to 5 ends of mrna at the cap sites and the identification of the transcriptional starting point  ( tsp )  .
rapid amplification of cdna ends  ( race )  is an experimental process used to obtain the full length sequence of an rna transcript found within a cell .
size fractionation is a process of selecting targets based on their size .
a protocol describing the processes performed and equipment used to prepare nucleic acid sequencing library .
the isolation and enrichment of methylated dna by using methyl cpg binding proteins ,  mbd2b protein in particular .
deoxyribonuclease digestion is the process of using an exodeoxyribonuclease or an endodeoxyribonuclease in order to digest single - stranded and double - stranded dna .
cdna library is created from a mature mrnas from eukaryotic cells with the use of an enzyme known as reverse transcriptase .
the method of preparation of sequencing templates that are enriched for targeted regions of the genome by hybridization in array or solution .
dna shearing is an experimental process used to prepare dna for analysis or other processing by the use of mechanical instruments to randomly cleave dna .
chronic outflow obstruction of the eye's drainage canals that can lead to increased internal eye pressure and optic nerve damage .
loss of scalp and body hair involving microscopically inflammatory patchy areas .
a carcinoma involving the basal cells .
inflammation of a specific segment of glomeruli within the kidney .
cholesterol which is contained in or bound to low density lipoproteins  ( ldl )  ,  including cholesterol esters and free cholesterol .
an acute or chronic inflammation of the liver parenchyma caused by viruses .
a viral infection caused by the hepatitis b virus .
a benign or malignant tumor involving the skin .
clinically atypical nevi  ( usually exceeding 5 mm in diameter and having variable pigmentation and ill defined borders )  with an increased risk for development of non - familial cutaneous malignant melanoma .
a dna sequencer developed by illumina .
a dna sequencer developed by illumina .
a dna sequencer developed by illumina .
the illumina hiseq 2000 is a sequencing machine developed by illumina .
the illumina hiseq 1000 is a sequencing machine developed by illumina .
the illumina miseq is a high - throughput sequencing machine developed by illumina .
the 454 gs 20 is a gs20 high - throughput sequencing machine developed by 454 life sciences .
excessive axial myopia associated with complications  ( especially posterior staphyloma and choroidal neovascularization )  that can lead to blindness .
generalized well circumscribed patches of leukoderma that are generally distributed over symmetric body locations and is due to autoimmune destruction of melanocytes .
hypospadias is the displacement of the urethral meatus on the ventrum of the penis .
solid crystalline precipitates in the biliary tract ,  usually formed in the gallbladder ,  resulting in the condition of cholelithiasis .
a laboratory test result indicating elevated triglyceride concentration in the blood .
an irregularly shaped ,  elevated mark on the skin caused by deposits of excessive amounts of collagen during wound healing .
formation of spongy bone in the labyrinth capsule which can progress toward the stapes  ( stapedial fixation )  or anteriorly toward the cochlea leading to conductive ,  sensorineural ,  or mixed hearing loss .
enlargement and ballooning of the vessel that supplies arterial blood to the abdomen ,  pelvis and legs .
a disorder most often seen in adolescent females characterized by a refusal to maintain a minimally normal body weight ,  an intense fear of gaining weight ,  a disturbance in body image ,  and ,  in postmenarcheal females ,  the development of amenorrhea .
a disorder diagnosed in childhood or adolescence age group characterized by aggressive behavior ,  deceitfulness ,  destruction of property or violation of rules that is persistent and repetitive ,  and within a one year period .
progressive destruction or the absence of all or part of the extrahepatic bile ducts ,  resulting in the complete obstruction of bile flow .
the excessive use of marijuana with associated psychological symptoms and impairment in social or occupational functioning .
a critical subpopulation of regulatory t - lymphocytes involved in mhc class i - restricted interactions .
chronic form of hepatitis c infection .
the outer part of the hearing system of the body .
unequal curvature of the refractive surfaces of the eye .
a noninflammatory ,  usually bilateral protrusion of the cornea ,  the apex being displaced downward and nasally .
recurrent narrowing or constriction of a coronary artery following surgical procedures performed to alleviate a prior obstruction .
sudden coronary artery smooth muscle contraction leading to lumen constriction and decreased blood flow .
a rare transmittable degenerative disorder of the brain caused by prions .
a serious condition caused by dengue virus infection .
a spectrum of clinical liver diseases ranging from mild biochemical abnormalities to acute liver failure ,  caused by drugs ,  drug metabolites ,  and chemicals from the environment .
a fibromatosis of the palmar fascia characterized by thickening and contracture of the fibrous bands on the palmar surfaces of the hand and fingers .
tumors or cancer of endometrium ,  the mucous lining of the uterus .
the continuation of the axillary artery ;  it branches into the radial and ulnar arteries .
eosinophilic esophagitis  ( eoe )  is a chronic ,  allergic disease of the esophagus characterized clinically by symptoms of esophageal dysfunction  ( including vomiting ,  dysphagia ,  feeding disorders ,  food impaction and abdominal pain )  which persist after treatment with proton pump inhibitors  ( ppis )  .
decrease in no .of leukocytes
persistent or recurrent inability to achieve or to maintain an erection during sexual activity .
an autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in the loxl1 gene ,  encoding lysyl oxidase homolog 1 .
a renal disorder characterized by sclerotic lesions in the glomeruli .
graves' disease is an autoimmune disorder that leads to overactivity of the thyroid gland  ( hyperthyroidism )  .it is caused by an abnormal immune system response that causes the thyroid gland to produce too much thyroid hormones .
a partial or complete loss of hearing in one or both ears .
chronic form of hepatitis b infection .
physical and psychological dependence on the drug heroin .
congenital megacolon resulting from the absence of ganglion cells  ( aganglionosis )  in a distal segment of the large intestine .
a disorder characterized by the presence of persistent and recurrent irrational thoughts  ( obsessions )  ,  resulting in marked anxiety and repetitive excessive behaviors  ( compulsions )  as a way to try to decrease that anxiety .
a slow growing neuroendocrine tumor ,  composed of uniform ,  round ,  or polygonal cells having monotonous ,  centrally located nuclei and small nucleoli ,  infrequent mitoses ,  and no necrosis .
a diverse group of lung diseases that affect the lung parenchyma .
the most anterior portion of the uveal layer ,  separating the anterior chamber from the posterior .
kawasaki disease  ( kd )  is a febrile ,  systemic ,  self - limiting vasculitis affecting children and characterized by inflammation in the medium sized vessels associated with coronary arterial aneurysms  ( caa )  that may be life threatening when untreated .
a cognitive disorder a disturbance in which the person's mood is hypothesized to be the main underlying feature .
the inability of the male to effect fertilization of an ovum after a specified period of unprotected intercourse .
infections with bacteria of the species neisseria meningitidis .
a noninflammatory ,  progressive occlusion of the intracranial carotid arteries and the formation of netlike collateral arteries arising from the circle of willis .
conditions which cause proliferation of hemopoietically active tissue or of tissue which has embryonic hemopoietic potential .
a benign or malignant neoplasm affecting the nasopharynx .
the presence of a calculus in the pelvis of the kidney ;  this is most often composed of mineral salts and proteins .
a slowly progressive inflammation of the glomeruli characterized by immune complex deposits at the glomerular basement membrane ,  resulting in a thickened membrane ,  and nephrotic syndrome .
a collection of symptoms that include severe edema ,  proteinuria ,  and hypoalbuminemia ;  it is indicative of renal dysfunction .
neuromyelitis optica  ( nmo )  and nmo spectrum disorders are inflammatory demyelinating diseases of the central nervous system characterized mainly by attacks of uni -  or bilateral optic neuritis  ( on )  and acute myelitis .
a form of functional mental illness that manifests in distressed emotional reactions such as anxiety ,  obsessive thoughts ,  compulsive behaviors ,  or irrational fears .
a none disease characterized by death of bone tissue due to a lack of blood supply .
diseases of bones .
a disease of bone that initially results in the excessive resorption of bone  ( by osteoclasts )  followed by the replacement of normal bone marrow with vascular and fibrous tissue .
an anxiety disorder characterized by multiple unexpected panic attacks with persistent concern of recurring attacks .
a seizure caused by a localized disorder .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the arteries ,  veins ,  or lymphatic vessels .
a disorder of the arteries supplying the upper and lower extremity and the visceral organs .
absent or premature cessation of ovarian function due to a pathologic process originating within the ovaries .
fibrosis of the hepatic parenchyma due to obstruction of bile flow  (  cholestasis )  in the intrahepatic or extrahepatic bile ducts  (  bile ducts ,  intrahepatic ;  bile ducts ,  extrahepatic )  .
a chronic ,  autoimmune inflammatory liver disorder characterized by narrowing and scarring of the lumen of the bile ducts .
any disturbances of the normal rhythmic beating of the heart or myocardial contraction .
a condition that occurs while resting or lying in bed ;  it is characterized by an irresistible urgency to move the legs to obtain relief from a strange and uncomfortable sensation in the legs .
a reduction in the number of circulating erythrocytes or in the quantity of hemoglobin .
a congenital or acquired spinal deformity characterized by lateral curvature of the spine .
a condition characterized by painful swelling of the joints ,  which is caused by deposition of urate crystals .
a condition caused by dysfunctions related to the sinoatrial node including impulse generation  (  cardiac sinus arrest )  and impulse conduction  (  sinoatrial exit block )  .
stevens - johnson syndrome is a limited form of toxic epidermal necrolysis characterized by destruction and detachment of the skin epithelium and mucous membranes involving less than 10% of the body surface area .
tissue necrosis in any area of the brain ,  including the cerebral hemispheres ,  the cerebellum ,  and the brain stem .
an unexpected natural death from a cardiac cause within a short time period from the onset of symptoms .
an induced skin pigment  (  melanin )  darkening after exposure to sunlight or ultraviolet rays .
neurological conditions resulting in abnormal voluntary or involuntary movement ,  which may impact the speed ,  fluency ,  quality and ease of movement .
tumors or cancer of the testis .
an aneurysm formed in the wall of the proximal portion of the descending aorta proceeding from the arch of the aorta .
enlargement of the thyroid gland usually caused by lack of iodine in the diet ,  hyperthyroidism ,  or thyroid nodules .
soft tissue tumors or cancer arising from the mucosal surfaces of the lip ;  oral cavity ;  pharynx ;  larynx ;  and cervical esophagus .
the presence of albumin in the urine ,  an indicator of kidney diseases .
occlusion of the lumen of a vein by a thrombus that has migrated from a distal site via the blood stream .
a disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of a rapid grossly irregular ventricular rhythm with marked variability in qrs cycle length ,  morphology ,  and amplitude .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the colon .
a malignant lymphocytic neoplasm of b - cell or t - cell lineage involving primarily the bone marrow and the peripheral blood .
the sudden ,  forceful ,  involuntary expulsion of air from the nose and mouth caused by irritation to the mucous membranes of the upper respiratory tract .
orthopedic appliances used to support ,  align ,  or hold parts of the body in correct position .
a process that involves adding vaccine into a host  ( e .g . ,  human ,  mouse )  in vivo with the intent to invoke a protective immune response .
production of new arrangements ofdnaby various mechanisms such as assortment and segregation , crossing over ; gene conversion ; genetic transformation ; genetic conjugation ; genetic transduction ;  or mixed infection of viruses .
the hemodynamic and electrophysiological action of theleft atrium .
the hemodynamic and electrophysiological action of the leftheart ventricle .
physiological activity and functions of the highly vascular thyroid gland ,  such as producing the thyroid hormones which are concerned in regulating the metabolic rate of the body .
a clinical laboratory measurement is a measurement of some entity e .g .
a cardiovascular measurement is a measurement of some part of the cardiovascular system and is typically used  in the process of disease diagnosis in human patients .
based on known statistical data ,  the number of years which any person of a given age may reasonably be expected to live .
the  length of time of an organism's life .
the internal resistance of thebloodto shear forces .
anthropometry is a measurement of the size ,  weight ,  and proportions of the human or other primate body .
the signs of life that may be monitored or measured ,  namely pulse rate ,  respiratory rate ,  body temperature ,  and blood pressure .
measurement of rate of settling of erythrocytes in anticoagulated blood .
the number of red blood cellsper unit volume in a sample of venous blood .
erythrocytesize andhemoglobincontent or concentration ,  usually derived fromerythrocyte count ; bloodhemoglobin concentration ;  andhematocrit .
a test to determine the ability of an individual to maintain homeostatisofblood glucose .
the number ofwhite blood cellsper unit volume in venous blood .
the number ofplateletsper unit volume in a sample of venousblood .
the time required for the appearance offibrinstrands following the mixing ofplasmawith phospholipid platelet substitute  ( e .g . ,  crude cephalins ,  soybean phosphatides )  .
a heart function measurement is a measurement of some heart function or process typically used to establish normal heart function or in process of diagnosis
the volume of air that is exhaled by a maximal expiration following a maximal inspiration .
measurement of rate of airflow over the middle half of aforced vital capacitydetermination  ( from the 25 percent level to the 75 percent level )  .
measure of the maximum amount of air that can be expelled in a given number of seconds during aforced vital capacitydetermination  .
behaviors associated with the ingesting of water and other liquids ;  includes rhythmic patterns of drinking  ( time intervals  -  onset and duration )  ,  frequency and satiety .
the tendency to explore or investigate a novel environment .
a state in which attention is largely directed outward from the self .
inhaling and exhaling the smoke of tobacco or something similar to tobacco .
discontinuation of the habit of smoking ,  the inhaling and exhaling of tobacco smoke .
a risk factor for suicide attempts and completions ,  it is the most common of all suicidal behavior ,  but only a minority of ideators engage in overt self - harm .
the unsuccessful attempt to kill oneself .
conceptual functions or thinking in all its forms .
measurements of the height ,  weight ,  length ,  area ,  etc . ,  of the human and animal body or its parts .
pressureof thebloodon thearteriesand otherblood vessels .
the number of times theheart ventriclescontract per unit of time ,  usually per minute .
recording of the moment - to - moment electromotive forces of theheartas projected onto various sites on the body's surface ,  delineated as a scalar function of time .
controlled physical activity ,  more strenuous than at rest ,  which is performed in order to allow assessment of physiological functions ,  particularly cardiovascular and pulmonary ,  but also aerobic capacity .
behaviors associated with the ingesting of alcoholic beverages ,  including social drinking .
behaviors associated with the ingesting of coffee
the emergence of a tooth from within its follicle in thealveolar processof themaxillaormandibleinto theoral cavity .
type of declarative memory ,  consisting of personal memory in contrast to general knowledge .
knowing or understanding without conscious use of reasoning .
remembrance of information for a few seconds to hours .
the process whereby an utterance is decoded into a representation in terms of linguistic units  ( sequences of phonetic segments which combine to form lexical and grammatical morphemes )  .
the ability to learn and to deal with new situations and to deal effectively with tasks involving abstractions .
the mass or quantity of heaviness of an individual .
the distance from the sole to the crown of the head with body standing on a flat surface and fully extended .
an indicator of body density as determined by the relationship of body weighttobody height .
deposits ofadipose tissuethroughout the body .
the measurement around the body at the level of theabdomenand just above the hip bone .
the waist circumference measurement divided by the hip circumference measurement .
the mass or quantity of heaviness of an individual atbirth .
the measurement of curvature and shape of the anterior surface of the cornea using techniques such as keratometry ,  keratoscopy ,  photokeratoscopy ,  profile photography ,  computer - assisted image processing and videokeratography .
non - invasive methods of visualizing and measuring the central nervous system ,  especially the brain ,  by various imaging modalities e .g .
the observable ,  measurable ,  and often pathological activity of an organism that portrays its inability to overcome a habit resulting in an insatiable craving for a substance or for performing certain acts .
the volume of packed red blood cells in a blood specimen .
thinking that is coherent and logical ,  using knowledge to evaluate the truth value of a proposition .
quantification of the number of times the heart beats in a given time interval ,  usually a minute ,  while the body is at rest
quantification of the number of deaths in a population .
the regular recurrence ,  in cycles of about 24 hours ,  of biological processes or activities ,  such as sensitivity to drugs and stimuli ,  hormone secretion ,  sleeping ,  and feeding .
the process in which specialized sensory receptor cells transduce peripheral stimuli  ( physical or chemical )  into nerve impulses which are then transmitted to the various sensory centers in the central nervous system .
the ability to detect chemicals through gustatory receptors in the mouth ,  including those on the tongue ;  the palate ;  the pharynx ;  and the epiglottis .
am electroencephalogram measurement measures the wave - like oscillations of electric potential between parts of the brain .
the measurement of wave - like oscillations of electric potential between parts of the brain recorded by eeg that are the result of a specific stimulus
a terminal section of a chromosome which has a specialized structure and which is involved in chromosomal replication and stability .
the coordination of a sensory or ideational  ( cognitive )  process and a motor activity .
time taken to analyse or transform input information in order to produce information as output
signs and symptoms of higher cortical dysfunction caused by organic conditions .
the characteristics in behavior that a certain person has .
a personality trait rendering the individual acceptable in social or interpersonal relations .
human chordoma cell line .
theiler stage 27 is a newborn mouse .
an electrically neutral ionic compound composed of cations  ( positively charged ions )  and anions  ( negative ions )  resulting from the neutralization reaction of an acid and a base .
a unit which measures substance that passes through or onto a given area per unit of time .
a unit of mass flow rate equivalent to the rate at which one thousandth of a gram of matter crosses a given surface or is delivered to a given object or space over a period of time equal to twenty four hours .
a genome is the full genetic content of an organism ,  contained in either dna or rna  ( such as for viruses )  .
the transcriptome is the set of all rna molecules ,  including mrna ,  rrna ,  trna ,  and other non - coding rna produced in one or a population of cells .
the exome is the part of the genome formed by the complete content of exons ,  coding portions of genes in the genome that are expressed .
an exon is a nucleic acid sequence that is represented in the mature form of an rna molecule either after portions of a precursor rna  ( introns )  have been removed by cis - splicing or when two or more precursor rna molecules have been ligated by trans - splicing .
the first time point measured at the start of some process .
a karyotype is the number and appearance of chromosomes in the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell .
faire - seq  ( formaldehyde - assisted isolation of regulatory elements )  is an assay used for determining the sequences of dna regions associated with regulatory activity .
property of an organism which indicates that the organism's parents were genetically related  ( potentially for several generations )  .
propety of an organism which indicates that the organism's parents are not closely related  ( e .g .
the 454 gs is a gs high - throughput sequencing machine developed by 454 life sciences .
the 454 gs flx titanium sequencer is a gs high - throughput sequencing machine developed by 454 life sciences .
the 454 gs junior is a gs high - throughput sequencing machine developed by 454 life sciences .
an organization which has supplied material to another individual or organization ,  such as to be used in a biomedical investigation .
information concerning the envinonrment a material entity has been exposed to ,  such as an organism from a lake .
a cohort is a collection of material entities grouped together based on some common property of interest ,  such as age or disease stage .
anatomical structure which has as its parts one or more ordered aggregates of nucleotide ,  amino acid fatty acid or sugar molecules bonded to one another .
the role of a material which has been reviewed under peer review for quality control purposes .
30% of flowers to be produced have opened
50% of flowers to be produced have opened
senescence complete ;  ready for seed harvest .
cot filtration is an experimental process that uses dna renaturation kinetics  ( i .e .
any chemical ,  biological or physical agents that increase the risk of neoplasms in humans or animals .
c - reactive protein  ( crp )  measurement is a measurement of the level of c - reactive protein in the blood .
a ferritin measurement a is measurement of ferritin level  in serum as an indicator of iron metabolism
a soluble transferrin receptor measurement   ( stfr )  is a measure of the level of the soluble transferrin receptor protein in blood as a measure of iron metabolism .
an iron biomarker measurement is a measurement of some molecule e .g .
a pr interval is an  electrocardiography measurement which measures from the beginning of the p wave to the beginning of the qrs complex in the heart's electrical cycle
angiotensin converting ezyme activity level
an fasting blood glucose measurement is a measurement of glucose in the blood of a patient at some defined time point after eating .
a fasting blood insulin measurement is a measurement of insulin in the blood at a predetermined point after the patient has fasted
an insulin measurement is a measure of insulin typically performed in the diagnosis of patients
is any quantification of glucose .
the homa - b measurement employs the homeostatic model assessment  ( homa )   to quantify beta - cell function .
an insulin sensitivity measurement is a measurement of insulin metabolism ,  which can be measured in a number of ways ,  for example using the homa model or via a glucose tolerance test .
c57bl / 6 is a mouse strain as described in jackson laboratory strain index
the homa - ir measurement employs the homeostatic model assessment  ( homa )   to quantify insulin resistance .
adiponectin measurement is a measurement of the circulating hormone adiponectin in serum .
a measurement quantifying some blood cell ,  or component .
a serum hepcidin measurement is a measurement of the peptide hormone hepcidin .
a measurement of telomere length measures the number of ttaggg repeats at the end of the chromosome .
a monocyte early outgrowth colony forming unit measurement is the result of a cell culture assay in which monocytes are plated on fibronectin plates and morphology and growth assessed in an assay which correlates circulating cells and vascular function .
a d dimer measurement is a quantification of a fibrinogen degradation product in blood used in the diagnosis of thrombosis .
spine bone size is a measurement of the dimensions of the spine .
hemoglobin levels
hpv seropositivity is the result of a measurement of circulating human papilloma virus specific antibodies used in the diagnosis of hpv infection .
femoral neck bone geometry is the quantification of the dimensions of the femoral neck bone of the femur .
bone geometry is the measure of the dimensions of some bone .
a bone quantitative ultrasound measurement is the output of a an ultrasound process in which bones are assayed using ultrasound and information about bone density ,  cortical thickness ,  elasticity and microarchitecture may be returned .
a muscle mass measurement is the quantification of the mass of a muscle e .g .
a fracture related measurement is a measure of some bone or muscular entity which collectively are used to determine the risk of bone fracture e .g .
an arterial stiffness measurement is the information output of a non invasive pulse wave velocity assay .
a creatinine measurement is a measure of the metabolite creatinine in a sample .
the measurement of the soluble component of the p - selectin adhesion molecule .
a soluble icam - 1 measurement is the quantification of the icam - 1 protein .
a biological macromolecule that has an adhesion disposition .
a soluble adhesion molecule measurement is a quantification of the soluble compoment  ( as opposed to membrane bound )  a molecule known to participate in the process of adhesion ,  levels of which may be implicated in cardiovascular adverse events .
hemoglobin e disease is an autosomal recessive genetic disorder caused by a single point mutation in the hemoglobin molecule .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the ability to perceive a particular flavor or suggestion of something bitter by the chemoreceptors of the gustatory system .
a mean corpuscular volume is the result of calculation of the mean volume of erythrocytes in a blood sample .
the mch is  the average mass of hemoglobin per red blood cell in a sample of blood and is calculated by dividing the total mass of hemoglobin by the rbc count
the mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration is a measure of the concentration of hemoglobin in a given volume of packed red blood cell
a measure of circulating lipid
a triglyceride  measurement is a quantification of triglycerides in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for cardiovascular disease .
a urate measurement is the quantification of some urate in body fluid
serum gamma - glutamyl transferase level measurement is the quantification of gamma - glutamyl transferase in blood .
alkaline phosphatase measurement is a quantification of alkaline phosphatase in blood .
a creatine kinase measurement is a quantification of creatine kinase in blood .
an albumin measurement is a quantification of albumin in blood .
a total blood protein measurement is a quantification of protein in a blood sample .
a self - limited skin rash that appears in the neonatal period and usually resolves in four to six months after birth .
a medical condition characterized by long - term fatigue and other symptoms that limit a person's ability to carry out ordinary daily activities .
a quantification of glycated a1c hemoglobin in blood used as an index for blood glucose level over several months .
a processual entity that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
is the quantification of amygdala response to stimulus using mri .
is a quantification of some aspect of the genome ,  e .g .
is the quantification of some glycoprotein .
is the quantification of some antibody
is the quantification of some measureable quality of a population e .g .
denotes a person with african ancestral origins who self identifies ,  or is identified ,  as african .
the failure of one or both testes of a male fetus to descend from the abdomen into the scrotum during the late part of pregnancy .
a saccharomyces cerevisiae commercially available strain used in pseudohyphal growth studies .
a serum immunoglobulin g measurement is the measurement of the igg antibody isotype produced by plasma cells in response to an immunogen and which function as antibodies ,  measured in serum
the process of increasing the mass of an organism over time .
the process of increasing body mass during treatment with an antipsychotic drug .
the measurement of the non - albumin portion of blood protein  ( globulin )  in serum
a serotonin transported measurement is the quantification of serotonin transporter .
a bilirubin measurement is a quantification of bilirubin typically measured in serum .
a butyrylcholinesterase measurement is a quanitification of butyrylcholinesterase a non - specific cholinesterase enzyme that hydrolyses many different choline esters .
a c4bp measurement is the quantification of c4bp ,  it controls the classical pathway of complement activation .
a chemerin measurement is a quantification of chemerin typically in serum .
a total cholesterol measurement is the quantification of cholesterol in blood ,  total cholesterol is defined as the sum of hdl ,  ldl ,  and vldl .
an e - selectin measurement is the quantification of e - selectin typically measured in serum .
a fetal hemoglobin measurement is the quantification of fetal hemoglobin typically measured in the blood of children for diagnosis of congenital disease .
the infant head circumference is the measurement of the diameter of the head and is a routine measure made during human development as a broad indicator of child development .
a homocysteine measurement is the quantification of homocsyteine in blood or urine and is used in the diagnosis of  b12 and / or folate deficiency ,  and as part of a cardiac risk assessment .
a serum immunoglobulin e measurement is the measurement of the ige antibody isotype produced by plasma cells in response to an immunogen and which function as antibodies ,  measured in serum .
interleukin - 18  ( il18 ,  also known as interferon - gamma inducing factor )  is a protein which in humans is encoded by the il18 gene .
an il - 18 measurement is the quantification of il - 18 ,  typically in blood .
a quantification of liver enzymes ,  typically in blood ,  used by clinicians to determine liver injury ,  disease and function .
an alanine transaminase measurement is the quantification of this liver enzyme typically measured in blood .
a measurement of mean platelet volume is a machine - calculated measurement of the average size of platelets found in blood
a quantification of the naphthyl - keratin adduct levels .
a complete blood cell count quantifies specific blood components .
a quantification of lymphocytes in blood .
the quantification of gamma glutamyl  transpeptidase ,  typically in blood ,  used as a diagnotic test of liver function and disease .
bachial circumference  ( bc )  is a measurement of the diameter of the upper arm and  can be used as an indicator of muscle mass and fat tissue .
aspirin induced asthma is caused by an anomaly in the arachidonic acid cascade ,  which causes increased production of cysteinyl leukotrienes ,  a series of chemicals involved in the body's inflammatory response .
asthma that starts in childhood .
is a quantification of thyroid - stimulating hormone ( also known astshorthyrotropin )  .
carbohydrate intolerance first diagnosed during pregnancy .
an eosinophilic esophagitis that starts in childhood .
the process of transmission of hiv infection from mother to child during pregnancy ,  birth or breastfeeding .
diabetic cataracts are thought to be caused by hyperglycemia associated with disturbed glucose metabolism
graft - versus - host disease  ( gvhd )  is a common complication following an allogeneic tissue transplant .
genomic data is data about the genomes of an organism .
transcriptomic data is data about rna transcribed by a cell ,  cells or organism .
metagenomic data is data about the genomes of a sample or samples containing mixed material such as from genetic material recovered directly from environmental samples .
metatranscriptomic data is data about transcriptomic data from groups of organisms .
synthetic dna data is data about dna that has been artificially created without initial template dna such as from naturally occuring genomic sequences in an organism .
viral rna data is data about a virus which stores its genetic information in rna .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the gall bladder .
an ulcer in the duodenal wall .
cystic fibrosis associated meconium ileum is a thickening and congestion of the meconium in the ileum in newborns ,  often the first sign of cystic fibrosis .
schizophrenia which does not respond to commonly used treatments .
a condition of lung damage that is characterized by bilateral pulmonary infiltrates  ( pulmonary edema )  rich in neutrophils ,  and in the absence of clinical heart failure .
the measurement of ldl cholesterol in blood used as a risk indicator for heart disease .
the measurement of hdl cholesterol in blood used as a risk indicator for heart disease .
the measurement of triglycerides in blood used as a risk indicator for heart disease .
is a quantification of serum lipoprotein a . apolipoprotein a - i ,  encoded in humans by the apoa1 gene and  is the major protein component of high density lipoprotein  ( hdl )  in plasma .
the measurement of apob in blood .
noninflammatory degenerative disease of the knee joint consisting of three large categories: conditions that block normal synchronous movement ,  conditions that produce abnormal pathways of motion ,  and conditions that cause stress concentration resulting in changes to articular cartilage .
is a quantification of serum cystatin c c  ( formerly gamma trace ,  post - gamma - globulin or neuroendocrine basic polypeptide )  ,  [ 1 ]  a protein encoded by the cst3 gene ,  is mainly used as a biomarker of kidney function and kidney disease .
is a quantification of vitamin k or phylloquinone ,  apolycyclicaromaticketone ,  based on 2 - methyl - 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone ,  with a 3 - phytylsubstituent .
is a quantification of factor vii in serum ,    ( formerly known as proconvertin )  is one of the proteins that causes blood to clot in the coagulation cascade .
is a quantification of vitamin b12 , vitamin b12orvitamin b - 12 ,  is a water - solublevitaminwith a key role in the normal functioning of thebrainandnervous system ,  and for the formation ofblood .
is a quantification of vitamin b6 a water soluble vitamin
is a quantification of sphingolipids  -  molecules playing a role in signal transmission .
is a quantification of circulating fibrinogen   ( factor i )  is a soluble plasma glycoprotein ,  synthesised by the liver ,  that is converted by thrombin into fibrin during blood coagulation .
a psa measurement is the quantification of prostate specific antigen typically in blood used in the diagnosis of prostate cancer .
a progranulin measurement is a quantification of progranulin ,  typically in blood .
is the quantification of igfbp - 3 ,  a member of  the insulin - like growth factor - binding protein  ( igfbp )  family and encodes a protein with an igfbp domain and a thyroglobulin type - i domain .
is the quantification of insulin - like growth factor 1  ( igf - 1 )  ,  also called somatomedin c . igf - 1 is a hormone similar in molecular structure to insulin .
is a quantification of any of the insulin like growth factors
is a quantification of von willebrand factor  ( vwf )  is a blood glycoprotein involved in hemostasis .
is a quantification of factor viii in serum ,  factor viii  ( fviii )  is an essential blood clotting protein ,  also known as anti - hemophilic factor  ( ahf )  .
a quantification of vitamin d levels ,  typically in blood .
a nevus count is the quantification of nevi on the skin .
is a quantification of protein c ,  also known as autoprothrombin iia and blood coagulation factor xiv ,  ]  is a zymogenic  ( inactive )  protein ,  the activated form of which plays an important role in regulating blood clotting ,  inflammation ,  cell death and maintaining the permeability of blood vessel walls in humans and other animals .
a coagulation factor measurement is the quantification of any of the entities involved in the process of coagulation or regulation of coagulation .
is a quantification of circulating soluble leptin receptor levels ,  these are inversely associated with diabetes risk factors ,  including adiposity and insulin resistance ,  and highly correlated with the expression levels of leptin receptor .
is a quantification of protein s ,  a vitamin k - dependent plasma glycoprotein synthesized in the endothelium involved in anticoagulation and used in the diagnosis of thrombosis .
is a quantification of phospholipids ,  typically in blood used as a biomarker in diet studies .
white matter integrity is a measure of brain white matter using brain imaging and quantification techniques .
ii a quantification of secreted cortisol ,  typically in the blood .
is a quantification of `calcification`  ( pato:0001447 )  affecting the `coronary arteries`  ( fma:3800 )   ( dtefined by the hpo )  typically measured by tomography  .
is a measurement of the t - peak to t - end  ( tpe )  interval on an electrocardiogram ,  is a measure of myocardial dispersion of repolarization and is associated with an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a processed genotype data file is a data file which stores information about genotypeswhich has been processed by some form of analysis method ,  for example normalization or noise reduction .
a binding site identification design type investigates protein binding sites on nucleic acids .
biomolecular annotation study design types are those which are designed to investigate functions ,  processes ,  locations and identity at the molecular level e .g .
a cellular modification design type is where a modification of the transcriptome ,  proteome  ( not genome )  is made ,  for example rnai ,  antibody targeting .
a biological variation study design type investigates differences caused by intrinsic characteristics of an organism ( s )  or biological system ;  epidemiological reasons  ( history of biosources )  ;  manipulation ,  treatment or modification of an organism ( s )  .
methodological variation study design specific for array technology
a methodological variation study design type investigates differences caused by application of protocols ,  hardware ,  software and bioassay relationships .
is the quantification of beta - amyloid 1 - 42 in cerebrospinal fluid typically used as a biomarker for alzheimer's disease
the qt interval is a measure of the time between the start of the q wave and the end of the t wave in the heart's electrical cycle
a form of retinal degeneration in which abnormal choroidal neovascularization occurs under the retina and macula lutea ,  causing bleeding and leaking of fluid .
is a quantification of tumor necrosis factor - alpha ,  a cytokine involved in systemic inflammation and is a member of a group of cytokines that stimulate the acute phase reaction .
measurements of the hip .
left ventricular non - compaction  ( lvnc )  is characterized by prominent left ventricular trabeculae and deep inter - trabecular recesses .
a cardiac arrthythmia with a genetic cause .
increased time between the start of the q wave and the end of the t wave .
a form of long qt syndrome that is associated with congenital deafness .
ventricular tachyarrhythmias occurring in association with short qt syndrome
a condition characterized by a pattern of right bundle branch block  ( rbbb )  and st - segment elevation within electrocardiogram  ( ecg )  leads v1 - v3 .
ventricular tachycardia associated with syncope and / or cardiac arrest triggered by emotion or exercise in patients whose baseline ecg is normal .
is a quantification of fetal hemoglobin in blood .
is a quantification of factor xi ,  typically in blood .
is a quantification of intraocular pressure .
is a quantification of sex hormone binding globulin .
is a quantification of circulating estradiol a circulating steriod sex hormone .
a sleep disorder characterized by difficulty in falling asleep and / or remaining asleep .
an activity distinguished primarily by an element of risk in trying to obtain a desired goal ,  e .g . ,  playing a game of chance for money .
a drug dependence that is a psychological dependency on the regular use of metamphetamine .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the age of onset of  ( human )  menarche ,  the beginning of the first menstrual cycle in an individual
the age of onset of  ( human )  menopause ,  the beginning of the first menstrual cycle in an individual
abnormally low levels of thyroid hormone .
an abnormality characterized by thickening of the muscle in the wall of the pylorus .
a subtype of classical hodgkin lymphoma characterized by collagen bands that surround at least one nodule ,  and hodgkin and reed - sternberg cells with lacunar type morphology .
a cleft resulting from incomplete merging or fusion of embryonic facial processes normally uniting in the formation of the face ,  cleft lip or cleft palate .
abnormal descent of a pelvic organ resulting in the protrusion of the organ beyond its normal anatomical confines .
enlargement of an area of the body due to obstruction within the lymphatic system and the resulting accumulation of lymph .
a disease of the lymphatic vessels of the lower extremities that is caused by chronic exposure to irritant soils .
disturbances in sexual desire and the psychophysiologic changes that characterize the sexual response cycle and cause marked distress and interpersonal difficulty .
an infarct detected by mri and not determined to be clinically significant
thyrotoxic periodic paralysis  ( tpp )  is a condition featuring attacks of muscle weakness in the presence of hyperthyroidism  ( overactivity of the thyroid gland )  .
a degenerative vascular disorder affecting the brain .
pemphigus is a group of chronic autoimmune skin diseases characterized by blister formations on the outer layer of the skin and the mucous membranes .
a transmissible disease that is caused by a protein that is able to induce abnormal folding of normal cellular proteins ,  leading to characteristic spongiform brain changes ,  which are associated with neuronal loss without an inflammatory response .
gaucher's disease is a genetic disease in which lipid accumulates in cells and certain organs .
calcification of the coronary artery ,  used as a measure of coronary atherosclerosis ,  a risk factor for myocardial infarction .
carotid - femoral pulse wave velocity  ( cfpwv )  is a heritable measure of aortic stiffness that is strongly associated with increased risk for major cardiovascular disease events .
this is an annotation class for metabolite measurements where the exact metabolite measurements are unknown .
any intermediate or product resulting from metabolism .
is the quantification of serum amyloid a protein in serum and is a family of apolipoproteins associated with high - density lipoprotein  ( hdl )  in plasma .
the quantification of some vitamin ,  typically from a body fluid such as blood .
the determination of the amount of hormone present in a sample .
is a quantification of some eye structure or property of an eye structure ,  such as corneal thickness .
is the quantification of some lipoprotein
is a quantification of anti - cyclic citrullinated peptide antibody ,  these are associated with rheumatoid arthritis .
is a quantification of serum alanine aminotransferase ,  most commonly found in liver ,  the test is used in ascertainment of liver function .
is a quantification of aspartate aminotransferase ,  and is commonly used as a marker for liver function .
is a quantification of some carotenoid ,  typically in blood .
is a quantification of some tocopherol ,  typically in blood .
is a quantification of circulating cell free dna measured in blood used as an indicator of cell death and as an indicator of disease ,  for example some tumour types release this .
is a quantification of blood urea nitrogen used in the measure of renal function .
is a quantification of some renal system biomarker
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color or pattern of the region of the body that includes the front part of the head from the chin to the top of the forehead ,  where the mouth ,  eyes ,  nose ,  and other features are located .
is a quantification of matrix metalloproteinases ,  collectively ,  they are capable of degrading all kinds of extracellular matrix proteins ,  but also can process a number of bioactive molecules .
is a quantification of nt - probnp  ( n - terminal prohormone of brain natriuretic peptide )  which is associated with acute congestive heart failure .
is a quantification of lipoprotein - associated phospholipase a ( 2 )  .
this is a general class for any measurement of a protein .
is a quantification of thyroid - stimulating hormone ,  a glycoprotein and hormone secreted from the pituitary which regulates the thryoid .
is the quantification of chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 2 ,  involved in response to infection and inflammation .
interleukin 10 levels
is the quantification of chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 4 ,  involved in response to infection and inflammation ,   chemoattractant for natural killer cells ,  monocytes and a variety of other immune cells .
is the quantification of parathyroid hormone ,  typically in blood .
is a quantification of interleukin 12 .
is a quantification of interleukin 1 receptor antagonist  ( il1 - ra )  .
is a quantification of total tau protein ,  a biomarker for alzheimer's disease .
is a quantification of uric acid ,  typically in blood .
is a quantification of vegf ,  a growth factor involved in angiogenesis and a biomarker for cancer .
is a quantification of phosphorylated tau protein ,  used as a biomarker for alzheimer's disease .
is a quantification of some aspect of adipose tissue ,  for example used in the diagnosis and research into obesity .
is a quantification of a particular location of adipose tissue .
is a quantification of adipose tissue located beneath the skin .
is a quantification of visceral to subcutaneous adipose tissue .
is a quantification of follicle stimulating hormone .
is a quantification of anti_mullerian hormone ,  and is used as a biomarker of ovarian reserve .
ovarian reserve is a term that is used to determine the capacity of the ovary to provide oocytes that are capable of fertilization resulting in a healthy and successful pregnancy .
quantification of the surface area of the visual cortex .
a form of hypertension with early onset relative to normal range for a given population .
mastication of tobacco ,  correlated with an increased risk of oral cancers .
toxic epidermal necrolysis  ( ten )  is an acute and severe skin disease with clinical and histological features characterized by the destruction and detachment of the skin epithelium and mucous membranes .
a drug dependence that is the physiological result of being addicted to alcohol and nicotine .
the process of questioning an individual ,  usually by means of a survey to determine general health .
the chaos  ( confusion ,  hubbub and order )  scale is a questionnaire filled out by parents that is designed to assess the level of confusion and disorganization in the childs home environment .
a measure of non social behaviour used in behavioral studies to examine autistic like traits .
measurements used to quantify ,  or assess individual or population  behaviour or disorderd behaviours ,  e .g .
temperament evaluation of memphis ,  pisa ,  paris ,  and san diego autoquestionnaire  ( temps - a )  .
a measure of educational progress reported using a questionnaire based approach ,  often used as a proxy for cognitive performance as the two are correlated .
the south texas assessment of neurocognition  ( stan )  is a 90 - min primarily computerized battery of standard and experimental neuropsychological tests .
the mini - international neuropsychiatric interview is a short structured clinical interview which enables researchers to make diagnoses of psychiatric disorders according to dsm - iv  ( diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders )  or icd - 10 .
is a quantification of the 126 - amino acid c - terminal fragment of the anp precursor ,  an approximately 150 - amino acid polypeptide in a number of species .
is a quantification of cd40 ligand ,   primarily expressed on activated cd4 +  t lymphocytes .
is a quantification of tissue plasminogen activator ,  an enzyme which converts the abundant ,  but inactive ,  zymogen plasminogen to plasmin by hydrolyzing a single arg - val bond in plasminogen .
is a quantification of plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 a serine protease inhibitor .
the response of human skin to sun exposure .
development of  pigmented spots on the skin due to accumulation of melanin resulting from exposure to sunlight
li - fraumeni syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant syndrome characterized by mesenchymal and epithelial neoplasms at multiple sites .
a quantification of a genomic variation that increases or decreases the copy number of a given region .
the presence of calculi in the gallbladder .
is a quantification of frontal theta event related oscillations ,  determined by target processing in an oddball paradigm .
is a quantification of family size ,  also used as a measure of male fertility .
a fertility quality of inhering in a male by virtue of the bearer's disposition to initiate ,  sustain ,  or support reproduction .
is a quantification of birth rate ,  te ratio of live births in an area to the population of that area ,  expressed per 1000 people in the population per year .
formal thought disorder  ( ftd )  ,  or disorganized speech ,  is one of the central signs of schizophrenia
is a quantification of some asbestos exposure , 
is a quantification of sleep time in humans where average sleep time was less than five hours .
is a quantification of l lactate dehydrodgenase ,  typically measured in serum ,  used as a marker of tissue breakdown as ldh is abundant in red blood cells and can function as a marker for hemolysis
is a quantification of fructose - bisphosphate aldolase , is an enzyme catalyzing a reversible reaction that splits the aldol ,  fructose 1 , 6 - bisphosphate ,  into the triose phosphates dihydroxyacetone phosphate  ( dhap )  and glyceraldehyde 3 - phosphate  ( gap )  .
is a quantification of interleukin - 6 ,  a  pro - inflammatory and anti - inflammatory cytokine .
is a quantification of interleukin - 8 ,  is a chemokine produced by macrophages and other cell types such as epithelial cells .
is a quantification of interleukin - 1 beta ,  an il - 1 cytokine family protein ,  secreted by macrophages and a mediator of inflammatory response .
is a quantification of any of the alpha globulin class of proteins ,  typically in serum .
is a quantification of the il - 6 receptor  ( cd126 )  ,  activation may lead to the regulation of the immune response ,  acute - phase reactions and hematopoiesis .
is a quantification of alphamacroglobulins 1 and / or 2 ,  glycoproteins with a molecular weight of approximately 620 , 000 to 680 , 000 .
is a quantification of any of the tf1b isoforms ,  tgf - beta acts as an antiproliferative factor in normal epithelial cells and at early stages of oncogenesis .
is a quantification of resistin ,  a cytokine secreted by immune and epithelial cells in human and associated with obseity and type ii diabetes by some studies
the number of males per 100 females ,  usually counted for live births but sometimes applied at a later life stage
the perception of facial expression
measurements used to quantify ,  or assess human  behaviour or disorderd behaviours .
an inventory for personality traits devised by cloninger et al .
group of systemic vasculitis with a strong association with anca .
human economic and social preferences determined by application of a survey or questionnaire .
the genetic variation of individuals in a population .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the volume of the caudate nucleus ,  a brain structure implicated in many common neurological and psychiatric disorders
a rr interval is an  electrocardiography measurement   -  r wave to r wave interval  ( rr interval )  and is the inverse of the heart rate .
is a quantification of the optic disk size
the number of granulocytes  ( polymorphonuclear leukocytes )  in a specified volume of blood ,  usually 1 cubic millimeter .
is a quantification of alcohol consumed by a human .
is a quantification of calcium ,  typically in serum .
is the ratio of cd4 vs . cd8 lymphocytes ,  abormal ratios may reflect an infection such as hiv and the measurement may be used as an indicator of disease progression .
is a quantification of the thickness of brain cortex ,  e .g .
is the ratio of 2d:4d used a a marker for prenatal androgen exposure .
the number of granulocytes  ( polymorphonuclear leukocytes )  in a specified volume of blood ,  usually 1 cubic millimeter .
is a quantification of any or all of the b vitamins
is a quantification of the size of a human hip bone .
is a quantification of magnesium in serum .
is the quantification of circulating serotonin  ( 5ht )  ,  a monoamine neurotransmitter
the age at which some process ,  or disease started in a human individual .
is the quantification of any vitamin a compound .
calcification of the abdominal aortic artery ,  used as an indicator of sub clinical athrosclerosis
is a quantification of the common carotid intimal medial thickness .
is the quantification of serum phosphorus used in the diagnosis of hyper or hypophosphatemia ,  and used in the diagnosis of disease .
is the quantification of phytosterol ,  plant derived cholesterol like compounds .
is the genome wide recombination rate .
is the quantification of adipose tissue located in the renal sinus ( es )  ,  correlated with chronic kidney disease and obesity .
is a quantification of the volume of the thyroid .
is a quantification of an autoantibody ,  an antibody produced by the immune system and directed against an individual's own protein .
is a quantification of vitamin e .
is a quantification of brain volume using magnetic resonance imaging .
is a quantification of the secreted glycoprotein ykl - 40   ( chitinase - 3 - like protein 1 )  ykl - 40 has been associated with asthma ,  inflammatory disease and cancer progression .
is a quantification of some sleep parameter .
is a quantification of any molecule involved in the process of inflammatory response .
is a quantification of some cytokine ,  secreted cell signalling molecules .
is a quantification of a subject's activities involved in the mental information processing system that receives  ( registers )  ,  modifies ,  stores ,  and retrieves informational stimuli .
is the mental process necessary to acquire knowledge or skill in the measurement ,  properties ,  and relationships of quantities and sets ,  using numbers and symbols  ( mathematics ) 
is the quantification of arsenic urine .
is an allergy to asaparaginase .
is a rare form of human corneal dystrophy .
a rare genetic disorder in which the eyelids are abnormally shaped
is a quantification of some aspect of breast size
early repolarization pattern  ( erp )  is a common ecg variant ,  characterized by j point elevation manifested either as terminal qrs slurring  ( the transition from the qrs segment to the st segment )  or notching  ( a positive deflection inscribed on terminal qrs complex )  associated with concave upward st - segment elevation and prominent t waves in at least two contiguous leads .
is a quantification of intracranial volume .
is the quantification of is the maximum capacity of an individual's body to transport and use oxygen during incremental exercise ,  and is used as an indicator of physical fitness
emesis and queasiness occurring after anesthesia .
postoperative ventricular dysfunction  ( vnd )  occurs in 9 - 20% of coronary artery bypass graft  ( cabg )  surgical patients and is associated with increased postoperative morbidity and mortality .
consistent lack of empathy
sasang constitutional medicine  ( scm )  is a unique form of traditional korean medicine that divides human beings into four constitutional types  ( tae - yang: ty ,  tae - eum: te ,  so - yang: sy ,  and so - eum: se )  ,  which differ in inherited characteristics ,  such as external appearance ,  personality traits ,  susceptibility to particular diseases ,  drug responses ,  and equilibrium among internal organ functions .
a syndrome comprising testicular germ cell cancer ,  cryptorchidism and some cases of hypospadias and male infertility with impaired development of the testis .
a combination of congenital heart defects consisting of four key features including ventricular septal defects ;  pulmonary stenosis ;  right ventricular hypertrophy ;  and a dextro - positioned aorta .
a neurologic disorder caused by defective metabolism of the neurotransmitters in the brain .
the yoruba people are one of the largest ethnic groups in west africa .
population of northern and western european ancestry .
the probe which is used in an assay such as an array for detecting sequence or gene expression levels .
a hereditary genetic disorder is a genetic disorder in which an abnormality ,  i .e .
induced pluripotent stem cells  ( ips cells or ipscs )  are a type of pluripotent stem cell artificially derived from a non - pluripotent cell .
the spread of a malignant neoplasm to the lymph nodes .
is a quantification of testosterone ,  typically in serum .
is a quantification of dihydrotestosterone  ( dht )  ,  typically in serum .
is a quantification of cytochrome p450 3a4 activity .
an inheritable form of hyperlipidemia ,  in which there are excess lipids in the blood .
is a quantification of immunoglobulin a ,  an antibody with a role in mucosal immunity .
is a quantification of the lentiform nucleus  ( or lenticular nucleus )  volume ,  typically by mri .
is a quantification of the ability of humans to process different facial expressions ,  measured by mri .
is a quantification of vaspin ,  commonly termed serpin a12  ( visceral adipose tissue - derived serine protease inhibitor )   ,  typically in serum an adipokine which may modulate insulin activity in white adipose tissue  ( uniprot )  .
is a protocol which provides instructions on the alignment of sequencing reads to reference genome
the age ,  measured from some defined time point e .g .
the percentage of subjects in a study who have survived without cancer spread for a defined period of time .
progression free survival is a measurement from a defined time point e .g .
apparently health human non - fetal tissue .
ataxia - telangiectasia ;  at
any vein not in the chest or abdomen .
tumor stage as classified by the tnm system .
regional lymph node stage
primary tumor staging
carcinoma in situ  ( cis ;  abnormal cells are present but have not spread to neighboring tissue ;  although not cancer ,  cis may become cancer and is sometimes called preinvasive cancer ) 
a stage in which the tumor cannot be evaluated
a temporal measurement related to disease progression
the point in time at which an individual was born .
a clinical temporal measurement indicating that the subject is alive at the end of the clinical investigation .
the recurrence of a disease after treatment
the point at which a clinical diagnosis is made .
staging information for melanoma .
the measurement in millimeters of the vertical thickness of primary cutaneous melanoma .
a morphologic finding indicating the cutaneous melanoma depth of invasion into the dermis and subcutaneous tissue .
a morphologic finding indicating that the cutaneous melanoma is confined to the epidermis and does not invade the dermis .
a morphologic finding indicating that the cutaneous melanoma has invaded part of the papillary dermis but the malignant cellular infiltrate has not reached the papillary - reticular dermis interface .
a morphologic finding indicating that the cutaneous melanoma has invaded the entire thickness of the papillary dermis but the malignant cellular infiltrate does not extend into the reticular dermis .
a morphologic finding indicating that the cutaneous melanoma has invaded the reticular dermis
a morphologic finding indicating that the cutaneous melanoma has invaded the subcutaneous tissue .
a genetic transformation that involves the insertion of a protein coding cdna sequence at a particular locus in an organism's chromosome .
a rna extract that is the output of an extraction process in which total rna from either whole cells or from specific cellular compartment ( s )  / organelle ( s )  are isolated from a specimena rna extract that is the output of an extraction process in which total celluar and organelle rna molecules are isolated from a specimen .
the total sum of the genetic information of an organism's somatic cells
the total sum of the genetic information of an organism's germline
compressive strength index  ( csi )  is a predictive measure for hip fracture risk that integrates multiple parameters including hip bmd ,  femur neck area ,  and weight .
appendicular lean mass is a measurement of skeletal strength of lower limbs and is used as a predictive measure of hip fracture .
the peridontal microbiome is a  collection of collectivity of microorganisms isolated from human gum .
a collection or collectivity of microorganisms .
complement c3 measurement is a quantification of the c3 glycoprotein typically in serum ,  that is central in both the classical and the alternative pathway of complement activation  .
complement c4 measurement is a quantification of the c4 glycoprotein ,  typically in serum ,  that is central in both the classical and the alternative pathway of complement activation  .
a platelet reactivity measurement is the quantification of platelet reactivity e .g .
a non - seminomatous malignant germ cell tumor characterized by the presence of large germ cells with abundant cytoplasm resembling epithelial cells ,  geographic necrosis ,  high mitotic activity ,  and pseudoglandular and pseudopapillary structures formation .
a cell which bears embryonal carcinoma .
embryoid bodies  ( ebs )  are three - dimensional aggregates of pluripotent stem cells .
j1 is an embryonic cell line .
myasthenia gravis  ( mg )  is a rare ,  clinically heterogeneous ,  autoimmune disorder of the neuromuscular junction characterized by fatigable weakness of voluntary muscles .
inflammation of the anatomical structures of the middle ear ,  which is most often caused by an infectious process .
is a quantification of immunoglobulin m ,  an antibody produced by b cells .
any disease of a degenerative nature that affects the intervertebral disc .
the weight of all organs and tissue in an individual less the weight of the individual's body fat .
diabetic nephropathy is a progressive kidney disease caused by angiopathy of capillaries in the kidney glomeruli .
diabetic nephropathy is a progressive kidney disease caused by angiopathy of capillaries in the kidney glomeruli .
the quantification of some carbohydrate ,  typically obtained from an individual with the intention of using the measurement in some diagnostic process .
the quantification of n - glycans in a plasma sample .
quantification of leptin ,  a hormone made by adipocytes with a role in the regulation of energy balance .
the quantification of some phenylalanine ,  typically obtained from an individual with the intention of using the measurement in some diagnostic process .
the quantification of some lysine ,  typically obtained from an individual with the intention of using the measurement in some diagnostic process .
454 sequencing is a dna sequencing using 454 technology from roche ,   which allows sequencing of a single strand of dna by synthesizing the complementary strand along it ,  one base pair at a time ,  and detecting which base was actually added at each step .
a rna extract that is the output of an extraction process in which rna molecules without poly a tail at its 3 end are purified .
a fractionylated rna separated on the basis of length of the rna molecule and adenylation state ,  typically 'long' refers to a transcript of 200nt plus in length  ( meijer et al ,  http: /  / genomebiology .com / 2011 / 12 / 2 / r16 ) 
a fraction of poly - adenylated rna separated on the basis of length of the rna molecule and adenylation state ,  typically 'long' refers to a transcript of 200nt plus in length  ( meijer et al ,  http: /  / genomebiology .com / 2011 / 12 / 2 / r16 ) 
the latitude at which a sample was obtained .
the longitude at which a sample was obtained .
an adult mesenchymal stem cell derived from adipose tisssue .
a pericyte derived from the placenta .
anti - bcl11a antibody is used as b - cell lymphoma / leukemia 11a antibody species: human ,  vertebrates gene: bcl11a ensg00000119866
anti - trimethyl - histone h3  ( lys27 )  antibody species: human ,  mouse gene: hist3h3 ensg00000168148
anti - trimethyl - histone h3  ( lys4 )  antibody species: human ,  vertebrates gene: hist3h3 ensg00000168148
anti - igg antibody .immunoglobulin g antibodies are available in different forms on the market .
label for the immunoprecipitate when control assays are used for chip - seq experiments .
ip - seq is an assay in which immunoprecipitation with high throughput sequencing is used to identify the dna / rna - associated proteins or protein complexes .
rna immunoprecipitation  ( rip )  is an experimental process used to investigate the interaction between proteins and rna in the cell via the immunoprecipitation with an antibody that targets the protein of interest .
anti - ctcf antibody species: human ,  mouse ,  rat ,  primate ,  canine  ( depends on vendor )  gene: ctcf ensg00000102974
measurement of the volume of the hippocampus
a measurement quantifying some platelet
the aortic root size is the size of the part of the ascending aorta beginning at the aortic annulus and extending to the sinotubular junction
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the fine ,  keratinized filamentous growths arising from the epidermis of mammals .
atrophy of the hippocampus as a result of some external stress or disease
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
is a quantification of cardiac troponin t ,  typically measured in blood .
infectious disease that is transmitted through the bite of hematophagous female phlebotomine sand flies .
a severe form of leishmaniasis characterized by irregular bouts of fever ,  substantial weight loss ,  swelling of the spleen and liver ,  and anaemia  ( which may be serious )  .
leishmaniasis affecting the skin .it is the most common form of leishmaniasis .
is a quantification of some aspect of erythrocyte function ,  quantity ,  or composition .
the standard protocol supplied by the manufacturer of the 454 gs 20 sequencer for nucleic acid sequencing protocol .
is a quantification of the internal carotid intimal medial thickness .
a qrs complex is a combination of the three electrocardiographical measurements of the q ,  r and s waves in the heart's electrical cycle .
qrs duration is a measurement of the combined duration of the q ,  r and s waves of the human heart's electric cycle
the age at which death occurs .
the determination of the amount of myoglobin present in a sample ,  usually blood
the quantification of some tyrosine ,  typically obtained from an individual with the intention of using the measurement in some diagnostic process .
the quantification of some acylcarnitine ,  typically obtained from the blood of an individual with the intention of using the measurement in some diagnostic process .
any component which is used as part of an instrument .
a substrate is the surface on which material ,  such as an organism ,  is grown or attached .
a subtrate made of glass .
a substrate made on a nylon membrane .
a substrate made of nitrocellulose .
substrate made of silicon .
a grouping of some materials ,  including whole organisms or samples .
a block or batch is an experimental unit arrangement into a group which is similar to one another .
the surface used to coat the array substrate .
an array substrate coating formed using aminosilane .
an array substrate coating formed using polylysine .
a reporter  ( sometimes 'probe' or 'oligo' )  is material such as single stranded dna or an antibody ,  usually at a particular location on an array ,  onto which target material of interest is hybridized and quantified .
a type of reporter which is created using in situ methods .
type of array reporter which is formed from antibodies being spotted directly on to the array surface .
type of array reporter formed from colonies  ( such as bacteria )  are spotted directly on to the array surface .
an array reporter formed from directly spotting double stranded dna on to the array surface .
type of array reporter which is formed from proteins being spotted directly on to the array surface .
an array reporter created by directly spotting a single stranded dna pcr product on to the array surface .
an array reporter created by directly spotting single stranded oligonucleotides on to the array surface .
quantification of the pneumoprotein cc16 or clara cell secreted protein  .
quantification of the pneumoprotein surfactant protein d . this protein is an innate immune protein and plays a role in pulmonary host defence and the modulation of allergic responses .
the standard protocol supplied by the manufacturer of the illumina genome analyzer sequencer for nucleic acid sequencing protocol .
the standard protocol supplied by the manufacturer of the illumina genome analyzer ii sequencer for nucleic acid sequencing protocol .
the standard protocol supplied by the manufacturer of the illumina genome analyzer iix sequencer for nucleic acid sequencing protocol .
the standard protocol supplied by the manufacturer of the illumina hiseq 1000 sequencer for nucleic acid sequencing protocol .
the standard protocol supplied by the manufacturer of the illumina hiseq 2000 sequencer for nucleic acid sequencing protocol .
the standard protocol supplied by the manufacturer of the illumina miseq sequencer for nucleic acid sequencing protocol .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the testis .
quantification of the total volume of the brain
quantification of basophils in the blood
quantification of monocytes in the blood
quantification of the volume of the entorhinal cortex
circumferential measurement of the largest part of the hip
measurement of the time from start to finish of the p wave ,  in the electrocardiograph illustrating the initial deflection of the cardiac cycle ,  representing the excitation of the atria .
measurement of the interval from the offset of the p wave to the onset of the qrs wave complex
the cortical collecting duct is the portion of the collecting duct that resides in the renal cortex
a cardinal organ part that is the central column of a plant axis that consists of the primary vascular tissue and associated ground tissue .
the last mature leaf before the inflorescence in a cereal crop plant .
a collective plant organ structure  ( po:0025007 )  that is the pollen - bearing part of a stamen  ( po:0009029 ) 
quantification of some lipid or lipoprotein
measurement of the percentages of fat ,  bone and muscle in human bodies
distance between the tips of the longest fingers with the arms maximally outstretched laterally .
energy expenditure is generally considered to be the sum of internal heat produced and external work through physical activity
the determination of the amount of fatty acids present in a sample .
a measurement of the folic acid in a biological sample
the age of the conceptus ,  beginning from the time of fertilization .
a circumferential measurement of the head at the widest point ,  which is traditionally above the eyebrow
a quantification of metabolic rate
quantification of some metabolite in urine
is the quantification of chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 5 .
igf - binding proteins prolong the half - life of the igfs and have been shown to either inhibit or stimulate the growth promoting effects of the igfs on cell culture .
quantification of some antioxidant in a biological sample
a specimen which is the output of some freeze drying process applied with the aim of perserving the specimen
a specimen which has been treated with rnalater ,  with the aim of preserving specimen rna prior to extraction
quantification of the activity of enzymes from the arylesterase family .
cancer biomarkers ,  such as cancer antigen 19 - 9 ,  carcinoembryonic antigen and  fetoprotein ,  are used as indicators for cancer screening and as predictors for therapeutic responses and prognoses in cancer patient
quantification of the ratio of the protein albumin to globulin in the blood serum
liver injury resulting from hepatitis c infection .
quantification of the thyroid hormone thyroxine  ( t4 )  in the blood ,  usually as an indicator of thyroid function
quantification of homovanillic acid in cerebrospinal fluid
quantification of 5 - hydroxyindoleacetic acid in cerebrospinal fluid or urine .
quantification of 3 - methoxy - 4 - hydroxyphenylglycol in measured in urine ,  plasma or cerebrospinal fluid .
quantification of some amino acid in a biological assay
a population of organisms that is geneticaly different from others of the same species and possessing a set of defined characteristics .
a cultivated plant variety selected and given a name because it has desirable characteristics that distinguish it from otherwise similar plants of the same species .
a disease involving the conducting system of heart .
a form of long qt syndrome in which malfunction of the cardiac ion channels is caused by drugs or metabolic abnormalities .
quantification of some ceruloplasmin in the blood .
autoimmune disease or disorder is a disease characterized by an immune response of an organism against parts of itself causing pathology e .g .
the col or columbia ecotype is an arabidopsis thaliana ecotype ,  selected ,  by redei ,  as it was a particularly fertile and vigorous plant that responded well to changes in photoperiod .
col - 0 is an arabidopsis ecotype and a direct descendant of col - 1 donated via ais .
col - 1 is an arabidopsis ecotype and the original ais donation of columbia  ( isolate 5 - 13 )  from george redei .
col - 2 is an arabidopsis ecotype and is a line that has been single seed selected from col - 1 and propagated through 5 generations of single seed descent by shauna somerville .
col - 3 is an arabidopsis ecotype and a line that elliot meyerowitz used for the rflp mapping data and has shown polymorphisms in the hands of chris somerville to col - 2 .
col - 4 is an arabidopsis ecotype and is the line used as the parental for the recombinant inbred population of caroline dean .
col - 5 is an arabidopsis ecotype and the glabrous  ( gl1 - 1 )  columbia line used by jim beynon ,  eric holub and ian crute as one of the female parents  ( the other being col - 3 )  for the generation of their ri population .
landsberg erecta ecotype is an arabidopsis thaliana ecotype .
ler - 1 is an arabidopsis ecotype .
wassilewskija is an arabidopsis ecotype .
ws - 1 is an arabidopsis ecotype .
ws - 2 is an arabidopsis ecotype .
ws - 3 is an arabidopsis ecotype .
umkirch is an arabidopsis ecotype .
uk - 1 is an arabidopsis ecotype .
uk - 2 is an arabidopsis ecotype
uk - 3 is an arabidopsis ecotype .
calver is an arabidopsis ecotype .
cal - 0 is an arabidopsis ecotype .
blanes is an arabidopsis ecotype .
bla - 1 is an arabidopsis ecotype .
burren is an arabidopsis ecotype .
bur - 0 is an arabidopsis ecotype .
bologna is an arabidopsis ecotype .
bl - 0 is an arabidopsis ecotype .
bl - 1 is an arabidopsis ecotype .
bayreuth is an arabidopsis ecotype .
bay - 0 is an arabidopsis ecotype .
coimbra is an arabidopsis ecotype .
co - 1 is an arabidopsis ecotype .
san eleno is an arabidopsis ecotype .
se - 0 is an arabidopsis ecotype
the original group of swiss mice that served as progenitors of this stock consisted of two male and seven female albino mice derived from a non - inbred stock in the laboratory of dr . de coulon ,  centre anticancereux romand ,  lausanne ,  switzerland .
an inbred strain of mouse created in 1921 by c . c . little at the bussey institute for research in applied biology .
n'dama are a breed of cattle from west africa ,  of the bos taurus - type .
boran cattle are a popular zebu beef breed in eastern africa .
inbred strain tjl mating system: sibling x sibling  ( female x male )  species: laboratory mouse h2 haplotype: d generation: f219p  ( 14 - dec - 06 )  appearance: dilute brown related genotype: a / a tyrp1b / tyrp1b myo5ad / myo5ad important note this strain is homozygous for cdh23ahl ,  the age related hearing loss 1 mutation ,  which on this background results in progressive hearing loss that is already severe by 3 months of age .
the terminal ileum is the most distal part of the small intestine .
the fundus of the uterus is the top portion ,  opposite from the cervix .
a measurement of the connecting peptide ,  or c - peptide  -   a short 31 - amino - acid polypeptide that connects insulin's a - chain to its b - chain in the proinsulin molecule .
a quantification of c - c motif chemokine 11 ,  also known as eotaxin ,  eosinophil chemotactic protein and small - inducible cytokine a11 .
the respiratory quotient  ( or rq or respiratory coefficient )  ,  is a dimensionless number used in calculations of basal metabolic rate  ( bmr )  when estimated from carbon dioxide production .
a quantification of the waist - height whtr  -  a measurement of body fat distribution .
measure of the variation of red blood cell  ( rbc )  volume
quantification of n - linked igg glycans in a serum sample
quantification of the amyloid - beta ,  either in a sample of cerebro - spinal fluid or via pet scan ,  used as a biomarker for alzheimer's disease
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of some peptide with a vasodilating or vasoconstricting effect in a blood sample ,  usually as an indicator of cardiovascular disease
a quantification of the mhc component beta - 2 microglobulin ,  typically in a blood sample .
quantification of the outcome of a kidney transplant
quantification of antiphospholipid antibodies in a biological sample ,  usually a blood sample .
growth is measured as the difference in body height between two time points
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a broad group of psychological disorders with abnormal eating behaviors leading to physiological effects from overeating or insufficient food intake .
a disorder characterized by recurrent episodes of binge - eating over which the individual feels a lack of control ;  these episodes of binge - eating are followed by recurrent compensatory behavior to prevent weight gain ,  usually self - induced vomiting .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
detection or quantification of bands of immunoglobulins in blood serum or cerebrospinal fluid ,  usually as an indicator of central nervous system disorders such as multiple sclerosis ,  lyme disease ,  systemic lupus erythematosus or neurosarcoidosis
a heart disease that is present at birth .
measurement of the flow rate of filtered fluid through the kidney ,  calculated either by comparative measurements of substances in the blood and urine ,  or estimated from a blood test
quantification of the pattern of links between distinct units within a nervous system through neuroimaging techniques such a mri
quantification of the rate of hydrolysis of aspirin in blood as an indicator of the therapeutic effectiveness of aspirin
the standard atmosphere is an international reference pressure defined as 101325 pa and formerly used as a unit of pressure .
a measure of the corneal thickness  ( cct )  .
a cell line which is a model for neuroblastoma .
a cell line which is a model for breast adenocarcinoma .
a cell line used as model for hepatocellular carcinoma .
a cell line used as a model for cervical adenocarcinoma .
a cell line which is used as a model for cervical carcinoma .
tra - dis or transposon directed insertion site sequencing is a sequencing technology developed at the sanger institute .
a low ,  intermediate ,  or high grade malignant neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the lung .
a carcinoma that arises from the intrahepatic biliary tree  ( intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma )  or from the junction ,  or adjacent to the junction ,  of the right and left hepatic ducts  ( hilar cholangiocarcinoma )  .
infection of domestic and wild fowl and other birds with influenza a virus .
an anxiety disorder precipitated by an experience of intense fear or horror while exposed to a traumatic  ( especially life - threatening )  event .
a bacterial infection caused by coxiella burnetii .
a parasitic disorder caused by protozoa of the trypanosoma brucei species .
an acute viral respiratory infection caused by a strain of influenza virus which is endemic in swine  ( pigs )  .
gro - seq or genomic run - on sequencing or sometimes global run - on sequencing is a sequencing assay based on traditional nuclear run - on assays ,  but instead of looking at a few loci at a time ,  this is a high - throughput method that allows for the calculation of transcription rates of all genes across the genome .
a plant population is a grouping of plants consisting of individuals which share a particular characteristic such as inhabiting a particular region or area or ability to interbreed .
reading is the complex cognitive process of decoding symbols in order to construct or derive meaning
apprehension of danger and dread accompanied by restlessness ,  tension ,  tachycardia ,  and dyspnea unattached to a clearly identifiable stimulus .
an established epithelial cell line derived from an adenocarcinoma of human endometrial lining .
an adenocarcinoma arising from the uterine body cavity .
the ch12 .lx b cell line derived from the murine ch12 b cell lymphoma .
neuroectodermal cell line derived from a cerebral brain tumor .
a malignant neoplasm that originates in the neuroectoderm .
 the ntera - 2 cl .d1 cell line is a pluripotent human testicular embryonal carcinoma cell line derived by cloning the ntera - 2 cell line .
a human epithelial cell derived from subject with grade iv glioblastoma ;  astrocytoma .
a breed is a specific group of domestic animals or plants having homogeneous appearance ,  homogeneous behavior ,  and other characteristics that distinguish it from other animals or plants of the same species and that were arrived at through selective breeding .
calcification of the aortic valve
retinal detachment secondary to retinal tear or break .
quantification of an individual's occupation ,  both in terms of employment vs unemployment and in terms of nature of employment ,  eg self - employment
abnormal mental state resulting from an abuse of methamphetamine
quantification of the enzyme myeloperoxidase in the blood ,  for example as an indicator of coronary artery disease
any of a group of similar operations that first divides the stomach into a small upper pouch and a much larger lower "remnant" pouch and then re - arranges the small intestine to connect to bot
the process of decreasing the mass of an organsim over time
a sleep disorder characterized by excessive sleepiness .
measurement of the igg antibody isotype produced by plasma cells in response to a heliobacter pylori infection
the response people may have when presented with work demands and pressures that are not matched to their knowledge and abilities and which challenge their ability to cope .
blood pressure that is abnormally low .
sudden fall of the blood pressure of at least 20 / 10 mm hg when a person stands up .
drastic decline in blood pressure which happens after eating a meal and most likely due to insufficient compensation in cardiac output by the autonomic nervous sytem for the diversion of blood to the intestines .
neurally mediated hypotension is a sudden drop in blood pressure while an individual stands up .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
degenerative calcification of the mitral valve ring ,  often used as a marker of severe coronary artery disease
tov - 112d is a human epithelial cell line initiated in october of 1992 from a patient with early onset ovarian cancer .
the ectocervical ect1 / e6e7  ( atcc crl - 2614 )  and endocervical end1 / e6e7  ( atcc crl - 2615 )  cell lines were established in 1996 from normal epithelial tissue taken from a premenopausal woman undergoing hysterectomy for endometriosis .
molt - 3 is a male human malignant t - lymphoblastic cell line .
quantification of selenium in blood
quantification of copper in blood used in the diagnosis of wilson's disease  ( in combination with ceruloplasmin measurement )  or copper deficiences .
quantification of zinc in blood
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of heart development .
duration of sleep ,  measured either via a self - reporting questionnaire ,  interview or through obversation in a sleep lab
quantification of some aspect of sleep quality ,  such as number of awakenings during a sleep interval or time taken to get to sleep .
self - reported assessment of how difficult an individual is to wake
measurement of the time at which sleep begins
the quantification of dihydroxy docosatrienoic acid ,  a metabolite significantly associated with increased risk of heart failure
the quantification of hydroxy - leucine ,  a metabolite significantly associated with increased risk of heart failure
cardiovascular disease biomarkers ,  such as st2 cardiac biomarker and c - reactive protein ,  are used as indicators for cardiovascular disease and as predictors for therapeutic responses
any condition affecting the anatomic and functional characteristics of the temporomandibular joint .
amount of time ,  usually recorded in minutes ,  between going to bed and falling asleep
established from human bone marrow stromal cells transformed by hpv - 16 e6 / e7 .
established from human bone marrow stromal cells transformed by hpv - 16 e6 / e7 .
mouse lymphocytic leukemia established from the methylcholanthrene - induced tumor in a dba strain mouse  ( subline 212 ,  8 - month - old female )  in 1949 ;  the cells were propagated by heterotransplantation into dba / 2 mice ;  an in - vitro suspension culture was first reported in 1966 ;  cells are used for cytotoxicity studies .
murine b - lymphoma cell line .pmid: 14738152  [ bto:0001930 ] 
albino inbred mus musculus strain .
an antiquated term that refers to a non - hodgkin lymphoma composed of diffuse infiltrates of large ,  often anaplastic lymphocytes .
type of epithelial lung cancer arising from glandular origin .
the mural granulosa cells form during antral folliculogenesis ,  process in which a single antral cavity is formed ,  separating two functionally distinct granulosa cell populations .
a migraine disorder characterized by episodes that are preceded by focal neurological symptoms .
a migraine disorder characterized by episodes that occur in the absence of preceding focal neurological symptoms .
a small - vessel necrotizing vasculitis characterised by the association of inflammation of the vessel wall and peri -  and extravascular granulomatosis .
quantification of allergic sensitization status ,  for example through measurement of allergen - specific ige in the blood or skin reaction after puncture of skin through a droplet of allergen extract  ( skin prick test ) 
non - word reading is the complex cognitive process of decoding symbols in order to derive that they do not form meaningful words
word reading is the complex cognitive process of decoding symbols in order to construct or derive meaningful words
reading and spelling ability refers to the complex cognitive processes involved in assembling and decoding symbols in order to construct or derive words
chip - exo is a chromatin immunoprecipitation based method for mapping the locations at which a protein of interest  ( transcription factor )  binds to the genome .
unexpected death in infancy which remains unexplained following autopsy ,  review of the medical history ,  and investigation of the death circumstances and death scene .
atrial conduction disorder is a form of heart disease in which the conduction of the cardiac atrium is disrupted
a disease involving the atrioventricular node .
a disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of three or more consecutive complexes of ventricular origin with a rate greater than a certain threshold  ( 100 or 120 beats per minute are commonly used )  .
a malignant form of polymorphic ventricular tachycardia that is characterized by heart rate between 200 and 250 beats per minute ,  and qrs complexes with changing amplitude and twisting of the points .
a disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of an organized ,  regular atrial rhythm with atrial rate between 101 and 240 beats per minute .
ta stage is a bladder carcinoma stage characterised by non - invasive papillary carcinoma ,  sometimes called superficial bladder carcinoma .
a method used for finding which rna species interact with a particular rna - binding protein .
a genetic transformation that the modification of the genetic material  ( either coding or non - coding )  of an organism is caused by mutagenic compounds or irradiation
physical combination of several instances of like material ,  eg rna extracted from samples or dishes of cell cultures into one big aliquot of cells .
quantification of the distance between the anterior surface of the cornea and the fovea ,  usually measured by a - scan ultrasonography or optical coherence biometry
an inflammatory skin condition caused by direct contact between the skin and either an irritating substance or an allergen .
a form of allergic contact dermatitis that results from exposure to nickel
a hypomineralisation of systemic origin of one to four permanent first molars frequently associated with affected incisors
bavioural manifestation including low levels of empathy ,  absence of guilt and emotional unresponsiveness
clinical manifestation that occurs as a result of a surgical intervention
sensory disturbance ,  such as hypoesthesia or dysesthesia ,  that occurs as a result of a surgical intervention ,  possibly but not necessarily due to a nerve injury
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a human embryonic stem cell line
huh - 7 is a well differentiated hepatocyte derived cellular carcinoma cell line that was originally taken from a liver tumor in a 57 - year - old japanese male in 1982 .
source : pleural effusion ,  ductal breast cancer  ( grade 3 invasive ,  t2n1m0 )  karyotype : highly rearranged hyperdiploid karyotype with 6% polyploidy carry an amplified her - 2 oncogene and to be insensitive to her - 2 - inhibiting drugs
exome sequencing ,  also known as whole exome sequencing  ( wes )  ,  is a genomic technique for sequencing all of the protein - coding regions of genes in a genome  ( known as the exome )  .
an image analysis technique combining automated microscopy ,  robotic handling ,  and quantitative image analysis for the large scale study of cells .
an image analysis technique to characterise the molecular content of cells by combining automated microscopy ,  robotic handling ,  and quantitative image analysis .
an image analysis technique to characterise the morphological and physical  properties of cells by combining automated microscopy ,  robotic handling ,  and quantitative image analysis .
hair loss as a result of chemotherapy treatment .
physiological response of an organism ,  eg in terms of blood pressure ,  to being fed a diet high in sodium
physiological response of an organism ,  eg in terms of blood pressure ,  to being fed a diet low in sodium
physiological response of an organism to being given potassium as a dietary supplement
physiological response ,  in terms of blood pressure ,  heart rate or pain ,  to a cardiovascular test performed by immersing the hand into ice water ,  usually for one minute
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
an adenoma that arises from the colon or rectum .
an abnormal condition of the mind that involves a loss of contact with reality .
the quantification of pyroglutamine ,  a metabolite significantly associated with increased risk of heart failure
the weight of the individual's body fat .
oligodontia is a rare developmental dental anomaly in humans characterized by the absence of six or more teeth .
a disorder in which the individual suffers from both symptoms that qualify as schizophrenia and symptoms that qualify as a mood disorder  ( e .g . ,  depression or bipolar disorder )  for a substantial portion  ( but not all )  of the active period of the illness ;  for the remainder of the active period of the illness ,  the individual suffers from delusions or hallucinations in the absence of prominent mood symptoms .
quantification of the effect of persistent interference in daily life activities and role performance by psychiatric conditions or related symptoms ,  usually established through a combination of medical assessments and questionnaires
quantification of the level of joint damage ,  eg through radiological analysis
one of the primary characteristics of asthma ,  characterised by easily triggered increased airway smooth muscle contractility
quantification of the protease inhibitor alpha - 1 - antitrypsin in the blood .
a soluble st2 measurement is the quantification of the st2 protein ,  also known as interleukin - 1 receptor - like 1 or il1rl1 .
response to treatment with an inhibitor of mtor  ( mammalian target of rapamycin )  ,  such as everolimus or rapamycin
quantification of symmetric or asymmetric dimethylarginine in the blood
quantificiation of ability to detect sharp boundaries  ( stimuli )  and to detect slight changes in luminance at regions without distinct contours .
quantification of the volume of grey matter in the brain ,  usuallly through an mri scan .
quantification of the amino acid derivate homoarginine in the blood .
the gradual irreversible changes in structure of skin that occur as a result of the passage of time . .
a scoliosis with no known cause arising in adolescent .
a learning disorder characterized by an impairment in processing written words .
a communication disorder that involves the processing of linguistic information .
symptom associated with autism spectrum disorder such as impairment in verbal and nonverbal communication ,  social interactions ,  and / or imaginative play .
significant problems using verbal and nonverbal communication for social purposes ,  leading to impairments in their ability to effectively communicate ,  participate socially ,  maintain social relationships ,  or otherwise perform academically or occupationally .
symptom associated with borderline personality disorder such as unstable self - image and mood together with volatile interpersonal relationships ,  self - damaging impulsivity ,  recurrent suicidal threats or gestures and / or self - mutilating behavior
the consumption of illegal drug such as heroine .
a disinhibited behaviour non - substance related as opposed to disinhibited behaviour due to alcohol consumption for example .
an array design in which a reporter on an array associated with a biosequence that has a context dependent predicted signal .
an array design in which an array contains a reporter where only buffer was deposited on the array ,  acting as a control .
an array design in which a reporter on an array has no material or buffer was deposited on the array .
an array design in which a reporter has genomic dna deposited on it ;  the genomic dna may be fragmented ,  e .g .
an array design in which a reporter is included that could be used to determine the quality and general performance of the labeled extract .
an array design in which a reporter is used as a control where some label has been deposited .
an array design in which a reporter is included on an array of whose biosequence is of known length used as a methodological control for hybridization efficiency .
an array design in which a reporter is used a control for reasons such as quality or result verifcation .
a cell line derived from human prostate carcinoma .
peo1 is an adherent cell line derived from a malignant effusion from the peritoneal ascites of a patient with a poorly differentiated serous adenocarcinoma .
this is a mouse suspension cell line derived from mel cells by stable transfection with a gata - 1 - er fusion protein construct as described by choe et al . ,  2003  ( cancer res 63 ,  63636369 ,  2003 )  .
mouse embryonic kidney fibroblast .as described in lingenfelter et al . ,  1998  ( nat genet .
mouse hematopoietic suspension cell line positive for cd34 .
an embryonic cell line isolated from c57bl / 6 mouse strain .
46c is an embryonic stem cell line ,  constructed in the laboratory of austin smith ,  in which a drug resistance gene is placed under the control of a sox1 promoter .
es - cells isolated from c57bl / 6xcba
fetal myoblast desmin + 
organ producing either sperm or ova
neuron class of two pharyngeal neurosecretory - motor neurons .
type of cells that make up muscle layers in the pharynx in worms such as c . elegans
c . elegans at 20 centigrade: 0 - 24 hours after l4 - adult molt
c . elegans 520 - 620min after first cleavage at 20 centigrade .
c . elegans 20 - 40min after first cleavage at 20 centigrade .
c . elegans 0 - 350min after first cleavage at 20 centigrade .
c . elegans 210 - 350min after first cleavage at 20 centigrade .
c . elegans 100 - 290min after first cleavage at 20 centigrade .
c . elegans 620 - 800min ( hatch )  after first cleavage at 20 centigrade .
c . elegans 290 - 350min after first cleavage at 20 centigrade .
c . elegans 350 - 620min after first cleavage at 20 centigrade .
c . elegans third stage larva specialized for dispersal and long term survival .
c . elegans first stage larva .
c . elegans fourth stage larva .
c . elegans stage when the larval shifts from l2d larva to dauer larva .
c . elegans stage right after a larva recovered from dauer but has not started transformation to l4 larva yet .
quantification of the level of estrogen receptors in a tumor
quantification of  progesterone receptors in breast cancer .
quantification of the level of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2  ( her2 )  in a tumor .
rip - chip refers to the immunoprecipitation of rnps from cell extracts and the subsequent microarray analysis of associated rna molecules .
describes the procedure whereby biological samples for an experiment are sourced .
describes the procedure for dissection .
describes the conversion of samples  ( e .g .
the technology type or platform of the reporters on the array .
controlled terms for descriptors of types of array substrates .
controlled terms for descriptors for coating of the substrate .
stroke caused by the blockage of blood flow in one of the large arteries feeding the brain .
physiological response of an organism ,  eg in terms of flushing ,  to consuming alcohol
quantification of the volumetric fraction of blood pumped out of the left and right ventricle with each heartbeat or cardiac cycle
quantification of the content of parasites in the blood ,  used as a measurement of parasite load in the organism and an indication of the degree of an active parasitic infection
a disease of the cardiac muscle developed subsequent to the initial protozoan infection by trypanosoma cruzi .
trypanosoma cruzi seropositivity is the result of a measurement of circulating t . cruzi specific antibodies
a vascular reaction of the skin characterized by erythema and wheal formation due to localized increase of vascular permeability .
swelling involving the deep dermis ,  subcutaneous ,  or submucosal tissues ,  representing localized edema .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
anoxic encephalopathy resulting from acute co intoxication ,  developing within 2 - 6 weeks of the poisoning event
a vial is a unique aliquot of biological material e .g .
quantification of the fraction of nitric oxide in the total exhalation volume ,  used as a non - invasive biomarker of eosinophilic airway inflammation .
an invasive breast carcinoma which is negative for expression of estrogen receptor  ( er )  ,  progesterone receptor  ( pr )  ,  and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2  ( her2 )  .
quantification of the capacity of a given individual to generate thrombin ,  measured in plasma and shown to associate with thrombotic disorders
a disease involving the adrenal gland .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the bile duct
a disease involving the bone development .
a serious bacterial infection caused by botulinum toxin which is produced by clostridium botulinum .
a benign or malignant brain and spinal cord tumor that arises from glial cells  ( astrocytes ,  oligodendrocytes ,  ependymal cells )  .
a congenital disorder of glycosylation involve disrupted synthesis of the lipid - linked oligosaccharide precursor .
a congenital disorder of glycosylation that involves malfunctioning trimming / processing of the protein - bound oligosaccharide chain .
dengue fever  ( df )  ,  caused by dengue virus ,  is an arboviral disease characterized by an initial non - specific febrile illness that can sometimes progress to more severe forms manifesting capillary leakage and hemorrhage  ( dengue hemorrhagic fever ,  or dhf )  and shock  ( dengue shock syndrome ,  or dss )  .
a disease of mental health that occur during a child's developmental period between birth and age 18 resulting in retarding of the child's psychological or physical development .
a gram - positive bacterial infection caused by corynebacterium diphtheriae .
a benign glial - neuronal neoplasm .it is usually supratentorial ,  located ,  generally ,  in the cortex and occurs in children and young adults with a long - standing history of partial seizures .
an cancer with eccrine differentiation arising from the sweat glands .b
severe combined immunodeficiency  ( scid )  due to gamma chain deficiency ,  also called scid - x1 ,  is a form of scid characterized by severe and recurrent infections ,  associated with diarrhea and failure to thrive .
an autosomal recessive inherited disorder characterized by unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia ,  resulting in harmless intermittent jaundice .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the gums .
hemolytic anemia that is not mediated by immune mechanisms .
an exostosis that has_material_basis_in a mutation on the genes ext1 ,  ext2 and ext3 which results_in multiple bony spurs throughout a child's growth .
a mesenchymal tumor composed of fibroblastic and histiocytic cells .
collection of urine in the renal pelvis that results in dilatation of the renal pelvis and calyces .
an homeostasis disorder leading to an abnormally increased calcium concentration in the blood .
deficiency of janus kinase - 3 causing the near absence of t lymphocytes and natural killer cells ;  and normal or elevated b lymphocytes due to an autosomal recessive variant of severe combined immunodeficiency .
an aggressive malignant mesothelioma that arises from the peritoneum .
methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria is an inborn error of vitamin b12  ( cobalamin )  metabolism characterized by megaloblastic anemia ,  lethargy ,  failure to thrive ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual deficit and seizures .intellectual deficit and seizures .
congenital or developmental anomaly in which the eyeballs are abnormally small .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the oral cavity .
a term referring to disorders characterized by abnormalities in the development of bones and cartilage .
a penile cancer that is located_in the skin or tissues of the penis .
megaloblastic anemia caused by vitamin b - 12 deficiency due to impaired absorption .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the pharynx .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the pituitary gland .
a condition consisting of possessing the internal reproductive organs of one sex while exhibiting some of the secondary sex characteristics of the opposite sex .
protanopia is a severe type of color vision deficiency caused by the complete absence of red retinal photoreceptors .
deuteranopia is a type of color vision deficiency where the green photoreceptors are absent .
a carcinoma arising in the renal pelvis .
bone softening and weakening usually caused by deficiency or impaired metabolism of vitamin d . deficiency of calcium ,  magnesium ,  or phosphorus may also cause rickets .
a common benign skin neoplasm usually affecting older individuals .
shigellosis is a bacterial infection leading to dysentery and is caused by shigella ,  which are small ,  ubiquitous gram - negative bacteria belonging to the enterobacteria family .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the small intestine
errors in metabolic processing of steroids resulting from inborn genetic mutations that are inherited or acquired in utero .
a carcinoma arising from the sweat glands .
a malignant disease of the t - lymphocytes in the bone marrow ,  thymus ,  and / or blood .
a serious infectious disorder that follows wound contamination by the gram - positive bacterium clostridium tetani .
a group of neurologic disorders caused by damage to the nervous system following exposure to pharmacologic ,  biologic ,  and chemical agents .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of vitamin metabolic process .
methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria is an inborn error of vitamin b12  ( cobalamin )  metabolism characterized by megaloblastic anemia ,  lethargy ,  failure to thrive ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual deficit and seizures .intellectual deficit and seizures .
a fatty streak is the first grossly visible  ( visible to the naked eye )  lesion in the development of atherosclerosis .
an atherosclerotic abnormality of the abdominal aorta used as a container term for fibrous plaques ,  complicated lesions ,  and calcified lesions .
a reported family history of breast cancer in one or more family members .
a staging of breast cancer for example by the american joint committee on cancer ,  stage 7 ,  or other coding system .
a measure of cortical opacity used in the diagnosis of cataract .
disorders related or resulting from abuse or mis - use of opioids .
strong dependence ,  both physiological and emotional ,  upon morphine .
a classification of prostate cancer stage e .g .
coronary artery raised lesion
a fatty streak is the first grossly visible  ( visible to the naked eye )  lesion in the development of atherosclerosis .
an atherosclerotic abnormality of the thoracic aorta used as a container term for fibrous plaques ,  complicated lesions ,  and calcified lesions .
crohn's disease affecting the colon .
particular variety of ulcerative colitis where only the left half of the colon is inflamed .
ileocolitis or ileal crohn's is the most common type of crohn's disease .
crohn's disease affecting the mouth .
ulcerative colitis that involves the entire colon .
an crohn disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the anal canal .
an inflammatory process affecting the anus .
an crohn disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the small intestine .
cel data file format describes the format used in a cel file for storing the results of the intensity calculations on the pixel values of a dat file .
an adenocarcinoma arising from the rectum .
the presence of necrosis affecting the intestine .
classification of drugs affecting the alimentary tract and metabolism .
the anatomical therapeutic chemical  ( atc )  classification system is used for the classification of active ingredients of drugs according to the organ or system on which they act and their therapeutic ,  pharmacological and chemical properties .
classification of drugs affecting the blood and blood forming organs of the body .
classification of drugs affecting the cardiovascular system .
classification of drugs affecting skin ,  hair and nails .
classification of drugs affecting the genito - urinary system and sex hormones .
classification of drugs affecting hormones expect for sexual hormones and insulin .
classification of drugs which are anti inefctive agents .
classification of drugs comprising preparations used in the treatment of malignant neoplastic diseases ,  and immunomodulating agents .
classification of drugs affecting musculo - sketal system .
classification of drugs affecting the nervous system such as anesthetics .
classification of drugs affecting the respiratory system .
classification of drugs affecting the sensory organs .
classification of drugs not specified elsewhere
this line was haploid when it was established .
a defect in the pars interarticularis of a vertebral bone .
cells are from the ventral leg imaginal disc of the third instar larval stage .
quantification of some metabolite in serum
quantification of the speed at which sound travels through bone as an indicator of the physical and structural properties of the bone
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
is the quantification of beta - amyloid 1 - 40 in plasma ,  typically used as a biomarker for alzheimer's disease
is the quantification of beta - amyloid 1 - 42 in plasma ,  typically used as a biomarker for alzheimer's disease
the cbcl is a widely used checklist of between 100 and 120 questions  ( depending on target age group )  for identifying problem behaviour in children .
quantification of the glycoprotein uromodulin in urine
quantification of some metabolite in blood
quantification of white matter hyperintensity ,  usually measured by mri
quantification of the antibodies to the enzyme thyroid peroxidase in blood ,  usually as an indicator for autoimmune thyroid disease
quantification of the amount of albumin excreted in urine ,  measured as an indicator for kidney malfunctions such as diabetic nephropathy
quantification of the depth of the anterior chamber of the eye as an indicator for eye disease such as primary angle closure glaucoma
bleeding into one or both cerebral hemispheres including the basal ganglia and the cerebral cortex .
initation of the habit of smoking ,  the inhaling and exhaling of tobacco smoke .
the quantification of some smoking or smoking - related behaviour ,  usually self - reported via a questionnaire
signs and symptoms related to acute ischemia of the myocardium secondary to coronary artery disease .
quantification of the microstructre of the white matter of the brain
the quantification of vitamin d - binding protein in blood as a biomarker for vitamin d - related diseases such as osteoporosis ,  arthritis ,  cardiovascular disease and cancer
hepatitis caused by autoantibodies .drugs ,  infections ,  and toxins may trigger the production of the autoantibodies against the liver parenchyma .
quantification of the onset of puberty in human males and females through a series of proxy measurements such as genital enlargement  ( males )  or breast development  ( females )  .
age - related neuropathological condition with severe neuronal cell loss and gliosis in the hippocampus
conotruncal and related malformations account for around a third of all congential heart defects and include a range of conditions including but not limited to tetralogy of fallot ,  d - transposition of the great arteries ,  ventricular septal defects  ( conoventricular ,  posterior malalignment and conoseptal hypoplasia )  ,  double outlet right ventricle ,  aortic arch anomalies ,  truncus arteriosus ,  and interrupted aortic arch .
the determination of the amount of omega - 6 polyunsaturated fatty acids present in a sample .
an infectious process in which the bacteria staphylococcus aureus is present .
quantification of the relative amount of oxygen that is dissolved or carried in a given medium
a portion of plant tissue that consists of mass of undifferentiated plant cells .
an assay in which sequencing technology  ( e .g .
an assay in which sequencing technology  ( e .g .
receptive language means the ability to understand or comprehend language heard or read
a chronic disorder of unknown etiology characterized by pain ,  stiffness ,  and tenderness in the muscles of neck ,  shoulders ,  back ,  hips ,  arms ,  and legs .
non - high - density lipoprotein cholesterol  ( nhdl )  ,  calculated by subtracting the amount of cholesterol in the hdl fraction from total cholesterol ,  quantifies almost all potentially atherogenic apolipoprotein b containing lipoproteins encompassing cholesterol bound to low - density lipoproteins  ( ldl )  ,  very low - density lipoproteins ,  intermediate - density lipoproteins ,  lipoprotein ( a )  ,  chylomicrons ,  and chylomicron remnants
the quantification of nhdl cholesterol in blood ,  calculated by subtracting the amount of cholesterol in the hdl fraction from total cholesterol and used as an indicator for cardiovascular disease risk
the quantification in blood of trimethylamine n - oxide ,  a product of gut microbiome and hepatic - mediated metabolism of dietary choline and l - carnitine
transposable element identification design type aims to discover non - reference transposable element  ( te )  insertions from whole genome sequencing data .
mobile element identification design type aims to discover the mobile element  ( me )  insertions from whole genome sequencing data .
kms - 11 cell line was derived from four patients with multiple myeloma .
medulloblastoma  ( aka d721 )  ,  surgical resection from a patient with medulloblastoma as described by darrell bigner  ( 1997 ) 
m059j cells were isolated from a tumor specimen taken from a 33 year old male with untreated malignant glioblastoma .
the daoy cell line was established in 1985 by p . f jacobsen of the royal perth hospital in western australia .
a medulloblastoma characterized by the presence of nodular ,  collagenous areas which do not contain reticulin ,  surrounded by hypercellular areas which contain an intercellular reticulin fiber network .
this is an adherent cell line derived from a hepatic rhabdoid tumor .
an aggressive malignant embryonal neoplasm usually occurring during childhood .
a malignant rhabdoid tumor diploid cell population cloned from the a204 atcc cell line .
this is an adherent cell line that represents the prototypical renal rhabdoid tumor  [ pmid: 16897758 ]  .
huh - 7 is a well differentiated hepatocyte derived cellular carcinoma cell line that was originally taken from a liver tumor in a 57 - year - old japanese male in 1982 .
nasal biopsies were collected from volunteer donors as an outpatient procedure as described  ( feron et al . ,  1998 )  .
 in the surgery branch of the nci .
this line was derived from a primary clear cell adenocarcinoma .
a carcinoma arising from the renal parenchyma .
first trimester human trophoblast cells established by immortalizing a physiologic extravillous trophoblast cell via transfection with a plasmid containing the simian virus 40 large t antigen  ( sv40 )   ( see graham et al . ,  1993 )  .
this is an adherent cell line .
normal benign adult human pancreatic duct cells immortalized with e6e7 gene of hpv - 16 .
human skin malignant melanoma cells that can be ordered from atcc .
human pancreas adenocarcinoma  ( pa - tu - 8988t )  ,  "established in 1985 from the liver metastasis of a primary pancreatic adenocarcinoma from a 64 - year - old woman ;  sister cell line of pa - tu - 8988s"  -  dsmz .
skeletal myoblasts derived from satellite cells from the pectoralis major muscle of a 41 year old caucasian heart transplant donor ,  immortalized with lox - hygro - htert  ( lh )  ,  and cdk4 - neo  ( cn )  ,  zhu et al .
the weri - rb - 1 line is one of two human retinoblastoma cell lines established in 1974 by r .m .
a malignant neoplasm involving the retina .
a retinal cell cancer and malignant neoplasm of retina and neuroblastoma and neuroendocrine tumors that derives_from the tissues of the retina .
"the cell line ishikawa was established from an endometrial adenocarcinoma of a 39 year old woman .
established from a pleural effusion of 73 year - old woman diagnosed with b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma  ( intra - abdominal ,  diffuse large cell lymphoma ,  refractory ,  terminal )  .
this melanoma cell line was derived from a metastatic axillary node of the skin of a 24 year old female .
sk - n - dz is a neuroblastoma cell line derived in 1978 from a bone marrow metastasis from a child with poorly differentiated embryonal neuroblastoma .
the line was established from cells from the bone marrow of a child with rhabdomyosarcoma .
fibroblasts taken from a skin punch of the arm
mm .1s is a b lymphoblast cell line derived in 1986 .
be ( 2 )  - c is a clone of the sk - n - be ( 2 )  neuroblastoma cell line  ( atcc crl - 2271 )  that was established in november of 1972 from a bone marrow biopsy taken from child with disseminated neuroblastoma after repeated courses of chemotherapy and radiotherapy .
lncap clone fgc was isolated in 1977 by j .s .
a bronchial epithelial cell derived cell line is defined as something that derives from an airway epithelial cell
an endothelial cell derived cell line is defined as a cell line that derives from an endothelial cell .
a cardiac myocyte cell derived cell line is defined as a cell lineage that derives from cardiac myocyte cell
this cell line refers to a model cell line derived from muscle cells
a cell line that derives from smooth muscle cell
a cell line that derives from bronchial smooth muscle cell
esc derived cell line is a cell line that derives from an embryonic stem cell .
induced pluripotent stem cells  ( ipscs )  are adult cells that have been genetically reprogrammed to an embryonic stem celllike state by being forced to express genes and factors important for maintaining the defining properties of embryonic stem cells .
ipsc derived cell line is a cell line that derives from ips cells  ( induced pluripotent stem cell )  .
a disorder resulting from the presence and activity of a microbial ,  viral ,  or parasitic agent .
this cell line was cloned from cme w1 in the milner lab .
the line was made from l3 prothoracic leg discs in the milner lab  ( currie et al . ,  1988 )  .
this stable cell line is a mix of female germ - line stem cells / ovarian somatic sheet ,  which contains both germ - line and somatic cells .
cells are made by w . gehring from 6 - 10 hr embryos of cross y w f x in ( 3lr ) c269 ,  e mwh
cells are of embryonic line made by mosna and dolfini .
an allergic disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the camera - type eye .
an inflammation in the eye ( s ) 
a disorder that is caused by pathologic changes in the ocular vasculature .
a disease involving the parathyroid gland .
inflammatory and degenerative diseases of connective tissue structures ,  such as arthritis .
an injury to the skin caused by a cut ,  blow ,  or other impact .
local accumulation of fluid ,  plasma proteins ,  and leukocytes in the vagina
cycloplegia is paralysis of the ciliary muscle of the eye ,  resulting in a loss of accommodation .
quantification of carcinoembryonic antigen in serum .
glomerulonephritis in the context of systemic lupus erythematosus .
chronic pain caused by damage to nerve fibers .
quantification of the difference between systolic blood pressure and diastolic blood pressure .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of the level of fluorescence of the skin ,  measured by spectromemeter and used as a non - invasive marker of advanced glycation end product  ( age )  accumulation .
quantification of rheumatoid factors ,  antibodies in the serum of individuals with rheumatoid arthritis that react with antigenic determinants or immunoglobulins that enhance agglutination of suspended particles coated with pooled human gamma  - globulin .
physiological response to treatment with rate control medication such as b blockers ,  calcium channel antagonists or digitalis
disorders in the processing of calcium in the body: its absorption ,  transport ,  storage ,  and utilization .
a disease involving the ovary .
a disorder of the central nervous system characterized by gradual and progressive loss of neural tissue and neurologic function .
an eye emergency condition which may lead to blindness if left untreated .
a disease affecting the brain or part of the brain .
pathology involving the thoracic ,  thoracoabdominal ,  or abdominal aorta  ( including aneurysms )  .
age - related hearing impairment is characterized by a symmetric sensorineural hearing loss that is most pronounced in the high frequencies .
a rare ,  highly aggressive and lethal carcinoma that affects children and young adults .
a usually malignant neoplasm composed of primitive  ( immature )  tissues that resemble fetal tissues .
a malignant neoplasm composed of undifferentiated cells .
10% of flowers to be produced have opened
30% of flowers to be produced have opened
a constellation of neurobehavioral features observed in a neonate following antenatal exposure to drugs including opioids ,  benzodiazepines ,  and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors .
a substance - specific organic brain syndrome that follows the discontinuation of administration or use ,  or reduction in intake of an addictive substance ,  e .g .
blocking of a blood vessel by cholesterol - rich atheromatous deposits ,  generally occurring in the flow from a large artery to small arterial branches .
softening and degeneration of the cartilage .
a disease involving the hematopoietic system .
abnormally high mass or concentration of red blood cells in the blood ,  either due to an increase in erythropoiesis or a decrease in plasma volume .
polycythemia resulting from hypoxia .
a disorder resulting from loss of function or tissue destruction of an organ or multiple organs ,  arising from humoral or cellular immune responses of the individual to their own tissue constituents .
neurodegenerative disorders involving deposition of abnormal tau protein isoforms  ( tau proteins )  in neurons and glial cells in the brain .
kc line established from 6 - 12 hr embryos of cross se x e . clone 167 isolated in goldschmitt - clermont laboratory .
a tumorous blood cell line made from flies homozygous for the malignant blood neoplasm mutation l ( 2 ) mbn  ( gateff ,  1980 )  .
this cell line was made from the l3  ( y v f mal )  central nervous system  ( ui et al . ,  1994 )  . )  .
this cell line was made from the l3  ( y v f mal )  central nervous system  ( ui et al . ,  1994 )  . ) 
ml - dmbg3 - c2 cells were made from the brain ventral ganglion of late l3  ( y v f mal )  .
these cells are from the third instar larval stage ,  made from eye - antenna discs of late l3  ( y v f mal )  in the miyake lab .
the line was derived from l3 wing discs  ( ui et al . ,  1987 )  .
this cell line was derived from the third instar larval stage  ( y v f mal )  of dorsal metathoracic discs .
this cell line was derived from the third instar larval stage  ( y v f mal )  of antennal discs .
this cell line was derived from the third instar larval stage  ( y v f mal )  of antennal discs .
this cell line was derived from the third instar larval stage  ( y v f mal )  of dorsal mesothoracic discs .
this cell line was derived from the third instar larval stage  ( y v f mal )  of dorsal mesothoracic discs .
this cell line was derived from the third instar larval stage  ( y v f mal )  of imaginal discs .
this cell line was derived from the third instar larval stage  ( y v f mal )  of dorsal mesothoracic discs .
this cell line was derived from the third instar larval stage  ( y v f mal )  of dorsal mesothoracic discs .
ovarian somatic adult stage cells originated in the siomi lab .
this cell line comes from removing the stem cells from its parent fgs / oss  ( female germ - line stem cells / ovarian somatic sheet )  ,  which contains both germ - line and somatic cells .
this s2 isolate is the one routinely used for rnai screens at the drsc ;  it is referred to at the drsc as "s2" .
an isolate of s2 cells that was found in the miyake laboratory freezer .
these cells were made from oregon r embryos on the verge of hatching in the late embryonic stage .
clone of s2 .differs from the s2 cell distributed by the dgrc in many transcriptional properties ,  among them a higher expression of abd - b in sg4 ,  and a much higher expression of defensins in s2 .
autosomal dominant phenotype characterized by increase of red blood cell atp .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the colon or rectum .
quantification of the hormone cortisol in blood or urine
physiological response  ( usually immune system response )  of an organism to contact with a dietary antigen
the determination of the amount of hemoglobin a2 present in a sample .
cryoglobulinemia is a type of vasculitis that is caused by abnormal proteins  ( antibodies )  in the blood called 'cryoglobulins .'
an increase in the probability of an event occuring ,  as compared to a background risk such as the normal risk in a given population .
quantification of some lipase activity in blood .
quantification by computed tomography scans of distinct pathologic patterns in the lungs that occur in emphysema
height - adjusted version of bmi calculated as bmi [ x ] =weight ( kg )  / height ( m ) ^x )  ,  where x is derived to give the lowest pearson's correlation coefficient of bmi [ x ]  with height within a study cohort
quantification of the morphology  ( eg thickness and surface area )  of heschl's gyrus ,  a core region of the auditory cortex with highly variable morphology
short or long term physiological response of an organism ,  eg in terms of deposits of silica particles in lung tissues ,  to exposure to silica ,  usually of occupational or environment origin
inflammation of the nasal mucous membranes caused by an ige - mediated response to external allergens .
narcolepsy without cataplexy is characterized by excessive day - time sleepiness associated with uncontrollable sleep urges and sometimes paralysis at sleep ,  hypnagogic hallucinations and automatic behavior .
an inflammatory process affecting a joint .
an embryo stage for the mouse species .
the whole period of embryogenesis ,  from the formation of an egg till its hatch .
the stage of the drosophila life - cycle from fertilization to hatching .
the embryonic stage that lasts from the end of fertilization to the end of the second nuclear division .
nuclear divisions 3 - 8 .the egg cytoplasm contracts producing a clear separation from the vitelline membrane and empty spaces at the anterior and posterior .
nuclear division 9 .the cleavage nuclei complete their migration to the periphery .
nuclear division 10 - 13 .polar buds divide twice and become tightly grouped at the posterior pole by the end of this stage .
cellularization .stage 5 begins when cellularization starts .
stage 6 begins when the ventral furrow becomes apparent ,  an event which is followed rapidly by the formation of the cephalic furrow .
stage 7 begins when the pole cells have adopted a dorsal  ( horizontal )  position at the posterior .
stage 8 starts with the rapid phase of germ band extension and ends with the beginning of mesodermal segmentation .
stage 9 begins when mesodermal segmentation becomes  ( transiently )  visible \  ,  and ends with the appearance of the stomodeal invagination slightly ventral to the anterior pole .
stage 10 begins with the appearance of the stomodeal invagination ,  slightly ventral to the anterior pole .
stage 11 begins with the invagination of the tracheal placodes .
germ band retraction .stage 12 begins when germ - band retraction starts and ends when this process is complete so that the prospective anal plate occupies the posterior pole .
stage 13 begins at the completion of germ - band retraction ,  when the prospective anal plate occupy the posterior pole .
stage 14 begins with the initiation of head involution .
stage 15 begins with the appearance of the second midgut constriction .
stage 16 begins when the intersegmental grooves can be distinguished at mid - dorsal level ,  and ends when the dorsal ridge  ( frontal sac )  has overgrown the tip of the cylpeolabrum ,  which is thereby enclosed in the atrium .
stage 17 begins when the dorsal ridge  ( frontal sac )  has overgrown the tip of the cylpeolabrum ,  which is thereby enclosed in the atrium .
a disorder that is caused by the deficiency of a vitamin .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of cholesterol within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of lipid within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of triglyceride within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of iron ions within an organism or cell .
the left atrium receives oxygenated blood back from the lungs and pumps it down into the left ventricle for relatively high - pressure delivery to the body .
osteoarthritis biomarkers ,  such as  serum cartilage oligomeric protein  ( scomp )  and urinary c - telopeptide of type ii collagen  ( uctx - ii )  ,  are used as indicators for osteoarthritis screening and as predictors for therapeutic responses and prognoses in patients
the renal cortex is the outer portion of the kidney between the renal capsule and the renal medulla .
a disorder characterized by benign depositions of calcium in the posterior longitudinal ligament .
the junction between the stomach and the esophagus ;  the place where the esophagus connects to the stomach .
human embryonic stem cell line elf - 1 was derived from a human embryo in the ellison stem cell core at the university of washington ,  seattle ,  wa .
kbm - 7 cells were derived from a 39 - year - old man with chronic myeloid leukemia in blast crisis .
undifferentiated embryonic stem cells
non - hodgkin lymphoma derived cell lines
established from the bone marrow of a 44 - year - old man with b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma  ( b - nhl ;  diffuse large cell )  ,  stage 4b at relapse in 1983 .
oci - ly - 3 -  immortalized diffuse large b cell lymphoma cell line developed at the ontario cancer institute .
dermal fibroblasts from an 8 year old male with hutchinson - gilford progeria syndrome  ( cell line hgps ,  hgadfn167 ,  progeria research foundation )  .
the clonal embryonic stem cell line es - d3 was derived from blastocysts of a male 129s2 / svpas strain mouse .
an immortalized cell line from htert - infected myometrial cells  ( htert - hm )  .
primary ureter cell culture of urothelial cells derived from a 12 year - old girl and immortalized by transfection with a temperature - sensitive sv - 40 large t antigen gene .
zhbtc4 undifferentiated mouse embryonic stem cells originated from a male mouse of the 129 / ola strain ,  and received as frozen ampoules from d . levasseur  ( university of iowa )  .
embryonic stem cells isolated from mix of ~20% c57 / b6j ,  ~75% 129 / sv and ~5% sjl all male strains .
undifferentiated embryonic stem cells were originally isolated from 129s1 / svimj strain mice by swiatek pj et al .
a chronic condition characterised by recurrent generalised seizures .
quantification of osteoprotegerin in a sample
quantification of any recombination - related factor ,  such as hotspot usage ,  african enchrichment and recombination rate
quantification of the rate of change in fev of an individual over the course of time ,  used as an indicator of improvement or decay of pulmonary function
esophageal squamous cell carcinoma  ( escc )  is a type of esophageal carcinoma  ( ec )  that can affect any part of the esophagus ,  but is usually located in the upper or middle third .
malignant lymphoma of the bursa of fabricius ,  induced by avian leukosis virus occuring in birds .
recurrent episodes of over - eating .
a disease that occurs in animals .
quantification of weight / height relationships above a certain threshold that classes an individual as overweight .
quantification of weight / height relationships below a certain threshold that classes an individual as underweight .
quantification of the variation in body mass index over time
serious heritable structural anomalies of the left side of the heart ,  including hypoplastic left heart syndrome ,  aortic valve stenosis ,  coarctation of the aorta ,  mitral valve anomalies and bicuspid aortic valve ,  that are present from birth .
quantification of the effect of the parental genotype ,  usually the maternal genotype on the development of a child ,  for example to determine its influence on congenital abnormalities
symptoms of psychosis and altered mental status experienced as a result of drug consumption or as a result of a mental or behavioural disorder such as schizophrenia or bipolar disorder
quantification of the density of breast tissue from a mammogram ,  used as an indicator of breast cancer risk
a form of hypertension that occurs as a direct result of chemotherapy treatment
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
physiological response to the cumulative treatment dose of the drug bevacizumab
the determination of the amount of antinuclear antibodies present in a sample .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the anatomic structures of the head and neck region .
phenotypic differentiation between males and females of the same species ,  eg in size ,  coloration ,  behaviour or another characteristic .
distinct from hodgkin lymphoma both morphologically and biologically ,  non - hodgkin lymphoma  ( nhl )  is characterized by the absence of reed - sternberg cells ,  can occur at any age ,  and usually presents as a localized or generalized lymphadenopathy associated with fever and weight loss .
quantification of skinfold thickness as a proxy for measuring the amount of adipose tissue
the epidermoid carcinoma cell line a - 431 ,  derived from an 85 - year - old female ,  is one of a series of cell lines established from solid tumors by d .j .
cell line was established by fusion of primary human first trimester trophoblasts  ( week 12 of gestation )  with a human choriocarcinoma cell line  ( ac1 - 1 )  .
the culture was initiated on 5 / 20 / 80 from explants of minced lung tissue taken from a therapeutically aborted fetus of 12 weeks gestational age .
arpe - 19 is a spontaneously arising retinal pigment epithelia  ( rpe )  cell line derived in 1986 by amy aotaki - keen from the normal eyes of a 19 - year - old male who died from head trauma in a motor vehicle accident .
the germ - line competent cell line cgr8 was established from the inner cell mass of a 3 .5 day male pre - implantation mouse embryo  ( mus musculus ,  strain 129 )  .
the dt40 chicken b cell line is derived from an avian leukosis virus  ( alv )  - induced bursal lymphoma .
this is a derivative of one of several mouse embryonal stem cell  ( es )  lines developed by m . hooper in 1987 .
clinically affected ;  ataxia ;  scoliosis ;  hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ;  slurred speech ;  homozygous for the gaa expansion in the frataxin gene with alleles of approximately 650 and 1030 repeats ;  brother of gm15849 and gm15851 ,  son of gm15847 and gm15848 .
clinically unaffected ; has two frda alleles in the normal range of gaa trinucleotide repeats ; brother of an affected individual  ( gm15850 )  .
gm5659 primary fibroblasts were established from a skin biopsy of an apparently healthy donor
cell line is derived from the normal human parotid gland .
cell line is derived from the normal human parotid gland .
cd47 - deficient t cell line derived from jurkat cells  ( jinb8 ) 
km12 is one of the cell lines of the nci - 60 panel which represents different cancer types and has been widely utilized for drug screening and molecular target identification .
lox - imvi is one of the cell lines of the nci - 60 panel which represents different cancer types and has been widely utilized for drug screening and molecular target identification .
cell line grew spontaneously on two subsequent occasions from the peripheral blood  ( pb )  of a patient with b - chronic lymphocytic leukemia  ( b - cll )  in prolymphocytoid transformation .
a monocytic cell line ,  termed mono mac ,  was established from peripheral blood of a patient with monoblastic leukemia .
established from the peripheral blood of a 57 - year - old man with acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml fab m4 )  at diagnosis in 1987 ;  cells carry an npm1 gene mutation  ( type a )  and the dnmt3a r882c mutation .
a continuously growing cell line has been established from autopsy material taken from a primary liver carcinoma ,  a cancer which has a high incidence in southern africa .
human gastric cancer cell line  ( sgc - 7901 )  was established by wang long - bao et al in cooperation with shanghai no .6 people's hospital and other institutions in china .
sh - ep is derived from sk - n - sh cell line .
sts26t cells were derived from a sporadic mpnst and have functional neurofibromin
derived from swiss3t3 fibroblasts
derived from swiss3t3 fibroblasts
derived from swiss3t3 fibroblasts
derived from swiss3t3 fibroblasts
derived from swiss3t3 fibroblasts
derived from swiss3t3 fibroblasts
derived from swiss3t3 fibroblasts
the t265 cell line is widely used for cell culture studies of schwann cells in mpnsts .
tubo cells are a cloned line established in vitro from a balb - neut mouse mammary carcinoma .
cell line was established from a patient with essential thrombocytosis that transformed into acute leukemia .
mouse embryonic stem cells from a male mouse embryo
quantification of the protein plasminogen in a plasma sample
quantification of mitochondrial dna in a sample ,  usually through genetic amplification of target genes by quantifiative real - time pcr
inflammation and ulceration of the oral mucosa as a result of chemotherapy treatment .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
pancreatits that is the result of treatment with thiopurine immunosuppressants such as azathioprine or mercaptopurine .
mental process necessary for language acquisition in infancy
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a breast carcinoma arising from the ducts .
plasma hiv1 rna levels at a specific point in time ,  eg before or after initiation of anti - retroviral therapy
any sign or symptom that is the direct result of treatment with antidepressant medication
dizziness that is the direct result of treatment with antidepressant medication
sexual dysfunction such as loss of sexual desire that is the direct result of treatment with antidepressant medication
visual impairment such as blurred vision that is the direct result of treatment with antidepressant medication
hearing impairment such as ringing in the ears that is the direct result of treatment with antidepressant medication
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of selenium in a sample
quantification of the amount of iron in a blood sample used in the diagnosis of familial hemochromatosis
the determination of the iron bound to transferrin in a sample .
the determination of the saturation of iron binding sites on serum transferrin proteins .
the blood pressure during the contraction of the left ventricle of the heart .
the blood pressure after the contraction of the heart while the chambers of the heart refill with blood .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the mean pressure of the blood within the arterial circulation .
the determination of the amount of transferrin present in a sample .
a localized aggressive periodontitis ,  formerly called localized juvenile periodontitis .
a chronic inflammatory process that affects the tissues that surround and support the teeth .
the duration of time from initiation to discontinuation of drug therapy .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a permanent mark left on the skin in the process of wound healing .
pae is defined as pa / a  > 1 .
the ratio of the diameter of the pulmonary artery to the diameter of the aorta  ( pa / a )  as measured using ct .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the larynx .
human chondrosarcoma cell line .
human osteosarcoma cell line .atcc catalog number crl - 8308
human melanoma cell line
human melanoma cell line
human ovarian carcinoma cell line .
human melanoma cell line
human melanoma cell line
human melanoma cell line from 43 - year - old male patient .
human ovarian carcinoma cell line .
human colorectal carcinoma cell line
human melanoma cell line .atcc catalog number crl - 1585
human prostate cancer cell line derived from subcutaneous lncap xenografts in castrated nude mice .
human squamous cell carcinoma cell line
human non - hodgkin's lymphoma cell line  ( dsmz catalog number acc 570 ) 
human colon carcinoma cell line  ( dsmz catalog number acc 467 ) 
human colon carcinoma cell line  ( dsmz catalog number acc 520 ) 
human colon carcinoma cell line  ( dsmz catalog number acc 535 ) 
human colon carcinoma cell line  ( dsmz catalog number acc 194 ) 
human melanoma cell line  ( sigma - aldrich catalog number 87061210 ) 
human squamous cell carcinoma cell line  ( dsmz catalog number acc 182 ) 
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line  ( dsmz catalog number acc196 ) 
derived from a pelvic wall metastasis of a 69 year old female with colon carcinoma .
human melanoma cell line  ( dsmz catalog number acc257 ) 
derived from a brain metastasis of a 62 year old male with melanoma .
derived from a subcutaneous nodule of a tumour from a 14 - year - old male .
derived in 1992 from right axillary lymph nodes of a 43 - year - old caucasian man with metastatic maligant melanoma  ( dsmz catalog number acc 216 ) 
derived from the right axilla lymph node of a 43 year old male with melanoma .
derived from a right axilla lymph node of a 43 year old male with melanoma .
a human ovarian epithelial - serous carcinoma cell line established from a peritoneal ascites .
a human ovarian epithelial - endometroid carcinoma cell line established from a pleural effusion .
human ovarian granulosa tumour cell line established from a solid primary tumour  ( sigma - aldrich catalog number 07071909 ) 
a human ovarian epithelial - serous carcinoma cell line established from a pleural effusion .
human ovarian epithelial - mucinous carcinoma cell line established from a solid primary tumour .
a malignant cystic epithelial neoplasm arising from the glandular epithelium .
cystic renal cell carcinoma includes any malignant neoplasm of renal tubular epithelium which presents as a fluid - filled mass .
dukes' type c ,  colorectal adenocarcinoma cell line .
the small cell carcinoma dms 454 was isolated in 1981 from lung tissue of a male patient at time of autopsy .
a neuroblastoma associated with increased dopamine excretion .
a woman with exocrine pancreatic cancer presented a syndrome of humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy .
the farage cell line was adapted to culture in 1990 from a lymph node biopsy of a patient with diffuse large cell non - hodgkin's lymphoma  ( dlcl )  .
human malignant melanoma cell line  ( atcc catalog number crl - 1424 ) 
human glioma cell line
human glioma cell line
human glioma cell line
human glioma cell line
human glioma cell line
human glioma cell line
human glioma cell line
human glioma cell line
human glioma cell line
human glioma cell line
human glioma cell line
human glioma cell line
human glioma cell line
human glioma cell line
human glioma cell line
human glioma cell line
human glioma cell line
human glioma cell line
human non small cell lung carcinoma cell line
a prolactin  ( prl )  responsive clone of the comma - 1d mouse  ( balb / c )  mammary epithelial cell line
the human colon cancer cell line ,  hca - 7 colony 29 expresses cox - 2 .
human renal cell carcinoma cell line from 45 - year - old female patient
human small cell lung carcinoma cell line from a 53 - year - old caucasian male patient
human cystoadenocarcinoma cell line from a 26 - year - old black female patient
human renal cell carcinoma cell line from a 64 - year - old caucasian female patient
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line from a 76 - year - old male patient
human ovarian carcinoma cell line from a 32 - year - old hispanic female patient
human cystic renal cell carcinoma cell line from 37 - year - old hispanic male
human uterine adenocarcinoma cell line from 48 - year - old black female
human colorectal adenocarcinoma cell line from 20 - year - old black female
human renal cell carcinoma cell line from 68 - year - old caucasian male
human uterine adenocarcinoma cell line from 62 - year - old caucasian female
human breast adenocarcinoma cell line from 43 - year - old male patient
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line
human adrenal gland tumour cell line
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line from 64 - year - old caucasian female patient
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line from 52 - year - old asian female patient
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line
human breast ductal carcinoma cell line from a female patient
human non small cell lung carcinoma cell line
human breast carcinoma cell line
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line from a 53 - year - old caucasian male patient
human non small cell lung carcinoma cell line from a 62 - year - old caucasian female patient
cells of this line contain hela marker chromosomes ,  and were derived via hela contamination .
human non small cell lung carcinoma cell line
human large cell carcinoma cell line
human glioma cell line  ( atcc catalog number htb - 138 ) 
human colon carcinoma cell line .
human malignant melanoma cell line derived from metastatis in subcutaneous tissue from a 29 - year - old male caucasian patient .
human colon carcinoma cell line  ( sigma - aldrich catalog number 85061105 ) 
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line
human adenocarcinoma cell line from a 63 - year - old japanese male patient with moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the stomach
human melanoma cell line established from the primary tumor  ( right cervical )  of a 64 - year - old woman with cutaneous melanoma .
human malignant epithelioid mesothelioma cell line established from the untreated malignant epithelioid mesothelioma of the pleura of a 54 - year - old man with asbestos cancer in 2003  ( dsmz catalog number acc 596 ) 
human plasma cell leukemia established from the peripheral blood of a 77 - year - old woman at diagnosis of plasma cell leukemia  ( iggkappa )  in 1987 ;  plasma cell leukemia is related to multiple myeloma confirmed as human by cytogenetics
human plasma cell leukemia cell line established from the peripheral blood of a 36 - year - old woman with plasma cell leukemia  ( igg )  in 1977 ;  cells were described to be ebna - negative and to express mrna for proto - oncogene bcl2 ;  plasma cell leukemia is related to multiple myeloma .
m059k cells were isolated from a tumor specimen from a 33 year - old male patient with untreated glioblastoma .
a malignant neoplasm arising from mesothelial cells in the pleura .
human ovarian adenocarcinoma cell line
human breast carcinoma cell line  ( atcc catalog number htb - 127 ) 
model of a dopaminergic cell ,  generated by somatic cell fusion of primary neurons from mouse embryonic day 14 rostral mesencephalic tegmentum and the neuroblastoma cell line ,  n18tg2 .
human cervical epidermoid carcinoma cell line derived from metastatis in lymph node  ( atcc catalog number htb - 34 ) 
human breast carcinoma cell line
the ov56 cell line was established from ascitic fluid derived from a 46 - year - old female patient diagnosed with ovarian cancer .
the ov7 cell line was established from solid ovarian tumour tissue taken from a 78 - year - old female patient .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary .
a granulosa - stromal cell tumor that arises from the ovary .
an invasive adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells that contain intracytoplasmic mucin .
a non - seminomatous germ cell tumor arising from the ovary .
human ovarian carcinoma cell line
human ovarian teratocarcinoma cell line derived from metastasis in ascites  ( atcc catalog number crl - 1572 ) 
panc 02 .03 is a pancreatic adenocarcinoma epithelial cell line derived in 1995 from a primary tumor removed from the head - of - the - pancreas of a female with pancreatic adenocarcinoma .
panc 03 .27 is a pancreatic adenocarcinoma epithelial cell line derived in 1995 from a primary tumor removed from the head - of - the - pancreas of a female with pancreatic adenocarcinoma .
panc 04 .03 is a pancreatic adenocarcinoma epithelial cell line derived ,  in 1995 ,  from a primary tumor removed from the head - of - the - pancreas of a male with pancreatic adenocarcinoma .
panc 05 .04 is a pancreatic adenocarcinoma epithelial cell line derived ,  in 1995 ,  from a primary tumor removed from the head - of - the - pancreas of a female with pancreatic adenocarcinoma .
panc 08 .13 is a pancreatic adenocarcinoma epithelial cell line derived in 1995 from a primary tumor removed from the head - of - the - pancreas of a male with pancreatic adenocarcinoma .
a tubular adenocarcinoma that involves the pancreas .
the pfeiffer cell line was established in 1992 from a patient in the leukemic phase of diffuse large cell lymphoma  ( dlcl )  with cleaved and non - cleaved nuclei .
human acute myeloid leukemia cell line established from the peripheral blood of a 24 - year - old man with refractory acute promyelocytic leukemia after mediastinal granulocytic sarcoma .
pl45 is a pancreatic adenocarcinoma epithelial cell line derived in 1992 from a primary tumor removed from the pancreas of a man with poorly differentiated pancreatic adenocarcinoma of ductal origin .
an aggressive plasma cell neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic plasma cells in the peripheral blood .
human colorectal adenocarcinoma cell line
human lymphoma cell line established from the peripheral blood of a 57 - year - old woman with b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma  ( b - nhl ,  lymphocytic ,  small cell type progressing to large non - convoluted cell type )  in the refractory terminal stage in 1977 ;  assigned to abc - like lymphoma subtype  ( activated b - cell )  ;  cell line also known as riva .
human squamous cell carcinoma derived from metastatis in pleural effusion  ( atcc catalog number ccl - 30 ) 
human carcinoma cell line established from the transitional cell carcinoma  ( histological grade g2 )  excised from a woman  ( age unknown )  with untreated primary urinary bladder carcinoma in 1973 ;  described to form tumors in nude mice  ( dsmz catalog number acc 418 ) 
human transitional cell papilloma cell line  ( atcc catalog number htb - 2 ) 
human b - cell lymphoma cell line from a 67 - year - old male patient
human squamous cell carcinoma cell line from the tongue of a 55 - year - old male patient .
human squamous cell carcinoma cell line from the tongue of a 70 - year - old male patient .
human non - hodgkin's lymphoma cell line .
human squamous cell carcinoma cell line from the tongue of a 25 - year - old male patient .
human essential thrombocythemia cell line established from the peripheral blood of a 71 - year - old woman with essential thrombocythemia at megakaryoblastic leukemic transformation in 1995 .
human melanoma cell line derived from metastasis in lymph node  ( atcc catalog number htb - 71 ) 
human melanoma cell line derived from tumor tissue  ( subcutis metastasis )  of a 67 - year - old caucasian man with malignant melanoma in 1975  ( dsmz catalog number acc 151 ) 
human melanoma cell line derived from a female patient with malignant melanoma  ( atcc catalog number htb - 73 ) 
human melanoma cell line
human anaplastic large t cell lymphoma cell line established from the pleural effusion an 11 - year - old boy with cd30 +   ( ki - 1 )  large t cell lymphoma in 1983  ( also described as "sr" )  ;  described to express the npm1 - alk  ( npm - alk )  fusion gene  ( dsmz catalog number acc 369 ) 
human lymphoma cell line isolated from peritoneal effusion in a 38 - year - old male caucasian patient .
human large cell lymphoma cel line derived from peritoneal effusion in a 59 - year - old male caucasian patient  ( atcc catalog number crl - 2961 )  .
human pancreatic ductal carcinoma derived from metastasis in liver .
human pancreatic tubular adenocarcinoma derived from metastasis in the liver of a 73 - year - old male japanese patient .
human diffuse large b cell lymphoma cell line derived from a 62 - year - old male patient .
a benign papillary neoplasm composed of transitional cells which show preservation of the nuclear polarity .
human glioblastoma cell line  ( sigma - aldrich catalog number 09063001 ) 
human diffuse large b cell lymphoma cell line established in 1996 from the ascites of a 29 - year - old woman with diffuse large b cell lymphoma ,  who 16 years earlier was diagnosed with advanced stage hodgkin lymphoma ,  and relapsed several times after multiple chemo -  and radiotharapy regimens to complete remissions ;  cells were described to overexpress bcl2 ,  bcl6 and p53 ;  assigned to abc - like lymphoma subtype  ( activated b - cell )   ( dsmz catalog number acc 633 ) 
an infiltrating adenocarcinoma in which the malignant cells form tubular structures .
quantification of the build - up of atheroscleortic plaque ,  expressed as the sum of plaque areas over the segments in common and internal carotid arteries and bifurcation
proportion of the total breast area that is dense
quantification of the area of the breast tissue that is dense ,  expressed in cm2
quantification of the area of the breast tissue that is non - dense ,  expressed in cm2
a type of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease characterized by chronic inflammation in the bronchial tree that results in edema ,  mucus production ,  obstruction ,  and reduced airflow to and from the lung alveoli .
quantification of the lipid content of the liver ,  through medical imaging or from histological samples
quantification of nicotine metabolisation via the glucuronidation pathway ,  usually via analysis of a urine sample
quantification of cotinine metabolisation via the glucuronidation pathway ,  usually via analysis of a urine sample
a highly contagious viral infection caused by the varicella zoster virus .
a common dermal and neurologic disorder caused by reactivation of the varicella - zoster virus that has remained dormant within dorsal root ganglia ,  often for decades ,  after the patient's initial exposure to the virus in the form of varicella  ( chickenpox )  .
disabling osteochondrodysplasia with osteosclerosis ,  cone - shaped metaphysis ,  and shortening of the diaphysis .
quantification of some heart - related structural phenotype via the medical imaging technique of angiography ,  for example to determine the number or type of coronary artery lesions in coronary artery disease
hemochromatosis type 1  ( classic )  is the most common form of hereditary hemochromatosis  ( hh )  ,  a group of diseases characterized by excessive tissue iron deposition .
alzheimer's disease biomarkers are used as indicators for alzheimer's disease screening and as predictors for therapeutic responses and prognoses in alzheimer patients
quantification of the amount of angiotension - converting enzyme in a sample ,  eg in cerebro - spinal fluid or blood
quantification of the volume of grey matter in the superior frontal gyrus ,  usuallly through an mri scan
quantification of interferon alpha in a sample
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
febrile seizures that occur in a risk window of 9 to 14 days following the date of mmr vaccination
quantification of the amount of carbon monoxide in a person's exhalation ,  usually measured using a breath co monitor .
quantification of the amount of calcium consumed from dietary and supplemental sources
quantification of the amount of asymmetrical dimethylarginine in blood .
quantification of the amount of asymmetrical dimethylarginine in blood .
quantification of the amount of l - arginine in a sample ,  eg in blood
the quantification of the number of cigarettes that a subject smoked on average per day
the quantification of the average number of packs smoked per day times the total number of years a subject smoked during his /  her lifetime
self - reported binary measure ,  used to denote whether an individual is currently or has ever been a smoker
human gastric adenocarcinoma cell line established from the primary tumor of a 72 - year - old man with gastric adenocarcinoma in 1987 confirmed as human with ief of ast ,  mdh
mouse embryonic stem cells derived from 129 / 01a male mouse .
mouse multiple myeloma cell line
human melanoma cell line designated 888 - mel has been developed from the resected tumor of a 26 - year old caucasian female  ( patient 888 )  diagnosed with metastatic melanoma  -  see more at: https: /  / ttc .nci .nih .gov / opportunities / opportunity .php?opp_id=34826089312#sthash .to7ucbyk .dpuf
human lymphoma cell line from a 68 year old female japanese patient with stomach cancer and lymphoma
human lymphoma cell line from a 52 year old female japanese patient with malignant melanoma
human plasmacytoma cell line from a 64 year old female patient  ( dsmz catalog number acc 583 ) 
human colorectal carcinoma cell line from an adult male patient  ( atcc crl - 2780 ) 
human carcinoma cell line established from the supraclavicular tumor cells - containing lymph node of a 71 - year - old man with poorly differentiated carcinoma of the lung  ( dsmz calatog number: acc 254 ) 
human cell carcinoma established from the sarcomatoid component of a grade iii transitional cell carcinoma of the renal pelvis of a 64 - year - old man in 1990 ;  patient lived in a blackfoot disease endemic area in taiwan  ( dsmz catalog number acc 367 ) 
human oral squamous cell carcinoma established from the tumor of a 52 - year - old japanese man with highly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma of the lower alveolus which was highly invasive to the mandibular bone and the muscle layer of the oral floor  ( dsmz catalog number acc 404 ) 
human recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of the buccal mucosa of a caucasian female  ( sigma catalog number 04072103 ) 
human cell line derived from a lymph node metastasis squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue of a caucasian male  ( sigma catalog number 04072106 ) 
human cell line derived from a lymph node metastasis squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue of a caucasian male  ( sigma catalog number 04072107 ) 
human cell line derived from a squamous cell carcinoma of the oral alveolus of a caucasian male  ( sigma catalog number 04072111 ) 
the most common morphologic subtype of urinary bladder carcinoma  ( over 90% of cases )  .
a who grade iv malignant astrocytic tumor that arises from the brain ,  usually the cerebral hemispheres .
human colorectal carcinoma cell line from a 72 year old male patient  ( atcc crl - 2102 ) 
human cell lung carcinoma line established from a male patient with a non - small cell lung carcinoma in 1981  ( dsmz catalog number acc 443 ) 
human rectal carcinoma cell line establish from a metastatic lymph node of a 70 - year - old male patient with primary rectal adenocarcinoma
human cervical epidermoid carcinoma cell line from a 40 year old female caucasian patient  ( atcc crl - 1550 ) 
human lymphoma cell line from a 11 .5 year old male caucasian patient  ( atcc ccl - 120 ) 
human ductal pancreatic adenocarcinoma derived by differential trypsinisation of explant cultures from a metastatic lesion in the liver of a 26 year old caucasian male with cystic fibrosis  ( sigma catalog number 91112501 ) 
human myeloma cell line derived from a peritoneal effusion of a patient with refractory myeloma
human myeloma cell line derived from cma03
human colon adenocarcinoma cell line established from the ascites fluid obtained from a 70 - year - old male patient with adenocarcinoma of the colon  ( sigma catalog number 93052620 ) 
human large cell lung cancer bone marrow aspirate derived cell line established from a female patient  ( sigma catalog number 96020740 ) 
human lung cancer cell line derived from the bone marrow aspirate of a 67 - year - old caucasian male suffering from small cell lung carcinoma  ( sigma catalog number 92031915 ) 
human ovarian epithelial - serous carcinoma cell line established from a metastasis of the sigmoid colon  ( sigma catalog number 07071905 ) 
human ovarian epithelial - serous carcinoma cell line established from an intraperitoneal metastasis of the bladder dome  ( sigma catalog number 07071906 ) 
human small lung carcinoma cell line established from the pleural effusion metastasis of a patient with small cell lung carcinoma in 1987  ( dsmz catalog number acc 306 ) 
human colon carcinoma cell line
human colon adenocarcinoma cell line established from the tumor tissue of a 44 - year - old woman with well - differentiated colon adenocarcinoma in 1984  ( dsmz catalog number acc 129 ) 
human pancreas carcinoma cell line established from a human individual with pancreas carcinoma in 1985  ( dsmz catalog number acc 249 ) 
human malignant melanoma cell line established from the heel lesion of a 59 - year - old japanese man
human dysplastic oral keratinocyte cell line isolated from a piece of dorsal tongue from a 57 year old caucasian man  ( sigma catalog number 94122104 ) 
human lung adenocarcinoma established from the pleural effusion of a stage iv lung adenocarcinoma
premalignant or precancerous  ( also referred to as potentially malignant )  oral lesions involve the skin lining of the mouth  ( known as the epithelium )  and may be at risk for becoming  ( transforming into )  an oral cancer ,  although it is difficult to predict which lesions will transform and how long it will take .
mouse embryonic stem cell ,  blastocyst derived  ( atcc crl - 1821 ) 
human breast carcinoma cell line established from the pleural effusion of the left side  ( 14 days after efm - 192a )  of a 46 - year - old caucasian woman with breast adenocarcinoma  ( dsmz catalog number acc 311 ) 
human breast carcinoma cell line established from the pleural effusion of the left side  ( 14 days after efm - 192a )  of a 46 - year - old caucasian woman with breast adenocarcinoma  ( dsmz catalog number acc 308 ) 
human breast carcinoma cell line human breast carcinoma cell line established from the pleural effusion of the left side from a 46 - year - old caucasian woman with metastasizing breast adenocarcinoma in 1985  ( dsmz catalog number acc 258 ) 
human ovarian adenocarcinoma cell line established from the solid omental metastasis of a mucinous papillary adenocarcinoma of the ovary of a 36 - year - old woman in 1979  ( dsmz catalog number acc 191 ) 
human multiple myeloma cell line established from the peritoneal fluid of a 58 - year - old woman with igg lambda myeloma in 1988 at her terminal refractory stage  ( dsmz catalog number acc 560 ) 
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line established from a surgical lung specimen of a 57 - year - old caucasian man who underwent surgery for undifferentiated squamous cell carcinoma of the lung  ( without having received prior radiation or chemotherapy )  in 1986  ( dsmz catalog number acc 383 ) 
human breast carcinoma cell line established from the malignant ascitic effusion from a woman with metastatic breast carcinoma ;  described as being estrogen receptor - negative and progesterone receptor - positive  ( dsmz catalog number acc 433 ) 
human colon adenocarcinoma cell line derived from a local recurrence of dukes grade b ,  poorly differentiated carcinoma of the colon from a 71 year old female at surgical resection  ( sigma catalog number 95090714 ) 
human colon adenocarcinoma cell line derived from a local recurrence of dukes grade b ,  poorly differentiated carcinoma of the colon from a 71 year old female at surgical resection  ( sigma catalog number 95090715 ) 
human melanoma obtained from the thorax of a 36 year old male with skin metastases having received no treatment at the time of the biopsy  ( sigma catalog number 95032301 ) 
human gastric carcinoma cell line with amplification of the met oncogene  ( motoyama et al . ,  1986 ) 
human erythroleukemia cell line derived from peripheral blood of a patient with hodgkin's disease who later developed erythroleukemia
human ovarian carcinoma cell line was derived from a human ovarian cancer xenograft  ( hx - 62 )  originally grown from a peritoneal deposit of a patient with moderately differentiated papillary cystadenocarcinoma of the ovary  ( catalog number akr - 205 ) 
human gastric carcinoma cell line established by culture of the metastatic lymph node from a gastric cancer patient diagnosed histologically as undifferentiated carcinoma
human melanoma cell line established from metastasised lymph node of a 62 year old japanese man
human acute myeloid leukemia cell line established in 1994 from the peripheral blood of a 47 - year - old woman with acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml fab m4 )  secondary to previous myelodysplastic syndromes  ( mds )  ,  specifically chronic myelomonocytic leukemia  ( cmml )   ( dsmz catalog number acc - 600 ) 
human colon adenocarcinoma cell line from a 46 year old caucasian woman  ( atcc crl - 7213 ) 
human melanoma cell line from a 56 year old caucasian male  ( atcc htb - 140 ) 
human ovarian teratoma cell line from a female  ( atcc crl - 7826 ) 
human colorectal cancer cell line from a caucasian male  ( atcc crl - 7400 ) 
human melanoma cell line from a 26 year old caucasian male  ( atcc htb - 137 ) 
human gastric carcinoma cell line from a 74 year old caucasian male  ( atcc htb - 135 ) 
human pancreatic carcinoma from a 46 year old caucasian male  ( atcc htb - 134 ) 
human melanoma cell line from a 42 year old caucasian female  ( atcc crl - 7572 ) 
human melanoma cell line from a 53 year old asian male  ( atcc crl - 7585 ) 
human melanoma cell line from a 48 year old caucasian female  ( atcc crl - 7637 ) 
human melanoma cell line from a male  ( atcc crl - 7686 ) 
human melanoma cell line from a 57 year old caucasian male  ( atcc crl - 7691 ) 
human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell line derived from an ascites sample taken from a 66 year old japanese male with a poorly differentiated pancreatic adenocarcinoma  ( sigma catlaog number 93121055 ) 
human melanoma established from the lymph node metastasis  ( groin )  of a 26 - year - old man with malignant melanoma  ( primary tumor histology: ssm level iv )   ( dsmz catalog number acc 237 ) 
human stomach adenocarcinoma cell line from a 63 year old japanese male with moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of stomach
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line from a 50 year old japanese male with complication of hepatic cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line from a 57 year old japanese male with hepatocellular carcinoma
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line from a 51 year old japanese male with hepatocellular carcinoma
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line from a 50 year old male with small liver cancer observed in the chronic hepatitis
human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line from a 53 year old male with hbs - ag positive hepato cellular carcinoma  ( ed .iii )  with liver cirrhosis
human chondrosarcoma cell line
human leukemia cell line established from the bone marrow of a 57 - year - old woman with plasma cell leukemia  ( iga1kappa )  at diagnosis in 1987  ( dsmz catalog number acc 541 ) 
human b - cell lymphoma cell line established from a pleural effusion of a 23 year old women with mediastinal lymphoblastic b - cell non - hodgkins lymphoma  ( sigma catalog number 06072607 ) 
human acute myeloid leukemia cell line established from the peripheral blood of a 7 - year - old japanese boy with acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml fab m2 )   ( in 2nd relapse after bone marrow transplantation )  in 1989  ( dsmz catalog number aac 2200
human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell line from the moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the head of the pancreas from a 74 - year - old african - american man in 1996  ( dsmz catalog number acc 498 ) 
human multiple myeloma cell line established from a pleural effusion of a 53 year old man with iga lambda multiple myeloma with hyperamylasemia
human pancreatic carcinoma cell line
human multiple myeloma cell line from a 62 year old japanese male
human multiple myeloma cell line established from the bone marrow of a 64 - year - old woman with multiple myeloma in 1988  ( dsmz catalog number acc 551 ) 
human multiple myeloma cell line established from the bone marrow of a 64 - year - old woman with multiple myeloma in 1988
human multiple myeloma cell line from a 62 year old japanese male
human multiple myeloma cell line from a 50 year old japanese male
human multiple myeloma cell line from a 52 year old japanese male
human multiple myeloma cell line from a 77 year old female
human multiple myeloma cell line from a 77 year old japanese female
human multiple myeloma cell line from a 60 year old japanese female
human non - small cell lung carcinoma line established from a 49 year old male patient with a non - small cell lung carcinoma
human pancreatic carcinoma cell line established from a 50 year old japanese male with pancreatic ductal cell carcinoma
human pancreatic adenosquamous carcinoma cell line from a 75 year old japanese male
human pancreatic ductal carcinoma cell line from a 50 year old japanese male
human breast ductal adenocarcinoma cell line from a 52 year old japanese female
human ovarian carcinoma from a japanese female with ovarian cancer ,  undifferentiated carcinoma
human esophageal squamous carcinoma cell line derived from the moderately differentiated invasive esophageal squamous cell carcinoma resected from middle intra - thoracic esophagus of a 54 - year - old japanese man prior to treatment  ( dsmz catalog number acc 348 ) 
human esophageal squamous carcinoma cell line established from the poorly differentiated esophageal squamous cell carcinoma resected from upper  ( cervical )  esophagus of a 49 - year - old japanese woman after receiving radiotherapy  ( dsmz catalog number acc 375 ) 
human esophageal squamous carcinoma cell line established from the well differentiated esophageal squamous cell carcinoma resected from middle intra - thoracic esophagus of a 53 - year - old japanese man prior to treatment  ( dsmz catalog number acc 379 ) 
human esophageal squamous carcinoma cell line derived from well differentiated invasive esophageal squamous cell carcinoma resected from middle intra - thoracic esophagus of a 79 - year - old japanese man prior to treatment  ( dsmz catalog number acc 380 ) 
human esophageal squamous carcinoma cell line established from the well differentiated invasive eosphageal squamous cell carcinoma resected from middle intra - thoracic esophagus of a 59 - year - old japanese man prior to treatment  ( dsmz catalog number acc 387 ) 
human esophageal squamous carcinoma cell line established from the well - differentiated eosphageal squamous cell carcinoma with moderate invasion of the adventitia resected from cervical esophagus of a 67 - year - old japanese woman after cisplatin and radiotherapy  ( dsmz catalog number acc 374 ) 
human esophageal squamous carcinoma cell line established from the moderately differentiated invasive eosphageal squamous cell carcinoma resected from lower intra - thoracic esophagus of a 58 - year - old japanese woman prior to treatment  ( dsmz catalog number acc 371 ) 
human esophageal squamous carcinoma cell line established from the poorly differentiated invasive esophageal squamous cell carcinoma resected from middle intra - thoracic esophagus of a 77 - year - old japanese man prior to treatment  ( dsmz catalog number acc 363 ) 
human large cell lung carcinoma cell line established from the pleural effusion of a 61 - year - old caucasian man with large cell lung carcinoma with giant cells who had received chemo -  and radiotherapy  ( dsmz catalog number acc 384 ) 
human large cell lung carcinoma cell line that represents the xenotransplant of a primary tumor which was obtained from a 44 - year - old caucasian man with large cell lung carcinoma who did not have any prior therapy  ( dsmz catalog number acc 388 ) 
human brain glioblastoma cell line from a 65 year old male of white ethnicity  ( atcc crl - 2610 ) 
human brain glioblastoma cell line from a 60 year old female of white ethnicity  ( atcc crl - 2611 ) 
human lung squamous carcinoma cell line established from the lower right lung lobe removed two months after diagnosis of highly differentiated squamous cell lung carcinoma with metastasis to one lymph node  ( no visceral involvement )  in a 64 - year - old woman  ( dsmz catalog number acc 393 ) 
human colorectal adenocarcinoma cell line established from the metastatic nodule resected from a 56 - year - old caucasian man with colon adenocarcinoma in 1972  ( dsmz catalog number acc 350 ) 
human colorectal adenocarcinoma cell line from a 58 year old caucasian female  ( atcc cl - 187 ) 
human lung adenocarcinoma established from the lung adenocarcinoma of a 63 year old male  ( dsmz catalog number acc 265 ) 
human non - small cell lung carcinoma cell line
clonal breast cancer cell line derived from a xenograft originating from premalignant mcf10at cells
human colon carcinoma cell line establlished from human colorectal tumor explants  ( sigma catalog number 99011801 ) 
human acute myeloid leukemia cell line established from the peripheral blood of a 40 - year - old japanese man with acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml )  fab m4eo at second relapse in 1988  ( dsmz catalog number acc 357 ) 
human epidermoid carcinoma cell line from a 66 year old caucasian female  ( atcc htb - 33 ) 
human skin melanoma cell line established from the primary tumor of a woman with melanoma in 1976  ( dsmz catalog number acc 62 ) 
human skin melanoma cell line from a 78 year old caucasian male
human mammary carcinoma cell line obtained from the pleural effusion of a postmenopausal breast cancer patient  ( sigma catalog number 98050130 ) 
human ewings' sarcoma cell line established from the ascites of a 12 - year - old turkish boy with ewing's sarcoma of the left pelvis  ( with peritoneal metastasis )   ( dsmz catalog number acc 167 ) 
human brain neuroblastoma cell line established from a neuroblastoma metastasis at an adrenal site of a 4 - year - old white boy in 1986  ( dsmz catalog number acc 157 ) 
human acute myeloid leukemia cell line established in 1999 from the peripheral blood of a 77 - year - old japanese woman at relapse of acute myeloid leukemia  ( dsmz catalog number acc 555 ) 
human multiple myeloma cell line established from the peripheral blood of a 55 - year - old man with igd lambda type multiple myeloma in 1991  ( dsmz catalog number acc 607 ) 
human multiple myeloma cell line established from the peripheral blood of a 52 - year - old japanese man with multiple myeloma  ( stage iiia ,  type igd lambda )  in 2002  ( dsmz catalog number acc 569 ) 
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line  ( sigma catalog number 84112312 ) 
mouse cell line produced from pancreatic islets isolated from juvenile but not aging adult mice ,  when infected with a retrovirus carrying polyomavirus middle t oncogene
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line from a 56 year old african male
human non - small cell lung carcinoma cell line from a 35 year old female  ( atcc crl - 5870 ) 
human small cell lung carcinoma cell line established from a 59 year old caucasian male  ( atcc htb - 173 ) 
human non - small cell lung carcinoma cell line from a 48 year old caucasian female  ( atcc crl - 5876 ) 
human non - small cell lung carcinoma cell line from a 55 year old caucasian female  ( atcc crl - 5887 ) 
human non - small cell lung carcinoma cell line from a 56 year old female  ( atcc crl - 5891 ) 
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line from a 66 year old caucasian female  ( atcc crl - 5894 ) 
human non - small cell lung carcinoma cell line from a 58 year old caucasian male atcc crl - 5900 ) 
human small cell lung carcinoma cell line from a 59 year old caucasian male  ( atcc crl - 5903 ) 
human non - small cell lung carcinoma cell line from a 61 year old caucasian female  ( atcc crl - 5904 ) 
human non - small cell lung carcinoma cell line from a 62 year old caucasian female  ( atcc crl - 5907 ) 
human small cell lung carcinoma cell line from a 68 year old caucasian male  ( atcc crl - 5823 ) 
human non - small cell lung carcinoma cell line from a 26 year old caucasian male  ( atcc crl - 5912 ) 
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line from a 47 year old caucasian female  ( atcc crl - 5918 ) 
human small cell lung carcinoma cell line from a caucasian male  ( atcc htb - 172 ) 
human non - small cell lung carcinoma cell line from a 58 year old caucasian male  ( atcc crl - 5923 ) 
human non - small cell lung carcinoma cell line  ( atcc crl - 5924 ) 
human non - small cell lung carcinoma cell line  ( atcc crl - 5926 ) 
human non - small cell lung carcinoma cell line established from a female  ( atcc crl - 5930 ) 
human small cell lung carcinoma cell line from a 67 year old caucasian male  ( atcc crl - 5932 ) 
human small cell lung carcinoma cell line from a 67 year old caucasian male  ( atcc crl - 5933 ) 
human lung mesothelioma cell line
human lung mesothelioma cell line
human lung mesothelioma cell line  ( atcc crl - 5946 ) 
human lung mesothelioma cell line
human lung mesothelioma cell line
human lung mesothelioma cell line
human lung mesothelioma cell line
human lung mesothelioma cell line
human lung mesothelioma cell line from a 48 year old caucasian male  ( atcc crl - 5820 ) 
human lung mesothelioma cell line
human lung mesothelioma cell line
human lung mesothelioma cell line
human pulmonary mucoepidermoid carcinoma cell line derived from a cervical node metastasis of a pulmonary mucoepidermoid carcinoma from a 32 year old female  ( sigma catalog number 91091815 ) 
human non - small cell lung carcinoma cell line
human small cell lung carcinoma cell line from a 64 year old caucasian male  ( atcc htb - 180 ) 
human small cell lung carcinoma cell line from a 56 year old caucasian male  ( atcc htb - 184 ) 
human adenosquamous lung carcinoma cell line from a 73 year old caucasian male  ( atcc htb - 178 ) 
human non - small cell lung carcinoma cell line from the lung of a 65 year old caucasian female with a non - small cell lung carcinoma ,  prior to treatment  ( sigma catalog number 94060303 ) 
human small cell lung carcinoma cell line from a 63 year old caucasian male  ( atcc crl - 5846 ) 
human small cell lung carcinoma cell line from a 69 year old caucasian female  ( atcc crl - 5817 ) 
human non - small cell lung carcinoma cell line from a 43 year old caucasian male  ( atcc crl - 5850 ) 
human normal ovarian fibroblast cell line
human b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma cell line established in 1982 from the cerebrospinal fluid of a 43 - year - old caucasian man with b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma  ( dsmz catalog number acc 579 ) 
human stomach adenocarcinoma cell line from a 56 year old female
human stomach adenocarcinoma cell line from a 72 year old male
human stomach adenocarcinoma cell line from a 35 year old female
human ovarian serous cystadenocarcinoma cell line from an ascites of patient with ovarian cystadenocarcinoma  ( sigma catalog number 85101601 ) 
human ovarian serous cystadenocarcinoma cell line from an ascites of patient with ovarian cystadenocarcinoma  ( sigma catalog number 85073102 ) 
human acute myeloid leukemia cell line established from the peripheral blood of a 65 - year - old man with acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml fab m4 )  in 1986  ( dsmz catalog number acc 99 ) 
human acute myeloid leukemia cell line established from the peripheral blood of a 77 - year - old man with acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml m4 )  in relapse in 1990  ( dsmz catalog number acc 247 ) 
human b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma cell line established from the bone marrow of a 44 - year - old man with b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma  ( b - nhl ;  diffuse large cell )  ,  stage 4b at relapse in 1983  ( dsmz catalog number acc 722 ) 
human b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma cell line established from the bone marrow of a 27 - year - old woman with b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma  ( b - nhl )  in 1987  ( dsmz catalog number acc 528 ) 
human b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma cell line established in 1983 from the bone marrow sample of a 52 - year - old man with b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma  ( dsmz catalog number acc 761 ) 
human b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma cell line established from the peripheral blood sample of a 48 - year - old man with b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma in 1984  ( dsmz catalog number acc 688 ) 
human acute myeloid leukemia cell line established from erythroleukemia blasts  ( aml m6 )  of a 62 - year - old patient following a 7 - year chlorambucil treatment for chronic lymphocytic leukemia  ( dsmz catalog number acc 529 ) 
human acute myeloid leukemia cell line established in 1984 from the leukemic cells of a 56 - year - old patient with erythroleukemia  ( dsmz catalog number acc 619 ) 
human stomach adenocarcinoma cell line from a 38 year old japanese adult
human stomach adenocarcinoma cell line
human multiple myeloma cell line established from the peripheral blood of a 56 - year - old woman with multiple myeloma  ( igg lambda )  in leukemic phase  ( relapse ,  terminal )  in 1982  ( dsmz catalog number acc 50 ) 
human colon adenocarcinoma cell line established from a male
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the ovary .
an adenocarcinoma of the cervix or the vagina arising from mesonephric remnants .
human ovarian carcinoma cell line established from a female
human ovarian adenocarcinoma cell line established from a female
human ovarian carcinoma cell line established from a female
human ovarian carcinoma cell line
human ovarian carcinoma cell line from a 40 year old japanese female
human ovarian adenocarcinoma cell line from a 40 year old japanese female
human ovarian adenocarcinoma cell line from a 51 year old japanese female
human ovarian adenocarcinoma cell line from a 56 year old japanese female
human ovarian adenocarcinoma cell line from a 78 year old japanese female
human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell line
human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell line from a 64 year old female
human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell line established in 1985 from the liver metastasis of a primary pancreatic adenocarcinoma from a 64 - year - old woman  ( dsmz catalog number acc 162 ) 
a carcinoma that arises from the pancreas showing both ductal and squamous differentiation .
human oral squamous carcinoma cell line established from tongue tissue of a 45 year old male patient with oral squamous cell carcinoma  ( sigma catalog number 96121230 ) 
human pancreatic carcinoma cell line
human pancreatic carcinoma cell line
human pancreatic carcinoma cell line
human pancreatic carcinoma cell line
plasmacytoma is a localized mass of neoplastic monoclonal plasma cells that represents approximately 5% of all plasma cell neoplasms .
human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell line  ( sigma catalog number 94060601 ) 
a lung carcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant non - keratinizing squamoid cells ,  mucin - producing cells and intermediate type cells .
human pancreatic carcinoma cell line of islet cell origin
human b - cell lymphoma cell line established from the peritoneal effusion of a patient with lymphoma ,  described at the time as true histiocytic lymphoma ,  in 1984  ( dsmz catalog number acc 561 ) 
human stomach carcinoma cell line from a 41 year old japanese male
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line
human ovarian leiomyosarcoma from a 45 year old japanese female
human ovarian mesonephroid adenocarcinoma cell line from a 34 year old japanese female
human ovarian adenocarcinoma cell line from a 62 year old japanese female
spontaneously immortalised human epidermal keratinocytes
human small cell lung carcinoma cell line established from the pleural effusion of a 46 - year - old caucasian man with small cell lung carcinoma  ( dsmz catalog number acc 372 ) 
human small cell lung carcinoma cell line established from the pericardial effusion of a 46 - year - old caucasian man with small cell lung carcinoma  ( dsmz catalog number acc 373 ) 
human acute myeloid leukemia cell line established in 1995 from the bone marrow of a 63 - year - old man with acute myeloid leukemia of monocytic origin  ( dsmz acc 468 ) 
human colorectal adenocarcinoma from a 65 year old caucasian male  ( atcc htb - 39 ) 
human myelodysplasic cell line established from the peripheral blood of a 76 - year - old japanese man with acute monoblastic leukemia  ( aml m5 )  in 1989 following myelodysplastic syndromes  ( dsmz catalog number acc 547 ) 
human stomach carcinoma cell line from a 46 year old female
human stomach carcinoma cell line from a 53 year old male
human stomach carcinoma cell line from a 34 year old male
human stomach carcinoma cell line from a 59 year old female
human stomach carcinoma cell line from a 48 year old male
human stomach carcinoma cell line from a 68 year old male
human stomach carcinoma cell line from a 53 year old male
human colon adenocarcinoma cell line from a 71 year old asian male  ( atcc crl - 5972 ) 
human breast carcinoma cell line established from a female
human acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line from a 8 year old caucasian boy  ( atcc crl - 1929 ) 
human pancreatic carcinoma cell line from a 68 year old japanese female
human carcinoma cell line from kidney of a 46 year old male
human ovarian carcinoma cell line
human undifferentiated carcinoma cell line
human b - cell lymphoma cell line established from the involved tonsil of a 7 - year - old boy with lymphoblastic lymphoma at diagnosis prior to therapy in 1972  ( dsmz catalog number acc 4 ) 
human skin melanoma cell line
human bladder transitional carcinoma cell line derived from a bladder cancer metastasis of a black male  ( sigma catalog number 06080301 ) 
human bladder transitional carcinoma cell line from the urinary bladder of a male  ( atcc crl - 1749 ) 
a usually aggressive malignant epithelial neoplasm composed of atypical cells which do not display evidence of glandular ,  squamous ,  or transitional cell differentiation .
human lung adenocarcinoma cell line from a male
human skin melanoma cell line from a 58 year old female  ( atcc crl - 1676 ) 
human b - cell lymphoma cell line derived from the pleural effusion of a 41 - year - old caucasian man with b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma  ( dsmz catalog number acc 575 ) 
human b - cell lymphoma cell line established from the peripheral blood of a 37 - year - old white man with low - grade follicular small cleaved cell lymphoma  ( dsmz catalog number acc 612 ) 
human b - cell lymphoma cell line established from the pleural effusion of a 46 - year - old woman with nodular histiocytic lymphoma  ( refractory ,  progressive )  in 1986  ( dsmz acc 58 ) 
human pancreatic carcinoma cell line from a 43 year old japanese male
human breast carcinoma cell line from a 55 year old female
human breast carcinoma cell line from a 55 year old female
the quantification of some coffee consumption or coffee consumption - related behaviour ,  usually self - reported via a questionnaire
the quantification of the number of cups of coffee that a subject consumes on average per day
the quantification of psychosocial stress factors such as financial strain ,  marital problems ,  work - related difficulties or health problems ,  usually assessed through self - reporting via standardised questionnaires .
the distance from the sole to the crown of the head of a newborn right after birth
the distance from the sole to the crown of the head of an infant ,  which can be used as a proxy for skeletal growth in early life
human colon adenocarcinoma cell line
a category of psychiatric disorders which are characterized by anxious feelings or fear often accompanied by physical symptoms associated with anxiety .
a bacterial infectious disorder contracted by consumption of food or drink contaminated with salmonella typhi .
hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis  ( hchwa )  describes a group of rare familial central nervous system disorders characterized by amyloid deposition in the cerebral blood vessels leading to hemorrhagic and non - hemorrhagic strokes ,  focal neurological deficits ,  and progressive cognitive decline eventually leading to dementia .
damage to the blood vessels of the brain
a progressive form of dementia characterized by the presence of protein deposits called lewy bodies in the midbrain and cerebral cortex ,  and loss of cholinergic and dopaminergic neurons .
quantification of the volume of the left inferior lateral ventricle ,  usuallly through an mri scan
a cerebrospinal fluid biomarker measurement is a quantification in cerebrospinal fluid of some molecule e .g .
quantification in blood of the transmembrane receptor tyrosine kinase vegfr2 ,  expressed by endothelial cells .
the determination of the amount of very long - chain saturated fatty acids present in a sample .
quantification of the presence and amount of neurofibrillary tangles ,  pathological protein aggregates formed by hyperphosphorylation of a microtubule - associated protein known as tau
quantification of  neuritic  ( senile )  plaques in the brain ,  senile plaques  ( also known as neuritic plaques ,  senile druse and braindruse )  are extracellular deposits of amyloid beta in the grey matter of the brain .
quantification of the amount and location of lewy bodies in patients with symptoms of lewy body dementia
quantification of the location and the amount of injuries to the blood vessels of the brain
degenerative change that occurs in individuals with alzheimer's disease ,  such as amyloid plaques ,  cerebral amyloid angiopathy ,  neurofibrillary tangles ,  neuronal loss or synaptic loss
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
vasculitis represents a clinically heterogenous group of diseases of multifactorial etiology characterized by inflammation of either large - sized vessels  ( large - vessel vasculitis ,  e .g .
an immune response to foreign  ( donor )  antigens .
word list delayed recall is a verabl declarative memory test using visually or verbally presented word lists ,  with or without semantic relatedness between words ,  with articipants being asked to remember as many words as possible after a specified delay interval ,  the test is used to quanitfy memory performance .
paragraph delayed recall is a verabl declarative memory test using one or two verbally presented stories ,  with articipants being asked to remember as many paragraph elements as possible after a specified delay interval ,  the test is used to quanitfy memory performance .
the determination of the amount of linoleic acid present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of arachidonic acid present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of docosapentaenoic acid present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of oleic acid present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of linolenic acid present in a sample .
inflammatory disease of the thyroid gland due to autoimmune responses leading to lymphocytic infiltration of the gland .
atrophic thyroiditis is an organ - specific autoimmune disease characterized by thyroid autoantibodies ,  functional hypothyroidism ,  and absence of goiter .
simple ,  dry ,  indehiscent fruit with a single seed that is fused to the ovary wall ,  example: wheat .
a tiller is a stem produced by grass plants ,  and refers to all shoots that grow after the initial parent shoot grows from a seed .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
yang deficiency is a concept from traditional chinese medicine .
abnormal narrowing in a blood vessel or other tubular organ or structure
progression of a disease with symptoms at the milder end of the spectrum for that condition
progression of a disease with severe or complex symptoms within the spectrum of that condition
the determination of the amount of trans fatty acids ,  a kind of unsaturated fatty acids ,  present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of trans fatty acids with 16 carbons and 1 double bond at the seventh n - terminal carbon present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of trans fatty acids with 18 carbons and 1 double bond present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of trans fatty acids with 18 carbons and 2 double bonds ,  with the first one in cis configuration and the 2nd one in trans configuration ,  present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of fatty acids with 18 carbons and 2 double bonds ,  with the first one in trans configuration and the 2nd one in cis configuration ,  present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of trans fatty acids with 18 carbons and 2 double bonds ,  both of which are in trans configuration ,  present in a sample .
quantification of some part of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system  ( raas )  ,  a central pathway in cardiovascular and renal physiology ,  critical for regulation of blood pressure and fluid balance and influencing cardiovascular remodeling
quantification of the activity of the enzyme renin in the blood .
a quantification of the variation in an individual's glomerular filtration rate  ( gfr )  over a period of time used in assessment of kidney function and diagnosis of kidney disease .
quantification of the rate at which insulin is cleared from some part of the metabolism ,  eg from the blood
quantification of insulin release in response to a controlled glucose intake ,  generally  calculated as the increase in insulin concentrations at 28 min above the basal  ( fasting )  insulin level after the bolus glucose injection at 01 min
quantification of the disposition index ,  the product of measures of insulin sensitivity and firstphase insulin secretion ,  shown to predict conversion to diabetes
quantification of glucose effectiveness ,  the capacity of glucose to enhance its own cellular uptake and to suppress endogenous glucose production
shock caused by infection ;  frequently caused by gram negative bacteria ,  although some cases have been caused by other bacteria ,  viruses ,  fungi ,  and protozoa ;  characterized by fever ,  chills ,  tachycardia ,  tachypnea ,  and hypotension .
an idiopathic ,  rapidly evolving ,  and severely debilitating disease occurring most commonly in association with chronic ulcerative colitis .
decline in kidney function defined as a decline in glomerular filtration rate in one year of   >  3 ml / min per 1 .73m2
the quantitation of a biomarker used in the measurement of lung fuction used in diagnosis or management of a clinical condition .
a quantification of some biomarker used in the diagnosis or management of infectious disease .
the quantification of biomarkers used in the diagnosis or management of liver disease
is a quantification of some substance or anatomical feature used as an indicator of biological state
is the quantification of some marker used in the diagnosis or clinical management of some mental or behavioural disorder .
refers to abnormal cell activity manifested by decreased control over growth and function ,  causing tumor growth or spread into surrounding tissue and adverse effects to the host
a term referring the clinical or pathological observation of a tumor extension from its original site of growth to another anatomic site .
rare cause of hypoglycemia and is described as a condition in which symptomatic hypoglycemia is provoked by high protein feedings .
a sequestration of plasmodium falciparum in the brain ,  which can cause coma and / or seizures .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that arises from and is composed of epithelial cells .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the head and neck .
a malignant neoplasm involving the male breast .
a disease of the inner ear  ( labyrinth )  that is characterized by fluctuating sensorineural hearing loss ;  tinnitus ;  episodic vertigo ;  and aural fullness .
the muscle lateral to the semispinalis .
breastfeeding duration is a measurement of the mean number of months each mother breastfed each child ,  averaged across all live births and standardized to a z - score
urgency urinary incontinence is a form of urinary incontinence whereby the involuntary leakage of urine is immediately preceeded by an acute and compelling urge to urinate
quantification of the change in the heat and electricity passed through the skin by nerves and sweat .
the skin conductance level is a baseline measure that changes slowly with altered arousal state .
quantification of the difference in microsiemens between peak and baseline of the change in skin conductance that occurs in response to a discrete stimulus
quantification of the number of valid skin conductance change responses ,  used to gauge an individual's resistance to habituation
quantification of the wave - like oscillations in the alpha band  ( 8 - 13 hz )  of electric potential between parts of the brain
quantification of the wave - like oscillations in the beta band  ( 13 - 30 hz )  of electric potential between parts of the brain
quantification of the wave - like oscillations in the delta band  ( 0 .1 - 4 hz )  of electric potential between parts of the brain
quantification of the wave - like oscillations in the theta band  ( 4 - 8 hz )  of electric potential between parts of the brain
quantification of the error rate reflecting the proportion of trials in an antisaccade task that resulted in a prosaccade response .
quantification of an individual's eye blink response to a startling acoustic stimulus ,  measured via electrodes placed on the orbicularis oculi muscle
quantification of the seasonal changes in mood and behaviour ,  usually evaluated through a questionnaire such as the "seasonal pattern assessment questionnaire"  ( spaq )  .
quantification of some aspect of suicide behaviour ,  eg suicide behaviour severity ,  assessed via a self - reported questionnaire or semi - structured interview
quantification of the dominant frequency of the alpha band
a clinical term that indicates the presence of a white patch on the mucous membrane in the mouth which cannot be characterized as any other disease .
a clinical term that indicates the presence of a white patch on the surface of the tongue which cannot be characterized as any other disease .
an abnormality of the pancreatic and biliary ducts in which their junction occurs above the duodenal wall .
imaging results obtained through a radiology procedure .
a congenital abnormality of the arteries and veins ,  lymph vessels or veins and lymph vessels .
a monoclonal expansion of b - lymphocytes with or without the characteristic immunophenotype of chronic lymphocytic leukemia .
the formation of excess fibrous connective tissue in an organ or tissue in a reparative or reactive process .
a non - neoplastic disorder characterized by epithelial and / or myoepithelial tissue growth in the breast lobules .
a skin disease marked by scaly or thickened patches on the skin ,  and often caused by prolonged exposure to arsenic .
a lesion in the prostate gland characterized by glandular atrophy ,  chronic inflammation ,  and epithelial hyperplasia .
quantification of some aspect of glucose homeostasis
quantification of airway responsiveness ,  calculated as the concentration of methacholine at which a greater than 20% decresase in fev1 is achieved during a bronchial challenge test
quantification of the thickness of the walls of different parts of the respiratory tract ,  calculated from cross - sectional ct images .
quantification of pcsk9 protein in the blood
quantification of some circulating endothelial growth factor in blood
quantification of circulating angiotensin - 2 in blood
quantification of circulating angiopoietin - 2 receptor in blood
quantification of circulating hepatocyte growth factor in blood
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of the change in viral disease status in response to treatment
quantification of the cytoarchitecture ,  ie the cellular composition ,  of the prefrontal cortex of the brain
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any birth that occurs spontaneously prior to 37 weeks of gestation ,  eg due to fetal membrane rupture or spontaneous onset of uterine contractions
a fertility quality of inhering in a female by virtue of the bearer's disposition to initiate ,  sustain ,  or support reproduction .
quantification of some cardiovascular event such as nonfatal myocardial infarction or atherothrombotic stroke
quantification of b - type natriuretic peptide in a sample ,  eg in blood
quantification of some aspect of birth ,  eg whether it preterm or full term
quantification of some aspect of delivery ,  eg whether it occured preterm or at full term
quantification of some aspect of fertility ,  eg number of children or number of births
quantification of some aspect of air pollution in the home ,  eg from coal burning for cooking and heating ,  used as an environmental risk factor for lung cancer
quantification of some lipoprotein a in a sample
acquired aplastic anemia is a rare ,  serious blood disorder ,  due to failure of the bone marrow to produce blood cells .
severe aplastic anemia  ( saa )  is a disease in which the bone marrow does not make enough blood cells for the body .
sympton caused by motion ,  as sea sickness ,  train sickness ,  car sickness ,  air sickness ,  or space motion sickness .
the igg index  ( or csf index )  is the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  igg to csf albumin ration compared to the serum igg to serum albumin ratio .
quantification of the volume of the brain or of a part of the brain
quantification of the volume of the nucleus accumbens ,  a region of the basal forebrain rostral to the preoptic area of the hypothalamus and which together with the olfactory tubercle forms the ventral striatum
quantification of the volume of the putamen ,  a round structure located at the base of the forebrain
quantification of the volume of the pallidum or globus pallidus ,  a sub - cortical structure of the brain that is part of the telencephalon
quantification of the volume of the amygdala ,  an almond - shaped group of nuclei located deep and medially within each temporal lobe of the brain
quantification of the volume of the thalamus ,  a midline symmetrical structure of two halves ,  within the vertebrate brain ,  situated between the cerebral cortex and the midbrain
optic nerve head measurement
is a quantification of the area of the optic disc
is a quantification of the rim of the optic disc
is a quantification of the ratio between optic cup and optic disc ,  used in the diagnosis of glaucoma
is a quantification of the area of the optic cup
quantification of the force applied by the hand to pull on or suspend from objects
quantification of some aspect of facial pigmentation ,  such as the number ,  size or location of pigmentation spots
quantification of any change in an indiviual's blood pressure ,  for example in response to treatment with a antihypertensive agent
quantification of any change in an indiviual's systolic blood pressure
quantification of any change in an indiviual's diastolic blood pressure
quantification of some aspect of behavioural disinhibition ,  including risky and impulsive behaviours .
quantification of an individual's appreciation of red wine
quantification of an individual's appreciation of white wine
quantification of an individual's appreciation of wine
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
damage to the ear ,  specifically the cochlea or auditory nerve as a result of some toxic stimulus ,  eg from a drug .
quantification of some aspect of cytotoxity such as survival time or cell viability
a reported family history of lung cancer in one or more family members .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of the activity of the von willebrand factor - cleaving protease adamts13
quantification of the difference in intraocular pressure between two time points
quantification of the unknown substance x12063 in blood
quantification of mannose in a sample
quantification of the amount of dna methylation in a target gene
martuba is an arabidopsis ecotype .
an arabidopsis ecotype .
an arabidopsis ecotype .
an arabidopsis ecotype .
an arabidopsis ecotype .
an arabidopsis ecotype
an arabidopsis ecotype .
an arabidopsis ecotype .
an arabidopsis ecotype .
an arabidopsis ecotype .
an arabidopsis ecotype .
an arabidopsis ecotype .
an arabidopsis ecotype .
an arabidopsis ecotype .
an arabidopsis ecotype .
an arabidopsis ecotype .
an arabidopsis ecotype .
an arabidopsis ecotype .
an arabidopsis ecotype .
an arabidopsis ecotype .
an arabidopsis ecotype .
an arabidopsis ecotype .
an arabidopsis ecotype .
an arabidopsis ecotype .
an arabidopis ecotype .
an arabidopsis ecotype directly descended from col - 1 .
an arabidopsis ecotype
an arabidopsis ecotype .
measurable biological  ( physiological ,  biochemical ,  and anatomical features )  ,  behavioral  ( psychometric pattern )  or cognitive markers that are found more often in individuals with a disease than in the general population .
short or long term physiological response of an organism ,  eg in terms of deposits of dust particles in lung tissues ,  to exposure to biological dust ,  usually of occupational or environment origin
short or long term physiological response of an organism ,  eg in terms of deposits of dust particles in lung tissues ,  to exposure to mineral dust ,  usually of occupational or environment origin
short or long term physiological response of an organism ,  eg in terms of deposits of particles in lung tissues ,  to exposure to gases and fumes ,  usually of occupational or environment origin
short or long term physiological response of an organism ,  eg in terms of deposits of particles in lung tissues ,  to exposure to diisocyanate ,  usually of occupational or environment origin
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of the agressiveness of a  ( usually malignant )  cancer
quantification of the cytoarchitecture of a prostate cancer sample ,  used in the evaluation of cancer prognosis .
quantification of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate  ( dhea - s )  in a sample .
quantification of luteinizing hormone  ( lh )  in a sample .
quantification of prolactin in a sample
quantification of progesterone in a sample
quantification of abnormal androgen status in humans ,  calculated as the ratio of the total level of testosterone divided by the shbg level ,  multiplied by a constant  ( usually 100 ) 
quantification of the existence and severity of depressive symptoms ,  usually via a questionnaire such as the center for epidemiological studies depression scale  ( ces - d ) 
quantification of the amount of ticagrelor in a sample .
quantification of some aspect of an allergy ,  for example whether an allergy is present or its severity .
quantification of some aspect of skin pigmentation ,  such as saturation ,  darkness or skin sensitivity to sun
quantification of some aspect of drug use ,  such as whether drug use occured ,  over what period of time it occured and what dosage was used
quantification of some aspect of ssri use
quantification of some aspect of nsaid use
quantification of some aspect of aspirin use
quantification in a urine sample of 3 - hydroxypropylmercapturic acid ,  one of the main metabolites of acrolein ,  an important constituent of cigarette smoke with well documented toxic effects
quantification in a urine sample of 3 - hydroxy - 1 - methylpropylmercapturic acid ,  one of the main metabolites of crotonaldehyde ,  an important constituent of cigarette smoke with well documented toxic effects
quantification of the presence or severity of an allergy to some food
quantification of the presence or severity of an allergy to peanuts
quantification of the presence or severity of an allergy to eggs
quantification of the presence or severity of an allergy to milk or other dairy products
quantification of the amount of ar - c124910xx in a sample .
quantification of the amount and location of lewy bodies in a brain biopsy sample
b73 is a maize inbred line .
williams 82 is the soybean cultivar used to produce the reference genome sequence .
a medium to grow and maintain yeast  -  typically ,  a yeast culture medium includes peptone ,  yeast extract ,  and dextrose or glucose .
a complex media used for routine yeast growth .
a complex media containing a non - fermentable carbon source  ( glycerol )  ,  that requires respiration competence for yeast growth .
a synthetic minimal media used for yeast growth ;  it contains a nitrogen source  ( bacto - yeast nitrogen base with ammonium sulfate )  ,  glucose ,  distilled water ,  salts ,  trace elements and vitamins ,  to which various growth supplements can be added back ,  such as one or more amino acids .
a synthetic minimal media used for yeast nitrogen starvation experiments ;  it contains yeast nitrogen base  ( lacking ammonium sulfate )  ,  glucose ,  distilled water ,  salts ,  trace elements and vitamins ,  to which various growth supplements can be added back ,  such as one or more amino acids .
a synthetic minimal media used for yeast growth .
a complex fatty acid induction media for yeast .
a synthetic minimal media containing a non - fermentable carbon source  ( lactate )  used for yeast growth .
a synthetic defined minimal media for yeast containing potassium phosphate ,  magnesium sulfate ,  sodium chloride ,  calcium chloride ,  zinc sulfate ,  iron  ( iii )  chloride ,  copper sulfate ,  potassium iodide ,  inositol ,  thiamine hydrochloride ,  pyridoxine ,  calcium pantothenate ,  biotin ,  uracil ,  glucose and distilled water .
a poor media used to induce sporulation in yeast .
a seropositivity measurement is the quantification of an individual's exposure to a certain pathogen through the presence or absence in blood of pathogen specific circulating antibodies
chlamydia pneumoniae seropositivity is the result of a measurement of circulating c . pneumoniae specific antibodies
herpes virus seropositivity is the result of a measurement of circulating herpes virus specific antibodies
cytomegalovirus seropositivity is the result of a measurement of circulating cytomegalovirus specific antibodies
influenza a seropositivity is the result of a measurement of circulating influenza a specific antibodies
human herpesvirus 8 seropositivity is the result of a measurement of circulating human herpesvirus 8 specific antibodies
quantification of some lead in a blood sample
quantification of weight / height relationships above a certain threshold that classes an individual as overweight .
quantification in a sample of some polychlorinated biphenyls ,  a group of man - made environmental pollutants which accumulate in humans with adverse health effects
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
assay for transposase - accessible chromatin using sequencing  ( atac - seq )  ,  is a method based on direct in vitro transposition of sequencing adaptors into native chromatin ,  and is a rapid and sensitive method for integrative epigenomic analysis .
a set of mental processes that controls and manages the cognitive functions .
toxoplasma gondii seropositivity is the result of a measurement of circulating t . gondii specific antibodies .
human herpesvirus 6 seropositivity is the result of a measurement of circulating human herpesvirus 6 specific antibodies
gliadim seropositivity is the result of a measurement of circulating  antibodies specific to the food antigen gliadin
hsv1 seropositivity is the result of a measurement of circulating herpes simplex virus type 1 specific antibodies
abnormal narrowing of a vein graft site following a coronary artery bypass
quantification of some aspect of adult antisocial behaviour  ( aab )  ,  a form of disordered behaviour that is moderately heritable ,  relatively common and has adverse consequences for individuals and society .
myelosuppression or bone marrow suppression is a condition in which bone marrow activity is decreased ,  resulting in fewer red blood cells ,  white blood cells ,  and platelets .
quantification of microsatellite instability
where a drug or surgery has been used to treat an individual with a particular condition .
a measure of how fast cancer cells are dividing and growing .
the date or time of the last check of a patient by a medical professional .
germplasm is the living genetic resources such as seeds or tissue that is maintained for the purpose of animal and plant breeding ,  preservation ,  and other research uses .
grade of adrenocortical carcinoma based on the scoring system of weiss  ( weiss lm .
the number of times a cell culture has been passaged  ( sub - cultured or split )  .
the mass of a tumor .
the stage premortem or postmortem at which the sample was processed for extraction of biomaterials .
any one of the major conceptual divisions of the eukaryotic cell cycle ,  based on characteristic cytological and biochemical events ,  that occur in the order g1  ( gap 1 )  - s  ( synthesis )  - g2  ( gap 2 )  - m  ( mitosis )  and lead to cell division .
chronic skin ulceration is a common complication of diabetes ,  peripheral vascular disease ,  and disorders that decrease mobility .
decubitus ulcer is a chronic ulcer of skin where the ulcer is an ulceration of tissue deprived of adequate blood supply by prolonged pressure .
ulcer of lower limbs is a chronic ulcer of skin where the ulcer is not a decubitus ulcer .
mouse 3134 is a murine mammary adenocarcinoma cell line generated in dr . gordon hagers laboratory at the national institutes of health ,  bethesda ,  md .
acc112 was established from a salivary glad tumor of a 70 - year - old male .
the hes line bg01 with a normal 46xy karyotype was derived from fibroblasts of an embryonic male human .
a b - lymphoblastoid cell line derived from a randomly selected caucasian blood donor whose parents and grandparents were born in the uk or ireland .
this hesc line was isolated using human feeder cells under good manufacturing process  ( gmp )  conditions .
dnd - 41 was established from the peripheral blood of 13 - year - old boy with t - acute lymphoblastic leukemia  ( t - all ;  type iii cortical )  in 1977 ;  described to carry cdkn2b  ( p15ink4b )  and cdkn2a  ( p16ink4a )  deletions and tp53  ( p53 ) mutation .
mouse embryonic stem cell line e14 .
the i3 stem cell line was derived from donated blastocysts by removal of the trophoblast layer and further culturing of the intact inner cell mass on mitotically inactivated mouse embryonic fibroblast  ( mef )  feeder cells .
lymphoblastoid cells taken from the blood of a female human .
human embryonic stem cell line with a normal 46xy karyotype ,  pluripotency tested in vitro and in vivo .
human embryonic stem cell line with a normal 46xx karyotype ,  pluripotency tested in vivo  ( teratoma )  .
human embryonic stem cell line with a normal 46xy karyotype ,  pluripotency tested in vitro and in vivo .
human embryonic stem cell line derived from human blastocysts .
human embryonic stem cell line derived from human blastocysts .
human embryonic stem cell line with a normal 46xx karyotype .
human embryonic stem cell line with a normal 46xx karyotype .
human embryonic stem cell line with a normal 46xy karyotype .
human embryonic stem cell line with a normal 46xx karyotype ,  pluripotency tested in vitro and in vivo .
human embryonic stem cell line with a normal 46xx karyotype .
human embryonic stem cell line with a normal 46xy karyotype .
human embryonic stem cell line with a normal 46xy karyotype .
hues64 cells were differentiated into cd184 +  endothelial cells in feeder free conditions ,  using rpmi containing 100ng / ml of activin a and 50ng / ml of wnt3a ,  for 5 days .
human embryonic stem cell line with a normal 46xy karyotype .
human embryonic stem cell line derived from human blastocysts and are strongly positive for a number of molecular markers of undifferentiated pluripotent human stem cells ,  including oct4 ,  nanog ,  and tra - 1 - 60 .
human embryonic stem cell line with a normal 46xy karyotype ,  pluripotency tested in vitro and in vivo .
human embryonic stem cell line with an abnormal 46xx ,  inv9 karyotype ,  pluripotency tested in vitro and in vivo .
ips df 19 .7 cell line is an induced pluripotent stem cell line ,  derived from newborn foreskin fibroblasts .
human induced pluripotent stem cell line line derived from foreskin fibroblasts ,  isolated as described by yu ,  j . et al .
ips df 4 .7 cell line is an induced pluripotent stem cell line ,  derived from newborn foreskin fibroblasts .
human induced pluripotent stem cell line line derived from foreskin fibroblasts ,  isolated as described by yu ,  j . et al .
human induced stem cell line derived from dermal fibroblasts .
human induced stem cell line derived from dermal fibroblasts .
human induced stem cell line derived from dermal fibroblasts .
human induced stem cell line derived from dermal fibroblasts .
human induced stem cell line derived from dermal fibroblasts .
human induced stem cell line derived from dermal fibroblasts .
human induced stem cell line derived from dermal fibroblasts .
human induced stem cell line derived from dermal fibroblasts .
human induced stem cell line derived from dermal fibroblasts .
human induced stem cell line derived from dermal fibroblasts .
human induced stem cell line derived from dermal fibroblasts .
human induced stem cell line derived from dermal fibroblasts .
this induced pluripotent stem cell  ( ipsc )  line was generated from dermal fibroblasts ,  by viral transduction of oct4 ,  sox2 ,  klf4 ,  myc ,  htert ,  and sv40 large t  ( htert and sv40 large t did not integrate )  .
loucy was established in 1987 from the peripheral blood of a 38 - year - old female patient with t - cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia  ( t - all )  obtained two months prior to her death .
this cell line was derived from the third instar larval stage of dorsal mesothoracic discs .
this cell line was cloned from ml - dmd23 cell line ,  which was derived from the third instar larval stage of dorsal mesothoracic discs .
human b - lymphoblastoid cells established from peripheral blood lymphocytes of a 27 - year - old white caucasian woman by epstein - barr virus  ( ebv )  transformation in 1990 ;  suitable normal control cell line for toxicity or radiosensitivity assays confirmed as human with ief of ast ,  np .
the hesc line ucsf4 with a normal 46xx karyotype was derived from a blastocyst - stage embryo on human foreskin fibroblasts .
quantification of the thickness of tunica intima and tunica media ,  the innermost two layers of the wall of the carotid artery ,  usually by carotid ultrasound
ratio of sitting height to total body height
one of four constitutional types used to classify individuals in traditional korean medicine
constitutional type in traditional korean medicine .
constitutional type in traditional korean medicine .
constitutional type in traditional korean medicine .
constitutional type in traditional korean medicine .
lesion occuring in or on the salivary gland
lesion occuring in or on the lacrimal gland
keratitis due to infection by acanthamoeba ;  it is usually associated with soft contact lens wear ,  particularly overnight wear .
a commensal bacterial infectious disease that results_in infection ,  has_material_basis_in actinobacillus ureae ,  which is a commensal of the human respiratory tract .
actinomycosis is a chronic bacterial infection that commonly affects the face and neck .
a vaso - occlusive crisis of the pulmonary vasculature occurring in patients with sickle cell disease .
acute disseminated encephalomyelitis  ( adem )  is a demyelinating disorder of the central nervous system .
acute conjunctivitis that is characterized by bleeding into the conjunctiva .
acute hemorrhagic leukoencephalitis ( ahl )  is a veryrareform of acute disseminated encephalomyelitis that usuallyresults indeath .
a benign neoplasm characterized by the presence of a glandular and a mesenchymal  ( fibromyomatous )  component .
a low grade malignant neoplasm characterized by the presence of a benign epithelial component  ( tubular and cleft - like glands )  and a low grade sarcomatous component that contains varying amounts of fibrous and smooth muscle tissues .
adult - onset still disease  ( aosd )  is a rare inflammatory multisystem disorder characterized clinically by fever of unknown origin ,  arthralgia or arthritis ,  hyperleucocytosis ,  and typical skin rash .
a rare disorder characterized by the lack of ability to recognize individuals ,  objects ,  shapes ,  sounds ,  or smells .
a prodromal phase of infection with the human immunodeficiency virus  ( hiv )  .
a syndrome characterized by a silent and inert state without voluntary motor activity despite preserved sensorimotor pathways and vigilance .
a slow progressive disease of mink caused by the aleutian mink disease virus .
allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis  ( abpa )  is a rare immunologic pulmonary disorder caused by hypersensitivity to aspergillus fumigatus ,  clinically manifesting with poorly controlled asthma and recurrent pulmonary infiltrates .
conjunctivitis due to hypersensitivity to various allergens .
virus diseases caused by members of the alphavirus genus of the family togaviridae .
an alveolar soft part sarcoma occurring in adults .
a parasitic infectious disorder caused by amoebas .
infection by hookworms of the genus ancylostoma .
infection with roundworms of the genus anisakis .
a sexually transmitted papillary growth caused by the human papillomavirus .
dysfunction of the aortic valve characterized by incomplete valve closure .
acute inflammation of the vermiform appendix .
virus diseases caused by the arenaviridae .
a viral infectious disease that involves fever and bleeding disorder caused by arenavirus .
infections caused by viruses of the genus arterivirus .
a lung disorder caused by inhalation of asbestos fibers .
an infection that is caused by the roundworm ascaris lumbricoides ,  many cases of which remain asymptomatic .
infection with nematodes of the genus ascaridia .
infections with nematodes of the order ascaridida .
aspergillosis is an infection ,  growth ,  or allergic response caused by the aspergillus fungus .
infections with astrovirus ,  causing gastroenteritis in human infants ,  calves ,  lambs ,  and piglets .
a chronic inflammation in which the nasal mucosa gradually changes from a functional to a non - functional lining without mucociliary clearance .
an autoimmune disorder in which the number of circulating platelets is reduced due to their antibody - mediated destruction .
infections with viruses of the genus avulavirus ,  family paramyxoviridae .
babesiosis refers to a condition caused by microscopic parasites that infect the red blood cells .
infection by parasites of the genus balantidium .
a chronic tubulointerstitial nephropathy that affects people in certain rural areas along the danube river in the balkans .
a neurologic syndrome following injury of the spinal sympathetic nerves of the neck .
an infectious disease produced by bacteria of the genus bartonella .
partial or complete paralysis of the facial muscles of one side of a person's face .
chronic beryllium disease  ( cbd )  is a granulomatous ,  interstitial lung disease that occurs in individuals who develop beryllium sensitization  ( bes )  ,  a cell - mediated immune response to environmental and occupational beryllium exposure .
a motility disorder characterized by biliary colic ,  absence of gallstones ,  and an abnormal gallbladder ejection fraction .
hypersensitivity granulomatous pneumonitis caused by the inhalation of avian antigens that are present in the dust of the droppings and feathers of many species of birds .
a superficial mycosis that is caused by piedraia hortae and is manifested by a small firm black nodule involving the hair shaft .
a complication of malaria resulting from hemolysis .
infections with organisms of the genus blastocystis .
blastomycosis is a rare infection that may develop when people inhale a fungus called blastomyces dermatitidis ,  a fungus that is found in moist soil ,  particularly where there is rotting vegetation .
a disorder affecting the small intestine .
a benign but locally aggressive tumor that arises from the bone and is composed of mononuclear cells admixed with macrophages and osteoclast - like giant cells .
congenital disorder of lambs caused by a virus closely related to or identical with certain strains of bovine viral diarrhea virus .
an encephalomyelitis of horses ,  sheep and cattle caused by borna disease virus .
a spotted fever that has_material_basis_in rickettsia conorii subsp conorii ,  which is transmitted_by dog tick  ( rhipicephalus sanguineus )  .
a multifactorial disease of cattle resulting from complex interactions between environmental factors ,  host factors ,  and pathogens .
acute disease of cattle caused by the bovine viral diarrhea viruses  ( diarrhea viruses ,  bovine viral )  .
a delayed relapse of epidemic typhus ,  caused by rickettsia prowazekii .
bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome  ( bos )  is a lung disorder that is mainly associated with chronic allograft dysfunction after lung transplantation and that is characterized by inflammation and fibrosis of bronchiolar walls that reduce the diameter of the bronchioles and result in progressive and irreversible airflow obstruction .
acute inflammation of the walls of the terminal bronchioles that spreads into the peribronchial alveoli and alveolar ducts .
brucellosis is a bacterial infection that spreads from animals to people via unpasteurized dairy products or by exposure to contaminated animal products or infected animals .
a form of paralytic poliomyelitis affecting neurons of the medulla oblongata of the brain stem .
bullous pemphigoid  ( bp )  is the most common form of autoimmune bullous dermatosis .
virus diseases caused by the bunyaviridae .
virus diseases caused by caliciviridae .
infections with bacteria of the genus campylobacter .
physical and psychological dependence on the drug cannabis .
a combination of rheumatoid arthritis  ( ra )  and pneumoconiosis that manifests as intrapulmonary nodules ,  which appear homogenous and well - defined on chest x - ray .
carbamoyl - phosphate synthetase 1 deficiency  ( cps1d )  is a rare and severe disorder of urea cycle metabolism most commonly characterized by either a neonatal - onset of severe hyperammonemia that occurs few days after birth and manifests with lethargy ,  vomiting ,  hypothermia ,  seizures ,  coma and death or a presentation outside the newborn period at any age with  ( sometimes )  milder symptoms of hyperammonemia .
infections caused by viruses of the genus cardiovirus ,  family picornaviridae .
cat scratch disease is an infectious illness caused by the bacteria bartonella  ( bartonella henselae )  .
cauda equina syndrome refers to a group of symptoms that occur when some of the nerves in the cauda equina  ( the bundle of nerves that spread out from the bottom of the spinal cord )  become compressed and / or damaged .
an intestinal benign neoplasm that is located_in the cecum .
inflammation of arteries in the central nervous system that occurs in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome or aids - related opportunistic infections .
a well - circumscribed mass composed of tuberculous granulation tissue that may occur in the cerebral hemispheres ,  cerebellum ,  brain stem ,  or perimeningeal spaces .
infections of the brain caused by the protozoan toxoplasma gondii that primarily arise in individuals with immunologic deficiency syndromes  ( see also aids - related opportunistic infections )  .
a neoplasm that involves a brain ventricle .
a clinical diagnosis presenting with painless cervical dilatation and spontaneous mid - trimester birth in recurrent pregnancies in the absence of spontaneous membrane rupture ,  bleeding or clinical chorioamnionitis .
a form of actinomycosis characterized by slow - growing inflammatory lesions of the lymph nodes that drain the mouth  ( lumpy jaw )  ,  reddening of the overlying skin ,  and intraperitoneal abscesses .
a contagious childhood disorder caused by the varicella zoster virus .
an infection that is caused by chlamydia trachomatis .
a malignant neoplasm involving the choroid plexus
chromomycosis is a chronic cutaneous and subcutaneous fungal infection ,  found mainly in subtropical and tropical areas  ( in soil and plant debris and transmitted by traumatic inoculation )  ,  and characterized clinically by slow growing ,  verrucous nodules ,  squamous plaques ,  or chronic limited lesions which are most commonly found on the lower limbs and which are characterized histologically by the presence of muriform cells .
eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis  ( egpa )  ,  previously known as churg - strauss syndrome ,  is a systemic vasculitis of small - to medium vessels ,  characterized by asthma ,  transient pulmonary infiltrates ,  and hypereosinophilia .
infections with protozoa of the phylum ciliophora .
infection of the biliary passages with clonorchis sinensis ,  also called opisthorchis sinensis .
a fungal infection caused by coccidioides immitis .
a parasitic infection caused by coccidia .
a febrile illness characterized by chills ,  aches ,  vomiting ,  leukopenia ,  and sometimes encephalitis .
an inflammatory process affecting the nasal mucosa ,  usually caused by viruses  ( e .g . ,  rhinovirus ,  adenovirus ,  parainfluenza virus ,  and coronavirus )  .
coexistence of hodgkin and non - hodgkin lymphoma in the same anatomic site .
congenital diaphragmatic hernia  ( cdh )  is a posterolateral defect of the diaphragm that allows passage of abdominal viscera into the thorax ,  leading to respiratory insufficiency and persistent pulmonary hypertension with high mortality .
nystagmus present at birth or caused by lesions sustained in utero or at the time of birth .
a condition ,  whose clinical manifestations include intrauterine growth restriction ,  petechial rash ,  jaundice ,  generalized lymphadenopathy ,  hepatosplenomegaly ,  peripheral pulmonary stenosis ,  cataracts ,  and sensorineural deafness ,  that is caused by fetal exposure to the rubella virus during the first trimester of pregnancy .
a life - threatening bacterial infection of the newborn caused by treponema pallidum .
toxoplasma infection that is present from birth .
a pleuropneumonia of cattle and goats caused by species of mycoplasma .
an infectious dermatitis of sheep and goats ,  affecting primarily the muzzle and lips .
virus diseases caused by coronaviridae .
virus diseases caused by the coronavirus genus .
a mild ,  eruptive skin disease of milk cows caused by cowpox virus ,  with lesions occurring principally on the udder and teats .
a heterogeneous group of infections produced by coxsackieviruses ,  including herpangina ,  aseptic meningitis  ( meningitis ,  aseptic )  ,  a common - cold - like syndrome ,  a non - paralytic poliomyelitis - like syndrome ,  epidemic pleurodynia  ( pleurodynia ,  epidemic )  and a serious myocarditis .
acute upper respiratory airways infection that results in the swelling of the larynx .
meningeal inflammation produced by cryptococcus neoformans ,  an encapsulated yeast that tends to infect individuals with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and other immunocompromised states .
an acute or chronic ,  localized or disseminated infection by cryptococcus neoformans .
a protozoan infection that is caused by cyclospora cayetanensis ,  which is most commonly acquired from contaminated food or water ,  and which is characterized by watery diarrhea and abdominal pain .
cysticercosis is a parasitic infectious disease characterized by cyst formation in the target tissue of taenia solium  ( tapeworm )  parasite larvae ingested via the feces of a human with a tapeworm  ( human - to - human fecal - oral transmission )  leading to variable clinical manifestations in muscle ,  the brain ,  spinal cord ,  and eyes .
an intestinal infection with isospora belli .
a disease involving the diaphragm .
infection with flukes of the genus dicrocoelium .
infection with nematodes of the genus dictyocaulus .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of ankylosing vertebral hyperostosis with hyperkeratosis of the soles and palms .
a parasitic infection caused by genus of filarial worms called dipetalonema .
bothriocephalosis is a mammalian cosmopolitan intestinal parasitosis .
infection with nematodes of the genus dirofilaria ,  usually in animals ,  especially dogs ,  but occasionally in humans .
a disease of horses and donkeys caused by trypanosoma equiperdum .
dracunculiasis  ( guinea worm disease )  is a neglected tropical disease  ( ntd )  characterized by a painful burning skin lesion from which the dracunculus medinensis parasite emerges approximately 1 year after infection resulting from consumption of unsafe drinking water containing parasite - infected copepods  ( cyclops spp . ,  microcrustacea also called water fleas )  .
eastern equine encephalitis  ( eee )  is an acute arboviral infection caused by an alphavirus of the togaviridae family transmitted by an infected mosquito ,  that is characterized by the onset of flulike symptoms including fever ,  chills ,  weakness ,  headache ,  vomiting ,  abdominal pain with diarrhea ,  myalgia ,  leucocytosis ,  and hematuria ,  rapidly progressing to diffuse central nervous system  ( cns )  involvement with confusion ,  somnolence ,  or even coma .
a viral hemorrhagic fever that is caused by the ebola virus ,  which is transmitted by contact with infected animals or humans ;  it is characterized by high fever ,  unexplained bleeding ,  and a high mortality rate .
ebstein's malformation is a rare congenital cardiac anomaly characterized by rotational displacement of the septal and inferior leaflets of the tricuspid valve such that they are hinged within the right ventricle ,  rather than as expected at the atrioventricular junction .
a parasitic infection caused by tapeworm larvae of echinococcus .
infection by flukes of the genus echinostoma .
infectious disease processes ,  including meningitis ,  diarrhea ,  and respiratory disorders ,  caused by echoviruses .
a food allergy that is an allergy or hypersensitivity to dietary substances from the yolk or whites of eggs ,  causing an overreaction of the immune system which may lead to severe physical symptoms .
cholecystitis resulting from infection by gas producing organisms .
infection with fungi of the genus encephalitozoon .
endomyocardial fibroelastosis is a cause of unexplained childhood cardiac insufficiency .
a non - seminomatous malignant germ cell tumor composed of primitive germ cells .
infections with nematodes of the order enoplida .
an infection that is caused by the nematode enterobius vermicularis ;  it is characterized predominantly by perianal pruritus .
an disease caused by infection with enterovirus .
a bovine respiratory disease complex which is an infectious disease in calves involving stress and possibly an initial respiratory viral infection followed by a secondary bacterial infection of the lower respiratory tract .
an inflammatory lung disorder characterized by an increased number of eosinophils in the lungs .
an ephemerovirus infection of cattle caused by bovine ephemeral fever virus  ( ephemeral fever virus ,  bovine )  .
an acute ,  febrile ,  infectious disease generally occurring in epidemics .
circumscribed collections of suppurative material occurring in the spinal or intracranial epidural space .
inflammation of the epiglottis .
a generalized tonic - clonic seizure .
viral disease of horses caused by the equine infectious anemia virus  ( eiav ;  infectious anemia virus ,  equine )  .
an acute or chronic inflammatory process affecting the mucous membrane of the ethmoid sinus .
a chronic granulomatous inflammation involving the deep dermis and the subcutaneous tissues .
the state of being a eunuch ,  a male without testes or whose testes failed to develop .
an x - linked disease that has_material_basis_in factor viii deficiency ,  which results in the formation of fibrin deficient clots which makes coagulation much more prolonged .
infection of cattle and other herbivores with the giant liver fluke fascioloides magna .
felty syndrome  ( fs )  ,  also known as ''super rheumatoid'' disease ,  is a severe form of rheumatoid arthritis  ( ra )  ,  characterized by a triad of ra ,  splenomegaly and neutropenia ,  resulting in susceptibility to bacterial infections .
a bone cancer that is located_in the femur .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant neoplasm characterized by the presence of an epithelial and a fibrous component .
parasitic infestation of the human lymphatic system by wuchereria bancrofti or brugia malayi .
infections with viruses of the family filoviridae .
infections with viruses of the family flaviviridae .
hyperplasia characterized by the presence of a focal proliferation of epithelial cells .
a neoplasm composed of spindle to ovoid cells which have morphologic and immunophenotypic characteristics of follicular dendritic cells .
a viral infectious disease that results in infection in cattle and swine ,  has material basis in foot - and - mouth disease virus ,  which is transmitted by contaminated fomites ,  or transmitted by ingestion of food contaminated with infected meat or animal products .
pulmonary diseases caused by fungal infections ,  usually through hematogenous spread .
a severe condition resulting from bacteria invading healthy muscle from adjacent traumatized muscle or soft tissue .
tuberculosis that involves any region of the gastrointestinal tract ,  mostly in the distal ileum and the cecum .
a viral ear infection caused by the spread of varicella - zoster virus to the facial nerves .
herpes simplex infection of the genitals ,  most commonly caused by the herpes simplex - 2 virus .
a benign condition characterized by the development of irregular patches in the surface of the tongue resulting in a map - like appearance .
infection due to the fungus geotrichum .
gerstmann syndrome is a very rare neurological disorder characterized by the specific association of acalculia ,  finger agnosia ,  left - right disorientation ,  and agraphia ,  which is supposed to be secondary to a focal subcortical white matter damage in the parietal lobe .
a condition resulting from infection by burkholderia mallei ,  which mainly affects horses .
an x - linked recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the g6pd gene .
a glycogen storage disease that has_material_basis_in deficiency of the glucose - 6 - phosphatase enzyme which impairs the ability of the liver to produce free glucose from glycogen and from gluconeogenesis and is characterized by accumulation of glycogen and fat in the liver and kidneys ,  resulting in hepatomegaly and renomegaly .
an infection that is caused by nematodes of the genus gnathostoma ,  which is commonly found in southeast asia ,  and which is transmitted via the consumption of contaminated raw / undercooked birds ,  eels ,  fish ,  frogs ,  or reptiles .
goodpasture syndrome is an autoimmune disease that affects the lungs and kidneys and is characterized by pulmonary alveolar hemorrhage  ( bleeding in the lungs )  and a kidney disease known as glomerulonephritis .
a condition resulting from infection by klebsiella granulomati ,  which is characterized by ulcerative lesions of the genitalia .
guillain - barrc )  syndrome  ( gbs )  is the term used to describe a spectrum of rare post - infectious neuropathies that usually occur in otherwise healthy patients .
infection with nematodes of the genus haemonchus ,  characterized by digestive abnormalities and anemia similar to that from hookworm infestation .
a clinical syndrome that is usually caused by enterovirus infection ,  and that is characterized by fever ,  anorexia ,  and painful sores in the mouth ,  distal extremities ,  and / or other sites ,  including the buttocks .
any infection caused by a virus of the genus hantavirus ,  which is transmitted by aerosolized rodent excreta or rodent bites ,  that can result in a variety of clinical manifestations from hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome to a pulmonary syndrome .
an infection caused by hantaviruses .
hellp syndrome is a life - threatening condition that can potentially complicate pregnancy .
an accumulation of blood within the pericardial sac .
a viral infectious disease that is a hemorrhagic fever ,  located_in kidney ,  has_material_basis_in hantaan virus ,  has_material_basis_in dobrava - belgrade virus ,  has_material_basis_in seoul virus ,  or has_material_basis_in puumala virus ,  which are carried and transmitted_by rodents .
infections with viruses of the genus henipavirus ,  family paramyxoviridae .
virus diseases caused by the hepadnaviridae .
infection of the liver with species of mycobacterium ,  most often mycobacterium tuberculosis .
acute inflammation of the liver in humans ;  caused by hepatitis e virus ,  a non - enveloped single - stranded rna virus .
inflammation of the liver in humans caused by hepatitis delta virus ,  a defective rna virus that can only infect hepatitis b patients .
acute inflammation of the liver caused by the hepatitis a virus .
a viral infectious disease that results in infection located in mouth ,  has material basis in human coxsackievirus a16 ,  has material basis in human enterovirus 71 ,  has material basis in group b coxsackievirus ,  or has material basis in echoviruses ,  which are transmitted by ingestion of food contaminated with feces ,  transmitted by contact with pharyngeal secretions ,  or transmitted by droplet spread of oronasal secretions .
stomatitis caused by herpesvirus hominis .
a superficial ,  epithelial herpesvirus hominis infection of the cornea ,  characterized by the presence of small vesicles which may break down and coalesce to form dendritic ulcers  ( keratitis ,  dendritic )  .
virus diseases caused by the herpesviridae .
a disease caused by the fungus histoplasma capsulatum .
a syndrome characterized by chronic ,  well - established diarrhea  ( greater than one month in duration )  without an identified infectious cause after thorough evaluation ,  in an hiv - positive individual .
involuntary weight loss of greater than 10 percent associated with intermittent or constant fever and chronic diarrhea or fatigue for more than 30 days in the absence of a defined cause other than hiv infection .
renal disease in human immunodeficiency virus  ( hiv )  - infected patients .
infection of humans or animals with hookworms other than those caused by the genus ancylostoma or necator ,  for which the specific terms ancylostomiasis and necatoriasis are available .
an acute ,  localized swelling of the eyelid that may be external or internal and usually is a pyogenic  ( typically staphylococcal )  infection or abscess .
a viral infectious disease that results in increased proliferation of affected cd4 lymphocytes ,  has material basis in human t - lymphotropic virus 1 ,  which is transmitted by sexual contact ,  transmitted by contaminated needles used by intravenous - drug users ,  and transmitted by breast feeding .
a parasitic infection caused by tapeworms .
an inherited autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by the disorganized formation of new islets in the pancreas and congenital hyperinsulinism .
abnormally high level of prolactin in the blood .
infestation with larvae of the genus hypoderma ,  the warble fly .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the hypopharynx .
a rare immunodeficiency syndrome characterized by the decrease of the cd4 - positive lymphocytes below 300 per cubic millimeter in the absence of identifiable immunodeficiency causes .
inclusion body myositis  ( ibm )  is a slowly progressive degenerative inflammatory disorder of skeletal muscles characterized by late onset weakness of specific muscles and distinctive histopathological features .
inflammation of the conjunctiva in a newborn due to chlamydia trachomatis which was acquired during labor and delivery .
a viral infection of mice ,  causing edema and necrosis followed by limb loss .
a condition characterized by an increase in mononuclear white blood cells and swollen lymph nodes ,  which is usually caused by infection with the epstein - barr virus .
a viral infectious disease that results in infection located in eyes or located in upper respiratory tract of domestic rabbits ,  has material basis in myxoma virus ,  which is transmitted by mosquitos ,  transmitted by biting flies or transmitted by direct contact .
an acute viral infection of the respiratory tract ,  occurring in isolated cases ,  in epidemics ,  or in pandemics ;  it is caused by serologically different strains of viruses  ( influenzaviruses )  designated a ,  b ,  and c ,  has a 3 - day incubation period ,  and usually lasts for 3 to 10 days .
a neoplastic proliferation of spindle to ovoid cells which show phenotypic features similar to those of interdigitating dendritic cells .
a malignant neoplasm involving the intestine
a neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the pancreas .
a disease due to a virus transmitted by an arthropod )  .
a malignant neoplasm involving the jaw skeleton
a rare congenital syndrome characterized by large cutaneous hemangiomata with hypertrophy of the related bones and soft tissues .
kluver bucy syndrome is a rare behavioral impairment characterized byinappropriate sexual behaviors and mouthing of objects .
a neoplastic proliferation of langerhans cells with overtly malignant cytologic features .
extrapulmonary tuberculosis involving the larynx .
a viral hemorrhagic fever that is caused by the lassa virus ,  which is transmitted by contact with infected rodents ;  it is characterized by fever ,  headache ,  malaise ,  myalgia ,  and hearing loss .
a congenital syphilis that occurs in children at or greater than two years of age who acquired the infection trans - placentally .
a stage of syphilis characterized by the serologic evidence of infection by treponema pallidum without evidence of accompanying signs or symptoms related to the disease .
an osteochondrosis that results_in death and fracture located_in hip joint .
any disease caused by legionella bacteria .
a pneumonia caused by legionella pneumophila and other legionella species ,  which is characterized by fever ,  cough ,  progressive respiratory distress ,  and which is often accompanied by extrapulmonary manifestations .
a contagious bacterial infection caused by spirochetes of the genus leptospira .
pneumonia due to aspiration or inhalation of various oily or fatty substances .
a rare syndrome characterized by almost complete absence of body fat ,  accentuated muscularity ,  insulin - resistant diabetes ,  hyperlipidemia ,  hepatomegaly ,  and hypermetabolism .
a bacterial infection caused by listeria monocytogenes .
an acute tick - borne arbovirus infection causing meningoencephalomyelitis of sheep .
a poxvirus infection of cattle characterized by the appearance of nodules on all parts of the skin .
tuberculosis of the lymph node .
inflammation of the lymphatic vessels .
a disease involving the lymphatic part of lymphoid system .
infection with the organism mycobacterium .
an autosomal dominant disease that is characterized by  \ nand has_material_basis_in mutation of mismatch repair genes that increases the risk of many types of cancers .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the male reproductive system .
a malignant neoplasm involving the mandible
a parasitic infection caused by the nematode mansonella .
marburg hemorrhagic fever  ( mhf )  ,  caused by marburg virus ,  is a severe viral hemorrhagic disease characterized by initial fever and malaise followed by gastrointestinal symptoms ,  bleeding ,  shock ,  and multi - organ system failure .
mast cell leukemia is a malignant form of systemic mastocytosis  ( sm )  characterized ,  most of the time ,  by the presence of circulating mast cells .
cancer or tumors of the maxilla or upper jaw .
an acute or chronic inflammatory process affecting the mucous membrane of the maxillary sinus .
a malignant neoplasm involving the mediastinum
an eyelid cyst caused by the blockage of a meibomian gland .
inflammation of the meninges and brain ,  generally secondary to an infectious cause .
a solid ,  unencapsulated tumor of the kidney composed of spindle mesenchymal cells that resemble fibroblasts or muscle cells .
a fungal infection caused by microsporidia .
atelectasis of the right middle pulmonary lobe ,  with chronic pneumonitis .
i would say the hematogenous widespread dissemination of tuberculosis in the body .
allergic reaction to milk  ( usually cow's milk )  or milk products .
virus diseases caused by the poxviridae .
an autoimmune process characterized by the clinical triad of ophthalmoplegia ,  ataxia ,  and areflexia .
narrowing of the left atrioventricular mitral orifice .
a cell type cancer that has_material_basis_in abnormally proliferating cells derived_from two germinal layers of tissue .
mixed connective tissue disease  ( mctd )  is a rare autoimmune disorder that is characterized by features commonly seen in three different connective tissue disorders: systemic lupus erythematosus ,  scleroderma ,  and polymyositis .
a common ,  benign ,  usually self - limited viral infection of the skin and occasionally the conjunctivae by a poxvirus  ( molluscum contagiosum virus )  .
infections with viruses of the order mononegavirales .
infections with viruses of the genus morbillivirus ,  family paramyxoviridae .
an invasive adenocarcinoma characterized by cystic changes and the presence of malignant glandular cells which contain intracytoplasmic mucin .
the most common form of leishmaniasis that is transmitted through the bite of female phlebotomine sand flies or after exposure to leishmania parasites .
any infection due to a fungus of the zygomycota phylum .
tuberculosis disease that is caused by a multidrug - resistant strain of mycobacterium tuberculosis .
an acquired disorder characterized by recurrent symptoms ,  referable to multiple organ systems ,  occurring in response to demonstrable exposure to many chemically unrelated compounds at doses below those established in the general population to cause harmful effects .
a contagious viral infection caused by the mumps virus .
a malignant neoplasm affecting the skeletal or smooth muscles .
an extrinsic allergic alveolitis involving inflammation of the alveoli within the lung caused by hypersensitivity to the inhalation of organic dust particles derived from either the mushrooms ,  their spores or the compost in which the mushrooms are grown .
an infection that is caused by mycobacterium avium .
interstitial pneumonia caused by extensive infection of the lungs  ( lung )  and bronchi ,  particularly the lower lobes of the lungs ,  by mycoplasma pneumoniae in humans .
a laboratory test result indicating an abnormal amount of circulating nucleated red blood cells and immature red blood cells .
the infection of a fly larva  ( maggot )  in human tissue ,  which most commonly occurs in tropical climates .
a disorder caused by an infection with hookworms of the genus necator ,  which settle in the host's small intestine ,  and cause abdominal pain ,  diarrhea ,  weight loss ,  and anemia .
infections caused by nematode larvae which never develop into the adult stage and migrate through various body tissues .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the nervous system .
infections of the nervous system caused by fungi of the genus aspergillus ,  most commonly aspergillus fumigatus .
schistosomiasis of the brain ,  spinal cord ,  or meninges caused by infections with trematodes of the genus schistosoma  ( primarily schistosoma japonicum ;  schistosoma mansoni ;  and schistosoma haematobium in humans )  .
a condition caused by infection by the newcastle disease virus ,  which may be characterized by conjunctivitis ,  respiratory illness ,  and diarrhea .
infections with viruses of the order nidovirales .
nocardiosis is a local  ( skin ,  lung ,  brain )  or disseminated  ( whole body )  acute ,  subacute ,  or chronic bacterial infection .
onchocerciasis affecting the eye .
ocular toxoplasmosis is an infection in the eye caused by the parasite ,  toxoplasm a gondii .
infection of the intestinal tract with worms of the genus oesophagostomum .
a lower than normal quantity of amniotic fluid in the amniotic sac as compared to normal values .
onchocerciasis is a form of filariasis ,  caused by the parasitic worm onchocerca volvulus ,  transmitted by the black fly .
virus infection of the gasserian ganglion and its nerve branches characterized by pain and vesicular eruptions with much swelling .
infection with flukes of the genus opisthorchis .
optic neuritis is inflammation of the optic nerve ,  the nerve that carries the visual signal from the eye to the brain .the conditionmay cause sudden ,  reduced vision in the affected eye ( s )  .
infection of the mucosal lining of the mouth with the fungus candida albicans .
tuberculosis of the mouth ,  tongue ,  and salivary glands .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the orbit .
ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency  ( otcd )  is a disorder of urea cycle metabolism and ammonia detoxification characterized by either a severe ,  neonatal - onset disease found almost exclusively in males ,  or later - onset  ( partial )  forms of the disease .
disease caused by the chlamydophila psittaci bacteria ,  usually transmitted from birds to humans .
virus diseases caused by the orthomyxoviridae .
a bone benign neoplasm that is located_in the mouth and results_in an overgrowth of gingival tissue due to irritation or trauma .
a disorder that is characterized by bone cysts and fractures ,  resulting from hyperparathyroidism .
a disease of herbivorous mammals ,  particularly cattle and sheep ,  caused by stomach worms of the genus ostertagia .
otitis media associated with accumulation of fluid in the middle ear .
an aggressive ,  high - grade and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the pancreas .
a systemic fungal infection caused by paracoccidioides brasiliensis that is most often seen in immunocompromised patients .
a parasitic infection caused by trematodes of the paragonimus genus .
infections with viruses of the family paramyxoviridae .
a condition resembling typhoid fever that is caused by infection by salmonella enterica serovar parathyphi .
an acute or chronic infection of the soft tissues around the nail .
a disease involving the parotid gland .
inflammation of the parotid glands .
infections with bacteria of the genus pasteurella .
allergic reaction to peanuts that is triggered by the immune system .
inflammation of the sac surrounding the heart  ( pericardium )  due to mycobacterium tuberculosis infection .
an inflammatory process affecting the pericardium .
excessive periodic leg movements during sleep that cause micro - arousals and interfere with the maintenance of sleep .
an abscess that develops in the space surrounding one or both palatine tonsils .
unexplained symptoms reported by veterans of the persian gulf war with iraq in 1991 .
a viral infectious disease that results_in infection in ruminants ,  has_material_basis_in peste - des - petits - ruminants virus ,  which is transmitted_by contact with oronasal and ocular secretions ,  urine ,  and feces .
infections with viruses of the genus pestivirus ,  family flaviviridae .
disorders in which phagocytic cells cannot kill ingested bacteria ;  characterized by frequent recurring infection with formulation of granulomas .
a condition characterized by fever ,  conjunctivitis ,  and pharyngitis resulting from infection by adenovirus .
the misuse of phencyclidine with associated psychological symptoms and impairment in social or occupational functioning .
influenza - like febrile viral disease caused by several members of the bunyaviridae family and transmitted mostly by the bloodsucking sandfly phlebotomus papatasii .
virus diseases caused by the picornaviridae .
a yeast infection usually manifested as a superficial skin infection .
the clinical condition in which any part of the placenta invades and is inseparable from the uterine wall .
a disease involving the placenta .
abnormal placentation in which the placenta implants in the lower segment of the uterus  ( the zone of dilation )  and may cover part or all of the opening of the cervix .
failure of the placenta to deliver an adequate supply of nutrients and oxygen to the fetus .
malaria resulting from infection by plasmodium falciparum .
malaria resulting from infection by plasmodium vivax .
inflammation of the pleura secondary to an infection with mycobacterium tuberculosis .
infections with species in the genus pneumocystis ,  a fungus causing interstitial plasma cell pneumonia  ( pneumonia ,  pneumocystis )  and other infections in humans and other mammals .
human pneumocystosis is caused by an infectious agent ,  which  ( after recent nomenclature and taxonomy revisions )  is now classed as the fungus pneumocystis jiroveci .
bovine respiratory disease found in animals that have been shipped or exposed to cattle recently transported .
an acute infectious disorder that affects the nervous system .
infections with polyomavirus ,  which are often cultured from the urine of kidney transplant patients .
a condition characterized by a chronically swollen limb ,  often a leg with stasis dermatitis and ulcerations .
a type of clinical depression that occurs after childbirth .
postpoliomyelitis syndrome  ( pps )  is a neurologic disorder characterized by the development of new neuromuscular symptoms such as progressive muscular weakness or abnormal muscle fatigability occurring in survivors of the acute paralytic form of poliomyelitis ,  15 - 40 years after recovery from the disease ,  and that is unexplained by other medical causes .
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy  ( pml )  is a neurological disorder that damages the myelin that covers and protects nerves in the white matter of the brain .
an appendix cancer that is characterized by progressive accumulation of mucus - secreting tumor cells within the abdomen and pelvis .
a highly contagious herpesvirus infection affecting the central nervous system of swine ,  cattle ,  dogs ,  cats ,  rats ,  and other animals .
a malignant neoplasm of the lung composed of tubular structures and immature mesenchymal elements ,  which may differentiate towards skeletal and smooth muscle ,  cartilage or a combination of muscle and cartilage .
a carbohydrate metabolic disorder characterized by the buildup of lactic acid in the body and a variety of neurological problems and caused by a deficiency of one of the three enzymes in the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex .
reactive arthritis  ( rea )  is an autoimmune disorder belonging to the group of seronegative spondyloarthropathies and is characterized by the classic triad of arthritis ,  urethritis and conjunctivitis .
infections with nontuberculous mycobacteria  ( atypical mycobacteria ) : m . kansasii ,  m . marinum ,  m . scrofulaceum ,  m . flavescens ,  m . gordonae ,  m . obuense ,  m . gilvum ,  m . duvali ,  m . szulgai ,  m . intracellulare  ( see mycobacterium avium complex ;  )  ,  m . xenopi  ( littorale )  ,  m . ulcerans ,  m . buruli ,  m . terrae ,  m . fortuitum  ( minetti ,  giae )  ,  m . chelonae .
a disorder characterized by episodes of vigorous and often violent motor activity during rem sleep  ( sleep ,  rem )  .
infection of the kidney due to mycobacteria .
infections produced by reoviruses ,  general or unspecified .
infections with viruses of the genus respirovirus ,  family paramyxoviridae .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the retroperitoneum .
an acute and potentially fatal metabolic disorder characterized by cerebral edema ,  fatty liver and hypoglycemia .
infections with nematodes of the order rhabditida .
virus diseases caused by rhabdoviridae .
a granulomatous disease caused by klebsiella rhinoscleromatis infection .
chronic ,  localized granulomatous infection of mucocutaneous tissues ,  especially the nose ,  and characterized by hyperplasia and the development of polyps .
pneumonia caused by infection with bacteria of the family rickettsiaceae .
a blistering skin disorder caused by exfoliative toxins produced by staphylococcus aureus infection .
infection with roseolovirus ,  the most common in humans being exanthema subitum ,  a benign disease of infants and young children .
poisoning caused by ingestion of food harboring species of salmonella .
infection of the striated muscle of mammals by parasites of the genus sarcocystis .
a streptococcal infection ,  mainly occurring among children ,  that is characterized by a red skin rash ,  sore throat ,  and fever .
an infiltrating adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of desmoplastic stromal reaction .
infection with larvae of the blow fly cochliomyia hominivorax  ( callitroga americanum )  ,  a common cause of disease in livestock in the southern and southwestern u .s .a .
scrub typhus is a rare dust mite - borne infectious disease caused by the orientia tsutsugamushi bacterium and characterized clinically by an eruptive fever which is potentially serious .
a plague in which the bacteria have entered the bloodstream .
infection with nematodes of the genus setaria .
a reproductive organ cancer that is located_in the sex cord - derived tissues of the ovary and testis .
a group of symptoms that are two -  to three - fold more common in those who work in large ,  energy - efficient buildings ,  associated with an increased frequency of headaches ,  lethargy ,  and dry skin .
silicosis is a respiratory disease caused by breathing in  ( inhaling )  silica dust .
an acute or chronic inflammatory process affecting the mucous membranes of any sinus cavity .
tuberculosis of the bones or joints .
a condition resulting from infection with the second stage larvae of the parasite spirometra .
an acute or chronic inflammatory process affecting the mucous membrane of the sphenoid sinus .
narrowing of the spinal canal .
a malignant neoplasm involving the spleen
infection of the spleen with species of mycobacterium .
a condition in which there is forward displacement of a vertebral bone over the on below it .
the commonest and least serious of the deep mycoses ,  characterized by nodular lesions of the cutaneous and subcutaneous tissues .
a viral encephalitis caused by the st . louis encephalitis virus  ( encephalitis virus ,  st . louis )  ,  a flavivirus .
pneumonia caused by infections with bacteria of the genus staphylococcus ,  usually with staphylococcus aureus .
food poisoning that is caused by staphylococcal infection .
stiff - man syndrome  ( sms )  is a rare neurological disorder comprising fluctuating trunk and limb stiffness ,  painful muscle spasms ,  task - specific phobia ,  an exaggerated startle response ,  and ankylosing deformities such as fixed lumbar hyperlordosis .
a febrile disease caused by streptococcus pneumoniae .
infections with nematodes of the order strongylida .
an infection that is caused by nematodes of the genus strongyloides ,  most commonly strongyloides stercoralis ,  which is a soil - transmitted helminth ,  and which is characterized by a variety of gastrointestinal ,  dermatologic ,  and ,  occasionally ,  pulmonary manifestations .
subacute sclerosing panencephalitis  ( sspe )  is a chronic progressive encephalitis that develops a few years after measles infection and presents with a demyelination of the cerebral cortex .
inflammation of the middle ear with purulent discharge .
a contagious bacterial infection caused by the spirochete treponema pallidum .
a form of neurosyphilis characterized by slowly progressive degeneration of the spinal cord .
infection of cattle ,  sheep ,  or goats with protozoa of the genus theileria .
a syndrome resulting from the compression of the blood vessels or nerves in the space between the clavicle and first rib  ( thoracic outlet )  .
infestations with soft - bodied  ( argasidae )  or hard - bodied  ( ixodidae )  ticks .
paralysis caused by a neurotropic toxin secreted by the salivary glands of ticks .
a skin infection caused by a fungus .
a severe ,  chronic fungal skin infection ,  usually of the scalp ,  characterized by the development of thick ,  yellow cup - shaped crusts and scarring over hair follicles .
dermatological pruritic lesion in the feet ,  caused by trichophyton rubrum ,  t . mentagrophytes ,  or epidermophyton floccosum .
virus diseases caused by the togaviridae .
infections with viruses of the genus torovirus ,  family coronaviridae .
infections with nematodes of the genus toxascaris .
a parasitic infection caused by worms found in domestic animals .
a parasitic disease contracted by the ingestion or fetal transmission of toxoplasma gondii .
an inflammatory process affecting the wall of the trachea .
an intermittent fever characterized by intervals of chills ,  fever ,  and splenomegaly each of which may last as long as 40 hours .
a parasitic infection caused by larvae of worms of the genus trichinella .
a sexually transmitted parasitic infection caused by trichomonas vaginalis .
infection by roundworms of the superfamily trichostrongyloidea ,  including the genera trichostrongylus ;  ostertagia ;  cooperia ,  haemonchus ;  nematodirus ,  hyostrongylus ,  and dictyocaulus .
infestation with nematode worms of the genus trichostrongylus .
an infection that is caused by the nematode trichuris trichiura ,  a soil - transmitted helminth ,  which is transmitted via food and / or water contaminated with the eggs of the worm .
narrowing or stricture of the tricuspid orifice of the heart .
infestation with mites of the genus trombiculidae ,  whose larvae carry the rickettsial agent of scrub typhus .
tropical spastic paraparesis is a chronic systemic immune - mediated inflammatory myeloneuropathy ,  more frequently reported in women than in men ,  that usually presents in adulthood with slowly progressive spastic paraparesis of the lower limbs ,  bladder and bowel dysfunction ,  and sensory disturbances in the lower extremities  ( e .g .
an empyema resulting from infection by mycobacterium tuberculosis .
a form of peritonitis seen in patients with tuberculosis ,  characterized by lesion either as a miliary form or as a pelvic mass on the peritoneal surfaces .
a bladder infection that occurs as a manifetation of a systemic infection with one or more species of the parasitic worms of the schistosoma type ;  this can progress to bladder cancer in time .
a general term for mycobacterium infections of any part of the urogenital system in either the male or the female .
a malignant neoplasm involving the body of uterus .
inflammation in the nasal cavity mucosa that results from the abnormal regulation of the blood flow in the nose .
a condition caused by infection by the venezuelan equine encephalitis virus ,  which is characterized by headache ,  fever ,  myalgia ,  nausea ,  and vomiting .
a well differentiated squamous cell carcinoma characterized by a papillary growth pattern ,  acanthosis ,  mild cytologic atypia ,  and pushing tumor margins .
abnormal flow of urine from the urinary bladder back into the ureters .
idiopathic inflammation of the vestibular nerve ,  characterized clinically by the acute or subacute onset of vertigo ;  nausea ;  and imbalance .
encephalitis resulting from viral infection .
a systemic infection of various salmonid and a few nonsalmonid fishes caused by viral hemorrhagic septicemia virus  ( see novirhabdovirus )  , 
a hepatitis that involves viral infection of an animal causing inflammation of the liver .
inflammation of the lung parenchyma that is caused by a viral infection .
a viral infectious disease that results_in infection located_in brain in sheep and goats ,  has_material_basis_in visna / maedi virus  ,  which is transmitted_by droplet spread of oronasal secretion ,  and transmitted_by ingestion of contaminated water ,  milk or colostrum .
infection of the vulva and vagina with a fungus of the genus candida .
a serious disorder characterized by massive adrenal gland hemorrhage secondary to a bacterial infection ,  most often neisseria meningitidis infection .
an acute arboviral infection caused by a virus of the flaviviridae family transmitted by an infected mosquito ,  that is asymptomatic in the majority of cases but that can present in rare occasions with mild flulike symptoms such as low - grade fever ,  arthralgia ,  myalgia ,  and / or rash ,  or with neurologic manifestations including meningitis ,  encephalitis with mental confusion or disorientation ,  tremors and acute flaccid paralysis / poliomyelitis .
an acute arboviral infection caused by an alphavirus of the togaviridae family transmitted by an infected mosquito ,  that more frequently affects children and that is characterized by the presence of mild flulike symptoms  ( fever ,  chills ,  headache ,  nausea ,  vomiting ,  and anorexia )  but that can progress to weakness ,  altered mental status ,  photophobia ,  mental confusion ,  seizures ,  somnolence ,  coma and / or even death .
a rheumatic syndrome of possibly allergic origin ,  usually affecting children and adolescents ,  and characterized by high fever ,  exanthema ,  arthralgia ,  leukocytosis ,  and increased sedimentation rate .
an endemic ,  infectious ,  nonvenereal disease in humans that presents mainly in children younger than 15 years .
zollinger - ellison syndrome  ( zes )  is characterized by severe peptic disease  ( ulcers / esophageal disease )  caused by hypergastrinemia secondary to a gastrinoma resulting in increased gastric acid secretion .
an image analysis technique combining automated fluorescence microscopy with multi - parameter quantitative image analysis for the large scale study of cells  ( cellomics )  .
high throughput sample analysis of rnai molecules for potential application in gene knockdown or gene silencing of target genes .
high throughput sample analysis of collections of compounds that provide a variety of chemically diverse structures that can be used to identify structure types that have affinity with pharmacological targets .
an experimental stage is spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of a scientic experimental process ;  e .g .
an experimental stage describing stages of high content screen analysis
an initial ,  exploratory screen
a screen to investigate further potential genes or phenotypes of interest .
a screen to check whether the results in another screen are reproducible .
a screening library is a collection of materials engineered to identify qualities of a subset of its members during a screening process .
a collection of sets of cells in which a different target gene has been deleted in each set'
a collection of sets of haploid cells in which a different gene has been deleted in each set
a collection of sets of diploid cells in which a different gene has been deleted in each set ,  such that both copies of the gene has been deleted
nucleic acid library that is comprised of small interfering rna molecules .
rnai library that is comprised of small  ( 20 - 25 nucleotides )  interfering rna or silencing rna that targets mrna for degradation .
a collection of sets of cells in which a different gene is targetted in each set such that it results in a recombinant protein with a polypeptide fusion partner or tag which can be used for protein detection
a collection of sets of cells in which a different gene is targetted in each set such that it results in a protein fused with the gfp protein
a collection of sets of cells in which a different gene is targetted in each set such that it results in a protein fused with the yfp protein
a collection of sets of cells in which a different gene is targetted in each set such that it results in a protein fused with ha and flag protein epitopes
 the name of a small molecule collection from one source ,  which can be either commercial or academic ,  e .g . ,  mlsmr ,  lopac ,  etc .
a protocol which describes a part of the process in performing a high content screen experiment
a protocol which provides instructions on how to create the library used in an high content screen experiment .
a protocol which provides instructions on how to obtain images and extract features from the images in an high content screen experiment .
a protocol which provides instructions on how to analyse or interpret the results from images or feature profiles in a high content screen experiment
quantification of some toxic metal in a blood sample
quantification of some aluminium in a blood sample
quantification of some cadmium in a blood sample
quantification of some cobalt in a blood sample
quantification of some copper in a blood sample
quantification of some chromium in a blood sample
quantification of some mercury in a blood sample
quantification of some manganese in a blood sample
quantification of some molybdenum in a blood sample
quantification of some nickel in a blood sample
quantification of some zinc in a blood sample
the consumption of the recreational drug cannabis  ( also known as marijuna and a number of other colloquial names )  .
initiation of the use of cannabis ,  either regular or occasional
an oryza sativa culivar that is an updated assembly of "os - nipponbare - reference - irgsp - 1 .0" signifying that it is from rice  ( oryza sativa )  ,  the nipponbare cultivar ,  a high quality reference assembly ,  from the irgsp ,  and version 1 .0 .
this ensembl plants pre - site contains the first release of the tgacv1 genome assembly of triticum aestivum cv .
etiolation: growth habit adopted by germinating seedlings in the dark .
 in the late 1980s ,  use of the inbred line mo 17 originating from the usa ,  which carries gene ht for resistance to nclb ,  effectively controlled this disease
quantification of the accruel of bone mineral density over time
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of the level of dna strand breaks in a cell ,  for example induced by an antineoplastic agent such a bleomycin .
hap1 is a near - haploid human cell line that was derived from the male chronic myelogenous leukemia  ( cml )  cell line kbm - 7 .
l1 - s8 is a partially reprogrammed cell line generated from human bone marrow mononuclear cells  ( bmmcs )  after prestimulation with early cytokines  ( tpo ,  fl ,  scf ,  il - 3 )  and transduced with sendai viruses expressing the four factors oct4 ,  sox2 ,  klf4 and cmyc .
l1 - s8r is a human ipsc line derived from l1 - s8 after transduction with lentiviral vector plm - fsv2a  ( papapetrou et al nbt 2011 )  expressing oct4 ,  sox2 ,  klf4 and cmyc .
mn1 is a cholinergic motor neuron cell line derived from a fusion of n18tg2 with embryonic mouse spinal cord motor neurons  ( clone 2f1 .10 .14 .7 ) 
quantification of the total volume of a brain's four ventricles ,  usuallly through an mri scan
arabidopsis thaliana ecotype of geographical location blackmount ,  uk
common name thale cress ,  thale - cress ,  mouse - ear cress class 	ecotype type 	brassicaceae description 	blackmount ,  uk
arabidopsis thaliana of geographical location lipowiec / chrzanow poland
country 	   	sweden location 	   	staff 11 latitude  ( min / max )  	   	55 .6561  /  55 .6561
arabidopsis thaliana of geographical location pedriza spain
rwpe - 2 cells were derived from rwpe - 1 cells  ( atcc crl - 11609 )  by transformation with ki - ras using the kirsten murine sarcoma virus  ( ki - musv )  .
human anaplastic large cell lymphoma cell line ,  established from the pleural effusion of a 73 - year - old female .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of acute asthma exacerbations in an individual ,  generally defined by short courses of treatment with medication such as oral steroids .
quantification of some aspect of thrombus formation ,  ie the formation of a blood clot inside a blood vessel through the aggregation of platelets and fibrin
quantification of some aspect of hearing
quantification of an individual's hearing thresholds through exposure to pure tone stimuli
quantification of the highest and / or lowest frequency of sound perceived by an individual
quantification of suicide ideation
quantification of the mineral mass per unit volume of bone ,  generally expressed in grams per cubic centimeter or per ml .
quantification of the form or content of one or more of the mineral components of bone
quantification in a plasma sample of the levels of soluble receptor for advanced glycation end - products  ( srage )  .
any behaviour related to suicide ,  including suicide ideation and self - harm
the process of deliberately and successfully terminating one's life
clinical sign or symptom manifested as debility ,  or lack or loss of strength and energy .
quantification of some aspect ,  eg the presence / absence or severity of emphysema through the use of imaging techniques such as ct scans
quantification of the size of or level of damage to a person's airways using medical imaging techniques such as ct scans .
quantification of the amount of air that is abnormally retained in the lungs at the end of an exhalation .
hemoglobin a1 measurement is a measure of the quantity of the metallo protein hemoglobin a . hemoglobin a  ( hba )  ,  also known as adult hemoglobin or a2b2 ,  is the most common human hemoglobin tetramer ,  comprising over 97% of the total red blood cell hemoglobin .
is a quantification ,  typically in blood ,  of glycerophospholipids ,  a group of glycerol - based phospholipids
is a quantification of the monosaccharide hexose in a sample ,  typically in blood
elevated levels of blood lipids as a result of a high - fat meal
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
period of major depressive symptoms that occurs as part of a wider mental or psychiatric disorder such as bipolar disorder
quantification of the metabolism rate of drugs such as psychotropic drugs ,  defined as the quotient of a drug's serum concentration  ( in nmol / l )  by its prescribed daily dosage  ( in mg / day )  .
quantification of an individual's attention function through administration of one or more standardised tests such as the connors continuous performance test - ii  ( cpt - ii ) 
one of several constitutional types used to classify individuals in traditional chinese medicine
one of the constitution types used in tcm .
quantification of an individual's sensitity to uv radiation ,  defined as the shortest exposure to ultraviolet radiation that produces reddening of the skin within 1 to 6 hr and disappears in 24 hr
mouse embryo stage at age 12 days
mouse embryo stage at age 9 .5 days
mouse embryo stage at age 13 days
mouse embryo stage at age 10 .5 days
mouse embryo stage at age 9 days
quantification of some aspect of alcohol consumption over a long period of time  ( typically several years ) 
quantification of accumulation of amyloid plaques in the brain over a long period of time  ( typically several years )  ,  measured by using pet scan imaging technology .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of the lowest concentration of vancomycin in a patient's blood during the course of treatment .
quantification of the rate at which the kidneys eliminate a substance from the blood stream
quantification of the amount of soluble interleukin - 2 receptor subunit alpha in a sample
quantification in a urine sample of s - phenylmercapturic acid ,  a specific biomarker of benzene uptake in smokers
the characteristics in health that a certain person has .
the characteristics of a person's cardiovascular health based on a number of factors including cholesterol levels in the absence of treatment ,  blood pressure and diabetes status
the characteristics of a person's cardiovascular health based on a number of factors including cholesterol levels in the absence of treatment ,  blood pressure ,  diabetes status ,  bmi and smoking status
quantification of the amount of the glycoprotein clusterin in a sample .
quantification of the amount of the clusterin in a sample of blood plasma
quantification of the amount of the clusterin in a sample of cerebrospinal fluid
quantification of the presence or absence of a marker ,  eg a gene or a substance ,  in a sample
quantification of the presence or absence of apolipoprotein e  ( apoe )  in an individual
quantification of some aspect of neuroticism or neurotic behaviour ,  such as severity or frequency of neurotic behaviour .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of some aspect of aggressive behaviour during childhood ,  usually assessed through the use of standardised questionnaires .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the fine ,  keratinized filamentous growths arising from the epidermis of mammals .
the physical distance from the outer edge of the outer ear to the head
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical magnitude of the soft tissue at the base of the outer ear ;  consists of fat and fibrous tissue not reinforced by the auricular cartilage .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the physical attachment of the soft tissue at the base of the outer ear to the head .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the size of the tragus ,  a small pointed eminence of the external ear ,  situated in front of the concha ,  and projecting backward over the meatus
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the size of the antitragus ,  a feature of human ear anatomy .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape and structure of the helix ,  the outer rim of the ear .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape and structure of the antihelix ,  a y - shaped curved cartilaginous ridge arising from the antitragus and separating the concha ,  triangular fossa ,  and scapha .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape and structure of the crus helix ,  the continuation of the anteroinferior ascending helix ,  which extends in a posteroinferior direction into the cavity of the concha above the external auditory meatus .
any measurable or observable characteristic related to the shape and structure of the upper cartilaginous ridge arising at the bifurcation of the antihelix that separates the scapha from the triangular fossa .
a congenital ear condition which often presents as a thickening on the helix at the junction of the upper and middle thirds .
quantification of some aspect of cancer metastases ,  incl presence / abscence ,  size ,  location or origin
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
peak distance between two specified opposite points on the periphery of blood - derived low - density lipoprotein  ( ldl )  particles
quantification of the total amount of dietary fat consumed by an individual
quantification of some aspect of oppositional defiant disorder such as irritability or number of temper tantrums ,  usually assessed by means of standardised questionnaires
quantification of some aspect of a person's gait such as rhythm ,  variability or step length
quantification of the change in triglyceride levels in an individual over time ,  eg over the course of several hours after a high - fat meal
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
physiological response of an organism ,  eg in terms of blood lipid levels ,  to the ingestition of high fat food
physiological response of an organism to trichloroethylene ,  an industrial chemical which has been identified with neurotoxicity ,  hepatotoxicity ,  kidney toxicity ,  and immunotoxicity .
a type of shock that occurs as a result of a surgical procedure .
an assay in which a set of micrornas of a biological sample is analysed by reverse transcription pcr  ( rt - pcr ) 
chromosome conformation capture techniques were designed to analyse the 3 - dimensional organisation and interaction of chromatin in a cell .
3c stands for "chromosome conformation capture" ,  which is the original method developed for the class of techniques later collectively also called "chromosome conformation capture" .
chromosome conformation capture - on - chip  ( 4c )  is an extension of the 3c  ( chromosome conformation capture )  technique that studies 3 - dimensional organisation and interaction of chromatin in a cell .
capture - c combines 3c and next - gen sequencing with oligonucleotide capture technology  ( oct )  .
5c stands for "chromosome conformation capture carbon copy" .
hi - c is a method for analysing 3 - dimensional organisation and interaction of chromatin ,  belonging to the class of techniques collectively called "chromosome conformation capture" ,  in which chromatin is crosslinked ,  then digested ,  and re - ligated in such a way that only dna fragments that are covalently linked together form ligation products .
under environmental conditions which are favourable for reproduction ,  hatched larvae develop through four stages or molts ,  designated as l1 to l4 .
zebrafish have the ability to regenerate their fins ,  skin ,  heart ,  lateral line hair cells ,  and ,  during their larval stages ,  brain .
protruding - mouth stage  ( 72 h ) :  modified from: kimmel et al . ,  1995 .
quantification of the volume of grey matter in the left superior temporal gyrus ,  usuallly through an mri scan
quantification of the presence or absence of a mutation in the gene for glucocerebrosidase  ( gba )  in an individual
quantification of some aspect of eye movement
quantification of a participants eye tracking while viewing stationary s - shaped figures
mineral density of the spine bones
mineral density of the hip bone
quantification in a sample of autoantibodies against hystidil - trna synthetase ,  an enzyme which in humans is encoded by the hars gene
quantification of some aspect ,  eg frequency or severity ,  of depressive episodes in patients with mental or behavioural disorders such as bipolar disorder or clinical depression
quantification of some aspect ,  eg frequency or severity ,  of manic episodes in patients with bipolar disorder
period of manic or hypomanic symptoms that occurs as part of a wider mental or psychiatric disorder such as bipolar disorder
quantification by pet scan imaging or other techniques of the deposition of amyloid proteins in any part of the cerebral cortex
quantification of the ratio of t - tau protein to beta - amyloid 1 - 42 protein in a sample
quantification of the ratio of p - tau protein to beta - amyloid 1 - 42 protein in a sample
quantification of some aspect of cognitive decline such as the rate at which it occurs or its severity ,  for example in patients with dementia or alzheimer's disease .
any developmental stage in platyhelminthes  ( flatworms ) 
an infectious life - cycle stage ,  which can infect by direct skin penetration  ( e .g .
a tailless cercarium of schistosoma sp ,  3 hours post - infection by skin penetration of the definitive host .
a tailless cercarium of schistosoma sp ,  24 hours post - infection by skin penetration of the definitive host .
he mature ,  fully developed life stage of platyhelminthes ,  usually capable of sexual reproduction .
quantification of some aspect of the carotid artery ,  eg its size ,  diameter or stiffness
quantification of some aspect of the carotid artery geometry
quantification of the stiffness of the carotid artery
quantification of the external diameter of the carotid artery
quantification of the internal diameter of the carotid artery
quantification of the central pulse pressure in the carotid artery
quantification of the area of a cross section of the carotid artery's wall
quantification of mean blood pressure in the carotid artery
quantification of the circumferential wall stress of the carotid artery ,  an indicator for carotid artery stiffness
a life cycle stage that starts with fertilization and ends with the fully formed embryo .
originally inbred at the rockefeller institute ,  akr mice are widely used in cancer research for their high leukemia incidence  ( 60 - 90% )  and in immunology as a source of the thy1 .1  ( theta akr )  antigen .
  both cast / eij and casa / rkj  ( stock no .
fvb / nj was inbred for the fv1b allele which confers sensitivity to the friend leukemia virus b strain .
nzo mice of both sexes exhibit high birth weights and are significantly heavier at weaning age .
pwk was derived from wild mice trapped near prague ,  czech republic .
watkins star line b  ( wsb )  was derived from wild mice trapped in eastern shore ,  maryland .
this is an nih subline of c57bl / 6 .
lp / j mice display a high susceptibility to audiogenic seizures .
the wild - derived inbred strain spret / ei is often used in crosses with common inbred strains to create highly polymorphic panels for genetic mapping .
cba / j inbred mice are widely used as a general purpose strain .
diabetes in nod / shiltj mice is characterized by insulitis ,  a leukocytic infiltrate of the pancreatic islets .
adiponection measurement that has been adjusted by subjects body mass index by performing linear regressions for adiponectin against bmi
quantification of some aspect of the cingulate cortex ,  a part of the brain situated in the medial aspect of the cerebral cortex
quantification of the thickness of the grey matter in the left superior temporal gyrus
the magnitude of the s wave ,  the downward deflection of the qrs complex following the r wave representing late depolarization of the ventricles as illustrated in an electrocardiograph .
the magnitude of the r wave ,  which is the initial upward deflection of the qrs complex following the q wave representing early depolarization of the ventricles as illustrated by an electrocardiograph .
the magnitude of the portion of the electrocardiograph comprising the q ,  r ,  and s waves which together represent ventricular depolarization .
quantification of the severity of an infection with the influenza type a virus
quantification of the severity of lung disease ,  eg cystic fibrosis ,  through comparison of an individual's fev1 score to the average age - specific percentile values of fev1 for each patient in a study
quantification of lactate in a sample
quantification of the progression of lesions in white matter of the brain using magnetic resonance imaging
quantification of the severity of hypertrophic scarring in burn patients ,  usually using the vancouver scar scale  ( vss ) 
non - transformed bj cells expressing htert and sv40 early region .
non - transformed bj cells expressing htert .
transformed bj cells expressing htert ,  sv40 early region and ras .
feeder free cell line derived from e14tg2a .
human prostate cancer cell line .
quantification of some aspect of the seasonal variation in the micrbiome of the gut
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
sequential manifestations of different allergic diseases such as eczema ,  asthma and rhinitis .
quantification of the presence or absence of staphylococcus aureus colonies in an individual .
quantification of the consistent presence or absence of staphylococcus aureus colonies in an individual at at least two separate points in time
quantification of the change in presence or absence of staphylococcus aureus colonies in an individual at two different points in time ,  from positive to negative or negative to positve
the determination of the amount of alpha - linolenic acid present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of eicosapentaenoic acid present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of docosahexaenoic acid present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of gamma - linolenic acid present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of dihomo - gamma - linolenic acid present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of delta - 5 desaturase in a sample ,  generally estimated as the ratio of arachidonic acid:diohomo - gamma - linolenic acid
the determination of the amount of delta - 5 desaturase in a sample ,  generally estimated as the ratio of diohomo - gamma - linolenic acid:linolenic acid
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of the ratio of thoracic circumference to hip circumference ,  used as an indicator of type 2 diabetes risk
quantification of the amount of fentanyl ,  an opiate ,  consumed within the first 24hrs after a surgical intervention
quantification of  the absence of residual invasive disease in the breast and in the axillary lymph nodes at the completion of the neoadjuvant treatment
bone quantitiave ultrasound of the main bone in the heel ,  recognized as a non - invasive method for evaluation of bone strength and prediction of osteoporotic fracture
quantification of the presence or absence of psoriatic arthritis in patients with psoriasis vulgaris
quantification of the amount of thrombomodulin in a sample
quantification of the amount of thrombin - antithrombin complex in a sample
quantification of the amount of prothrombin fragments f1 + 2 in a sample
quantification of an individual's base metabolic rate ,  the minimum amount of energy required to sustain life while at complete rest ,  including the body being in a post - absorptive state  ( ie the digestive system is inactive )  .
quantification of the ratio of albumin to creatinine in a urine sample
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of some aspect of periodontitis or periodontal examinations ,  including acute vs chronic status ,  interproximal clincial attachement level and others
quantification of some aspect of stressful life events ,  such as the presence or absence thereof ,  the severity of the event or their impact on general health or pre - existing conditions .
quantification of some aspect of muscle function deterioration such as the rate at which it occurs or its severity ,  for example in patients with neurodegenerative conditions such as als .
mineral density of the neck of the femur ,  the region just below the ball of the hip joint
quantification of some aspect's of a female's menstrual cycle such as its length
quantification in a plasma sample of betaine ,  an amino acid derived from glycine .
waist - hip ratio that has been adjusted by subjects body mass index
waist circumference measurement that has been adjusted by subjects body mass index
measurement of the igg antibody isotype produced by plasma cells in response to an epstein barr virus infection ,  specifically to the epsteinbarr virus nuclear antigen 1
rheumatoid factor seropositivity is the result of a measurement of circulating  autoantibodies called rheumatoid factors that contribute to a number of autoimmune diseases including rheumatoid arthritis
quantification of some aspect of antipsychotic drug use such as drug dosage
leptin measurement that has been adjusted for subjects' body mass index
quantification of the ratio of 3 - trans - hydroxycotinine to cotinine in a sample ,  typically in a urine or blood sample
quantification of some aspect of anxiety disorder such as its presence or absence in an individual or its severity
length of an individual's parents' life ,  either taken individually  ( paternal or maternal longevity )  or in combination and sometimes used as an indicator of an individual longevity
quantification of some aspect of language or language development
quantification of an individual's linguistic error rate ,  generally through the administration of standardised tests or the analysis of language samples by a specialist
quantification of an individual's ability to form syntactically complex language constructs ,  generally through the administration of standardised tests or the analysis of language samples by a specialist
quantification of the amount of body fat as a percentage of total body mass ,  calculated as either total mass of fat divided by total body mass or one of a number of more complex weighted equations .
quantification in a sample  ( eg blood )  of lycopene ,  a bright red carotene and carotenoid pigment and phytochemical found in tomatoes and other red fruits and vegetables ,  such as red carrots ,  watermelons and papayas
quantification of some aspect of obsessive - compulsive symptoms ,  such as their existence and severity ,  usually via a standardised questionnaire or interview with a qualified mental health professional
quantification of some aspect of emotional problem symptoms ,  such as their existence and severity ,  usually via a standardised questionnaire such as the emotional symptoms subscale of the strengths and difficulties questionnaire or interview with a qualified mental health professional
quantification of the change in ldl cholesterol levels in an individual over time ,  eg over the course of several hours after a high - fat meal or following treatment with a cholesterol - lowering drug
quantification of the change in hdl cholesterol levels in an individual over time ,  eg over the course of several hours after a high - fat meal or following treatment with a cholesterol - lowering drug
quantification of the change in total cholesterol levels in an individual over time ,  eg over the course of several hours after a high - fat meal or following treatment with a cholesterol - lowering drug
quantification of the amount of cadmium present in erythrocytes .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
measurement of the igg1 antibody isotype produced by plasma cells in response to a plasmodium falciparum infection
measurement of the igg3 antibody isotype produced by plasma cells in response to a plasmodium falciparum infection
measurement of the igg antibody isotype produced by plasma cells in response to a plasmodium falciparum infection
quantification of cotinine in a sample
quantification of some aspect of refractive errors ,  which occur when the shape of the eye prevents light from focusing directly on the retina .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of some aspect of obstructive sleep apnea ,  such as oxygen desaturation levels during an apnea event or severity ,  duration or frequency of apnea events
quantification of some aspect of athletic endurance
quantification in a sample of advanced glycation end - products  ( ages )  ,  a diverse group of molecules produced by the non - enzymatic addition of glucose to proteins ,  lipids ,  and nucleic acids ,  possibly associated with hyperglycemia and diabetic complications
cbt is a psychosocial intervention that is the most widely used evidence - based practice for treating mental disorders .
quantification of some aspect of hair morphology such as hair density ,  colour ,  thickness or growth pattern
quantification of some aspect of hair colour ,  such as whether greying occurs ,  how advanced greying is or qualification to what colour family hair belongs
quantification of the thickness or density of facial air ,  including beards and eyebrows
quantification of some aspect of hair shape ,  eg whether it is curly or straight
quantification of the amount of balding in an individual
quantification of some aspect of aggressive behaviour
quantification of some aspect of nighttime rest such as duration or quality
quantification of some aspect of daytime rest such as duration ,  frequency or quality
behaviors associated with the ingesting of food ;  includes rhythmic patterns of eating  ( time intervals  -  onset and duration )  ,  frequency and satiety as well as the types of food chosen
quantification of some aspect of food addiction such as presence or absence or severity of symptoms ,  usually assessed through a standarised questionnaire or structured interview with a mental health professional
a sample specimen consisting of exactly 1 cell
single cell sequencing examines the sequence information from individual cells with optimized next generation sequencing  ( ngs )  technologies ,  providing a higher resolution of cellular differences and a better understanding of the function of an individual cell in the context of its microenvironment .
c3h / heouj mice are used as a general purpose strain in a wide variety of research areas including cancer and sensorineural ,  research .
a premalignant neoplastic nodular lesion of the liver that usually measures less than 15 mm .
quantification of some aspect of alcohol dependence or misuse ,  eg using a cummulative symptom score to determine the severity of a case of alcohol dependence
quantification in a sample of the amount of coenzyme q10 ,  a lipophilic redox molecule that is present in membranes of almost all cells in human tissues ,  is essential for the respiratory transport chain and is a modulator of inflammatory processes and gene expression
anti - citrullinated protein antibody seropositivity is the result of a measurement of circulating anti - cyclic citrullinated peptide antibodies
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
caroli was derived from wild mice trapped in thailand and is from the species mus caroli ,  which is distantly related to laboratory mice and does not breed with laboratory mice .
quantification of some aspect of pesticide exposure such as frequency ,  duration or severity
quantification of some aspect of facial morphology such as lip thickness ,  forehead height or chin protrusion
quantification of some aspect of chin morphology such as chin shape or chin protrusion
quantification of some aspect of nose morphology such as nose wing breadth ,  nose tip shape or nose profile
quantification of some aspect of forehead morphology such as forehead profile ,  forehead height or brow - ridge protrusion
quantification of some aspect of lip morphology such as upper lip or lower lip thickness or lip curvature
quantification of some aspect of cheekbone morphology such as cheekbone protrusion
quantification of serum lipoprotein a - iv .
quantification of brain function ,  usually via functional magnetic resonance imaging  ( mri )  ,  for example using blood - oxygen - level dependent contrast imaging  ( bold )  ,  often measured in response to a stimulus such as performing a task or exposure to images ,  sounds or smells
quantification of the amount or severity of solar lentigines ,  flat tan to brown spots sometimes called liver spots ,  on an individual's skin .
seroconversion is the process during which a specific antibody develops and becomes detectable in the blood .
quantification of the activity of the enzyme thiopurine methyltransferase in a sample
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of peak torque values of the knee flexor muscles
quantification of some aspect of facial width ,  such a the cranial base width
quantification of some aspect of facial height ,  such a the height of the entire face or the height of the upper half of the face
quantification of some aspect of facial depth ,  such as the distance from the tip of the nose to the tip of the ear lobe
quantification of some aspect of eye morphology ,  such as the width of the eye socket
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of some aspect of adhd symptoms such as presence / absence or severity ,  usually through administration of standardised questionnaires or evaluation by a qualified professional
quantification of the ratio between two body measures ,  eg waist - hip ratio
quantification of some aspect of reproductive behaviour such as age at first birth or number of children
quantification of the severity of a patient's illness ,  eg critical or mild
quantification of the amount of sulfate ,  an inorganic polyatomic anion ,  in a sample .
quantification of some aspect of loneliness ,  such as severity or presence / absence ,  generally through administration of a standardised questionnaire such as the 3 - item leave behind questionnaire  ( lbq )  .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of some aspect of wellbeing such as life satisfaction or emotional wellbeing ,  usually self - reported and quantified through the use of a structured questionnaire
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of caffeine  ( 1 , 3 , 7 trimethylxanthine )  or any metabolite derived from caffeine ,  including paraxanthine  ( 1 , 7 dimethylxanthine )  ,  theophylline  ( 1 , 3 dimethylxanthine )  ,  and theobromine  ( 3 , 7 dimethylxanthine )  in a sample
quantification of the thickness of cartilage in a joint ,  most commonly the hip joint ,  for example using minimal joint space width  ( mjsw )  as a proxy measure .
quantification of some aspect of an individual's micrbiome of the gut
quantification of excessive daytime sleepiness such as how often it occurs and its severity
quantification of insomnia such as how often it occurs and its severity
quantification of some aspect of risky sexual behaviour such as frequency of unprotected sexual intercourse and number of sexual partners within a given time frame
quantification of some aspect of alcohol consumption such as frequency or quantity
physical trait of the small toe ,  where a minuscule "sixth toenail" is present in the outer corner of the nail situated on the smallest toe
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of some aspect of job - related exhaustion such as severity or duration
quantification of some aspect of an individual's microbiome
quantification of the taxonomic variation in a microbiome sample
quantification of the functional variation in a microbiome
measurement of the repolarisation phase of the heart's electrical cycle ,  defined as the difference between the duration of the qt interval and duration of the qrs interval
quantification in a sample of the organochlorine pesticide dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane  ( ddt )  or any metabolite derived from ddt ,  eg 2 ,  2 - bis  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  - 1 ,  1 - dichloroethene  ( p , p - dde ) 
condition that causes variable difficulty to control sneezing in response to numerous stimuli ,  such as looking at bright lights or periocular  ( surrounding the eyeball )  injection
the age of onset of  ( human )  voice drop ,  the deepening of the voice of adolescents as they reach puberty
quantification of some aspect of dysmenorrheic pain  ( menstrual cramps )  ,  such as their severity or duration
quantification of adipose tissue located around the heart
quantification of epidermal permeability barrier status ,  for example using transepidermal water loss ,  the passive diffusion of water from the hydrated layers of the dermis and epidermis towards those layers with a lower water content
quantification of the effect of the donor genotype on the success of an organ or tissue transplant
quantification in a sample  ( eg blood )  of alpha - carotene ,  the second most common form of carotene ,  with a  - ionone ring at one end and an  - ionone ring at the opposite end
quantification in a sample  ( eg blood )  of beta - carotene ,  an organic ,  strongly colored red - orange pigment abundant in plants and fruits .
quantification in a sample  ( eg blood )  of lutein ,  a xanthophyll and one of 600 known naturally occurring carotenoids .
quantification in a sample  ( eg blood )  of zeaxanthin ,  one of the most common carotenoid alcohols found in nature and the pigment that gives paprika ,  corn ,  saffron ,  wolfberries ,  and many other plants and microbes their characteristic color
quantification in a sample  ( eg blood )  of cryptoxanthin ,  a carotenoid closely related in terms of structure to beta - carotene and that has been isolated from a variety of sources including the petals and flowers of plants in the genus physalis ,  orange rind ,  papaya ,  egg yolk ,  butter ,  apples ,  and bovine blood serum
quantification in a sample of alpha - tocopherol ,  a form of vitamin e that is preferentially absorbed and accumulated in humans
quantification in a sample of gamma - tocopherol
quantification in a sample  ( eg blood )  of retinol ,  a vitamin a retinoid synthesized from the breakdown of  - carotene
quantification of the ratio of hepcidin to ferritin in a sample
quantification of the ratio of hepcidin to transferrin saturation ,  the amount of iron bound to transferrin ,  in a sample
quantification of the ratio of magnesium to calcium in a sample ,  typically a urine sample ,  a proxy measure for the differential handling by the renal tubule and excretion of ca2 +  and mg2 + 
quantification of an individual's susceptibility to childhood ear infections ,  generally as a count of number of infections suffered or a binary scale of presence or absence of childhood ear infections
quantification of the severity of joint hypermobility ,  for example using the beighton score ,  a score ranging from 0 to 9 based on 9 different measurements regarding the hypermobility of finger ,  knee ,  elbow ,  thumb and hip hypermobility
quantification of some aspect of unibrows ,  such as their presence or absence ,  or their severity
quantification of some aspect of methadone dosage
quantification of some aspect of air pollution through traffic ,  such as annual average no2 exposure estimates derived using land use regression modeling
quantification of the amount of chromogranin a cleavage product in a sample
quantification of the amount of chromogranin b cleavage product in a sample
quantification of some aspect of personality traits ,  usually through administration of standardised questionnaire such as the big five inventory  ( bfi ) 
quantification of conscientiousness ,  usually through administration of standardised questionnaire such as the big five inventory  ( bfi ) 
quantification of extraversion ,  usually through administration of standardised questionnaire such as the big five inventory  ( bfi ) 
quantification of openness ,  usually through administration of standardised questionnaire such as the big five inventory  ( bfi ) 
quantification of agreeableness ,  usually through administration of standardised questionnaire such as the big five inventory  ( bfi ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification an individual's risk of undergoing tonsillectomy .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
extreme pathological inflammatory response of an organism to an infection ,  for example seen in certain types of leprosy
quantification of the severity of schizophrenia symptoms ,  for example as a result of treatment .
quantification in an electrocardiogram of the number of qrs complexes per minute
quantification of the ratio of  triglyceride to hdl cholesterol in a sample
quantification of the ratio of ldl cholesterol to hdl cholesterol in a sample
quantification of the ratio of non - hdl cholesterol to hdl cholesterol in a sample
quantification of the susceptibility of developing multiple keratinocyte carcinomas  ( mkc )  ,  which is defined as the presence of more than one basal cell carcinoma  ( bcc )  or squamous cell carcinoma  ( scc )  .
mineral density of the radial bone
the clearance rate of creatinine ,  that is ,  the volume of plasma that is cleared of creatinine by the kidneys per unit time .
quantification of the ratio of uric acid to creatinine in a urine sample
quantification of some aspect of disease prognosis
quantification of the levels of some protein in a blood sample
quantification of coronary atherosclerosis as the number of diseased coronary vessels at the time of a catheterization procedure .
quantification of the range and severity of respiratory symptoms ,  either through clinical examination or through a standardised questionnaire assessing variables such as presence and severity of cough ,  pleghm and dyspnea
morphological and functional abnormalities of the venous system of long duration manifested either by symptoms and / or signs indicating the need for investigation and / or care
quantification of the severity of sciatica symptoms in patients with lumbar disc herniation .
quantification of the hip osteoarthritis symptoms .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of an individual's level of exposure to an allergen such as a food allergen or dust mites .
quantification of some aspect of agoraphobia symptoms such as their frequency or severity ,  usually via a structured questionnaire such as the agoraphobia cognition questionnaire  ( acq ) 
quantification an individual's level of tiredness ,  generally via a standardised questionnaire or structured interview .
quantification of the galactose - deficient immunoglobulin a1 ,  a form of immunoglobulin a1 deficient in the 3 - 6 o - glycans usually present in the hinge - region segments of the heavy chains of immunoglobulin a1 .
hiv - associated neurocognitive disorder  ( hand )  remains a common complication of hiv infection in the combination antiretroviral therapy  ( art )  era .
acute - on - chronic liver failure  ( aclf )  is an extreme condition during the natural history of chronic hbv infection ,  with a relatively high short - term mortality .
induced pluripotent stem cell line ;  participant #1  ( hu43860c )  in the personal genome project: http: /  / www .personalgenomes .org fibroblast culture from this same subject from which this cell line was made is gm23248and a matching lymphoblast line from this same subject is gm20431 .
this induced pluripotent stem cell  ( ipsc )  line was generated from dermal fibroblasts ,  by viral transduction of oct4 ,  sox2 ,  klf4 ,  c - myc ,  htert ,  and sv40 large t antigen transgenes .
induced pluripotent stem cell line isolated from skin sample ag20443 .
induced pluripotent stem cell line isolated from skin sample ag08395 .
quantification of some aspect of mouth morphology such as mouth width
quantification of the ratio between absolute monocyte count and absolute lymphocyte count
quantification in a urine sample of 1 , 3 - butadiene ,  a metabolite found in tobacco smoke and which is known to have carcinogenic properties
quantification of the effect of an external genotype ,  eg from a parent / fetus during pregnancy or organ donor ,  on some aspect of an individual's metabolic processes
quantification of the effect of the fetal genotype on the metabolic processes of the mother during pregnancy
quantification of organochlorine pesticides or metabolites derived from organochloride pesticides in a sample
quantification in a sample of some polybrominated biphenyls ,  a group of man - made environmental pollutants which accumulate in humans with adverse health effects
quantification in a sample of some polybrominated diphenyl ethers ,  a group of man - made environmental pollutants which accumulate in humans with adverse health effects
quantification of some aspect of paneth cell abnormality ,  such as abnormal morphology or abnormal number of cells .
quantification of some chemical compound such as a metabolite or environmental pollutant in a serum sample taken from a women at some stage during pregnancy
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of the activate metabolite of the platelet aggregation inhibitor clopidogrel in a sample
quantification of the concentration of ions in blood ,  often expressed as a function of sodium and glucose concentrations
quantification of the amount of tissue factor pathway inhibitor in a sample
quantification of cognitive inhibition or executive inhibition in an individual with adhd ,  measured for example using the stroop test
quantification of the amount of estrone in a sample
quantification of the amount of estrone conjugates ,  such as sulphate and glucuronide conjugates ,  in a sample
quantification of androstenedione in a sample
the determination of the amount of palmitoleic acid present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of vaccenic acid present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of gondoic acid present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of erucic acid present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of nervonic acid present in a sample .
quantification of the density of a red blood cell  ( drbc )  .
quantification of some aspect of childhood trauma such as type ,  severity or duration .
quantification of the flow of blood through vessels in the brain ,  including flow rate and flow velocity through the vessel .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
mild neurocognitive disorder  ( mnd )  is a mild form of hiv - associated neurocognitive disorder  ( hand )  ,  defined as mild neuropsychological impairment in two or more domains with at least mildly decreased everyday functioning
asymptomatic neurocognitive impairment  ( ani )  is a mild form of hiv - associated neurocognitive disorder  ( hand )  ,  defined as mild neuropsychological impairment in two or more domains but no decrease in everyday functioning
the determination of the amount of platelet shape changes present in a sample .
the proportion of blood volume that is occupied by platelets ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of reticulocytes per unit volume of blood .
the number of granulocytes  ( polymorphonuclear leukocytes )  in a specified volume of blood ,  usually 1 cubic millimeter .
the number of myeloid leukocytes in a specified volume of blood ,  usually 1 cubic millimeter .
a calculated measurement in which the number of monocytes in a specified sample of blood is divided by the total number of white blood cells in the sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of neutrophil granulocytes is divided by the number of all white blood cells in a specified sample of peripheral venous blood ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of eosinophil granulocytes is divided by the number of all white blood cells in a specified sample of peripheral venous blood ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of basophil granulocytes is divided by the number of all white blood cells in a specified sample of peripheral venous blood ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of lymphocytes in a specified sample of blood is divided by the total number of white blood cells in the sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of neutrophil granulocytes is divided by the number of all granulocytes in a specified sample of peripheral venous blood ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of basophil granulocytes is divided by the number of all granulocytes in a specified sample of peripheral venous blood ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of eosinophil granulocytes is divided by the number of all granulocytes in a specified sample of peripheral venous blood ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of granulocytes is divided by the number of all myeloid white cells in a specified sample of peripheral venous blood ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
quantification of some aspect of cognitive impairment such as its severity or rate of progression
quantification of the force that can be exerted by the lower body
quantification of the time point at which insulin secretion is highest
measurement of compounds ,  generally c - peptide or mature insulin ,  whose levels quantify insulin secretion from the pancreas .
quantification of some aspect of physical activity such as frequency or intensity
quantification of heart rate variability ,  the physiological phenomenon of variation in the time interval between heartbeats .
quantification of an individual's resting metabolic rate ,  the minimum amount of energy required to sustain life during a time period of steady resting conditions .
quantification of an individual's energy expenditure ,  generally considered to be the sum of internal heat produced and external work through physical activity
quantification of some aspect of skin aging such as wrinkling or photoaging .
the age of an individual at the time an assessment takes place
symptoms that result from pathologic processes affecting the urinary bladder and / or urethra .
quantification of the amount of 1 , 5 anydroglucitol in a sample
quantification of the amount of  [ pyruvate dehydrogenase acetyl - transferring ]  kinase isozyme 1 ,  mitochondrial in a sample
quantification of the amount of a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs 13 in a sample
quantification of the amount of abelson tyrosine - protein kinase 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of acid sphingomyelinase - like phosphodiesterase 3a in a sample
quantification of the amount of adp - ribosyl cyclase / cyclic adp - ribose hydrolase 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of afamin in a sample
quantification of the amount of agouti - related protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of alcohol dehydrogenase  [ nadp +  ]  in a sample
quantification of the amount of alpha - 1 - antichymotrypsin complex in a sample
quantification of the amount of alpha - 1 - antichymotrypsin in a sample
quantification of the amount of alpha - 2 - hs - glycoprotein in a sample
quantification of the amount of alpha - 2 - macroglobulin receptor - associated protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of angiogenin in a sample
quantification of the amount of angiopoietin - 1 receptor ,  soluble in a sample
quantification of the amount of angiostatin in a sample
quantification of the amount of angiotensinogen in a sample
quantification of the amount of annexin a1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of annexin a2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of apolipoprotein e isoform e2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of apolipoprotein e in a sample
quantification of the amount of arylsulfatase b in a sample
quantification of the amount of aspartate aminotransferase ,  cytoplasmic in a sample
quantification of the amount of basal cell adhesion molecule in a sample
quantification of the amount of beta - ala - his dipeptidase in a sample
quantification of the amount of beta - endorphin in a sample
quantification of the amount of beta - nerve growth factor in a sample
fasting blood glucose measurement that has been adjusted for subjects' body mass index
fasting insulin measurement that has been adjusted for subjects' body mass index
hip bone size measurement that has been adjusted for subjects' body mass index
hip circumference measurement  that has been adjusted for subjects' body mass index
quantification of the amount of breast cancer anti - estrogen resistance protein 3 in a sample
quantification of the amount of c - c motif chemokine 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of c - c motif chemokine 14 in a sample
quantification of the amount of c - c motif chemokine 15 in a sample
quantification of the amount of c - c motif chemokine 16 in a sample
quantification of the amount of c - c motif chemokine 17 in a sample
quantification of the amount of c - c motif chemokine 18 in a sample
quantification of the amount of c - c motif chemokine 19 in a sample
quantification of the amount of c - c motif chemokine 21 in a sample
quantification of the amount of c - c motif chemokine 23 in a sample
quantification of the amount of c - c motif chemokine 25 in a sample
quantification of the amount of c - c motif chemokine 3 in a sample
quantification of the amount of c - c motif chemokine 3 - like 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of c - c motif chemokine 5 in a sample
quantification of the amount of c - c motif chemokine 7 in a sample
quantification of the amount of c - c motif chemokine 8 in a sample
quantification of the amount of c - x - c motif chemokine 10 in a sample
quantification of the amount of c - x - c motif chemokine 11 in a sample
quantification of the amount of c - x - c motif chemokine 5 in a sample
quantification of the amount of c - x - c motif chemokine 6 in a sample
quantification of the amount of cadherin - 5 in a sample
quantification of the amount of calcineurin in a sample
quantification of the amount of calcium / calmodulin - dependent protein kinase type 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of calcium / calmodulin - dependent protein kinase type 1d in a sample
quantification of the amount of calpain i in a sample
quantification of the amount of calpastatin in a sample
quantification of the amount of carbohydrate sulfotransferase 15 in a sample
quantification of the amount of carbonic anhydrase 13 in a sample
quantification of the amount of carbonic anhydrase 6 in a sample
quantification of the amount of carboxypeptidase b2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of caspase - 3 in a sample
quantification of the amount of catalase in a sample
quantification of the amount of cathepsin b in a sample
quantification of the amount of cathepsin s in a sample
quantification of the amount of cathepsin z in a sample
quantification of the amount of cation - independent mannose - 6 - phosphate receptor in a sample
quantification of the amount of cd109 antigen in a sample
quantification of the amount of cd209 antigen in a sample
quantification of the amount of cd27 antigen in a sample
quantification of the amount of cell adhesion molecule - related / down - regulated by oncogenes in a sample
quantification of the volume of cerebrospinal fluid in the brain ,  usually through an mri scan
quantification of the amount of cgmp - specific 3' , 5' - cyclic phosphodiesterase in a sample
quantification of the amount of chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 27 in a sample
quantification of the amount of chemokine  ( c - x - c motif )  ligand 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of chitotriosidase - 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of ck - beta - 8 - 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of cmrf35 - like molecule 6 in a sample
quantification of the amount of coagulation factor v in a sample
quantification of the amount of collectin - 11 in a sample
quantification of the amount of complement c1q subcomponent in a sample
quantification of the amount of complement c1r subcomponent in a sample
quantification of the amount of complement c1s subcomponent in a sample
quantification of the amount of complement c4b in a sample
quantification of the amount of complement component c7 in a sample
quantification of the amount of complement component c8 in a sample
quantification of the amount of complement decay - accelerating factor in a sample
quantification of the amount of complement factor b in a sample
quantification of the amount of complement factor h in a sample
quantification of the amount of complement factor h - related protein 5 in a sample
quantification of the amount of complement factor i in a sample
quantification of the amount of contactin - 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of contactin - 5 in a sample
quantification of the amount of copine - 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of cystatin - d in a sample
quantification of the amount of cystatin - f in a sample
quantification of the amount of cystatin - sa in a sample
quantification of the amount of cystatin - sn in a sample
quantification of the amount of death - associated protein kinase 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of dermatopontin in a sample
quantification of the amount of dickkopf - related protein 3 in a sample
quantification of the amount of dickkopf - related protein 4 in a sample
quantification of some aspect of diet ,  including diet patterns ,  balance of nutrient consumption and glycemic load
quantification of the amount of dual specificity mitogen - activated protein kinase kinase 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of dual specificity mitogen - activated protein kinase kinase 4 in a sample
quantification of the amount of dynein light chain roadblock - type 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of ectonucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase 5 in a sample
quantification of the amount of egf - like module - containing mucin - like hormone receptor - like 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of elafin in a sample
quantification of the amount of endoglin in a sample
quantification of the amount of endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of endothelial cell - selective adhesion molecule in a sample
quantification of the amount of endothelin - converting enzyme 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of eotaxin in a sample
quantification of the amount of ephrin type - a receptor 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of ephrin type - b receptor 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of estrogen receptor in a sample
quantification of the amount of extracellular matrix protein 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of fc receptor - like protein 3 in a sample
quantification of the amount of fetuin - b in a sample
quantification of the amount of fibroblast growth factor 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of fibroblast growth factor basic in a sample
quantification of the amount of fibronectin fragment 3 in a sample
quantification of the amount of fibronectin fragment 4 in a sample
quantification of the amount of fibronectin in a sample
quantification of the amount of ficolin - 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of ficolin - 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of galactoside 34 - l - fucosyltransferase in a sample
quantification of the amount of galectin - 3 in a sample
quantification of the amount of gdnf family receptor alpha - 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of glypican - 5 in a sample
quantification of the amount of gp41 c34 peptide ,  hiv in a sample
quantification of the amount of granulins in a sample
quantification of the amount of granulocyte colony - stimulating factor in a sample
quantification of the amount of granulocyte - colony stimulating factor in a sample
quantification of the amount of granulysin in a sample
quantification of the amount of granzyme a in a sample
quantification of the amount of growth - regulated alpha protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of hemojuvelin in a sample
quantification of the amount of hemopexin in a sample
quantification of the amount of heparin cofactor 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of hepatitis a virus cellular receptor 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of hepatocyte growth factor activator in a sample
quantification of the amount of hepatocyte growth factor receptor in a sample
quantification of the amount of hepatocyte growth factor - like protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of histidine - rich glycoprotein in a sample
quantification of the amount of human chorionic gonadotropin in a sample
quantification of the amount of inorganic pyrophosphatase in a sample
quantification of the amount of inosine - 5' - monophosphate dehydrogenase 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of inosine - 5' - monophosphate dehydrogenase 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of insulin receptor in a sample
quantification of the amount of insulin - like growth factor - binding protein 7 in a sample
quantification of the amount of integrin alpha - i: beta - 1 complex in a sample
quantification of the amount of intercellular adhesion molecule 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of intercellular adhesion molecule 5 in a sample
quantification of the amount of interferon gamma in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 1 beta in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 1 receptor accessory protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 1 receptor - like 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 1 receptor - like 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 12 receptor subunit beta - 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 13 in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 15 receptor subunit alpha in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 16 in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 17 in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 17 receptor a in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 17 receptor b in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 17 receptor d in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 18 receptor 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 18 receptor accessory protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 19 in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 23 receptor in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 25 in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 27 receptor subunit alpha in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 4 in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 5 in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 5 receptor subunit alpha in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 6 receptor subunit alpha in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 6 receptor subunit beta in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 7 in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 7 receptor subunit alpha in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 8 in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 9 in a sample
quantification of the amount of interstitial collagenase in a sample
quantification of the amount of kallikrein - 12 in a sample
quantification of the amount of kallikrein - 7 in a sample
quantification of the amount of kallistatin in a sample
quantification of the amount of killer cell immunoglobulin - like receptor 2dl4 in a sample
quantification of the amount of kininogen - 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of kunitz - type protease inhibitor 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of kunitz - type protease inhibitor 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of kynureninase in a sample
quantification of the amount of l - selectin in a sample
quantification of the amount of lactadherin in a sample
quantification of some aspect of the diastolic function of the left cardiac ventricle such as peak velocity of mitral waves ,  isovolumetric relaxation time or diastolic dysfunction with preserved ejection fraction
quantification of some aspect of the structure of the left cardiac ventricle such as wall thickness ,  mass or atrial atero - posterior diameter
quantification of some aspect of the systolic function of the left cardiac ventricle such as ventricular fractional shortening or systolic dysfunction
quantification of the amount of leucine carboxyl methyltransferase 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of leukocyte immunoglobulin - like receptor subfamily b member 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of leukocyte immunoglobulin - like receptor subfamily b member 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of low affinity immunoglobulin epsilon fc receptor in a sample
quantification of the amount of low affinity immunoglobulin gamma fc region receptor ii - a / b in a sample
quantification of the amount of low affinity immunoglobulin gamma fc region receptor iii - b in a sample
quantification of the amount of low molecular weight phosphotyrosine protein phosphatase in a sample
quantification of the amount of lymphotactin in a sample
quantification of the amount of lysosomal protective protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of lysozyme c in a sample
quantification of the amount of macrophage colony stimulating factor in a sample
quantification of the amount of macrophage inflammatory protein 1a in a sample
quantification of the amount of macrophage inflammatory protein 1b in a sample
quantification of the amount of macrophage metalloelastase in a sample
quantification of the amount of macrophage migration inhibitory factor in a sample
quantification of the amount of macrophage scavenger receptor types i and ii in a sample
quantification of the amount of mannan - binding lectin serine protease 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of mannose - binding protein c in a sample
quantification of the amount of map kinase - activated protein kinase 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of map kinase - activated protein kinase 3 in a sample
quantification of the amount of matrilysin in a sample
quantification of the amount of mediator of rna polymerase ii transcription subunit 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of melanoma - derived growth regulatory protein in a sample
quantification of some aspect of mental development ,  including cognition ,  expressive language and receptive language
quantification of the amount of metalloproteinase inhibitor 3 in a sample
quantification of the amount of methionine aminopeptidase 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of mhc class i polypeptide - related sequence a in a sample
quantification of the amount of mhc class i polypeptide - related sequence b in a sample
quantification of the amount of monocyte chemotactic protein 3 in a sample
quantification of the amount of monokine induced by gamma interferon in a sample
quantification of some aspect of motor development ,  including fine and gross motor skills
quantification of the amount of myeloid cell surface antigen cd33 in a sample
quantification of the amount of n - acetyl - d - glucosamine kinase in a sample
quantification of the amount of n - acylethanolamine - hydrolyzing acid amidase in a sample
quantification of the amount of nad - dependent protein deacetylase sirtuin - 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of nadph -  - cytochrome p450 reductase in a sample
quantification of the amount of natural cytotoxicity triggering receptor 3 in a sample
quantification of the amount of neurexophilin - 1 in a sample
quantification of some aspect of neurodevelopment ,  such as language development or fine motor skills development .
quantification of the amount of neurogenic locus notch homolog protein 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of neutral ceramidase in a sample
quantification of the amount of neutrophil collagenase in a sample
quantification of the amount of nidogen - 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of nkg2 - d type ii integral membrane protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of non - receptor tyrosine - protein kinase tyk2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of ocia domain - containing protein 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of ox - 2 membrane glycoprotein in a sample
quantification of the amount of p - selectin in a sample
quantification of some aspect of particulate matter air pollution ,  such as daily levels of exposure
quantification of the amount of peptidyl - prolyl cis - trans isomerase d in a sample
quantification of the amount of peptidyl - prolyl cis - trans isomerase e in a sample
quantification of the amount of persulfide dioxygenase ethe1 ,  mitochondrial in a sample
quantification of the amount of phospholipase a2 ,  membrane associated in a sample
quantification of the amount of plasma kallikrein in a sample
quantification of the amount of plasma protease c1 inhibitor in a sample
quantification of the amount of platelet glycoprotein 4 in a sample
quantification of the amount of platelet glycoprotein vi in a sample
quantification of the amount of platelet - derived growth factor bb in a sample
quantification of the amount of platelet - derived growth factor receptor beta in a sample
quantification of the amount of plexin - c1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of polymeric immunoglobulin receptor in a sample
quantification of the amount of programmed cell death 1 ligand 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of properdin in a sample
quantification of the amount of proprotein convertase subtilisin / kexin type 7 in a sample
quantification of the amount of protein jagged - 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of proto - oncogene tyrosine - protein kinase receptor ret in a sample
quantification of the amount of repulsive guidance molecule a in a sample
quantification of the amount of retinoic acid receptor responder protein 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of s - formylglutathione hydrolase in a sample
quantification of the amount of scavenger receptor class f member 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of secreted frizzled - related protein 3 in a sample
quantification of the amount of semaphorin - 3a in a sample
quantification of the amount of semaphorin - 3e in a sample
quantification of the amount of serine protease 27 in a sample
quantification of the amount of serine / threonine - protein kinase 17b in a sample
quantification of the amount of serum amyloid a - 1 protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of serum amyloid p - component in a sample
quantification of the amount of sialic acid - binding ig - like lectin 14 in a sample
quantification of the amount of sialic acid - binding ig - like lectin 6 in a sample
quantification of the amount of sialic acid - binding ig - like lectin 9 in a sample
quantification of the amount of slam family member 7 in a sample
quantification of the amount of small nuclear ribonucleoprotein f in a sample
quantification of the amount of sparc - like protein 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of spondin - 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of stem cell factor in a sample
quantification of the amount of stem cell growth factor beta in a sample
quantification of the amount of stromal cell - derived factor 1 alpha in a sample
quantification of the amount of superoxide dismutase  [ mn ]  ,  mitochondrial in a sample
quantification of the amount of t - lymphocyte surface antigen ly - 9 in a sample
quantification of the amount of tenascin in a sample
quantification of the amount of teratocarcinoma - derived growth factor 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of thioredoxin domain - containing protein 12 in a sample
quantification of the amount of thrombospondin - 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of tnf - related apoptosis - inducing ligand in a sample
quantification of the amount of toll - like receptor 4:lymphocyte antigen 96 complex in a sample
quantification of the amount of transforming growth factor - beta - induced protein ig - h3 in a sample
quantification of the amount of transmembrane glycoprotein nmb in a sample
quantification of the amount of trefoil factor 3 in a sample
quantification of the amount of trypsin - 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of tryptase beta - 2 in a sample
quantification of the severity of the skin reaction in response to the injection of tb antigen
quantification of the amount of tumor necrosis factor beta in a sample
quantification of the amount of tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 19l in a sample
quantification of the amount of tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member edar in a sample
quantification of the amount of tumor necrosis factor - inducible gene 6 protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of tyrosine - protein kinase receptor tie - 1 ,  soluble in a sample
quantification of the amount of ump - cmp kinase in a sample
quantification of the amount of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 3 in a sample
quantification of some aspect of vaso - occlusive pain ,  or vas - occlusive crises ,  such as severity or frequency of occurences
quantification of the amount of very low density lipoprotein cholesterol in a sample
quantification of the amount of vitamin k - dependent protein c in a sample
quantification of the amount of wap ,  kazal ,  immunoglobulin ,  kunitz and ntr domain - containing protein 2 in a sample
quantification of the volume of white matter in the brain ,  usually through an mri scan
quantification of the amount of wnt1 - inducible - signaling pathway protein 1 in a sample
reduced likelihood that an organism will develop ill effects from a bacterial infection or from components of or toxins produced by bacteria
lack of production by brain cells of hypocretin ,  also called orexin ,  a neuropeptide that regulates arousal ,  wakefulness and appetite .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of the amount of a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs 5 in a sample
quantification of the amount of alpha - 1 - antitrypsin in a sample
quantification of some aspect of chronotype such as ease of getting up in the morning
quantification of some aspect of facial emotion recognition such as ability to differentiate between different emotions
quantification of some aspect of fear of pain ,  generallly through the use of a structured questionnaire
quantification of the amount of interleukin 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin 2 receptor antagonist in a sample
quantification of the magnitude of the t wave ,  the part of the electrocardiograph that represents the repolarisation or recovery of the ventricles
quantification of the duration of the t wave from its peak to its end
quantification of the duration of ventricular repolarisation or a change therein
quantification of some aspect of disease progression such as speed or symptom variability .
quantification of the level of an individual's predisposition of a psychotic disorder ,  based on a range of psychometric measures such as hypomanic personality ,  perceptual aberration ,  physical and social anhedonia  ( also known as chapmans schizotypia scales )  ,  and schizoidia scales .
quantification of some aspect of fear of severe pain ,  generallly assessed through the use of a structured questionnaire
quantification of some aspect of fear of pain related to medical treatments such as dental treatments .
quantification of some aspect of fear of minor pain ,  generally assessed through the use of a structured questionnaire
quantification of some aspect of snoring such as frequency or severity
quantification of some aspect parental emotion expression ,  such as the level of warmth expressed by a parent towards a child or the amount of criticism directed by a parent at a child .
quantification of the interaction between some phenotype and biological sex
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a reported family history of upper gastrointestinal cancer in one or more family members .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a type of hyponatremia related to ingestion of the diuretic thiazide
quantification of the amount of alpha - linoleic acid in a sample
quantification of some aspect of the deposition of amyloid proteins in an organ
quantification of the presence or absence of c9orf72 mutations in a tissue sample or an individual
quantification of the amount cellular adhesion molecule in a sample
quantification of some aspect of cognitive function
quantification of the amount of heme iron acquired through dietary intake
quantification of the amount of dihomo - gamma - linoleic acid in a sample
quantification of the amount of docosatetranoic acid in a sample
quantification of the function of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex ,  an area of the prefrontal cortex strongly implicated in schizophrenia .
quantification of the amount of eicosadienoic acid in a sample
quantification of some aspect of exposure to an environmental factor such as pollutants
quantification of some aspect of environmental tobacco smoke exposure
quantification of some aspect of an individual's exposure to a farm environment such as frequeny or duration .
quantification of the amount of gamma - linoleic acid in a sample
quantification of the effect of belonging to a specific generation on a genotype effect
quantification of some aspect of the deposition of amyloid proteins in the heart
quantification of immunoglobulin g in a sample as light chain or heavy chain or kappy type or lambda type
quantification of the volume of cerebrospinal fluid in an infant's brain
quantification of the volume of grey matter in an infant's brain
quantification of an infant's intracranial volume
quantification of the volume of white matter in an infant's brain
quantification of some aspect of the deposition of amyloid proteins in the kidney
quantification of some aspect of laterality such as scoring concepts as unilateral or bilateral
quantification of the volumetric fraction of blood pumped out of the left ventricle
quantification of some aspect of the deposition of amyloid proteins in the liver
quantification of some aspect of the macula
quantification of some aspect of mosquito bites
quanitifcation of the itch intensity of a mosquito bite reaction ,  generally through the use of a standardised questionnaire
quantification of the size of a mosquito bite reaction ,  generally through the use of a standardised questionnaire
quantification of p wave terminal force ,  the product of the duration and the amplitude of the terminal negative part of the p - wave
quantification of an individual's perceived unattractiveness to mosquitos ,  generally through the use of a standardised questionnaire
quantification of the surface area of the cerebral cortex ,  the largest region of the mammalian brain
quantification of some aspect of tp53 mutation ,  such as the number of accummulated mutations ,  determined either through immunohistochemistry or dna sequencing
quantification of some treatment outcome
quantification of the amount of tumor necrosis factor receptor ii in a sample
quantification of visual acuity
quantification of body odor ,  a perceived unpleasant smell given off by the body
quantification of some aspect of the caudate nucleus ,  part of the basal ganglia of the brain ,  primarily associated with voluntary movement and reward .
quantification of the wave - like oscillations in the alpha band  ( 8 - 13 hz )  of electric potential between parts of the brain
quantification of some aspect of the putamen ,  part of the basal ganglia of the brain ,  primarily associated with voluntary movement and reward .
quantification of the clotting tendency of blood plasma following the addition of tissue factor .
quantification of the glycoprotein erythropoetin typically in the blood
quantification of the thyroid hormone triiodothyronine  ( t3 )  typically in the blood ,  usually as an indicator of thyroid function
in psychology ,  the quantification of the interval of time between the presentation of a stimulus to a subject and the beginning of the subject's response to that stimulus .
quantification of verbal and / or numerical reasoning ,  typically based on a written or multiple choice test
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of the morphology of the t wave ,  the part of the electrocardiograph that represents the repolarisation or recovery of the ventricles
quantification of some aspects of brain connectivity that can be derived from the diffusion tensor imaging  ( dti )  dataset .
quantification of an individual's susceptibility to chickenpox ,  resulting from results from primary varicella zoster virus infection ,  typically occurring in childhood .
quantification of an individual's susceptibility to shingles ,  a pinaful rash resultin from reactivation of latent varicella zoster virus infection within a dorsal root ganglion ,  typically occuring in later life .
quantification of an individual's susceptibility to cold sores ,  vesicular lesions of the lips and mouth caused by another member of the human herpesvirus family ,  herpes simplex virus type 1  ( hsv - 1 ) 
quantification of an individual's susceptibility to infectious mononucleosis ,  a syndrome of fever ,  tonsillitis ,  swollen lymph nodes ,  and persistent fatigue resulting from primary infection with the epstein - barr virus .
quantification of an individual's susceptibility to mumps ,  a syndrome of low - grade fever ,  malaise ,  headache ,  and characteristic swelling of the parotid glands that is caused by the mumps virus
quantification of an individual's susceptibility to hepatitis b
quantification of an individual's susceptibility to plantar warts
quantification of an individual's susceptibility to infection with mycobacterium tuberculosis
quantification of an individual's susceptibility to throat symptoms and fever caused by group a streptococcal infection
quantification of an individual's susceptibility to scarlet fever ,  a syndrome of rash ,  sore throat and fever caused by group a streptococcal infection
quantification of an individual's susceptibility to pneumonia ,  an infection of the lung tissue ,  typically by bacteria or viruses
quantification of an individual's susceptibility to bacterial meningitis
quantification of an individual's susceptibility to vaginal yeast infection or thrush ,  typically by candida albicans or other candida species .
quantification of an individual's susceptibility to infactions of the urinary tract ,  typically caused by escherichia coli ,  staphylococcus saprophyticus ,  or other fecal flora .
quantification of an individual's susceptibility to measles
quantification of an individual's susceptibility to hepatitis a
quantification of an individual's susceptibility to rheumatic fever ,  arising as a complication of primary infection with group a streptococcus
quantification of an individual's susceptibility to the common cold
quantification of an individual's susceptibility to shingles
quantification of an individual's susceptibility to chronic sinus infections ,  requiring surgery .
quantification of the parietal cortex ,  a part of the brain situated in the medial aspect of the cerebral cortex
quantification of the severity of non - alcoholic fatty liver disease ,  typically by a histological grading .
quantification of monogalactosylated n - glycans of igg in a biological sample ,  typically serum
quantification of digalactosylated n - glycans of igg in a biological sample ,  typically serum
quantification of galactosylated n - glycans of igg in a biological sample ,  typically serum
quantification of bisecting n - acetyl glucosamine - containing n - glycans of igg in a biological sample ,  typically serum
quantification of fucosylated n - glycans of igg in a biological sample ,  typically serum
quantification of sialylated n - glycans of igg in a biological sample ,  typically serum
quantification of disialylated n - glycans of igg in a biological sample ,  typically serum
quantification of monosialylated n - glycans of igg in a biological sample ,  typically serum
qunatification of the maximum volume of air that an organism can breathe in and out during a specified period of time ,  often 1 minute .
quantification of the rate of change in lipoprotein - associated phospholipase a ( 2 )  over the course of time ,  used as an indicator of risk of cardiovascular events ,  and a target for certain cardiovascular drugs .
quantification of the accuracy of matching eye velocity to target velocity during sustained pursuit ,  typically measured using a video - based eye tracker .
quantification of the rate of change of eye velocity during the first 100ms of pursuit ,  typically measured using a video - based eye - tracker .
quantification of the amount of weight gained by a woman during pregnancy .
quantification of the amount of weight gained by a woman during late pregnancy .
quantification of the amount of weight gained by a woman during early pregnancy .
quantification of the amount of growth hormone in a sample ,  typically blood .
a protocol describing the processes performed and equipment used to determine the order of nucleotide bases in a nucleic acid sample from a single cell specimen
single cell sequencing process using an approach where only a short fragment  ( tag )  at a defined position in each rna molecule is sequenced
single cell sequencing process using an approach where the full length of each rna molecule is sequenced
the standard protocol supplied by illumina for single cell nucleic acid sequencing
the standard protocol supplied by 10x genomics for single cell nucleic acid sequencing
the standard protocol defined by macosko et al for isolating and sequencing the nucleic acid material from single cell specimens
the ratio of platelet count to lymphocyte count ,  quantified in a blood sample .
the ratio of neutrophil count to lymphocyte count ,  quantified in a blood sample .
quantification of the ratio of magnesium to creatinine in a sample ,  typically a urine sample ,  a proxy measure for mg2 +  homeostasis
quantification of fractional excretion of magnesium based on the calculation of serum and urinary levels of magneiusm and creatinine .
quantification of ability to perform daily living activities independently .
quatification of the muscle circumference of the mid arm .
quatification of the muscle circumference of the calf .
quantification of physical performance .a proxy to assess lower extremity function in the elderly .
a pause in breathing or shallow breaths during rem sleep .
a pause in breathing or shallow breaths during non - rem sleep .
quantification of the degree to which an individual is dependent on cannabis ,  for example based on the number of dsm - iv criteria met for cannabis dependence .
quantification of the amount of tacrolimus in a sample .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the characteristics of a persons colorectal health ,  assessed for example by colonoscopy .
an immune response to foreign  ( donor )  antigens due to fetomaternal hemorrhage  ( ie ,  transplacental passage of fetal erythrocytes )  associated with delivery ,  trauma ,  spontaneous or induced abortion ,  ectopic pregnancy ,  or invasive obstetric procedures .
the quantification of glucagon ,  a hormone involved in glucose homeostasis .
the quantification of glucose - dependent insulinotropic peptide ,  an incretin hormone secreted in response to nutrient stimulation that acts to increase insulin secretion .
the quantification of glucagon - like peptide 1 ,  an incretin hormone secreted in response to nutrient stimulation that acts to increase insulin secretion .
the determination of the amount of matrix metalloproteinase 8 present in a sample
some quantification of the ability to inhibit maladaptive or inappropriate behavior .
quantification of the levels of midregional pro atrial natriuretic peptide .
quantification of the ratio of b - type natriuretic levels to n - terminal pro b - type natriuretic peptide levels .
quatification of dietary potassium intake by measuring 24 hr urinary potassium levels .
a measurement of some protein which is used as a measure of heart failure .
quantification of some aspect of insulin response ,  typically measuring insulin levels in the blood following a glucose challenge
quantification of a change in mineral density of the spine bones
quantifiication of some aspect of mood instability .
quantification of some aspect of impulsivity related to the increased perceived value of immediate gratification as compared to a larger future reward .
the dna that is part of the normal chromosomal complement of an organism .
typically small ,  circular ,  intronless ,  and maternally inherited ,  mitochondrial dna  ( mtdna )  is the multicopy deoxyribonucleic acid genome of mitochondria ,  intracellular organelles responsible for vital respiratory chain and oxidative phosphorylation reactions in higher eukaryotes .
cdna or complementary dna is complementary in sequence to a particular messenger rna  ( mrna )  .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a sexual attraction to members of the same sex .
quantification of the volume of the lateral ventricle ,  the largest cavity of the ventricular system of the human brain which contains cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the hepatopancreatic ampulla
atypical ductal hyperplasia is an atypical proliferative lesion that falls in between the continuum from normal hyperplasia to low grade ductal carcinoma in situ .
breast hyperplasia refers to hyperplastic proliferations of the epithelial cells in the breast parenchyma .
cerebral small vessel disease is the term currently used to pathological processes that affect the brain parenchymal circulation  ( arterioles ,  capillaries ,  and veins )  .
a viral infectious disease that results in inflammation of the brain caused by chikungunya virus .
an ependymoma that arises from the supratentorial region of the brain and occurs during childhood .
an active inflammatory process affecting the liver for more than six months .
chronic lung allograft dysfunction encompasses a range of pathologies that cause a transplanted lung to not achieve or maintain normal function .
a rare malignant neoplasm with melanocytic differentiation characterized by the presence of polygonal or spindle shaped clear cells .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of dna repair .
hyperplasia of the epithelial cells in the breast ducts .
a usually neoplastic transformation of the cell ,  associated with altered architectural tissue patterns .
non - cardia gastric carcinoma is a gastric carcinoma arising from distal regions of the stomach .
a hepatocellular carcinoma that develops following hepatitis b virus exposure and injury of the liver parenchyma .
a hepatocellular carcinoma that develops following hepatitis c virus exposure and injury of the liver parenchyma .
a hepatocellular carcinoma that develops following hepatitis virus exposure and injury of the liver parenchyma .
hyperfunction of the parathyroid glands resulting in the overproduction of parathyroid hormone .
interstitial cystitis ,  also known as bladder pain syndrome  ( ic / bps )  ,  is a rare chronic debilitating urogenital disease characterized by urinary frequency ,  urgency ,  and pelvic pain .
a medulloblastoma composed of large cells with prominent nucleoli and a larger amount of cytoplasm in contrast with the cells of the classic medulloblastoma .
an adenocarcinoma of the breast arising from the lobules .
lyme disease  ( named after the towns in the usa where the disease was first identified )  is a bacterial infection caused by borrelia burgdorferi .
metopic craniosynostosis is the early fusion of the forehead  ( frontal )  bones .
micropapillary urothelial carcinoma is a rare variant of urothelial carcinoma that has an aggressive clinical course and poor prognosis
a light microscopic finding that describes the cellular characteristics and architectural patterns of cell populations in a tissue sample .
a hereditary neoplastic syndrome in which tumors grow in the nervous system .
an aggressive form of melanoma ,  frequently metastasizing to the lymph nodes .
a hormone producing or non - producing pituitary gland adenoma not associated with a hormonal syndrome .
oral lichen planus is a chronic inflammatory oral condition of unknown aetiology characterized by t - cell - mediated chronic immune response and abnormal epithelial keratinization cycle .
a syndrome characterized by pain ,  stiffness ,  and tenderness of the proximal muscle groups including the shoulder ,  pelvic girdle and the neck .
hyperfunction of the parathyroid glands resulting in the overproduction of parathyroid hormone .
a multiple sclerosis that is characterized by steady worsening of neurologic functioning ,  without any distinct relapses or periods of remission .
an inflammation of the mucous membrane lining the nose ,  usually associated with nasal discharge .
a multiple sclerosis with a clinical course characterized by a progressive accumulation of neurological disability ,  independent of relapses ,  following an initial relapsing - remitting  ( rr )  phase .
a sessile serrated polyp is a serrated polyp that demonstrates abnormal cellular proliferation characterized by a proximally displaced proliferative zone ,  epithelial serrations ,  and characteristic distorted basilar crypt architecture with crypt dilation ,  branching ,  and lateral growth along the muscularis mucosa .
a neuroendocrine carcinoma composed of small malignant cells which are often said to resemble "oat cells" under the microscope .
spinal muscular atrophy  ( sma )  refers to a group of inherited conditions that affect the muscles .
a life - threatening situation in which the brain is in a continuous state of seizure .
increased lipid within the cytoplasm of cells .
a malignant neoplasm derived from the transitional epithelium of the urinary tract  ( urinary bladder ,  ureter ,  urethra ,  or renal pelvis )  .
quatification of plasma levels of kynurenine ,  a ketone that is alanine in which one of the methyl hydrogens is substituted by a 2 - aminobenzoyl group .
quantification of the ration of kynurenine to tryptophan in plasma .
quantification of insulin release in response to stimulation with glp - 1 ,  typically measured under hyperglycemic clamp .
subset of dermatomyositis that lacks distinct muscle features and often manifests rapidly progressive interstitial pneumonia  ( rpip )  .
an uncomfortable ,  often painful feeling in the stomach ,  resulting from impaired digestion .
quantification of the levels of tryptophan in a sample ,  typically cerebrospinal fluid or blood
quantification of the severity of post - traumatic stress disorder symptoms ,  typically quantified as the sum score of items of a diagnostic instrument such as the semi - structured assessment for the genetics of alcoholism
a sub - type of systemic scleroderma characterised by the presence of antibodies to centromere proteins
a sub - type of systemic scleroderma characterised by the presence of antibodies to topoisomerase - 1 protein
quantification of some aspect of helping behavior ,  for example helping others without being paid .
quantification of dietary vitamin d intake .
some aspect of helping behavior ,  for example helping others without being paid .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of the amount of complement c3d subcomponent in a blood sample .
quantification of the ratio of complement c3d to c3 in a blood sample .
quantification of the amount of analgesic drug required during a painful procedure such as surgery .
a phyllodes tumor of the breast characterized by infiltrative margins and a sarcomatous stromal component .
a condition or physical state produced by the ingestion ,  injection ,  inhalation of or exposure to a deleterious agent .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the digestive system .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the liver parenchyma ,  bile ducts ,  and gallbladder .
a traumatic or pathologic injury to the femur in which the continuity of the femur is broken .
infections caused by a strain of staphylococcus aureus that is non - susceptible to the action of the antibiotic ,  methicillin .
pneumonia that is caused by staphylococcus aureus and is resistant to methicillin treatment .
a bacterial infection that is caused by staphylococcus aureus and can be treated by methicillin class antibiotics .
a bacterial infection that is caused by staphylococcus aureus and is resistant to vancomycin treatment .
american trypanosomiasis ,  commonly known as chagas disease  ( chd )  ,  is a tropical disease mainly found in latin america and transmitted by triatomine insects  ( mostly triatoma infestans and rhodnius prolixus and panstrongylus megistus )  harboring the hemoflagellate protozoan parasite trypanosoma cruzi .
diminished or absent ability of a female to achieve conception .
a congenital or acquired weakness or opening in the diaphragm which allows abdominal contents to protrude into the chest cavity ;  congenital diaphragmatic hernias are caused when the embryonic diaphragm fails to fuse .
the period of time immediately after labor and delivery .
the illumina hiseq 4000 is a high - throughput sequencing machine developed by illumina .
the illumina hiseq 3000 is a high - throughput sequencing machine developed by illumina .
the illumina hiseq 2500 is a sequencing machine developed by illumina .
the illumina nextseq 550 is a benchtop high - throughput sequencing machine developed by illumina .
the illumina hiseq x is an ultra - high - throughput sequencing machine developed by illumina .
a change from the patient's baseline sleeping pattern ,  in the hours slept and / or an alteration / dysfunction in the stages of sleep .
thiamine deficiency is a condition that occurs due to not enough thiamine  ( vitamin b1 )  .
vitamin b3 deficiency is a condition that occurs due to not enough niacin  ( vitamin b3 )  .
conjunctivitis resulting from viral infection .
inadequate nutrition resulting from poor diet ,  malabsorption ,  or abnormal nutrient distribution .
a disorder caused by damage to the liver parenchyma due to alcohol consumption .
death of tissue ,  usually in considerable mass and generally associated with loss of vascular  ( nutritive )  supply and followed by bacterial invasion and putrefaction .
a condition that is characterized by defective bone growth that affects the growth centers of bone .
a bone disorder involving ossification centers  ( epiphyses )  of the vertebral column .
defective bone growth that affects the growth centers of bone in children .
quantification of sperm motility ,  measured as the percentage of motile sperm in ejaculated sperms  (  [ number of motile sperm in the ejaculate ]  /  [ number of sperm in the ejaculate ]  ) 100 .
the tendency to take risks .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a disease involving the saliva - secreting gland .
quantification of the amount of the activation peptide of thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor in a blood sample ,  typically as a marker of the extent of tafi activation .
necrosis of the myocardium ,  as a result of interruption of the blood supply to the area .
a myocardial infarction that produces elevation in the st segments of the ecg .
an electrocardiographic finding of a myocardial infarction that does not produce elevations in the st segment of the ekg .
a disorder characterized by a strong and persistent cross - gender identification  ( such as stating a desire to be the other sex or frequently passing as the other sex )  coupled with persistent discomfort with his or her sex  ( manifested in adults ,  for example ,  as a preoccupation with altering primary and secondary sex characteristics through hormonal manipulation or surgery )  .
inflammation of the peritoneum due to infection by bacteria or fungi .
quantification of the amount of esterified cholesterol in a sample .
an acute exacerbation of asthma ,  characterized by inadequate response to initial bronchodilators .
quantification of the amount of free cholesterol in a sample .
quantification of the size of hdl particles ,  typically their diameter .
quantification of the size of ldl particles ,  typically their diameter .
quantification of the size of vldl particles ,  typically their diameter .
quantification of the amount of intermediate density lipoprotein in a sample .
quantification of the amount of chylomicrons in a sample .
anti - p200 pemphigoid is a rare subepidermal blistering skin disease .
an autoimmune disease characterized by blisters on the skin .
pemphigus foliaceous is a rare superficial pemphigus disease characterized by multiple ,  pruritic ,  scaly ,  crusted cutaneous erosions ,  with flaky circumscribed patches ,  localized mostly on the face ,  scalp ,  trunk and extremities ,  often presenting an erythematous base .
pemphigus is a group of chronic autoimmune skin diseases characterised by blisters formation on the outer layer of the skin and the mucous membranes .
pemphigus erythematosus is a rare superficial pemphigus disease characterized clinically by well - demarcated ,  localized ,  erythematous ,  scaly ,  hyperkeratotic ,  crusted plaques ,  with frequent butterfly distribution over the malar area of the face  ( but also commonly involving trunk and scalp ,  and less frequently the extremities ,  with a photoexposed distribution )  .
immunoglobulin a  ( iga )  pemphigus is a group of newly characterized immune - mediated intraepidermal blistering skin diseases .
igg / iga pemphigus is defined by the presence of igg and iga cell surface deposits upon direct immunofluorescence  ( dif )  and / or circulating igg and iga autoantibodies upon indirect immunofluorescence .
pemphigus herpetiformis is a rare autoimmune bullous skin disorder that is considered a clinical variant of pemphigus .
pemphigus is an autoimmune bullous disease characterized by blisters and erosions of the skin and mucous membranes .
pemphigus induced by radiotherapy .
ocular cicatricial pemphigoid  ( ocp )  is a form of mucous membrane pemphigoid  ( a group of rare ,  chronic autoimmune disorders )  that affects the eyes .
localized cicatricial pemphigoid  ( also known as "brunstingperry cicatricial pemphigoid" )  refers to a localised variant of cutaneous cicatricial pemphigoid involving the head and the neck without mucosal involvement .
cicatricial pemphigoid that may be not fully manifested .
pemphigus vegetans  ( p veg )  is a rare clinical form of pemphigus .
hypothyroidism due to insufficient intake of iodine .
a congenital or acquired kidney disorder characterized by the presence of renal cysts .
a heterogeneous and / or septated cyst located in the kidney .
an inherited form of cystic kidney disease that leads to fibrosis and impaired renal function as a result of defects in the muc1 gene ,  which encodes mucin 1 .
an inherited form of cystic kidney disease leading to fibrosis and impaired renal function that is caused by mutations in the umod gene ,  which encodes uromodulin / tamm - horsfall mucoprotein .
a homogenous cyst located in the kidney .
a congenital renal disorder characterized by the presence of small cysts in the renal cortex and / or renal medulla .
a soft and painless polypoid mass that arises from the female genital tract .
a chronic mood disorder in which the symptoms are similar to ,  though milder than ,  those diagnosed in depression .
any disease affecting the vitreous body of the eye .
prolapse of the vitreous material through the defect in the zonule around the lens and into the anterior chamber .
blood extravasation in the vitreous humor .
bleeding from vessels of the various tissues of the eye .
inflammatory intraocular reaction with clouding and cells in vitreous ;  often accompanies inflammation of ciliary body ,  iris ,  choroid ,  or retina .
the pacbio sequel system is a high - throughput sequencing machine developed by pacbio .
the pacbio rs ii is a high - throughput sequencing machine developed by pacbio .
the ont minion is a pocket - sized sequencing machine developed by oxford nanopore technologies .
the ont gridion x5 is a sequencing machine developed by oxford nanopore technologies .
the ont promethion is a high - throughput ,  high - sample number benchtop sequencing machine developed by oxford nanopore technologies .
the illumina iseq 100 is a benchtop sequencing machine developed by illumina .
the illumina miniseq is a benchtop sequencing machine developed by illumina .
the illumina novaseq 6000 is a high - throughput sequencing machine developed by illumina .
genotyping technique for population structure inferences
poly ( a )  - primed sequencing  ( 2p - seq )  to quantify usage of known poly ( a )  sites
strand - specific 3 - end rna - seq
3 - end regions of transcripts  ( 3 - end - seq ) 
3 end of nascent transcripts  ( 3nt ) 
3 - seq to detect 3 utr isoforms
poly ( a )  - position profiling by sequencing  ( 3p - seq ) 
3 - end sequencing for expression quantification  ( 3seq )  from ffpe samples
gene - specific differences in elongation rates in vivo  ( 4sudrb - seq ) 
detect nascent rna with a 5 7 - methylguanylated cap  ( 5 - gro - seq ) 
profiles the genome - wide abundance of mrna degradation intermediates by their 5 - phosphorylated ends  ( 5pseq ) 
abasi coupled with sequencing  ( aba - seq ) 
advanced or long read chia - pet uses tn5 transposases
map mirna binding to ago sites in c . elegans
automated high - throughput chip - seq  ( aht - chip - seq ) 
autonomously replicating sequence assay  ( ars - seq ) 
multiplexed barcode sequencing  ( bar - seq ) 
characterize phenotypes of hundreds of different aav strains
bisulfite - treated chromatin immuno - precipitated dna  ( bischip - seq )  ,  to correlate protein modifications with dna methylation
breaks labeling ,  enrichment on streptavidin and sequencing  ( bless ) 
iclip with brdu affinity purification  ( brdu - clip ) 
double - stranded break labeling to map chromosome breaks  ( break - seq ) 
5 - bromo - uridine immunoprecipitation chase  ( bric - seq ) 
bromouridine labeling and sequencing  ( bru - seq )  is a method for probing rna synthesis by pulling down bromouridine residues in nascent transcripts followed by sequencing .
bromouridine pulse - chase and sequencing  ( bruchase - seq ) 
brudrb - seq to reveal gene - specific differences in elongation rates
an approach that complements the bru - seq technique by enhancing nascent rna signal around promoters and enhancers genome - wide in intact cells
bisulfite conversion of genomic dna  ( bs - seq ) 
bisulfite amplicon sequencing  ( bsas ) 
bisulfite sequencing with padlock probes  ( bspp ) 
chemical modification - assisted bisulfite sequencing  ( cab - seq )  for 5cac detection
cagescan: a mate - pair adaptation of nanocage that captures the transcript 5 ends linked to a downstream region
5cac methylase - assisted bisulfite sequencing  ( camab - seq ) 
cxxc affinity purification plus deep sequencing  ( cap - seq ) 
cancer personalized profiling by deep sequencing  ( capp - seq ) 
5 anchored profiling of pol ii transcripts  ( capseq )  .
capture hi - c is a type of hi - c assay in which a selection step is performed on ligated fragments in order to select for ligation products containing specific regions ,  often used to enrich for promoter regions .
rna capture sequencing  ( captureseq ) 
chromatin affinity purification from specific cell types by chromatin immunoprecipitation  ( cast - chip ) 
covalent attachment of tags to capture histones  ( catchit ) 
capture of associated targets on chromatin  ( catch ) 
cell expression by linear amplification and sequencing  ( cel - seq )  .
chromatin affinity precipitation  ( chap )  - seq
capture hybridization analysis of rna targets  ( chart ) 
chromatin endogenous cleavage
chem - seq: to identify the sites bound by small chemical molecules
chia - pet  ( chromatin interaction analysis by paired - end tag sequencing )  is a type of chromosome conformation capture assay that uses chromatin immunoprecipitation to enrich for protein - specific chromatin complexes after digestion ,  followed by nuclear proximity ligation and high - throughput paired - end - tag sequencing .
bisulfite - treated chromatin immunoprecipitated dna  ( chip - bs - seq )  ,  to correlate protein modifications with dna methylation
fast ,  robust ,  low - input chip - seq for histones and transcription factors
chromatin isolation by rna purification  ( chirp ) 
cip - tap for identifying capped small rna  ( csrna )  species
extrachromosomal circular dna sequencing  ( circle - seq ) 
chemical inference of rna structures  ( cirs - seq ) 
identify low abundance rna viruses with circular sequencing  ( cirseq ) 
cell labeling via photobleaching  ( clap ) 
crosslinking ,  ligation ,  and sequencing of hybrids  ( clash ) 
generate rnaseq libraries from stochastically terminated 3 - azido - blocked cdna fragments  ( clickseq ) 
copy number variation sequencing  ( cnv - seq ) 
community profiling by sequencing
2' , 3' - cyclic phosphate  ( cp )  rna sequencing  ( cp - rna - seq ) 
contiguity - preserving transposition sequencing  ( cpt - seq ) 
cis - regulatory elements  ( cres )  sequencing
cis - regulatory element scan by tiling - deletion and sequencing  ( crest - seq ) 
crispr droplet sequencing  ( crop - seq ) 
massively multiplexed assay for deep - coverage interactome mapping  ( cry2h - seq ) 
gene expression cytometry  ( cytoseq ) 
damid  ( dna adenine methyltransferase interaction detection )  is an assay for identifying dna binding sites for a protein by fusing it to dam methylase ,  and expressing it so that bound dna gets methylated .
dna affinity purification sequencing
snp genotyping - by - sequencing with double - enzymatic digestion of dart markers  ( dartseq ) 
double digest restriction - site associated dna marker generation  ( ddradseq ) 
high throughput cap - analysis gene expression  ( cage ) 
in vitro cas9 - digested whole - genome sequencing to profile genome - wide cas9 off - target effects  ( digenome - seq ) 
digital rna: unique molecular barcodes are added after cdna synthesis
dna immunoprecipitation followed by high throughput sequencing  ( dip - seq )  ) 
directly ligate sequencing adaptors to the first - strand cdna  ( dlaf ) 
dimethyl sulfate mutational profiling with sequencing
dms treatment coupled to a massively parallel sequencing  ( dms - seq ) 
dnase i simplified in - nucleus method  ( dnase i sim )  for plants
designed primer - based rna - sequencing strategy  ( dp - seq ) 
differential rna - seq  ( drna - seq ) 
massively parallel snuc - seq with droplet technology .
droplet - based single - cell chip - seq  ( drop - chip ) 
analyze mrna transcripts from individual cells in droplets  ( drop - seq )  .
ultra - precise detection of mutations by droplet - based amplification of circularized dna
map dna double - strand breaks
mapping of double - steand dna breaks
double - stranded rna sequencing  ( dsrna - seq ) 
duplex sequencing detects very rare mutations by sequencing and aligning both strands of the dna
excision circle sequencing  ( ec - seq ) 
dna end resection and dsb discovery
enzyme - assisted identification of genome modification assay
extracting patterns and identifying genes methodology for rna - seq  ( epig - seq ) 
reference - free reduced representation bisulfite sequencing  ( epigbs ) 
emulsion whole - genome amplification
reduce costs of the original rad - seq protocol  ( ezrad - seq ) 
fluorescence - activated cell sorting and deep sequencing
atac - seq optimized for blood cells
integrated pipeline with improved clip biochemistry and an automated informatic pipeline  ( fast - iclip ) 
efficient method for the detection of aneuploidy by massively parallel sequencing
whole - genome analysis of 5fc based on selective chemical labeling  ( fc - cet ) 
a 5 - formylcytosine - selective chemical labeling  ( fc - seal )  approach for genome - wide profiling of 5fc
5fc chemical modification - assisted bisulfite sequencing  ( fcab - seq ) 
fluorescent in situ rna sequencing  ( fisseq ) 
fixed - tissue chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing  ( fit - seq ) 
facs followed by dna extraction ,  sd - sequence amplification and sequencing  ( flow - seq )  .
fragmentation sequencing  ( frag - seq ) 
quantitative allele frequency detection with the use of barcodes  ( freq - seq ) 
fixed and recovered intact single - cell rna  ( friscr ) 
flowcell reverse transcription sequencing  ( frt - seq )  for strand - specific rna - seq
identify fusion transcripts from paired - end rna - sequencing
antibody - based g4 chromatin immunoprecipitation and high - throughput sequencing
determine the location of potential g - quadruplexes in dna  ( g4 - seq ) 
genome - wide mapping of uncapped transcripts  ( gmuct ) 
genome - wide mapping of uncapped transcripts  ( gmuct ) 
global small non - coding rna target identification by ligation and sequencing  ( gril - seq ) 
gamma - retrovirus integration profiling  ( grip ) 
global run - on protocol called gro - cap ,  which captures tsss for both stable and unstable transcripts
genomic systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment  ( gselex - seq ) 
genotyping - in - thousands by sequencing  ( gt - seq ) 
ribo - seq: ribosome profiling global translation initiation sequencing  ( gti - seq ) 
genome - wide ,  unbiased identification of dsbs enabled by sequencing  ( guide - seq )  ,  to profile off - target cleavage by crispr - cas nucleases
hpaii tiny fragment enrichment by ligation - mediated pcr  ( help - seq ) 
rna hybrid and individual - nucleotide resolution ultraviolet crosslinking and immunoprecipitation  ( hiclip ) 
high - throughput single - cell labeling in drop - based microfluidics followed by rna - seq
chip - seq of methylated histones  ( histone methylation ) 
high - throughput sequencing: fluorescent ligand interaction profiling  ( hits - flip ) 
high - throughput sequencingrna affinity profiling  ( hits - rap ) 
hydroxymethylated dna immunoprecipitation combined with next generation dna sequencing  ( hmedip - seq ) 
high - throughput chromatin immunoprecipitation  ( ht - chip ) 
high - throughput systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment  ( ht - selex ) 
high - throughput genome - wide translocation sequencing  ( htgts ) 
hydrolytic end sequencing  ( hyden - seq )  to reveal replicase -  and strand - specific patterns of ribonucleotides in the genome
hybridization rad  ( hyrad ) 
inosine chemical erasing  ( ice ) 
individual nucleotide resolution clip  ( iclip ) 
in vivo click selective 2 - hydroxyl acylation and profiling experiment  ( icshape ) 
integrated digital error suppression  ( ides ) 
dna sequencing of immunoglobulin genes  ( ig - seq )  for antibody repertoire determination
immunomagnetic separation for targeted bacterial enrichment for mda  ( ims - mda ) 
combines in - cell probing of rna structure with a measurement of gene expression to simultaneously characterize rna structure and function in bacterial cells
indexing droplets  ( indrop )  .
initiation site sequencing
insertion sequencing  ( inseq ) 
in - vitro transcription sapas
linear amplification - mediated high - throughput genome - wide sequencing  ( lam - htgts ) 
single - cell whole - genome analyses by linear amplification via transposon insertion
ligation mediated rna sequencing
determine the genomic consequences of dna damage in ruptured micronuclei
high - throughput sequencing for 1 - methyladenosine  ( m1a )  mapping in rna
m6a - specific methylated rna immunoprecipitation  ( m6a - rip ) 
m6a - specific methylated rna immunoprecipitation  ( m6a - seq ) 
molecular amplification fingerprinting
mnase - assisted isolation of nucleosomes  ( maine - seq )  .
multiple annealing and looping - based amplification cycles  ( malbac ) 
mutation analysis with random dna identifiers  ( mardi ) 
mapping rna interactome in vivo  ( mario ) 
massively parallel rna single - cell sequencing framework .
multiple annealing and dc - tailing - based quantitative single - cell rna - seq  ( matq - seq ) 
methyl - cpg binding domain - based capture and sequencing  ( mdbcap - seq ) 
methylc - capture sequencing
multiple displacement amplification  ( mda ) 
maximum - depth sequencing
a mobile element scanning protocol  ( me - scan - sva ) 
m6a - specific methylated rna immunoprecipitation with nextgeneration sequencing  ( merip - seq ) 
methyl - seq: uses methyl - sensitive enzymes to identify methylation patterns
capture of methylated dna using the mbd domain of mecp2  ( methylcap - seq ) 
a customized version of the individual - nucleotide - resolution crosslinking and immunoprecipitation  ( iclip )  method  ( miclip ) 
m6a individual - nucleotide - resolution cross - linking and immunoprecipitation  ( miclip ) 
micro - c is a type of hi - c assay which uses micrococcal nuclease digestion in place of the restriction enzyme digestion step .
massively parallel polymerase cloning and genome sequencing of single cells using nanoliter microwells .
ddrad optimized for plants  ( middrad ) 
mbd - isolated genome sequencing  ( migs ) 
mapping in vivo nascent chromatin with edu and sequencing  ( mince - seq ) 
multiplexed ,  indexed t7 chip - seq
targeted capture of str loci by smmips  ( mipstr ) 
microrna crosslinking and immunoprecipitation  ( mir - clip ) 
methylated - cpg island recovery assay  ( mira ) 
mitorca - seq to detect low - frequency mtdna point mutations
mirna trapping by rna in vitro affinity purification  ( mitrap ) 
native elongating transcript sequencing technology for mammalian chromatin  ( mnet - seq ) 
crispr barcoding system to jointly measure a cell's transcriptome and its sgrna modulators
methidiumpropyl - edta sequencing  ( mpe - seq ) 
massively parallel reporter assay  ( mpra ) 
a technique to purify and sequence mtdna
nanocage: a method that captures the 5 ends of transcripts from as little as 10 ng of total rna
high - throughput 3 single - nucleus rna sequencing
native elongating transcript sequencing  ( net - seq ) 
next - generation capture - c
map 2 - o - methylation sites in human mrna
non - overlapping integrated reads  ( noir ) 
nucleosome occupancy methylome -  sequencing  ( nome - seq )  ,  a single - molecule nucleosome positioning assay
nascent strand sequencing  ( ns - seq )  to discover dna replication origins and g4 structures
nascent strand capture and release  ( nscr ) 
nucleosome - chromatin immuno - precipitation
micrococcal nuclease mapping of nucleosomes  ( nuc - seq ) 
nuc - seq is an rna sequencing technique optimized for isolating and sequencing nuclear rna from frozen tissue samples
nucleo - seq ,  to determine nucleosome organization across the genome
okazaki fragment sequencing
occupied regions of genomes from affinity - purified naturally isolated chromatin  ( organic ) 
oligonucleotide - selective sequencing  ( os - seq )  captures and sequence gene targets on the flow cell
oxidative bisulfite sequencing  ( oxbs - seq )  to map 5 - methylcytosine and 5 - hydroxymethylcytosine
peptide nucleic acid - assisted identification of rbp  ( pair ) 
paired vh:vl antibody repertoire analysis
poly ( a )  - tail length profiling by sequencing  ( pal - seq ) 
high performance mrna 3' end mapping method based on the clip technique
photoactivatable - ribonucleoside - enhanced crosslinking and immunoprecipitation  ( par - clip ) 
parallel analysis of rna ends  ( pare ) 
reversible psoralen crosslinking for global mapping of rna duplexes in living cells
parallel analysis of rna structure  ( pars ) 
parallel analysis of rna structures with temperature elevation  ( parte ) 
poly ( a )  site sequencing  ( pas - seq ) 
poly ( a )  - test rna - sequencing
pathology tissue chromatin immunoprecipitation  ( pat - chip ) 
combine whole - cell electrophysiological patch - clamp recordings ,  single - cell rna - sequencing ,  and morphological characterization  ( patch - seq ) 
protein / dna binding  ( pbseq )  ,  to determine the binding energy landscape
post - bisulfite adaptor tagging  ( pbat ) 
pd - seq identifies candidate cellular targets for proteins
proteomic peptide - phage display  ( prop - pd )  to identify pdz domains
paired - end restriction - site associated dna marker generation  ( pe rad ) 
paired - end analysis of transcription start sites  ( peat ) 
scalable single - cell rna profiling of pooled genetic screens
phage immunoprecipitation sequencing  ( phip - seq ) 
protein interaction profile sequencing  ( pip - seq ) 
geome - wide mrna profiling methodology to complement high - throughput screening assays
phi29 dna polymerase multiple amplification  ( pma ) 
crosslinking and immunoprecipitation of pol ii  ( pol ii clip ) 
sensitive and specific enrichment for poly ( a )  site junctions without the need for complex samples preparation ,  fragmentation or purification .
pooled whole - genome re - sequencing  ( pool - seq ) 
precision nuclear run - on and sequencing to detect pol ii initiation sites  ( pro - cap ) 
precision nuclear run - on and sequencing to detect pol ii pause sites  ( pro - seq ) 
identification of antigenic regions preferentially targeted by polyclonal antibody responses
proteomic peptide - phage display  ( prop - pd )  to identify domainshort linear motif  ( slim )  interactions
pseudo - seq: a method for genome - wide pseudouridine identification
pseudouridine site identification sequencing  ( psi - seq ) 
genome - wide mapping of ptb - rna interactions  ( ptb - seq ) 
polymerase usage sequencing  ( pu - seq ) 
map 5 - hydroxymethylcytosine and 5 - formylcytosine genome - wide  ( pvu - seal - seq ) 
whole - transcript amplification for single - cells  ( quartz - seq )  .
restriction - site associated dna  ( rad )  marker generation
rad - tagging for low - coverage shotgun phylogenetics
rna antisense purification  ( rap ) 
rad capture  ( rapture ) 
restriction site associated rna sequencing
reduced - representation bisulfite sequencing  ( rbbs ) 
rna bind - n - seq  ( rbns ) 
retrotransposon capture sequencing  ( rc - seq ) 
reduced bisulfite sequencing  ( redbs - seq )  ,  to map 5 - formylcytosine  ( 5fc )  in dna
dna sequencing of immunoglobulin genes for antibody repertoire determination  ( rep - seq ) 
a tool for genotyping microsatellite repeats  ( repeatseq ) 
repli - seq is an assay that involves sequencing nascent replicating dna strands .
rna g - quadruplex sequencing  ( rg4 - seq ) 
ribosome profiling  ( also named ribosome footprinting )  that uses specialized messenger rna  ( mrna )  sequencing to determine which mrnas are being actively translated .
map 2' - o - methylated riboses in ribosomal rnas
detect ribonucleotides embedded in dna  ( ribose - seq ) 
radiation - induced spatially correlated cleavage of dna with sequencing  ( ricc - seq ) 
rna interaction by ligation and sequencing  ( ril - seq ) 
rna - seq is a method that involves purifying rna and making cdna ,  followed by high - throughput sequencing .
generate multiple rna - seq libraries in a single reaction  ( rnatag - seq ) 
elongating transcript sequencing  ( net - seq )  with rnase footprinting of the transcripts  ( rnet - seq ) 
rna proximity ligation
reduced representation bisulfite sequencing  ( rrbs - seq ) 
safe - sequencing system is a unique molecular identifier approach to detect rare variants  ( safe - seqs ) 
seqeuencing apa sites
single - cell mrna3 - prime end sequencing followed by 3 - prime - end enrichment
a single cell atac - seq method for mapping single cell genomes for transposase - accessible chromatin .
single - cell bisulfite sequencing  ( scbs - seq )  .
droplet - based single - cell chip - seq  ( drop - chip )  .
dnase - seq to detect genome - wide dnase i hypersensitive sites in single cells
single - cell combinatorial indexed sequencing  ( sci - seq ) 
selective chemical labeling of 5hmc  ( scl - exo ) 
single - cell multiple displacement amplification  ( scmda ) 
single - cell methylome and transcriptome sequencing
single - cell retrotransposon capture sequencing  ( rc - seq ) 
single - cell rna - seq
single cell rrbs  ( scrrbs ) 
single - cell transposome hypersensitive site sequencing  ( scths - seq ) 
single cell wgbs optimized for profiling many samples at low coverage
systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment  ( selex - seq )  .
barcoded mrna capture beads and single cells are sealed in an array of subnanoliter wells .
improvements on rasl - seq
selective 2 - hydroxyl acylation analyzed by primer extension and mutational profiling  ( shape - map ) 
selective 2 - hydroxyl acylation analyzed by primer extension sequencing  ( shape - seq ) 
sensitive mutation detection using sequencing  ( simsen - seq ) 
combined dna and rna sequencing for whole - genome and transcriptome profiling
a single cell atac - seq method for multiplex profiling of chromatin accessibility by combinatorial cellular indexing .
cas9 programmed with single - guide rnas  ( sgrnas ) 
specific locus amplified fragment sequencing  ( slaf - seq ) 
single - cell locus - specific bisulfite sequencing  ( slbs )  measuring dna methylation
semirandom primed pcr - based mrna transcriptome amplication  ( sma ) 
switch mechanism at the 5 end of rna templates  ( smart )  .
switch mechanism at the 5 end of rna templates  ( smart )  .
single - molecule droplet barcoding
selective microfluidics - based ligand enrichment followed by sequencing  ( smile - seq ) 
single - molecule intron tracking
single molecule molecular inversion probes  ( smmips )  for detecting low frequency targets
simultaneous mapping of rna ends by sequencing  ( smore - seq ) 
single - nucleus droplet - based sequencing  ( sndrop - seq ) 
single nucleus exome sequencing  ( snes ) 
single - cell methylomes
single - nuclei rna - sequencing  ( snrna - seq ) 
a single nucleus rna - seq method  ( snuc - seq ) 
sonication of cross - linked chromatin ,   ( sono - seq )  to map locations of high chromatin accessibility
specic parallel amplication of 5 rna ends  ( spare )  to identify microrna processing intermediates
split damid  ( spdamid )  , 
structural probing of elongating transcripts
splinted ligation adapter tagging  ( splat ) 
small rna seq  ( srna - seq ) 
strand - specific 3 - end rna - seq  ( ss3 - seq ) 
map dna single - strand breaks
strand - specific rna - seq  ( ssrna - seq ) 
rapid whole - genome sequencing  ( statseq ) 
single - cell template strand sequencing
single - cell tagged reverse transcription  ( strt )  .
dual - index 5 single cell and nucleus rna - seq
use dimethyl sulphate methylation of unprotected adenines and cytosines  ( structure - seq ) 
single - cell universal poly ( a )  - independent rna sequencing  ( super - seq ) 
tagmentation - based whole - genome bisulfite sequencing  ( t - wgbs ) 
tet - assisted bisulfite sequencing ,   ( tab - seq )  to map 5 - hydroxymethylcytosine
targeted damid  ( tada ) 
measure genome - wide poly ( a )  tail lengths  ( tail - seq ) 
tet - assisted 5 - methylcytosine sequencing  ( tamc - seq ) 
tardis ,  a targeted rna directional sequencing method for rare rna discovery .
translation - associated tl - seq  ( tatl - seq ) 
translocation capture sequencing  ( tc - seq ) 
tethered conformation capture  ( tcc ) 
identify t - cell receptor  ( tcr )  alphabeta chain pairing in single cells
tcr ligation - anchored - magnetically captured pcr  ( tcr - la - mc pcr ) 
directly sequences exposed rna 3 ends in bacteria ,  yielding a genome - wide map of rna termini
transposome hypersensitive sites sequencing  ( ths - seq ) 
transcript isoform sequencing  ( tif - seq ) 
transcriptome in vivo analysis  ( tiva ) 
enzymatic capture of m7g - capped mrna 5 ends  ( tl - seq ) 
transposon sequencing  ( tn - seq ) 
combine traditional histological techniques with low - input rna sequencing  ( tomo - seq ) 
targeted purification of polysomal mrna  ( trap - seq ) 
targets of rna - binding proteins identified by editing  ( tribe ) 
tthprimpol - based wga method for single cells
transcription start site sequencing
tumor barcoding with ultradeep barcode sequencing
unique molecular identifiers  ( umis )  uniquely identify copies derived from each molecule
vdj sequencing  ( vdj - seq ) 
virome capture sequencing platform for vertebrate viruses
analyze antiviral antibodies using immunoprecipitation
improved genome recovery and integrated cell - size analyses of individual uncultured microbial cells and viral particles
whole - genome bisulfite sequencing  ( wgbs ) 
high resolution of mapping of in vivo chromatin associated proteins
y - shaped adapter - ligated mature trna sequencing  ( yamat - seq ) 
pseudouridine site identification sequencing  (  - seq ) 
in situ sequencing is a method for parallel targeted analysis of short rna fragments in morphologically preserved cells and tissue .
genome - wide profiling of gene expression in situ in fixed cells and tissues ,  in which rna is converted into cross - linked cdna amplicons and sequenced manually on a confocal microscope
seqfish is an in situ 3d multiplexed imaging method
merfish is an image - based approach to single - cell transcriptomics in which rnas are identified via a combinatorial labeling approach that encodes rna species with error - robust barcodes followed by sequential rounds of single - molecule fluorescence in situ hybridization  ( smfish )  to read out these barcodes
ex - fish is a fluorescent in situ hybrization approach which separates rnas through covalent attachment to a swellable polyelectrolyte gel synthesized throughout a biological specimen .
assay that allows visualization and quantitative analysis of the transcriptome with spatial resolution in individual tissue sections
10x is a "synthetic long - read" technology and works by capturing a barcoded oligo - coated gel - bead and 0 .3x genome copies into a single emulsion droplet ,  processing the equivalent of 1 million pipetting steps .
inflammation of the synovial membrane  [  mesh  ] 
an acute inflammation of a synovial membrane .
a heterogeneous group of disorders characterized by the abnormal growth and accumulation of mast cells in one or more organ systems .
a clonal myeloproliferative neoplasm characterized by the proliferation and accumulation of neoplastic mast cells in one or multiple organs or organ systems .
a disease involving the spleen .
the inability of the ovaries to function .
abnormally high level of estrogen .
cessation of menstruation before the age of 40 .
excessive secretion of androgens from the adrenal glands or gonads .
excessive secretion of the androgen hormones dehydroepiandrosterone  ( dhea )  ,  dhea sulfate ,  and androstenedione ,  from the adrenal gland .
increased production of androgens by the ovaries .
a pyogenic autoinflammatory syndrome with skin involvement .
quantification of the severity of herpes simplex virus - 2 infection ,  typically by assessment of viral shedding
an inflammatory process affecting an artery .
a necrotizing vasculitis that affects medium - sized arteries ,  it is usually idiopathic ,  and may be triggered by viral infections  ( hepatitis b ,  also others )  .
biomolecule synthesis of rna in vitro used for applications such as can be used in blot hybridizations and nuclease protection assays .
a 3 - methylglutaconic aciduria that has_material_basis_in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the clpb gene on chromosome 11q13 .
a syndome related to the ahdc1 gene ,  presenting with intellectual disability ,  obstructive sleep apnea and mild dysmorphism .
ataxia - oculomotor apraxia - 4 is an autosomal recessive neurologic disorder characterized by onset of dystonia and ataxia in the first decade .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 57  ( spg57 )  is an extremely rare ,  complex type of hereditary spastic paraplegia ,  characterized by onset in infancy of pronounced leg spasticity  ( leading to the inability to walk independently )  ,  reduced visual acuity due to optic atrophy ,  and distal wasting of the hands and feet due to an axonal demyelinating sensorimotor neuropathy .
spastic paraplegia - 75 is an autosomal recessive ,  slowly progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by onset of spastic paraplegia and cognitive impairment in childhood  ( summary by lossos et al . ,  2015 )  .
spastic paraplegia - 76 is an autosomal recessive neurologic disorder characterized by young - adult onset of slowly progressive spasticity of the lower limbs resulting in gait difficulties .
ayme - gripp syndrome is a clinically homogeneous phenotype characterized by congenital cataracts ,  sensorineural hearing loss ,  intellectual disability ,  seizures ,  brachycephaly ,  a distinctive flat facial appearance ,  and reduced growth  ( niceta et al . ,  2015 )  .
bardet - biedl syndrome 1 is caused by mutation in a gene on chromosome 11q13 .
bbs10 is characterized by progressive retinal dystrophy ,  obesity ,  polydactyly ,  cognitive impairment ,  and renal dysplasia  ( stoetzel et al . ,  2006 )  .
bbs12 is a clinically pleiotropic autosomal recessive ciliopathy .
bbs4 is a rare multisystemic disorder characterized primarily by retinal dystrophy ,  obesity ,  polydactyly ,  and renal dysfunction that accounts for less than 3% of bbs  ( katsanis et al . ,  2002 )  .
bbs5 is a ciliopathy associated with severe and early - onset retinal dystrophy ,  postaxial polydactyly ,  obesity ,  renal dysfunction ,  hypogonadism ,  and learning difficulties  ( summary by scheidecker et al . ,  2015 )  .
bbs7 is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by retinitis pigmentosa ,  postaxial polydactyly ,  mental retardation ,  obesity ,  renal anomalies ,  and hypogenitalism  ( harville et al . ,  2010 )  .
bbs9 is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by obesity ,  polydactyly ,  renal anomalies ,  retinopathy ,  and mental retardation  ( abu - safieh et al . ,  2012 )  .
the camptodactyly - arthropathy - coxa vara - pericarditis syndrome is an autosomal recessive condition characterized by the association of congenital or early - onset camptodactyly and noninflammatory arthropathy with synovial hyperplasia .
cerebellofaciodental syndrome is an autosomal recessive neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by delayed development ,  intellectual disability ,  abnormal facial and dental findings ,  and cerebellar hypoplasia  ( summary by borck et al . ,  2015 )  .
a multiple congenital anomaly syndrome with delayed psychomotor development with intellectual disability ,  short stature ,  obesity ,  variable dysmorphic facial features  ( round face ,  proptosis ,  hypertelorism ,  thick eyebrows and hair ,  long eyelashes ,  short nose and downturned corners of the mouth )  ,  heart defects ,  increased chance of chronic lung disease ,  skeletal defects such as brachydactyly ,  gastroesophageal reflux .
combined oxidative phosphorylation defect type 21 is a rare mitochondrial disease characterized by axial hypotonia with limb hypertonia ,  developmental delay ,  hyperlactatemia ,  central nervous system anomalies visible on magnetic resonance imaging  ( e .g .
combined oxidative phosphorylation defect type 23 is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by early childhood onset of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and / or neurologic symptoms ,  including hypotonia and delayed psychomotor development .
combined oxidative phosphorylation defect type 24 is an autosomal recessive mitochondrial disorder with wide phenotypic variability .
combined oxidative phosphorylation defect type 25 is an autosomal recessive mitochondrial disorder with wide phenotypic variability .
a highly variable phenotype resulting from a defect in mitochondrial respiratory chain activity .
a combined mitochondrial respiratory chain deficiency associated with epileptic encephalopathy and a complex movement disorder .
a fatal systemic mitochondrial disease .
congenital bile acid synthesis defects are rare metabolic disorders with defects in bile acid synthesis .
an autosomal dominant form of focal dystonia affecting the neck ,  laryngeal muscles ,  and muscles of the upper limbs .
acth - independent macronodular adrenal hyperplasia  ( aimah )  is a rare cause of cushing syndrome  ( cs ;  see this term )  characterized by nodular enlargement of both adrenal glands  ( multiple nodules above 1 cm in diameter )  that produce excess cortisol and features of adrenocorticotropic hormone  ( acth )  independent cs  ( see this term )  .
estrogen resistance syndrome is a rare ,  genetic endocrine disease characterized by estrogen - receptor insensitivity to estrogens and the presence of elevated estrogen and gonadotropin serum levels .
an instance of porphyria cutanea tarda that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
fanconi anemia complementation group a is a protein which in humans is encoded by the fanca gene .
fanconi anemia complementation group f is a protein encoded by the fancf gene in humans .
fanconi anemia complementation group g is a protein encoded by the fancg gene in humans .
a darkening of the skin related to an increase in melanin production and deposition .
intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy  ( icp )  is a cholestatic disorder characterized by  ( i )  pruritus with onset in the second or third trimester of pregnancy ,   ( ii )  elevated serum aminotransferases and bile acid levels ,  and  ( iii )  spontaneous relief of signs and symptoms within two to three weeks after delivery .
nephropathic juvenile cystinosis is the intermediate form ,  in regards to severity and age of onset ,  of cystinosis  ( see this term )  ,  a metabolic disease characterized by an accumulation of cystine inside the lysosomes that causes damage in different organs and tissues ,  particularly in the kidneys and eyes .
a rare autosomal dominant syndromic intellectual disability syndrome characterized by macrocephaly ,  seizures ,  umbilical hernia ,  and facial dysmorphic features including frontal bossing ,  midface hypoplasia ,  small chin ,  hypertelorism with downslanting palpebral fissures ,  depressed nasal bridge ,  smooth philtrum ,  and thin upper lip  ( smith et al . ,  2013 ;  baynam et al . ,  2015 )  .
a type of hydrops fetalis in which there is no identifiable circulating antibody to red blood cell antigens  .
pleuropulmonary blastoma  ( ppb )  is a rare pediatric tumor of the lung that arises during fetal lung development and is often part of an inherited cancer syndrome  ( hill et al . ,  2009 )  .
primary progressive aphasia  ( ppa )  is a neurodegenerative disorder ,  characterized by a primary dissolution of language ,  with relative sparing of other mental faculties for at least the first 2 years of illness .
pulmonary arterial hypertension associated with congenital heart disease  ( pah - chd )  is a form of pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  ,  characterized by elevated pulmonary arterial resistance leading to right heart failure occurring as a common complication of congenital heart malformations with left to right cardiac shunts .
a syndrome of increased radiosensitivity ,  immunodeficiency ,  mild motor control and learning difficulties ,  facial dysmorphism ,  and short stature .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 38  ( sca38 )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type 3 characterized by the adult - onset  ( average age: 40 years )  of truncal ataxia ,  gait disturbance and gaze - evoked nystagmus .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 40  ( sca40 )  is a very rare subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type 1 ,  characterized by the adult - onset of unsteady gait and dysarthria ,  followed by wide - based gait ,  gait ataxia ,  ocular dysmetria ,  intention tremor ,  scanning speech ,  hyperreflexia and dysdiadochokinesis .
spinocerebellar ataxia is characterized by progressive imbalance and gait ataxia with mild atrophy of the cerebellar vermis .
spinocerebellar ataxia - 42 is an autosomal dominant neurologic disorder characterized predominantly by gait instability and additional cerebellar signs such as dysarthria ,  nystagmus ,  and saccadic pursuits .
spinocerebellar ataxia - 43 is an autosomal dominant ,  slowly progressive neurologic disorder characterized by adult - onset gait and limb ataxia and often associated with peripheral neuropathy mainly affecting the motor system ,  although some patients may have distal sensory impairment  ( summary by depondt et al . ,  2016 )  .
disorder characterized by severely delayed global development ,  microcephaly ,  abnormal balance and movement .
temple - baraitser syndrome is a rare developmental anomalies syndrome characterized by severe intellectual disability and distal hypoplasia of digits ,  particularly of thumbs and halluces ,  with nail aplasia or hypoplasia .
wolfram - like syndrome is a rare endocrine disease characterized by the triad of adult - onset diabetes mellitus ,  progressive hearing loss  ( usually presenting in the first decade of life and principally of low to moderate frequencies )  ,  and / or juvenile - onset optic atrophy .
x - linked erythropoietic protoporphyria  ( xlepp )  is a metabolic disorder of heme biosynthesis characterized by onset in early childhood of severe photosensitivity associated with decreased iron stores and increased erythrocyte zinc -  and metal - free protoporphyrin .
urolithiasis in which the composition of the stones is predominantly calcium oxalate .
x - linked intellectual disability and epilepsy associated with variants in the clcn4 gene .
decreased or absent activity of the enzyme 17 - alpha - hydroxylase / 17 , 20 lyase due to loss - of - function mutation ( s )  in the cyp17a1 gene .
a rare ,  autosomal dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the dicer1 gene .
a metabolic disorder usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern and caused by mutations in the mat1a gene .
intellectual developmental disorder with dysmorphic facies and ptosis is an autosomal dominant neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by delayed psychomotor development ,  intellectual disability ,  delayed language ,  and dysmorphic facial features ,  most notably ptosis / blepharophimosis .
malignant hyperthermia susceptibility  ( mhs )  ,  a skeletal muscle disorder most often inherited as an autosomal dominant trait ,  is one of the main causes of death due to anesthesia .
neurodevelopmental disorder associated with the mbd5 gene .
an autosomal recessive form of methylmalonic aciduria ,  caused by mutation ( s )  in the mmaa gene ,  encoding mmaa protein .
an autosomal recessive form of methylmalonic aciduria ,  caused by mutation ( s )  in the mmab gene ,  encoding cob ( i ) yrinic acid a , c - diamide adenosyltransferase ,  mitochondrial .
hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type vib is an autosomal recessive complex progressive neurologic disorder characterized mainly by early - onset optic atrophy resulting in progressive visual loss and peripheral axonal sensorimotor neuropathy with highly variable age at onset and severity .
an auditory system disease that is associated with permanent hearing loss caused by damage to structures in the inner ear and / or the middle ear ,  which is not associated with other signs and symptoms .
premature chromatid separation consists of separate and splayed chromatids with discernible centromeres and involves all or most chromosomes of a metaphase .
disorder associated with the stag1 gene .
an autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability that has_material_basis_in an autosomal dominant mutation of pogz on chromosome 1q21 .3 .
x - linked ichthyosis is clinically characterized by widespread ,  dark brown ,  polygonal scales and generalized dryness .
heterotaxia  ( coming from the greek 'heteros' meaning different and 'taxis' meaning arrangement )  is the right / left transposition of thoracic and / or abdominal organs .
speech development ,  referring to the process of making sounds ,  that is absent or significantly behind developmental milestones .
inflammation of the arterial intima .
pathological processes which result in the partial or complete obstruction of arteries .
a vascular disorder characterized by thickening and hardening of the walls of the arteries .
the presence of salmonella bacteria  ( of the non - typhoidal type )  in the blood .
describes the procedure by which a biological specimen is dissociated into individual cells or a cell suspension
describes the procedure by which the concentration of an entity of interest in a sample is increased .
an experimental process which results in the increased concentration of an entity of interest .
process which results in the separation of a biological specimen into individual cells or a cell suspension
a measurement of some aspect of breast milk .
malignant tumor of melanocytes of the choroid .
decreased function of the heart associated with cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure ,  of unknown cause .
a measurement of some aspect of human psychology .
a measurement of some aspect of psychological negative valence systems e .g .
a measurement of some aspect of psychological positive valence systems e .g .
a measurement of some aspect of cognitive systems e .g .
a measurement of some aspect of psychological arousal / regulatory systems e .g .
a measurement of some aspect of psychological systems for social processes e .g .
a measurement of the age at which a woman gave birth to her first live child
a measurement of the number of children born
quantification of theory of mind ability ,  defined as the ability to attribute mental states to one self and others and to use such mental state attribution to make sense of behaviour and predict it .
an abnormally high level of uric acid .
evolutionary modification in certain human populations who have acquired the ability to survive at extremely high altitudes .
process which results in the increased concentration of an entity of interest ,  such as a particle or cell ,  in a sample
a flow cytometry assay that provides a method for sorting a heterogeneous mixture of biological cells into two or more containers ,  one cell at a time ,  based upon the specific light scattering and fluorescent characteristics of each cell .
a method of cell sorting that uses paramagnetic beads that are coated with antibodies ,  antigens ,  receptors ,  receptor substrates ,  binding proteins ,  etc to separate target cells from solution .
a centrifugation procedure that utilizes a density - gradient medium to separate mononuclear and polymorphonuclear leukocytes from other formed elements in the blood .
laser capture microdissection is a technique used for isolating specific cells of interest from microscopic regions of tissue / cells / organisms .
a method of separating cells in a sample by either their differential rate of sedimentation in a centrifugal gradient or their differential buoyancy in a density gradient .
quantification of some aspect of alcohol exposure .
quantification of some aspect of the exposure of a fetus to an agent while in the womb .
quantification of some aspect of tobacco smoke exposure .
quantification of some aspect of the consumption of dietry vitamin supplements .
a group of infectious diseases that include epidemic typhus ,  scrub typhus and murine typhus .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant epithelial tumor of the female reproductive system characterized by the presence of glands and / or cysts lined by neoplastic cells that resemble endometrial cells .
a neoplasm of immature malignant lymphocytes  ( lymphoblasts )  committed to the b - cell or t - cell lineage .
the removal of tissue specimens or fluid from the living body for examination ,  for example by microscopy ,  performed to establish a diagnosis .
extraction of a blood specimen from an organism
collection of a biological specimen by scraping epithelia with a sampling device such as a sterile scalpel
collection of a urine specimen from an organism
collection of a whole organ from an organism
the use of a brush to obtain tissue samples from one or more bronchi .
a procedure that collects white blood cells from the peripheral blood while returning the rest to the donor .
dissociation process which uses enzymes to separate the cells in a specimen
dissociation process which uses mechanical forces to separate the cells in a specimen
symptomatic infection due to the spore - forming bacterium clostridium difficile .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of cholesterol efflux capacity ,  a measure of hdl functionality that quantifies the ability of an individuals hdl to extract cholesterol from cholesterol - loaded macrophages .
quantification of the amount of cholestryl ester transfer protein in a sample ,  typically serum .
quantification of trimethyllysine  ( n6 , n6 , n6 - trimethyl - l - lysine )  in the blood .
deficiency in the terminal enzyme of the respiratory chain ,  complex iv ,  causing the progressive neurodegenerative disorder ,  leigh syndrome .
x - linked ,  right / left transposition of thoracic and / or abdominal organs .
renal hypodysplasia / aplasia 3  ( rhda3 )  is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by abnormal kidney development beginning in utero .
llaminin alpha 2 - related dystrophy is a disorder that causes weakness and wasting  ( atrophy )  of muscles used for movement  ( skeletal muscles )  .
glut1 deficiency syndrome is a disorder affecting the nervous system that can have a variety of neurological signs and symptoms .
pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors with metastases to other sites in the body ,  such as the liver .
craniosynostosis associated with fgfr2  ( fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 )  gene .
dilated cardiomyopathy ,  characterized by dilation and contractile dysfunction of the left and right ventricles ,  with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance .
ryr - 1 - related diseases are conditions caused by changes  ( mutations )  in the ryr - 1 gene .
an autosomal - recessive epileptic encephalopathy ,  which is characterized by drug - resistant seizures ,  and rigidity .
an autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy caused by mutations in the pomt1 gene ,  encoding protein o - mannosyl - transferase 1 .
pik3ca - related overgrowth spectrum  ( pros )  is a group of rare diseases associated with having parts of the body that grow too quickly  ( overgrowth )  .
partial deficiency of the purine salvage enzyme adenosine deaminase .
acth - independent macronodular adrenal hyperplasia - 2 is an autosomal dominant tumor susceptibility with syndromic incomplete penetrance ,  as a second hit to the armc5 gene is required to develop macronodular hyperplasia  ( assie et al . ,  2013 )  .
a congenital muscular dystrophy characterized by onset of progressive muscle weakness in early childhood with autosomal recessive inheritance that has_material_basis_in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the inpp5k gene  ( 607875 )  on chromosome 17p13 .
intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy is a reversible form of cholestasis that occurs most often in the third trimester of pregnancy and recurs in 45 to 70% of subsequent pregnancies .
inherited ocular disorder ,  characterised by the loss of cone cells ,  and hearing loss .
grozeva et al . ( 2014 )  reported 7 unrelated boys with moderate to severe intellectual disability .
hereditary lymphedema iii is a form of generalized lymphatic dysplasia  ( gld )  ,  which is characterized by a uniform ,  widespread lymphedema affecting all segments of the body ,  with systemic involvement such as intestinal and / or pulmonary lymphangiectasia ,  pleural effusions ,  chylothoraces and / or pericardial effusions .
hemophilia b leyden is an x chromosome - linked bleeding disorder characterized by an altered developmental expression of blood coagulation factor ix .
growth retardation ,  intellectual developmental disorder ,  hypotonia ,  and hepatopathy  ( gridhh )  is an autosomal recessive multisystem disorder characterized by intellectual disability ,  poor overall growth ,  hypotonia ,  and variable liver dysfunction .
a highly variable phenotype with global developmental delay and moderate to severe intellectual disability ;  this can include poor or absent speech ,  delayed or impaired walking ,  poor feeding ,  hypotonia ,  seizures and behavioral problems ,  dysmorphic facial features and abnormal ,  but varied ,  brain imaging .
susceptibility to the mosquito - borne hematoprotozoan parasites from the plasmodium genus .
early - onset progressive encephalopathy with brain edema and / or leukoencephalopathy  ( pebel )  is an autosomal recessive severe neurometabolic disorder characterized by rapidly progressive neurologic deterioration that is usually associated with a febrile illness .
combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 33  ( coxpd33 )  is an autosomal recessive multisystem disorder resulting from a defect in mitochondrial energy metabolism .
stromme syndrome is an autosomal recessive congenital disorder affecting multiple systems with features of a ciliopathy .
poor metabolism of the guanidine derivative ,  debrisoquine ,  which is frequently used to phenotype the drug metabolizing enzyme ,  cyp2d6 .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2t  ( cmt2t )  is a slowly progressive autosomal recessive sensorimotor peripheral neuropathy with onset in middle age  ( higuchi et al . ,  2016 )  .
shimomura et al . ( 2009 )  studied 11 consanguineous pakistani families with woolly hair and / or hypotrichosis in whom homozygosity for mutations in the liph gene were identified  ( see molecular genetics )  .
delayed psychomotor development and mild to severe intellectual disability .
delayed psychomotor development and mild to severe intellectual disability .
the effectiveness of response to the drug ,  ivacaftor ,  used to treat cystic fibrosis patients with mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator  ( cftr )  gene .
response to the anticoagulant ,  warfarin  ( trade name coumadin )  .
response to the synthetic glucocorticoid with anti - inflammatory and immunomodulating properties ,  prednisolone  ( 11 , 17 - dihydroxy - 17 -  ( 2 - hydroxyacetyl )  - 10 , 13 - dimethyl - 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 15 , 16 , 17 - dodecahydrocyclopenta [ a ]  phenanthren - 3 - one )  .
response to deoxygalactonojirimycin ,  also known as migalastat ,  a drug used in the treatment of fabry disease .
response to drug that inhibits tyrosine kinases .
the lutheran inhibitor blood group phenotype  ( in ( lu )  )  is characterized phenotypically by the apparent absence of the lu antigen  ( bcam )  on red blood cells during serologic tests ,  i .e . ,  lu ( a - b -  )  .
is a quantification of thyroxine - binding globulin .
the illumina nextseq 500 is a benchtop high - throughput sequencing machine developed by illumina .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism as a result of a synacthen stimulus .
quantification of the suppression of adrenal gland function ,  typically following stimulation with adrenocorticotrophic hormone or a synthetic equivalent .
quantification of the severity of myopic maculopathy
quantification of the levels of neurofilament light chain ,  typically in blood or cerebrospinal fluid .
quantification of the amount of beta - secretase 1 in a sample ,  typicallly cerebrospinal fluid .
quantification of the severity of rosacea symptoms ,  based on a survey of facial ,  nose and ocular sympoms related to rosacea ,  a chronic inflammatory skin disease .
quantification of growth differentiation factor 15 in a biological sample .
quantification of some aspect of psychotic symptoms ,  such as their existence and severity ,  usually via a standardised questionnaire or interview with a qualified mental health professional .
quantification of some aspect of empathy ,  i .e .
quantification of  heart rate during exercise .
quantification of heart rate during a recovery period following exercise .
indicator of larger  (  >  12 fl )  circulating platelets  ( percentage )  .
percentage of immature platelets
red blood cell distribution width  ( rdw or rdw - cv or rcdw and rdw - sd )  is a measure of the range of variation of red blood cell  ( rbc )  volume that is reported as part of a standard complete blood count .
overactivity of the thyroid gland resulting in overproduction of thyroid hormone and increased metabolic rate .
a hypermetabolic syndrome caused by the elevation of thyroid hormone levels in the serum .
nodular enlargement of the thyroid gland associated with hyperthyroidism .
drug -  or toxin - induced pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  is a form of pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  secondary to the exposition to drugs .
pulmonary arterial hypertension associated with another disease is a group of conditions that lead to pah ;  connective tissue diseases  ( lupus erythematosus ,  systemic sclerosis and mixed connective tissues disease )  ,  congenital heart disease  ( eisenmenger syndrome )  ,  hiv infection ,  portal hypertension ,  schistosomiasis and chronic hemolytic anemia ,  which is characterized by elevated pulmonary arterial resistance leading to right heart failure that is progressive and potentially fatal .
pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  associated with hiv infection  ( pah - hiv )  is a form of pah characterized by elevated pulmonary arterial resistance leading to right heart failure observed as a complication of hiv infection .
pulmonary arterial hypertension associated with chronic hemolytic anemia  ( pah - cha )  is a form of pah characterized by an elevated pulmonary arterial resistance leading to right heart failure observed as a complication of chronic hemolytic anemia .
pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  associated with connective tissue disease  ( pah - ctd )  is a form of pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  characterized by an elevated pulmonary arterial resistance leading to right heart failure observed as a complication of a connective tissue disease .
pulmonary arterial hypertension associated with portal hypertension  ( pah - ph )  is a form of pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  ,  characterized by an elevated pulmonary arterial resistance leading to right heart failure observed as a complication of portal hypertension .
pulmonary arterial hypertension associated with schistosomiasis  ( pahs )  is a form of pulmonary arterial hypertension characterized by an elevated pulmonary arterial resistance leading to right heart failure ,  observed as a complication of a chronic schistosomiasis .
pulmonary veno - occlusive disease and / or pulmonary capillary hemangiomatosis  ( pvod and / or pch )  constitutes a rare subgroup of pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  characterized by obliterative fibrosis of the small pulmonary veins and venules and / or capillary infiltration of the pulmonary interstitium leading to increased pulmonary vascular resistance and right ventricular dysfunction .
eisenmenger syndrome  ( es )  is an form of pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  associated with unoperated congenital heart disease and is characterized by congenital heart malformations with reversed or bi - directional shunting through an intra - cardiac or intervascular  ( usually aorto - pulmonary )  communication with the development of pah .
the determination of the mean amount of hemoglobin per reticulocyte present in a sample .
the determination of the ratio of carboxyhemoglobin compared to total hemoglobin present in a sample .
a measurement of the standard deviation of hemoglobin concentrations in individual red blood cells ,  calculated as the standard deviation of hemoglobin content divided by the mean hemoglobin content .
a measurement of the mean red blood cell hemoglobin content within an individual red blood cell ,  calculated as the product of cell volume and cell hemoglobin concentration .
the determination of the amount of free hemoglobin present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of hemoglobin a present in a sample .
the determination of the ratio of hemoglobin a compared to total hemoglobin present in a sample .
the determination of the ratio of hemoglobin a1 compared to total hemoglobin present in a sample .
the determination of the ratio of hemoglobin a2 prime compared to total hemoglobin present in a sample .
the determination of the ratio of hemoglobin a2 compared to total hemoglobin present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of hemoglobin b present in a sample .
the determination of the ratio of hemoglobin barts compared to total hemoglobin present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of hemoglobin c present in a sample .
the determination of the ratio of hemoglobin c compared to total hemoglobin present in a sample .
the determination of the ratio of hemoglobin d compared to total hemoglobin present in a sample .
the determination of the ratio of hemoglobin e compared to total hemoglobin present in a sample .
the determination of the ratio of hemoglobin f compared to total hemoglobin present in a sample .
the determination of the ratio of hemoglobin g compared to total hemoglobin present in a sample .
the determination of the ratio of hemoglobin lepore compared to total hemoglobin present in a sample .
the determination of the ratio of hemoglobin o - arab compared to total hemoglobin present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of hemoglobin s present in a sample .
the determination of the ratio of hemoglobin s compared to total hemoglobin present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of hemoglobin tetramer in a biological sample .
the determination of the ratio of methemoglobin compared to total hemoglobin present in a sample .
the determination of the ratio of oxyhemoglobin compared to total hemoglobin present in a sample .
an indirect measurement of the average concentration of hemoglobin per reticulocyte in a biological specimen ,  calculated as the ratio of hemoglobin to hematocrit .
the determination of the amount of hemoglobin in reticulocytes within a sample .
a measurement of the standard deviation of hemoglobin concentrations in reticulocytes ,  calculated as the standard deviation of hemoglobin content divided by the mean hemoglobin content .
a measurement of the distribution of the hemoglobin concentration in reticulocytes .
the determination of the number of blast cells present in a blood sample .
the determination of the ratio of one blood cell component lto another in a blood sample .
a hematologic procedure to determine the number of red blood cells ,  white blood cells ,  and platelets ,  including the white cell differential count and red cell morphology ,  in a blood sample .
the determination of the number of eosinophilic metamyelocytes in a blood sample .
the determination of the number of eosinophilic myelocytes in a blood sample .
the estimated amount of platelets in a biological sample .
the determination of the amount of immature plasma cells present in a sample .
the determination of the number of mature plasma cells present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of metarubricytes present in a sample .
the determination of the ratio of monocytoid cells compared to leukocytes present in a sample .
the determination of the number of myeloid progenitor cells in a sample .
the determination of the ratio of myeloid cells compared to erythroid cells present in a sample .
the determination of the number of neutrophilic metamyelocytes in a blood sample .
the determination of the number of neutrophilic myelocytes in a blood sample .
the determination of the ratio of neutrophil band form compared to neutrophils present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of ovalocytes present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of plasma cells present in a sample .
the determination of the number of precursor plasma cells present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of prorubricytes present in a sample .
the determination of the amount of rubricytes present in a sample .
the determination of the ratio of segmented neutrophils compared to neutrophils present in a sample .
the determination of the ratio of immature reticulocytes to total reticulocytes present in a sample .
a glioma that affects the optic nerve .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the cecum .
quantification of the intervals between normal heartbeats ,  expressed as standard deviation .
quantification of the differences in intervals between heartbeats ,  expressed as root mean square .
quantification of some aspects of sinus arrhythmia or high frequency power .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the zone of skin
any skin carcinoma that is not melanoma ,  with the most common types being basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of symptom associated with nicotine dependence .
quantification of symptom associated with nicotine withdrawal .
quantification of the maximum number of cigarettes that a subject smoked per day
refractory celiac disease  ( rcd )  is a complex autoimmune disorder much like the more common celiac disease but ,  unlike celiac disease ,  it is resistant or unresponsive to at least 12 months of treatment with a strict gluten - free diet .
a disorder characterized by confusion ;  inattentiveness ;  disorientation ;  illusions ;  hallucinations ;  agitation ;  and in some instances autonomic nervous system overactivity .
a reported family history of alzheimers disease in one or more family members .
quantification of the levels of adamts13 protein in a sample ,  typically blood plasma
quantification of the mineral density of the heel bone
the result of a measurement of circulating epstein barr virus nuclear antigen - 1 antibodies used in the diagnosis of latent epstein - barr virus infection
the result of a measurement of circulating epstein barr viral capsid antigen antibodies used in the diagnosis of epstein - barr virus infection
quantification of one or more antibodies to the epstein - barr virus ,  typically in serum
quantification of antibodies to the epstein - barr virus viral capsid antigen ,  typically in serum .
a type of cardiac arrythmia with ventricular or atrial contractions that are initiated early by an ectopic site  ( outside of the sinoatrial node )  .
a type of cardiac arrhythmia with premature ventricular contractions or beats caused by signals originating from ectopic sites .
a type of cardiac arrhythmia with premature atrial contractions or beats caused by signals originating from ectopic atrial sites .
quantification of any aspect of the morphology of the cranial vault ,  including shape ,  size ,  structure or pattern .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of the thickness of the choroid ,  the vascular layer of the eye lying between the retina and the sclera .
a quantitative measurement of the amount of sodium present in a sample .
a quantitative measurement of the amount of potassium present in a sample .
a quantitative measurement of the amount of chloride present in a sample .
a calculated measurement corresponding to the ratio or percent reduction in heart chamber diameter between end - systole and end - diastole .
a calculated measurement of heart wall geometry .
a quantitative measurement of the thickness of an interventricular septum .
a quantitative measurement of the thickness or depth of the dorsal / posterior wall of the heart .
a quantitative measure calculated as the difference between the epicardium delimited volume and the left ventricular chamber volume
the left ventricular mass divided by the subject's body surface area
the e / a ratio is a marker of the function of the left ventricle of the heart .
aspiration of immature hematopoietic elements and blood from the bone marrow .
removal of tissue from the kidney ,  for microscopic examination ,  obtained percutaneously .
cite - seq is a method a method in which oligonucleotide - labeled antibodies are used to integrate cellular protein and transcriptome measurements into an efficient ,  single - cell readout .
childhood - onset polyarteritis nodosa is an autosomal recessive systemic vascular inflammatory disorder characterized mainly by involvement of the skin ,  nervous system ,  kidney ,  and gastrointestinal tract .
an autosomal recessive hereditary neoplastic syndrome caused by mutations in the mutyh gene on chromosome 1p34 .1 .
fg syndrome  ( fgs )  is a genetic condition that affects many parts of the body and occurs almost exclusively in males .
liver failure due to a mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation disorder due to cytochrome c oxidase deficiency .
ndhmsd is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by profound developmental delay ,  severe intellectual disability with absent speech ,  muscular hypotonia ,  and a hyperkinetic movement disorder .
any dystonic disorder in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kmt2b gene .
amelogenesis imperfecta is an inherited defect of dental enamel formation that shows both clinical and genetic heterogeneity .
quantification of levels of fructosamine present in a sample .
quantification of the percentage of serum albumin in a sample that is glycated .
quantification of the total amount of glycated albumin in a sample .
quantification of the total amount of atazanavir ,  typically assayed in hair .
the determination of the amount of glycated albumin related peptide present in a biological specimen .
physiological response of an organism to being given long - chain n - 3 polyunsaturated fatty acids as a dietary supplement .
div - seq is a single - nucleus rna sequencing technique that improves upon snuc - seq by incorporating 5 - ethynyl - 2 - deoxyuridine  ( edu )  labeling to identify dividing cells during their different cell stages .
10x v2 is the second version of the 10x sequencing technology .
quantification of the amount of proprotein convertase subtilisin / kexin type 9 in plasma .
autoimmune disease characterized by subepidermal blisters and linear deposition of autoantibodies at the dermoepidermal junction .
a condition in which there is a deviation from or interruption of the normal coagulation properties of the blood .
a condition characterized by an abnormally high level of thrombi .
protein c deficiency is a disorder that increases a person's risk to develop abnormal blood clots due to a deficiency of the protein c ,  a protein in the body that prevents blood clotting .
lymphoblastoid cell line from b - lymphocyte of a caucasian male as part of the personal genome project .
human foreskin fibroblast cell line immortalized by infection with retroviral constrcuts that expressed the htert open reading frame
immortalized mouse embryonic stem cell line
human embryonic stem cell line from a female donor
characterized by build - up of fluid in and beneath the macula ,  affecting detailed central vision
advanced retinopathy due to diabetes mellitus characterized by the formation of new vessels in the retina .
quantification of alpha synuclein levels in the cerebrospinal fluid .
quantification of the presence of absence of the apol1 risk genotype in an individual
quantification of any aspect of growth of the basal ganglia during development
quantification of any aspect of the growth of the brain during development
quantification of any aspect of the growth of the cerebellum during development
quantification of any aspect of growth of the cerebral cortex during development
chlamydia trachomatis seropositivity is the result of a measurement of circulating c . trachomatis specific antibodies
quantification of some aspect of erosive tooth wear .
quantification of executive function in an individual ,  for example using the behavioural rating inventory of executive function  ( brief )  .
quantification of any aspect of growth of the prefrontal cortex during development
quantification of any aspect of growth of the white matter during development
velopharyngeal dysfunction  ( vpd )  occurs when the muscular soft palate  ( velum )  and lateral pharyngeal walls are physically unable to separate the oral and nasal cavities during speech production leading to hypernasality and abnormal speech reduction .
filtering process that either includes or excludes cells of a certain diameter using a physical filter
the result of a measurement of circulating epstein - barr virus early antigen - specific antibodies
the result of a measurement of circulating herpes simplex virus 2 - specific antibodies
the result of a measurement of circulating varicella zoster virus - specific antibodies
the result of a measurement of circulating helicobacter pylori - specific antibodies
the result of a measurement of circulating measles virus - specific antibodies
the result of a measurement of circulating mumps virus - specific antibodies
the result of a measurement of circulating rubella virus - specific antibodies
the result of a measurement of circulating hepatitis b virus surface antigen - specific antibodies
the result of a measurement of circulating hepatitis b virus core antigen - specific antibodies
quantification of the igg antibody isotype produced in response to cytomegalovirus infection
quantification of antibodies to the epstein - barr virus early antigen
quantification of the igg antibody isotype produced in response to herpes simplex virus 1 infection
quantification of the igg antibody isotype produced in response to herpes simplex virus 2 infection
quantification of the igg antibody isotype produced in response to varicella zoster virus infection
quantification of the igg antibody isotype produced in response to helicobacter pylori infection
quantification of the igg antibody isotype produced in response to toxoplasma gondii infection
quantification of the igg antibody isotype produced in response to influenza a virus infection
quantification of the igg antibody isotype produced in response to measles virus infection
quantification of the igg antibody isotype produced in response to mumps virus infection
quantification of the igg antibody isotype produced in response to rubella virus infection
quantification of antibodies to the hepatitis b virus surface antigen
quantification of antibodies to the hepatitis b virus core antigen
quantification of the excess eyelid skin that generally occurs in middle - aged or elderly persons ,  or as a result of genetic disorder such as cutis laxa or ehlers - danlos syndrome .
an invasive colorectal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of extracellular mucin pools that contain malignant glandular epithelial structures .
quantification of measure of nicotine withdrwawal .
the chronic form of central serous retinopathy .
nonallergic rhinitis has the same symptoms as allergic rhinitis ,  but in the absence of allergic sensitization ,  typically evaluated by measurement of specific iges or skin - prick test against a range of allergens .
normal or abnormal secretions from the vagina .
a measure to assess quality of life  ( qol )  based on how the individual has felt during the menstrual period .
quantification of a glucose metabolic process .
quantification of the amount of factor vii activating protease in a blood sample
a measurement of carbon monoxide  ( co )  transfer from inspired gas to pulmonary capillary blood .
quantification of some aspect of exposure to radon gas
a high - fat ,  adequate - protein ,  low - carbohydrate diet .
the physiological response of an organism to being fed a ketogenic diet .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid beneath the skin ,  or in one or more cavities of the body .
quantification of the energy intake of an individual ,  e .g .
telomerase - immortalized human breast epithelial cell line .
neuralgic syndromes which feature chronic or recurrent facial pain as the primary manifestation of disease .
quantification of the amount of fibroblast growth factor 23 in a sample
long - standing obesity without metbolic abnormalities or obesity - related comorbidities such as type 2 diabetes or heart disease
a form of hyperphosphatemic tumoral calcinosis ,  a severe metabolic disorder that manifests with hyperphosphatemia and deposition of basic calcium phosphate crystals in the skin ,  subcutaneous tissues ,  periarticular spaces ,  and sometimes bone .
a form of hyperphosphatemic tumoral calcinosis ,  a severe metabolic disorder that manifests with hyperphosphatemia and deposition of basic calcium phosphate crystals in the skin ,  subcutaneous tissues ,  periarticular spaces ,  and sometimes bone .
familial tumoral calcinosis  ( ftc )  refers to a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by the occurrence of cutaneous and subcutaneous calcified masses ,  usually adjacent to large joints ,  such as hips ,  shoulders and elbows .
a disease involving the central nervous system .
a disease involving the peripheral nervous system .
sum of quantification of basophil and neutrophil in the blood .
sum of quantification of eosinophil and basophil  in the blood .
sum of quantification of neutrophils and eosinophils  in the blood .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of a reduction in glucose metabolism .
change in pressure of the breast .
volume of hippocampal ca1 ,  which is the part of hippocampus proper bounded by ca2 and the subiculum ,  characterized by pyramidal neurons that receive projections from pyramidal neurons of ca3 via the schaffer collaterals .
volume of hippocampal ca3 ,  which is the part of hippocampus proper bounded by the hilus of the dentate gyrus and area ca2 ,  characterized by large pyramidal cells and a dense projection from dentate gyrus granule cell mossy fibers .
volume of hippocampal ca4 .
volume of hippocampus molecular layer .
volume of hippocampal tail .
volume of subiculum region in hippocampus .
volume of subiculum region in hippocampus .
volume of hippocampal amigdala transition area .
volume of hippocampus fimbria volume .
volume of granule cell layer dentate gyrus volume .
volume of hippocampal fissure volume .
volume of parasubiculum volume .
a metabolic disorder characterized by abnormal blood glucose levels .
a deviation from the normal odor of the vaginal discharge .
itching in the vagina from abnormal discharge .
quantification of some aspect of uterine fibroids ,  such as the number ,  volume or dimensions .
quantification of the amount of ccl13 protein in a sample .
quantification of the amount of interleukin 1 - alpha protein in a sample .
quantification of the amount of ccl15 protein in a sample .
quantification of the amount of ccl17 protein in a sample .
quantification of the amount of ccl19 protein in a sample .
quantification of the amount of ccl21 protein in a sample .
quantification of the amount of ccl23 protein in a sample .
quantification of the amount of ccl24 protein in a sample .
quantification of the amount of cx3cl1 protein in a sample .
quantification of the amount of cxcl12 protein in a sample .
quantification of the amount of cxcl13 protein in a sample .
quantification of the amount of cxcl5 protein in a sample .
quantification of the amount of cxcl6 protein in a sample .
infections with bacteria of the species yersinia enterocolitica .
plague is a severe bacterial infection caused by the gram - negative bacterium yersinia pestis .
the phenotypic observation that death has occurred in groups of cells or in one or more tissues due to external factors ,  such as infection ,  toxins ,  mechanical trauma ,  loss of blood supply and other injuries  ( e .g .
death of an embryo  ( human or animal )  within the embryonic period prior to organogenesis .
death arising when a combination of deficiencies in the expression of two or more genes leads to cell death ,  whereas a deficiency in only one of these genes does not .
infections with bacteria of the genus mycobacterium .
a pain disorder characterize by pain in the distribution of a nerve or nerves
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the small or large intestine .
a disorder that affects fibroblasts .
a disease involving the lower respiratory tract .
a death that can't be attributed to any precise cause .
quantification of the global severity of rheumatoid arthritis in a patient ,  based on a combination of several different specific measures ,  e .g .
quantification of the ability of an individual's offspring to survive or live successfully ,  e .g .
quantification of some aspect of the death of an individual's offspring ,  e .g .
quantification of the number of pregnancies a woman has
quantification of some aspect of multiple births ,  eg the number or proportion born to an individual .
a measurement of the age at which a woman became pregnant for the final time in her reproductive life .
waldenstrom macroglobulinemia  ( wm )  is an indolent b - cell lymphoproliferative disorder characterized by the accumulation of monoclonal cells in the bone marrow and peripheral lymphoid tissues ,  and associated with the production of serum immunoglobulin m  ( igm )  monoclonal protein .
breast cancer occuring in women with a family history indicative or being a brca1 or brca2 mutation carrier ,  but genetic screening for these genes has failed to find clinically significant mutations .
a decrease in the amount of oxygen in the body .
absence or reduction of oxygen in body tissue .
a state of general hypoxia and hypercapnia  ( abnormally elevated carbon dioxide  ( co2 )  levels in the blood )  ,  resulting in acidosis ,  which affects all tissues in the body .
a finding indicating decreased oxygen levels in the blood .
chronic progressive interstitial lung disorder characterized by the replacement of the lung tissue by connective tissue ,  leading to progressive dyspnea ,  respiratory failure ,  or right heart failure .
a corneal disease that is characterized by inflammation of the cornea .
inflammation of the conjunctiva of the eye .
hypoparathyroidism is is an endocrine disorder in which the parathyroid glands in the neck do not produce enough parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  .
overproduction of aldosterone by the adrenal glands ,  which may lead to hypokalemia and / or hypernatremia .
severe or complete loss of motor function on one side of the body .
an ulcerated lesion in the mucosal surface of the stomach .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the lacrimal apparatus .
the widespread involvement of the skin by a scaly ,  erythematous dermatitis occurring either as a secondary or reactive process to an underlying cutaneous disorder  ( e .g . ,  atopic dermatitis ,  psoriasis ,  etc .
anomaly in the repair process of damaged blood vessels after injury .
a quantitative measure of alcohol use disorder ,  e .g .
a subtype of rheumatoid arthritis defined by the presence of autoantibodies that are directed against citrullinated peptides and proteins .
a subtype of rheumatoid arthritis defined by the absence of autoantibodies that are directed against citrullinated peptides and proteins .
an inflammation found in many diseases ,  it is a collection of immune cells known as macrophages .a relatively small nodular inflammatory lesion containing grouped mononuclear phagocytes ,  caused by infectious and noninfectious agents .
a localised pathological necrosis of tissue resulting from obstruction of the blood supply usually by a thrombus ,  an embolus ,  or vascular torsion .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the cornea .
acute form of sarcoidosis characterized by erythema nodosum ,  bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy and polyarthralgia or polyarthritis .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a disease affecting the jaw region ,  i .e .
disease that is located in bartholin gland .
a disease affecting tissues that connect ,  support ,  or surround other structures and organs of the body ,  not being hard tissue such as bone .
reduced physical bulk of one or both of the organs responsible for urine secretion .
presence of a hole or tear in the tympanic membrane  ( eardrum )  .
disruption of the integrity of the erythrocyte membrane causing release of hemoglobin .
a polyp that arises from the cervix .
damage inflicted to the neck .
a disease that involves the intervertebral joint .
a non - neoplastic polypoid swelling of the vocal cord mucosa .
a disease affecting the throat .
quantification of some aspect of coping behaviour ,  such as emotional coping ,  behavioural coping ,  positive reappraisal ,  emotional support seeking or disengagement .
a disease involving the paranasal sinus .
immunologically mediated adverse reactions to medicinal substances used legally or illegally .
a disease involving the breast .
a benign protruding lesion arising either from the endometrial cavity  ( endometrial polyp )  or the endocervix  ( endocervical polyp )  .
damage inflicted to an eye .
a group of disorders affecting the eye in patients with diabetes mellitus .
any nerve disorder caused by the entrapment and compression of a nerve .
a disease involving the spinal cord .
injury to any of the cranial nerves or their nuclei in the brain resulting in muscle weakness .
traumatic injuries to the brain ,  cranial nerves ,  spinal cord ,  autonomic nervous system ,  or neuromuscular system ,  including iatrogenic injuries induced by surgical procedures .
an endocrine or hormonal disorder that occurs when the adrenal cortex does not produce enough of the hormone cortisol and in some cases ,  the hormone aldosterone .
cessation of breathing and / or cardiac function .
a form of tachycardia which begins and ends in an acute  ( or paroxysmal )  manner .
cell line from olfactory neurosphere cells from a 59 - year - old human male .
cell line from olfactory neurosphere cells from a 66 - year - old human female .
cell line from olfactory neurosphere cells from a 64 - year - old human male .
lymphoblastoid cell line from a caucasian male with type 2 diabetes ,  same donor as of msips cell line .
induced pluripotent stem cell line from a caucasian male with type 2 diabetes ,  same donor as of mslcl cell line .
cells isolated from colonic biopsy of 'patient 2'  ( roig et al 2010 )  ,  and immortalized by expression of cdk4 and htert .
cells isolated from colonic biopsy of 'patient 1'  ( roig et al 2010 )  ,  and immortalized by expression of cdk4 and htert .
induced pluripotent stem cells derived from msc658 fibroblasts .
injury to the abdomen .
tissue corrosion or chemical burn .
traumatic compression of the body or a part of the body .
injury to the head .
injury to the heart .
injury to a knee .
injury to a leg .
injury to a limb .
injury to a peripheral nerve .
a finding indicating the presence of abnormal cervical cells in a pap smear .
a traumatic break in one or more of the bones in the hip ,  thigh ,  leg ,  or foot .
two or more simultaneous traumatic breaks in one or more bones .
a traumatic break in one or more of the bones in the arm ,  forearm ,  or hand .
traumatic injury to the wrist joint in which the continuity of a wrist bone is broken .
a traumatic injury involving interruption of tissue cohesiveness that results from exposure to caustic chemicals ,  extreme heat ,  extreme cold or excessive radiation .
a general examination or inspection ,  especially one carried out by a doctor or dentist .
any disease or disorder that occurs during the course of ,  or because of ,  another disease ,  treatment ,  or procedure .
any problem arising from the use of a medical device .
the prevention of conception or impregnation by the use of devices or drugs or surgery .
a displacement of a part  ( especially a bone )  from its normal position .
disruption of the normal functioning of the sensory nerves in the skin .
involuntary passage of stool from the rectum .
an abnormal communication between a female reproductive system organ and another organ or cavity .
extraneous material within the body .
extraneous material located within the gastrointestinal tract .
an injury to the skin and / or its underlying tissues that results from exposure of the affected area to extreme cold .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder arising as a result of the immunologic defects caused by autoimmune deficiency syndrome .
any form of anemia that results from the absence of ,  or the defective action of ,  any enzyme .
absence of urine output .
a disease involving the aortic valve .
a disease involving the autonomic nervous system .
a disease involving the basal ganglia .
a disease involving the biliary tree .
any inability to efficiently utilize and / or sustain binocular vision .
inflammation of the eyelids near the eyelashes .
any degenerative disorder affecting one or more vertebral discs of the cervical spine .
chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy  ( cidp )  is a chronic monophasic ,  progressive or relapsing symmetric sensorimotor disorder characterized by progressive muscular weakness with impaired sensation ,  absent or diminished tendon reflexes and elevated cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  proteins .
a disease involving the dental pulp .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the peritoneal cavity .
a disease or disorder that involves the vermiform appendix .
taste alteration
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the esophagus .
abnormally dilated veins of the esophagus .
a disease involving the ocular adnexa .
a disease involving the eyelid .
a disease involving the fallopian tube .
a disease involving the female reproductive system .
various conditions with the symptom of headache .
a disease involving the cardial valve .
dilated veins in the anal canal .
hiv - related cancer
a syndrome resulting from the inadequate absorption of nutrients in the small intestine .
a disease involving the male reproductive system .
abnormal levels of minerals in the blood .
a disease involving the mitral valve .
disease or trauma involving a single peripheral nerve in isolation ,  or out of proportion to evidence of diffuse peripheral nerve dysfunction .
a disease that involves the nerve plexus .
inflammation of the anatomical structures of the outer ear and ear canal secondary to an infectious process .
infections of the intestines with parasites ,  commonly involving parasitic worms .
a disease or disorder affecting more than one nerve .
a nutritional deficit that is caused by inadequate protein or calorie intake .
a disease involving the pulmonary valve .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder which results from exposure to radiation .
a disease that involves the renal tubule .
infections with bacteria of the order spirochaetales .
a disease involving the tricuspid valve .
a disease involving the trigeminal nerve .
a disease involving the tympanic membrane .
blockage of the normal flow of contents of the urinary tract .
a uterine disease that is characterized by inflammation .
a fetal / maternal condition that is risky and portends complications for the mother and / or fetus ,  when compared to a normal pregnancy .
disturbances in psychophysiological functions and responses as a result of administration or ingestion of a psychoactive substance .
a group of viral illnesses that are vectored by mosquitoes ,  and that are characterized by increased susceptibility to bleeding diatheses .
a pregnancy involving twins or higher - order multiple fetuses  ( e .g . ,  triplets ,  quadruplets )  .
nursing care with a special emphasis on the care of individuals with orthopaedic - related injuries ,  diseases ,  and diagnoses .
after delivery of neonate ,  placental retention that requires clinical intervention such as manual extraction ,  curettage or uterotonic medications .
hemorrhage defined as a blood loss in excess of 500 ml after vaginal delivery or more than 1000 ml after a cesarean delivery .
any surgical procedure undertaken prior to the occurrence of a disease / disorder ,  the goal of which is to prevent the disease / disorder from developing .
restoration of the ability to function in a normal or near normal manner following disease ,  illness ,  or injury .
a stretching or tearing of a ligament .
quantification of some aspect of an individual's place of residence ,  such as population density or socioeconomic status .
a subtype of neuromyelitis optica caused by an autoimmune aquaporin - 4 channelopathy ,  due to presence of circulating autoantibodies against aquaporin 4 .
a subtype of neuromyelitis optica caused by an antimog associated encephalomyelitis .
quantification of the degree of hydration of the superficial layers of the skin .
quantification of levels of anhedonia ,  defined as the inability to experience pleasure in activities usually found enjoyable .
quantification of whether an individual feels or felt "fed - up" .
quantification of whether an individual feels or felt worried .
quantification of an individual's ability to store and recall visual information .
quantification of an individual's ability to store and recall linguistic information .
quantification ,  typically by a questionnaire ,  of some aspect of social interaction ,  such as engagement in social activities ,   or degree of contact with friends and family .
quantification of whether an individual experiences changes in mood .
quantification of whether an individual feels or felt irritable .
quantification of whether an individual feels or felt guilty .
quantification of whether an individual feels or felt tense .
quantification of whether an individual feels or felt nervous or "suffered from nerves" .
quantification of whether an individual feels or felt miserable .
quantification of whether an individual feels or felt emotionally hurt .
therapy using radioactive iodine for ablation of remnant thyroid tissue following a complete thyroidectomy to treat thyroid cancer .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the testis .
a disease involving the prostate gland .
quantification of the the degree of disability or dependence in the daily activities of people who have suffered a stroke ,  for example using the modified rankin scale .
inflammation of the inner ear .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the pancreas .
loss of vision in the central portion of the retina  ( macula )  ,  secondary to retinal degeneration .
a disease involving the pituitary gland .
a disease involving the stomach .
myocarditis is a condition that is characterized by inflammation of the heart muscle  ( myocardium )  .
degeneration of vertebrae of the neck .
a break in the orbital bone .
a traumatic or pathologic injury to the jaw in which the continuity of the bone is broken .
a traumatic or pathologic injury to the femur in which the continuity of the fibula is broken .
a traumatic or pathologic injury to the clavicle in which the continuity of the clavicle is broken .
traumatic or pathological injury to the ankle joint in which the continuity of an ankle bone is broken .
a traumatic break in one or more of the bones in one of the digits of the hand .
a traumatic break in one or more of the bones that compose the knee joint .
a traumatic break in one or more of the bones in the foot .
a tumor that grows from a nerve or is composed of nerve cells and nerve fibers .
a traumatic or pathologic injury to the rib in which the continuity of the rib is broken .
a traumatic break in one or more of the bones that compose the shoulder joint .
a traumatic break in one or more of the bones that compose the bony structure of the pelvis .
trauma to the nose . [  nci  ] 
inflammation of the alveoli of the lung .
painful sensation in the face .
narrowing of the pyloric lumen caused either by hypertrophy of the surrounding muscles or tissue scarring due to a chronic peptic ulcer .
collection of a tissue specimen from an organism after death ,  for example during a postmortem examination
abnormal result of a test meant to evaluate functionality of an organ or system ,  such as electroencephalogram ,  electrocardiogram ,  glucose tolerance test and others .
something that happens at a given place and time .
a processual entity during which a patient participating in a disease course gradually returns to participating in a canonical life course .
a sudden movement downward ,  usually resulting in injury .
the surgical removal of all or part of a limb or other appendage .
someone who gives tissue to be used in another person .
someone from whom an organ is removed for transplantation or other purpose .
someone from whom blood is removed for transfusion or other purpose .
surgical delivery of one or more intrauterine fetuses though an abdominal incision .
increased amount of fluid within the pleural cavity .
initiation of labor without the use of pharmacological and / or mechanical interventions ,  resulting in a non - operative vaginal birth .
irregular infrequent uterine contractions typically characteristic of the third trimester of pregnancy that do not result in cervical change or labor .
a form of clinicaly history specifically about cancer in family members .
a feeling of general discomfort or uneasiness ,  an out - of - sorts feeling .
the process by which information about the health status of an individual is obtained after a study has officially closed ;  an activity that continues something that has already begun or that repeats something that has already been done .
any examination performed to assess if a female is gravid .
stephen et al . ( 2018 )  reported 2 brothers ,  born of unrelated parents of indian descent ,  with ndmsca .
neurodevelopmental disorder with or without anomalies of the brain ,  eye ,  or heart is an autosomal dominant syndrome characterized by onset in infancy of developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  and behavioral disorders ,  such as autism spectrum disorders .
macrothrombocytopenia and granulocyte inclusions that may present with or without both nephritis or senorineural hearing loss .
epilepsy ,  hearing loss ,  and mental retardation syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by severe neurologic impairment including intellectual disability ,  intractable epilepsy ,  microcephaly ,  abnormal muscle tone ,  and sensorineural hearing loss .
response to parp inhibitors ,  a group of pharmacological inhibitors of the enzyme poly adp ribose polymerase  ( parp )  .
susceptibility to breast cancer due to genetic mutation .
hyperproinsulinemia is a disease where insulin is not sufficiently processed before secretion and immature forms of insulin make up the majority of circulating insulin immunoreactivity in both fasting and glucose - stimulated conditions  ( insulin immunoreactivity refers to all molecules detectable by an insulin antibody ,  i .e .
recombination activating gene 2 protein  ( also known as rag - 2 )  is a lymphocyte - specific protein encoded by rag2 gene on human chromosome 11 .
a hyperplasia due to proliferation and migration of vascular smooth muscle cells primarily in the tunica intima .
an assay in which sequencing technology  ( e .g .
a material sample derived from cells or tissue representing a physiologically or phenotypically normal state .
a material sample derived from cells or tissue representing an observed or suspected physiologically ,  genomically or phenotypically abnormal state .
a material sample derived from neoplastic cells or tissue .
an acute and painful inflammatory process that affects the pharynx .
an undesired harmful effect resulting from a medication or other intervention such as surgery .
bulging or ballooning in an area of an artery secondary to arterial wall weakening .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the anal canal or anal margin .
an acute or chronic inflammatory process affecting the bronchi .
a wart caused by human papillomavirus .
a disease that involves the genitourinary system .
a disease that involves the orbital region .
a disease involving the patella ,  a large sesamoid bone found in the distal femur / proximal tibial region of the hindlimb of tetrapods .
a disorder involving the attachment of a tendon or ligament to a bone
a disease involving the pharyngotympanic tube .
a disease involving the external ear .
a state of excessive gas in the alimentary canal .
a disease involving the gingiva .
cerebellar ataxia that is transmitted from parent to child .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the inner ear .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the larynx .
a disease involving the lens of camera - type eye .
a neoplasm composed of melanocytes that usually appears as a dark spot on the skin .
a disease involving the musculoskeletal system .
occlusion of a precerebral artery .
an ocular deviation caused by a palsy to one or more of the extraocular muscles or nerves supplying them .
complete paralysis of the lower half of the body including both legs ,  often caused by damage to the spinal cord .
the presence of pus in the thoracic cavity ,  between the visceral and parietal pleura .
a gestation that lasts greater than or equal to 42 weeks and 0 days .
a disorder that is related to pregnancy .
disorders or diseases associated with puerperium ,  the six - to - eight - week period immediately after parturition in humans .
paralysis of all four limbs .
a disease that involves the rectum .
the significant impairment of gas exchange within the lungs resulting in hypoxia ,  hypercarbia ,  or both ,  to the extent that organ tissue perfusion is severely compromised .
a category of psychiatric disorders which are characterized by the presence of physical symptoms that suggest a medical condition but are not fully explained by any known medical reasons .
inflammation of the oral mucosa due to local or systemic factors .
a disease involving the urethra .
a disease involving the renal system .
pathological processes of the vestibular labyrinth which contains part of the balancing apparatus .
a pathologic process in the larynx that affects the production of speech .
quantification of the metabolites of thiopurine compounds .
quantification of the presence or severity of an allergy to beta - lactam ,  including beta - lactam antibiotics .
a demographic parameter indicating the amount of earning made by a family .
absence of social environment which is necessary for the social development of the individual .
the disappearance of all signs of cancer ,  supported by pathological examination .
quantification of glucose levels in the blood of a pregnant individual .
quantification of foot muscle strength .
quantification of some aspect of visual perception .
quantification of visceral to total adipose tissue .
quantification of the variability in reaction time  ( the interval of time between the presentation of a stimulus to a subject and the beginning of the subject's response to that stimulus )  of an individual ,  over successive tasks .
the determination of the concentration of folic acid present in a sample of red blood cells .
an injury to the brain which results results from exposure to radiation .
a disease of the small intestine .
latent autoimmune diabetes in adults  ( lada )  is a form of diabetes mellitus type 1 that occurs in adulthood ,  often with a slower course of onset than type 1 diabetes diagnosed in juveniles .
delayed union due to failure of healing following a skeletal fracture .
the spread or migration of cancer cells from one part of the body  ( where they first appeared )  to another .
a tumor that has spread from its original  ( primary )  site of growth to another site ,  close to or distant from the primary site .
small number of cancer cells that have spread from a primary tumor to other parts of the body and are too few to be picked up in a screening or diagnostic test ,  and are identifiable only under a microscope .
a measure of material deprivation .
the age of a person's father at which father's death occurred .
an individual's total number of brothers and sisters .
a disease persisting for a long time or constantly recurring .
a symptom and a finding during physical examination ,  characterized by a high - pitched ,  whistling sound during breathing .
the age of onset of first facial hair .
surgery to remove both ovaries .
the maximum rate of gas flow ,  beginning at the point of peak inspiratory capacity ,  that can be sustained during forced exhalation for a defined period of time .
a medical device that generates electrical impulses delivered by electrodes to contract the heart muscles and regulate the electrical conduction system of the heart .
a measurement indicating ability of an individual to hear what was said with hearing aids .
the age of a person's mother at which mother's death occurred .
a measurement of the total number of birth events at which the fetus is of at least 20 weeks gestation ,  or of a birth weight of at least 350 grams if the gestational age is unknown ,  which is born without signs of life at the time of delivery ,  and with an apgar score of zero at both one and five minutes .
quantification of job satisfaction .
quantification of health satisfaction .
quantification of friendship satisfaction .
quantification of satisfaction with financial situation .
a difficulty in breathing .
a surgically implanted neuroprosthetic device that provides a sense of sound to a person with severe to profound sensorineural hearing loss .
surgical intervention performed on leg artery .
a form of juvenile idiopathic arthritis that affects multiple joints .
a category of juvenile idiopathic arthritis defined by the presence of arthritis affecting five or more separate joints during the first six months of disease ,  with positive serologic testing for rheumatoid factor .
enthesitis - related juvenile idiopathic arthritis is a subtype of juvenile idiopathic arthritis that is characterized by both arthritis and inflammation of an enthesitis site  ( the point at which a ligament ,  tendon ,  or joint capsule attaches to the bone )  .
childhood arthritis typically associated with psoriasis .
unspecified juvenile idiopathic arthritis is a rare ,  pediatric ,  rheumatologic disease ,  a subtype of juvenile idiopathic arthritis  ( jia )  characterized by arthritis of an unknown cause that persists for at least 6 weeks ,  and does not fulfill the criteria for any of the other jia subtypes ,  or fulfills criteria for more than one of the other subtypes .
one of two or more scientists working together on a research project .
the principal or lead person who carries out a formal inquiry or investigation .
a person who organizes ,  integrates ,  and annotates data collected from various sources in order that the value of the data is maintained over time and the data remains available for reuse and preservation .
a person who studies the causes and effects of diseases ,  especially one who examines laboratory samples of body tissue for diagnostic or forensic purposes .
a person employed to look after technical equipment or do practical work in a laboratory .
a doctor having direct contact with patients rather than being involved with theoretical or laboratory studies .
a scientist who performs experiments in a laboratory equipped with appropriate plumbing ,  ventilation ,  and equipment to allow for hands - on scientific research and experimentation .
a scientist who performs experiments in a laboratory for making computer simulations or for data analysis especially by computers .
a person responsible for carrying out the administration of a business or organization
surgical removal of all or part of an organ ,  tissue ,  or structure .
oligoarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis affecting not more than 4 joints throughout the disease course .
oligoarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis affecting a total of more than 4 joints after the first 6 months of disease .
induced pluripotent stem cell line derived from adult skin  ( leg )  fibroblasts ;  subject clinically normal ;  wild - type ;  fish test: 46 ,  xy .
any change in the state of an organism as a result of a ketamine stimulus .
a measurement of the age at which a person has the first sexual intercourse .
quantification of some aspect of the psychological experience of dissociation .
quantification of assymetry of the face .
impairment of visuospatial functioning .
autoimmune disease wherein the body's own immune system attacks and destroys the cells within the pancreas that produce insulin .
an unusual form of phenotypic type 1 diabetes with almost complete insulin deficiency ,  a strong hereditary component ,  and no evidence of autoimmunity .
subtype of idiopathic type 1 diabetes in which the process of  - cell destruction and the progression of hyperglycemia and ketoacidosis are extremely rapid .
chronic airway obstruction caused by asthma .
early stage diabetic retinopathy ,  characterized by the absence of neovascularisation of the retina .
a progressive resorption of bone caused by a host inflammatory response to particulate wear debris produced by friction between articulating surfaces in a total joint replacement .
the period of a person's life during which they are generally healthy and free from serious or chronic illness .
the quantification of some aspect of eye colour ,  such as hue ,  saturation or brightness .
quantification of the amount of the amino acid alanine in a sample .
quantification of the amount of the amino acid asparagine in a sample .
quantification of the amount of the amino acid glycine in a sample .
quantification of the amount of the amino acid glutamine in a sample .
quantification of the amount of the amino acid histidine in a sample .
quantification of the amount of the amino acid leucine in a sample .
quantification of the amount of the amino acid methionine in a sample .
quantification of the amount of the amino acid proline in a sample .
quantification of the amount of the amino acid serine in a sample .
quantification of the amount of the amino acid threonine in a sample .
quantification of the amount of the amino acid ornithine in a sample .
quantification of the amount of the amino acid citrulline in a sample .
quantification of the thyroid hormone tri - iodothyronine   ( t3 )  in the blood ,  usually as an indicator of thyroid function .
quantification of the thyroid hormone tri - iodothyronine  ( t3 )  /  thyroxine  ( t4 )  ratio in the blood ,  usually as an indicator of thyroid function .
a biologic subset of breast carcinoma defined by absence of her2 .
a subtype of breast cancer that is progesterone - receptor negative .
a subtype of breast cancer that is progesterone - receptor positive .
a thickening and loss of elasticity of the walls of carotid arteries that occur with formation of atherosclerotic plaques .
central serous retinopathy ,  also known as central serous chorioretinopathy ,  is an eye disease that causes visual impairment ,  usually in one eye .
a disease stage which is characterized by the lack of a manifestation of a disease .
reason by which a person encounters a health service ;  useful to classify cases when the encounter is due to circumstances other than a disease or injury .
an encounter with members of a health service related to reproduction issues .
an encounter with members of a health service related to socioeconomic and psychosocial circumstances .
an encounter with members of a health service related to previous surgical history .
quantification of the activity of the enzyme asparaginase in a sample ,  following its administration as a medication .
quantification of the amount of fatty acid desaturase enzyme activity .
quantification of the amount of the amino acid valine in a sample .
quantification of the amount of the amino acid isoleucine in a sample .
quantification of the amount of nuclear factor  ( erythroid - derived 2 )  - like 2 protein in a sample .
quantification of the amount of urea in serum .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a spectrum of lung disorders that develop in patients with cystic fibrosis .
characteristics of an individual that are reported by the individual ,  usually to medical staff ,  including via questionnaires ,  rather than observed or measured directly by medical staff .
number of cancer occurrences in an individual ,  as reported by the individual .
number of non - cancer illness occurrences in an individual ,  as reported by the individual .
number of surgical procedures performed on an individual ,  as reported by the individual .
number of treatments undergone by an individual  ( including medications taken )  ,  as reported by the individual .
quantification of some aspect of cardiovascular system ;  reflection index is a measure of reflection .
the weight of an individual's body water ,  i .e .
a surgical procedure in which the hip joint is replaced by a prosthetic implant ,  that is ,  a hip prosthesis .
sequential division of tissue layers to expose  ( and isolate )  organs and organ parts of a deceased human body .
a process by which the outer layer  ( trophoblast )  of a blastocyst is selectively destroyed by antiserum and complement ,  used especially to obtain the embryonic stem cells of the inner cell mass
single nucleus sequencing examines the sequence information from individual nuclei with optimized next generation sequencing  ( ngs )  technologies .
single nucleus sequencing process using an approach where the full length of each rna molecule is sequenced
single nucleus sequencing process using an approach where only a short fragment  ( tag )  at a defined position in each rna molecule is sequenced
a malignant neoplasm that arises from a pre - existing lower grade lesion ,  or as a result of a primary lesion that has spread to secondary sites ,  or due to a complication of a cancer treatment .
an attribute of a disease .
a measurement of the number of children fathered by a male individual .
cascot stands for computer assisted structure coding tool .
a laceration of the skin and other soft tissue structures which ,  in women ,  separate the vagina from the anus ,  occurring during childbirth .
ease of getting up in the morning ,  as reported by an individual .
having a nap during the day ,  as reported by an individual .
description of an individual's body size at age 10 compared to average ,  as reported by the individual .
seeing a general practitioner for nerves ,  anxiety ,  tension or depression ,  as reported by an individual .
seeing a psychiatrist for nerves ,  anxiety ,  tension or depression ,  as reported by an individual .
ability to walk or cycle unaided for 10 minutes ,  as reported by an individual .
indication of whether a target heart rate was achieved by an individual ,  e .g .
indication of whether an individual brings up phlegm ,  sputum or mucus on most days ,  as reported by the individual .
a sign or symptom concerning the intake of food and / or fluids .
an abnormality in the levels of enzymes in serum .
abnormal result of a diagnostic imaging test .
increase in size or thickness of the smooth muscle of the vascular wall .
normal or pathologic migration and accumulation of cells within tissues .
trauma to the kidney .
a respiratory process involves the function of components of the respiratory tract involved in breathing ,  which include the nose ,  throat ,  larynx ,  trachea ,  bronchi ,  and lungs .
an increase in respiratory secretions .
bronchoconstriction involves narrowing of air passage lumina ,  typically due to bronchial smooth muscle contraction ,  and leads to decreased air flow .
bronchodilation involves widening of air passage lumina ,  typically due to bronchial smooth muscle relaxation ,  and leads to increased air flow .
abnormal decrease of rate of breathing .
abnormal increase of rate of breathing .
a change from the normal breathing pattern in an infant ,  child ,  or adult ,  in terms of the amplitude and frequency of inhalations and exhalations .
a decrease in ventilation secondary to impaired signals from the central nervous system .
a sleep disorder  ( insomnia ,  hypersomnia ,  or parasomnia )  for which there is strong evidence that the disorder is etiologically linked to the direct physiological effects of a substance  ( i .e . ,  a drug of abuse ,  a medication ,  or toxin exposure )  .
a disturbing dream that occurs during rapid eye movement sleep and results in feelings of strong terror ,  fear ,  distress ,  or anxiety .
a nervous system disorder characterized by diminished responsiveness and consciousness ,  and rigidity of the body .
a sustained ,  sudden and involuntary contraction of a muscle or group of muscles .
a sensation of lightheadedness ,  unsteadiness ,  turning ,  spinning or rocking .
an antiemetic effect involves suppression of nausea and vomiting .
heightened urges of sexual desires in preparation for sexual behavior .
the loss of muscle tissue due to inactivity or disease .
a rapid and repeated body muscle contract that results in an uncontrolled shaking of the body .
unipolar depression that does not respond to commonly used treatments ,  typically defined as lack of response to at least two appropriate antidepressant treatments .
a lichenoid and scarring inflammatory skin disorder associated with widespread cutaneous inflammation and irreversible hair loss ,  which occurs predominantly in women of post - menopausal age .
lichen planopilaris  ( lpp )  is an inflammatory condition that causes patchy hair loss ,  mainly on the scalp .
quantification of ruminative style response to stress ,  characterised by passive and repetitive reflection on feelings and difficulties .
quantification of brooding style response to stress .
quantification of reflection style response to stress .
frequency of chromosomal aberrations in human peripheral blood .
frequency of chromosome - type chromosomal aberrations in human peripheral blood  ( typically resulting in damage to both chromatids )  .
frequency of chromatid - type chromosomal aberrations in human peripheral blood  ( typically resulting in damage to a single chromatid )  .
quantification of the level of a generalised feeling of anxiety experienced by an individual ,  typically measured via a questionnaire .
quantification of some high level aspect of a metabolic network .
quantification of some aspect of the transcriptome .
obstruction of the normal flux of blood within the blood vessel network of the lung resulting in engorgement of pulmonary vessels ;  frequently precedes pulmonary edema .
dysphoria is a profound state of unease or dissatisfaction .
the process of allaying nervous excitement or the state of being calmed .
dryness of the mouth resulting from reduced salivary secretion .
transfer of a neoplasm from its primary site to bones .
greater than average weight of the heart compared to controls .
greater than normal blood volume pumped by each ventricle per minute .
reduction in the blood volume pumped by each ventricle per minute .
when compared to controls ,  subjects exhibit fewer responses thought to be indicative of anxiety in behavioral tests .
acquired diminution of the size of the thymus associated with wasting as from death and reabsorbtion of cells ,  diminished cellular proliferation ,  decreased cellular volume ,  pressure ,  ischemia ,  malnutrition ,  reduced function or malfunction ,  or hormonal changes .
anomaly in the process of the hydrolysis of fat into free fatty acids .
a reduction in the total amount of bone tissue contained in the skeleton .
alteration of the disposition and / or effect of a drug ,  owing to the presence of another factor such as a second drug ,  or food .
bleeding from the gastric wall .
a toxicity disposition that inheres in a substance that is capable of causing adverse effects on a developing embryo or foetus .
forms of cardiomyopathy that are not related to known coronary artery disease .
quantification of the ratio of potassium to creatinine in a urine sample .
quantification of the ratio of sodium to creatinine in a urine sample .
quantification of the ratio of sodium to potassium in a urine sample .
quantification of some aspect of frailty .
damage inflicted to a blood vessel .
damage inflicted to an intrathoracic organ .
any problem that occurs because of a trauma or injury ,  other than the trauma or injury itself .
quantification of an individual's body fat mass that has been corrected for lean mass .
quantification of some metabolite of the anti - epileptic drug carbamazepine .
quantiication of some aspect of facial attractiveness ,  typically via a rating scale .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a type of hyponatremia related to ingestion of carbamazepine .
a type of hyponatremia related to ingestion of the carbamazepine keto - analogue oxcarbazepine .
a quantification of antibodies against thyroglobulin ,  usually as an indicator of autoimmune thyroid disease .
10x v1 is the first version of the 10x sequencing technology .
10x v3 is the third version of the 10x sequencing technology .
10x 3' v2 is the second version of the 10x sequencing technology that sequences from the 3' end of nucleic acid molecules .
10x 5' v2 is the second version of the 10x sequencing technology that sequences from the 5' end of nucleic acid molecules .
10x 3' v1 is the first version of the 10x sequencing technology that sequences from the 3' end of nucleic acid molecules .
a better ,  faster ,  or more precise performance or individual preference for use of a hand ,  known as the dominant hand ;  the less capable or less preferred hand is called the non - dominant hand .
a disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the anatomical structure .
an autosomal recessive neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by developmental regression in infancy ,  delayed psychomotor development ,  severe intellectual disability ,  and cerebral and cerebellar atrophy .
an insidious ,  locally aggressive ,  poorly circumscribed neoplasm arising from the deep soft tissues .
the most common variant of hemangioma which appears as a raised ,  red ,  lumpy area of flesh anywhere on the body ,  though 83% occur on the head or neck area .
a degree of kidney failure severe enough to require dialysis or kidney transplantation for survival characterized by a severe reduction in glomerular filtration rate  ( less than 15 ml / min / 1 .73 m2 )  and other manifestations including increased serum creatinine .
according to the definitions of the american and british thoracic societies ,  including pulmonary functional tests ,  x - rays ,  and ct scans for items such as fibrosis ,  bronchiectasis ,  bullae ,  emphysema ,  nodular or lymphomatous abnormalities .
muscular atrophy of distal leg muscles .
a benign central bone tumor of the jaw composed of fibrous connective tissue within which bone is formed .
icr / haj is a mouse strain as described in jackson laboratory strain index .
single - molecule rna fish is a method for detecting individual rna molecules within cells with short fluorescent labelled oligonucleotide probes via fluorescence microscopy .
split - pool ligation - based transcriptome sequencing  ( split - seq )  is a single - cell rna - seq method that labels the cellular origin of rna through combinatorial barcoding .
a method for transferring rna from tissue sections onto a surface covered in dna - barcoded beads with known positions ,  allowing the locations of the rna to be inferred by sequencing .
10x 5' v3 is the third version of the 10x sequencing technology that sequences from the 5' end of nucleic acid molecules .
10x 3' v3 is the third version of the 10x sequencing technology that sequences from the 3' end of nucleic acid molecules .
quantification of some aspect of the use of drugs for peptic ulcer and gastro - oesophageal reflux disease  ( gord )  .
quantification of some aspect of the use of drugs used in diabetes .
quantification of some aspect of the use of antithrombotic agents .
quantification of some aspect of the use of vasodilators used in cardiac diseases .
quantification of some aspect of the use of antihypertensives .
quantification of some aspect of the use of diuretic drugs .
quantification of some aspect of the use of beta blocking agents .
quantification of some aspect of the use of calcium channel blockers .
quantification of some aspect of the use of agents acting on the renin - angiotensin system .
quantification of some aspect of the use of hmg coa reductase inhibitors .
quantification of some aspect of the use of thyroid preparations .
quantification of some aspect of the use of immunosuppressant drugs .
quantification of some aspect of the use of non - steroidal anti - inflammatory and antirheumatic product .
quantification of some aspect of the use of drugs affecting bone structure and mineralization .
quantification of some aspect of the use of opioid drugs .
quantification of some aspect of the use of anilide drugs .
quantification of some aspect of the use of antimigraine preparations .
quantification of some aspect of the use of antidepressant drugs .
quantification of some aspect of the use of inhalant adrenergic drugs .
quantification of some aspect of the use of glucocorticoids .
quantification of some aspect of the use of antihistamines .
quantification of some aspect of the use of antiglaucoma preparations and miotics .
quantification of the degree to which an individual is resilient to psychological stress ,  typically assessed via a questionnaire or clinical review of an individual's mental health before and after a stressful life event .
a quantification of triglycerides contained in low density lipoproteins .
a quantification of the amount of nucleoside diphosphate kinase a in a sample .
a morphologic finding indicating inflammation of the fetal sac membranes .
quantification of some aspect of the red cell antigen kanno .
a disease or disorder that involves the extraembryonic membrane .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism as a result of surgical intervention .
atrial fibrillation that occurs after surgery .
myocardial infarction that occurs after surgery .
delirium that occurs after surgery .
acute kidney failure that occurs after surgery .
stroke that occurs after surgery .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a complex disorder characterised by mucosal outpouchings  ( diverticulae )  of the colonic wall which can become infected and inflamed leading to diverticulitis ,  perforation and bleeding .
stress or insufficency fractures occurring in the femoral shaft ,  typically in response to long - term antiresorptive treatment .
measure of first - phase insulin response to glucose challenge .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a bipolar disorder that is characterized by at least one manic or mixed episode .
a bipolar disorder that is characterized by at least one hypomanic episode and at least one major depressive episode ;  with this disorder ,  depressive episodes are more frequent and more intense than manic episodes .
a schizoaffective disorder that is distinguished by symptoms of mania ,  hypomania ,  or mixed episode .
an assay which uses long read sequencing technology to determine the sequence of nucleic acids
chromosome conformation capture assays that involve the cross - linking of chromatin ,  dna digestion ,  and proximity ligation of adjacent fragments .
chromosome conformation capture assays that assay the 3 - dimensional organization and interaction of chromatin without a proximity ligation step .
2 - stage repli - seq is a type of repli - seq assay that compares nascent dna sequencing profiles between two stages ,  early and late replicating dna .
multi - stage repli - seq is a type of repli - seq assay that compares nascent dna sequencing profiles of many different replication time points .
tsa - seq is an assay that uses tyramide signal amplification  ( tsa )  to assess distance of dna regions to a targeted nuclear compartment or protein ,  typically on a scale of 100 - 1000 nm .
nad - seq is an assay in which nucleoli are isolated and the dna associated with them is sequenced to identify nucleoli - associating domains .
cut&run stands for cleavage under targets and release using nuclease and is a method for assessing dna - protein interactions .
a version of the hi - c assay in which nuclei are not disrupted prior to the ligation step but instead digestion and ligation of dna fragments is performed in intact nuclei .
a hi - c assay in which cells and their nuclei are lysed during the digestion step ,  and the solution is then diluted many fold to limit the possibility of two non - crosslinked dna fragments being ligated by chance .
dnase hi - c is a hi - c assay in which dnase i is used for digesting dna fragments rather than a restriction enzyme ,  which can result in a higher resolution of mapped chromosome contacts .
sci - hi - c stands for single - cell combinatorial indexed hi - c ,  and is a hi - c assay performed on massively multiplexed single - cell samples .
sn - hi - c stands for single nucleus hi - c and is a hi - c assay performed on isolated nuclei .
a single cell hi - c assay .
a multi - contact chromosome conformation capture assay in which dna is not sheared after proximity ligation so that long read sequencing can be performed on reads with multiple ligated fragments .
plac - seq  ( proximity ligation - assisted chip - seq )  is similar to a hi - c assay ,  but following proximity ligation ,  immunoprecipitation is performed using an antibody to a transcription factor or histone modification .
trac - loop  ( transposase - mediated analysis of chromatin looping )  is an assay designed to detect interacting genomic regions .
mc - 4c is a multi - contact 4c experiment .
sprite  ( split - pool recognition of interactions and tag extension )  is an assay designed to detect multi - way interactions between nucleic acids .
dna sprite is a sprite experiment that only assays interactions between regions of genomic dna .
rna - dna sprite is a type of sprite experiment in which rna in the cross - linked complexes is converted to cdna before the initial splitting step ,  allowing analysis of rna - dna interactions .
genome architecture mapping  ( gam )  is an assay designed to analyze 3d chromatin structure without relying on digestion and ligation .
margi is a method for probing rna - dna interactions in the nucleus .
a sequencing instrument which supports the sequencing of single dna molecules that are considerably longer than those resulting from traditional short - read sequencing .
the fluidigm c1 is a microfluidic platform for single - cell rna - seq and dna - seq library preparation .
bubble - seq prepares libraries of restriction fragments that contain replication initiation sites  ( bubbles )  in vivo
direct ,  quantitative approach to assess dna methylation patterns associated with chromatin modifications or chromatin - associated factors .
detect 5hmc marks in single cells with abasi nuclease
this variation on the 4c approach uses umis to derive high - complexity quantitative chromosome contact profiles with controlled signal - to - noise ratios
microfluidic digital droplet mda  ( ddmda )  technique where partitioning of the template dna into thousands of sub - nanoliter droplets ,  each containing a small number of dna fragments ,  greatly reduces the competition among dna fragments for primers and polymerase thereby greatly reducing amplification bias
double digest restriction - site associated dna marker generation with a methylation - sensitive restriction enzyme
eclip maps the binding sites of rbps on their target rnas using a modified individual nucleotide resolution clip  ( iclip )  protocol ,  improving efficiency and decreasing execution complexity
g&t - seq can separate and sequence genomic dna and full - length mrna from single cells
j - binding protein 1 sequencing is a method for genome - wide profiling of 5 - hydroxy - methylcytosine  ( 5hmc ) 
mab - seq allows simultaneous and quantitative mapping of both 5fc and 5cac at single - base resolution
adapted version of mab - seq that is based on the pretreatment of gdna with the enzyme mspi ,  which recognizes and cuts the ccgg consensus to enrich cpg - rich regions ,  like gene promoters
rna - mediated oligonucleotide annealing ,  selection ,  and ligation with next - generation sequencing  ( rasl - seq )  is a 2 - dimensional rna sequencing method to quantify expression profiles of several hundred genes ,  under thousands of different conditions
scrb - seq is a cost - efficient ,  multiplexed ,  single - cell mrna sequencing technique .
dr - seq studies the genomic and transcriptomic relationship in single cells .
scm&t - seq allows parallel analysis of both epigenetic and gene expression patterns from single cells using smart - seq2 and scbs - seq .
sctrio - seq can analyze genomic cnvs ,  the dna methylome ,  and the transcriptome of an individual mammalian cell simultaneousl .
irclip maps protein - rna interaction sites using less sample material ,  time ,  and increased cdna library quality compared to previous clip methods .
a genome - guided in silico approach to identifying tumor neoantigens  ( pvac - seq ) 
a modified version of cel - seq with higher sensitivity .
a protein - centric chromatin conformation method  ( hichip ) 
adp - ribose - specific chromatin - affinity purification  ( adpr - chap ) 
assay of transposase - accessible chromatin with visualization  ( atac - see ) 
atac profiles from archival frozen tissue samples and 50 - micrometer sections .
genomic & transcriptomic analysis of the same single cell after enu mutagenesis
high - resolution rna - seq to assess noncoded base substitutions in mrna  ( hires - seq ) 
unbiased ,  sensitive ,  and readily accessible assay to quantify antibody repertoires
high - throughput single - base resolution mapping of rna 2 - o - methylated residues
sequencing approach to assess how many transcript copies of particular genes are n ( 6 )  - methyladenosine  ( m ( 6 ) a )  modified  ( 'm ( 6 ) a levels' )  or the relationship of m ( 6 ) a modification ( s )  to alternative rna isoforms .
map mirna binding to ago sites in c . elegans
minimal functional regions of ars
method that accurately quantifies transcript abundance even with small amounts of total rna and effectively characterizes small samples extracted by laser - capture microdissection  ( lcm )  from ffpe tissue .
wet - lab protocol and variant - calling method that identifies both sequencing and pcr errors
par - clip on argonaute proteins
whole - transcriptome approach to measure the lengths of poly ( a )  tails ,  including a computational pipeline implementing all necessary analyses .
method using resa libraries to map rna - protein interactions .
method that selects rna elements based on their activity in vivo and uses high - throughput sequencing to provide quantitative measurement of their regulatory function with near nucleotide resolution
method to determine the responsiveness of genomic sequences to enhancers
high - throughput approach that maps pairwise rna interactions in vivo with high sensitivity and specificity ,  genome - wide
single - cell lineage tracing of pooled crispr?cas9 screens
method for obtaining long haplotypes ,  of over 3 kb in length ,  using a short - read sequencer , 
supf shuttle vector - based mutagenesis assay .
methylation - sensitive pcr analysis for the analysis of dna methylation patterns in single cells
method for directly enriching for the 5' end of primary transcripts and enabling determination of transcription start sites at single base resolution .
approach that combines subcellular fractionation and high throughput rna sequencing to assay partitioning of mrna isoforms between the cytosolic and the polyribosome - associated fractions
method to measure functional binding of c5 to all possible sequence variants in its substrate binding site ,  using a high - throughput sequencing kinetics approach that simultaneously follows processing of thousands of rna species
method for cell type - specific rna and chromatin profiling that circumvents many of the limitations of current methods for cell isolation .
high - throughput nextgen sequencing method for harnessing high - copy transposons
deep mutational scanning approach coupled with high - throughput sequencing to test the functional consequences of all single substitution mutations on a given ars in a massively parallel fashion
highly sensitive and selective chemical labeling and capture approach for genome - wide profiling of 5 - hydroxylmethylcytosine  ( 5hmc )  using dna isolated from about 1 , 000 cells .
approach to isolate nascent rna and subject samples to high - throughput seuqencing to asses cotranscriptional a - to - i editing
nb - lrr  ( nucleotide binding - site leucine - rich repeat )  gene - targeted ,  resistance gene enrichment and sequencing method that enables discovery and annotation of pathogen resistance gene family members in plant genome sequences
method that uses a simple genetic selection combined with high - throughput dna sequencing to assess the in vivo stability of a large number of variants of a protein
method that measures the strength of enhancers genome - wide ,  giving insight into the organization of the regulatory genome .
small capped rna sequencing ,  also referred to as start - seq ,  captures short 5' - capped rnas  ( tss - rnas )  that are produced by pol ii during early transcription elongation .
tagged - amplicon deep sequencing
an assay which uses the fluidigm c1 for single - cell rna - seq and dna - seq library preparation
dissociation of a sample into individual cells using the fluidigm c1 platform .
quantification of some aspect of asthma symptoms .
quantification of the amount of the thyroglobulin in a sample .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of the amount of iron in the liver .
quantification of the amount of soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule - 1 in a sample
dissociation of a sample into individual cells using the fluidigm c1 platform .
cerebral microbleeds are a group of pathological processes affecting the small arteries ,  arterioles ,  capillaries and venules of the brain ,  as detected by brain imaging techniques .
chronic form of human papillomavirus infection .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
an action or administration of therapeutic agents to produce an effect that is intended to alter or stop a pathologic process .
treatment of disease through the use of drugs .
the administration of a blood product derived from pooled igg antibodies extracted from donor plasma delivered intravenously .
a measure of the biomechanical properties of the cornea .
a measure of the biomechanical properties of the cornea .
quantification of the rate of change in respiratory symptoms of an individual over the course of time  ( either through clinical examination or through a standardised questionnaire )  ,  used as an indicator of improvement or decay of respiratory function .
quantification of the velocity of nerve conduction ,  often used to measure peripheral nerve function .
quantification of the amplitude of nerve conduction ,  often used to measure peripheral nerve function .
quantification of cardiac troponin i ,  typically measured in blood .
a painful sensation originating from a tooth .
quantification of the number of natural teeth an individual has
quantification of the size of the femoral trochanter .
quantification of the size of the intertrochanteric region of the femur .
quantification of the size of the femoral neck .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
dentures  ( also known as false teeth )  are prosthetic devices constructed to replace missing teeth ,  and are supported by the surrounding soft and hard tissues of the oral cavity .
quantification of some aspect of corneal endothelial cells ,  such as their size ,  shape or density .
quantification of the growth of geographic atrophy lesions ,  a symptom of late - stage age - related macular degeneration .
afp - gfp is a strain of mouse described by kwon et al .
quantification of any aspect of the act of transmitting electricty along a nerve .
quantification of the volume of the dentate gyrus .
quantification of the igg antibody isotype produced in response to meningococcal c exposure .
quantification of the igg antibody isotype produced in response to tetanus toxoid exposure .
quantification of the igg antibody isotype produced in response to haemophilus influenzae type b polyribosylribitol phosphate exposure .
quantification of serum bactericidal antibody produced in response to meningococcal c exposure .
quantification of some beverage consumption or beverage consumption - related behaviour ,  usually self - reported via a questionnaire .
quantification of some bitter beverage consumption or bitter beverage consumption - related behaviour ,  usually self - reported via a questionnaire .
quantification of some sweet beverage consumption or sweet beverage consumption - related behaviour ,  usually self - reported via a questionnaire .
quantification of some tea consumption or tea consumption - related behaviour ,  usually self - reported via a questionnaire .
quantification of some bitter alcoholic beverage consumption or bitter alcoholic beverage consumption - related behaviour ,  usually self - reported via a questionnaire .
quantification of some bitter non - alcoholic beverage consumption or bitter non - alcoholic beverage consumption - related behaviour ,  usually self - reported via a questionnaire .
quantification of some grapefruit juice consumption or grapefruit juice consumption - related behaviour ,  usually self - reported via a questionnaire .
quantification of some non - grapefruit juice consumption or non - grapefruit juice consumption - related behaviour ,  usually self - reported via a questionnaire .
quantification of some artificially sweetened beverage consumption or artificially sweetened beverage consumption - related behaviour ,  usually self - reported via a questionnaire .
quantification of some sugar sweetened beverage consumption or sugar sweetened beverage consumption - related behaviour ,  usually self - reported via a questionnaire .
stress - related disorders are mental health disorders that are a result of an atypical response to both short and long - term anxiety due to physical ,  mental ,  or emotional stress .
chronic pain that is felt all over the body .
a chronic pain phenotype that is defined as the number of sites on the body at which chronic pain is experienced .
reduced likelihood of being infected by the hepatitis c virus despite exposure .
a covalent conjugate of recombinant interferon alfa ,  subtype 2a ,  and polyethylene glycol  ( peg )  ,  used as an antiviral and antineoplastic agent .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a measurement of the degree to which individuals have the capacity to obtain ,  process ,  and understand basic health information and services needed to make appropriate health decisions .
a quantification of cd4 - positive t - lymphocytes in blood .
a quantification of cd3 - positive t - lymphocytes in blood .
a quantification of cd8 - positive t - lymphocytes in blood .
a quantification of cd19 - positive b - lymphocytes in blood .
a quantification of cd56 - positive nk - lymphocytes in blood .
a quantification of ketone bodies in a sample .
a quantification of acetoacetate in a sample .
a quantification of acetate in a sample .
a quantification of 3 - hydroxybutyric acid in a sample .
a quantification of citrate in a sample .
a quantification of glycerol in a sample .
a quantification of choline in a sample .
a quantification of pyruvate in a sample .
a quantification of sphingomyeline in a sample .
a quantification of omega - 3 fatty acid in a sample .
a quantification of the change in fasting blood glucose measurements at different points in time .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a measurement of the quantity of virus in a given volume of body fluid .
quantification of how soon after waking up an individual smokes their first cigarette of the day .
quantification of the amount of immunglobulin in a serum sample .
quantification of the switching of activated b cells from igm biosynthesis to biosynthesis of other isotypes of immunoglobulin .
quantification of the frequency which an individual omits to eat breakfast .
characteristic of an individual defined by their participation in a health study ,  e .g .
a decrease in an individual's ability to walk .
a decrease in an individual's ability to perform fine motor function tasks .
diabetic maculopathy  ( dm )  is a type of diabetic retinopathy and it is a major eye complication and visual impairment amongst people with diabetes .
a surgical procedure in which one or both kidneys from a donor are implanted into a recipient .
quantification of the concentration of particles in the urine .
quantification of ph of an organism ,  typically in urine or blood .
quantification of the amount of leukocyte esterase present in a sample .
quantification of the amount of nitrite present in a sample .
quantification of some fish consumption or fish consumption - related behaviour ,  usually self - reported via a questionnaire .
quantification of the frequency and severity of overdoses as a result of opioid drug use in a person's lifetime .
sexual behaviour is a process by which humans and other animals demonstrate and / or express sexuality .
same - sex sexual behaviour is a process by which humans demonstrate and / or express sexuality with individuals of same sex .
a pathological condition resulting from chronic exposure to hypoxia at high altitude .
quantification of the volume of the frontal lobe of the brain .
quantification of the volume of the occipital lobe of the brain .
quantification of the volume of the parietal lobe of the brain .
quantification of the volume of the temporal lobe of the brain .
quantification of the amount of pepsinogen - i in a sample
quantification of the ratio of pepsinogen i to pepsinogen ii in a sample
quantification of antibodies against anoctamin 2 .
quantification of the amount of soluble trem2  ( triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 )  protein in a sample .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of platinum in a sample .
quantification of an individual's appreciation of a taste .
quantification of an individual's appreciation of sweet .
quantification of an individual's appreciation of sucrose .
quantification of some aspect of sugar consumption such as frequency or quantity .
carbonic anhydrase ii  ( gene name ca2 )  ,  is one of sixteen forms of human alpha carbonic anhydrases .
death in during childhood ,  defined here as between the ages of 2 and 10 years .
abnormal outpouching or sac - like dilatation of one of the anatomic dilations of the ascending aorta ,  which occurs just above the aortic valve .
a type of diabetes mellitus related not to lack of insulin but rather to lack of response to insulin on the part of the target tissues of insulin such as muscle ,  fat ,  and liver cells .
an autosomal dominant disease characterized by progressive corneal neovascularization ,  keloid formation ,  chronic skin ulcers ,  wasting of subcutaneous tissue ,  flexion contractures of the fingers ,  and acro - osteolysis .
an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by profound developmental delay ,  brain abnormalities ,  2 / 3 syndactyly of the toes ,  facial dysmorphisms ,  low total and ldl - cholesterol ,  and abnormal urine organic acids .
a disorder characterized by severely retarded growth ,  spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia ,  reduced bone mineral density ,  and markedly elevated plasma levels of various lysosomal enzymes .
a dna library is constructed from dna extracted from cells .
the surgical removal of an ovary or ovaries .
a surgical procedure in which both palatine tonsils are fully removed from the back of the throat .
cells are targeted for either removal  ( negative selection and depletion )  or selection  ( positive selection )  using antibody complexes directed to specific cell surface antigens .
a skin cancer arising from the keratin - producing cells of the epidermis .
an intracerebral hemorrhage occuring within the cerebral lobes ,  either in the cerebral cortex or in the cortical - subcortical junction .
an intracerebral hemorrhage occuring outside of the cerebral lobes .
a manual method to select live single cells from a cell suspension ,  tissue or whole organism .
a method of using the researcher's mouth to apply small negative pressure to aspirate a volume into a pipette and then release it into a test tube .
a library preparation process that starts from a single cell .
library construction method using the smart  ( switching mechanism at the 5' end of the rna template )  or smarter technology ,  producing full - length cdna libraries .
information about a single cell sequencing library .
the end of the nucleic acid molecule that is preferentially sequenced  ( bias in read distribution )  .
sequencing is restricted to only a relatively short nucleotide sequence from the 3 prime end of the target molecule .
when a sequencing method preferentially captures the nucleic acids towards the 3 prime end of the targeted molecule .
sequencing is restricted to only a relatively short nucleotide sequence from the 5 prime end of the target molecule .
when a sequencing method preferentially captures the nucleic acids towards the 5 prime end of the targeted molecule .
an oligonucleotide used to start the reaction in a polymerase - chain reaction .
an rna spike - in is an rna transcript of known sequence and quantity used to calibrate measurements in rna hybridization assays ,  such as dna microarray experiments ,  rt - qpcr ,  and rna - seq .
a barcode is a short known dna sequence that is added during the library preparation in order to identify the origin of the read during data analysis .
the sequencing read that contains the cdna read .
a cell type classification that is determined as result of a single - cell analysis ,  such as cell clustering or trajectory analysis .
a unique identifier for a single cell specimen .
a short nucleotide sequence that is added during a single cell library preparation to identify reads from an individual cell .
a unique molecular identifier  ( umi )  barcode is a short nucleotide sequence that is used to identify reads originating from an individual mrna molecule .
a short nucleotide sequence that is added during a single cell library preparation to identify reads from the same sample or library .
the offset in the sequence where the cdna read starts .
the length of the cdna read .
the sequencing read that contains the cell barcode .
the offset in the sequence where the cell barcode starts .
the length of the cell barcode .
the offset in the sequence where the umi barcode starts .
the sequencing read that contains the umi barcode .
the length of the umi barcode .
the sequencing read that contains the sample barcode .
the offset in the sequence where the sample barcode starts .
the length of the sample barcode .
a protocol describing the processes performed and equipment used to prepare a single cell nucleic acid sequencing library .
a protocol describing the equipment and procedure by which a single cell suspension is separated into individual cells in order to allow individual cell barcoding .
an oligonucleotide primer consisting of thymidine bases only .
an oligonucleotide primer with random sequence .
dilution factor of the rna spike - in .
quantification of the level of aldosterone in a sample
quantification of the amount of 17 - hydroxyprogesterone in a sample
quantification of the drive to systemise ,  ie identifiy input - operation - output relationships in order to build ,  analyse or understand systems ,  typically quantified by administration of a standardised questionnaire such as the systemising quotient - revised  ( sq - r ) 
a quantification of ceramides .
a quantification of diglycerides .
a quantification of lysophosphatidylcholines .
a quantification of lysophosphatidylethanolamines .
a quantification of phosphatidylcholines .
a quantification of phosphatidylcholine ethers .
a quantification of phosphatidylethanolamines .
a quantification of phosphatidylethanolamine ethers .
a quantification of phosphatidylinositols .
a quantification of sterols .
quantification of the amount of osteocalcin in a sample
quantification of some aspect of exposure to genotoxic compounds ,  i .e .
quantification of the presence or absence of a particular viral subtype in an individual .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism as a result of a proton - pump inhibitor stimulus .
a condition affecting an unborn or newly born individual ,  where the perinatal period is defined in humans as commencing at 22 completed weeks  ( 154 days )  of gestation and ending seven completed days after birth .
quantification of the ratio of cortisol to dehydroepiandrosterone  ( dhea )  in a sample .
quantification of the amount of dehydroepiandrosterone  ( dhea )  in a sample .
quantification of the amount of galectin - 3 - binding protein in a sample .
quantification of the amount of beta globulin in a sample .
quantification of the amount of an inorganic ion ,  such as magnesium ,  iron or calcium ,  in a sample
quantification of the degree of severity of uveal melanoma ,  eg by tnm staging
quantification of the amount of oxytocin in a sample .
episodes of disease that occur in individuals who have already had the disease .
a disease that is observed as a new case within the study period .
a form of spinocerebellar ataxia ,  a clinically and genetically  heterogeneous group of cerebellar disorders due to degeneration of the cerebellum with variable involvement of the brainstem and spinal cord .
a form of spinocerebellar ataxia ,  a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of cerebellar disorders due to degeneration of the cerebellum with variable involvement of the brainstem and spinal cord .
a form of postaxial polydactyly ,  a condition characterized by the occurrence of supernumerary digits in the upper and / or lower extremities .
a form of spinocerebellar ataxia ,  a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of cerebellar disorders .
a form of menke - hennekam syndrome ,  a congenital autosomal dominant disease characterized by developmental delay ,  growth retardation ,  and craniofacial dysmorphism .
a form of menke - hennekam syndrome ,  a congenital autosomal dominant disease characterized by developmental delay ,  growth retardation ,  and craniofacial dysmorphism .
an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by global developmental delay ,  impaired intellectual development ,  poor or absent speech ,  facial dysmorphism ,  and behavioral manifestations including autistic - like behavior ,  self - injurious behavior ,  fear of social interaction ,  and poor concentration .
an autosomal recessive disease characterized by muscle weakness ,  developmental delay ,  lactic acidosis ,  and encephalopathy .
an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by early onset of progressive neurodegeneration affecting the central and peripheral nervous systems .
an autosomal recessive disease characterized by early - onset delay in motor skills ,  delayed speech ,  progressive ataxia ,  and neurologic deterioration .
an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by severe infantile inflammatory bowel disease manifesting as bloody diarrhea and failure to thrive ,  global developmental delay ,  epilepsy ,  brain atrophy and encephalopathy .
a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by impaired intellectual development ,  poor speech ,  postnatal macrocephaly ,  and seizures .
an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by global developmental delay associated with mild - to - moderate intellectual disability ,  hypotonia and short stature in some patients .
a x - linked ,  syndromic ,  neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by intellectual disability ,  global developmental delay ,  severe myopia ,  and mild facial dysmorphism .
an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by acute ,  reversible neurological deterioration during febrile illness .
an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by recurrent gastrointestinal mucosal ulcers ,  gastrointestinal bleeding ,  chronic anemia ,  iron deficiency ,  and abdominal pain .
an autosomal dominant neuromuscular disorder characterized by decreased fetal movements ,  fractures in utero ,  severe congenital joint contractures ,  arthrogryposis multiplex congenita ,  severe hypotonia ,  muscle atrophy ,  and respiratory insufficiency and failure due to muscle weakness .
an autosomal dominant demyelinating form of charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a disorder of the peripheral nervous system ,  characterized by progressive weakness and atrophy ,  initially of the peroneal muscles and later of the distal muscles of the arms .
an autosomal dominant ,  intermediate form of charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a disorder of the peripheral nervous system ,  characterized by progressive weakness and atrophy ,  initially of the peroneal muscles and later of the distal muscles of the arms .
an autosomal recessive disease with variable manifestations .
the absence of menses in a female individual who has achieved reproductive age .
category of disorders related to menstruation .
a measurement of the genotype of a bacterial pathogen in an infected individual .
a quantification of the extent of calcification in the abdominal aorta .
a quantification of the extent of calcification in the thoracic aorta .
calcification of the thoracic aortic artery ,  used as an indicator of sub clinical athrosclerosis .
an autosomal recessive ,  complex and progressive neurologic disorder characterized by severe neurodevelopmental delay and developmental regression ,  epileptic encephalopathy ,  postnatal microcephaly ,  hypotonia ,  and non - epileptic hyperkinetic movement disorder ,  including myoclonus dystonia ,  choreoathetosis ,  or generalized dyskinesia .
a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by global developmental delay ,  speech delay ,  intellectual disability and a subtle facial gestalt .
a x - linked neurodevelopmental disorder manifesting in affected males with intellectual and learning disability ,  motor and language delay ,  autism spectrum disorder ,  attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder ,  and dysmorphic features .
a disorder characterized by multiple mesenchymal tumors of the gastrointestinal tract ,  including gastrointestinal stromal tumor ,  inflammatory fibroid polyps ,  and fibroid tumors .
a form of mental retardation ,  a disorder characterized by significantly below average general intellectual functioning associated with impairments in adaptive behavior and manifested during the developmental period .
a disease that occurs in the gastrointestinal system ,  excluding the hepatobiliary system .
a disease that occurs in the blood .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the liver ,  bile ducts ,  and gallbladder .
a disease involving the integumental system .
quantification of the volume of the banks of the superior temporal sulcus .
quantification of the volume of the brain cortex .
quantification of the density of the brain .
quantification of the volume of the caudal anterior cingulate cortex .
quantification of the volume of the caudal middle frontal gyrus .
quantification of the volume of the cerebellum .
quantification of the volume of the cerebral cortex .
quantification of the volume of the choroid plexus .
quantification of the volume of the cingulate cortex .
quantification of the volume of the corpus callosum anterior .
quantification of the volume of the corpus callosum central .
quantification of the volume of the corpus callosum mid - anterior .
quantification of the volume of the corpus callosum posterior .
quantification of the volume of the corpus callosum .
quantification of the volume of the corpus collosum mid - posterior .
quantification of the volume of the cuneus cortex .
quantification of the volume of the entorhinal cortex .
quantification of the volume of the choroid plexus .
quantification of the volume of the frontal pole .
quantification of the volume of the fusiform gyrus .
quantification of the density of the grey matter of the brain or part of the brain .
quantification of the volume of the inferior parietal cortex .
quantification of the volume of the inferior temporal gyrus .
quantification of the volume of the insular cortex .
quantification of the volume of the isthmus of the cingulate cortex .
quantification of the volume of the lateral occipital .
quantification of the volume of the lateral orbital frontal cortex .
quantification of the volume of the limbic lobe .
quantification of the volume of the lingual gyrus .
quantification of the volume of the medial orbital frontal cortex .
quantification of the volume of the middle temporal gyrus .
quantification of the volume of the paracentral lobule .
quantification of the volume of the parahippocampal gyrus .
quantification of the volume of the pars opercularis .
quantification of the volume of the pars orbitalis .
quantification of the volume of the pars triangularis .
quantification of the volume of the pericalcarine cortex .
quantification of the volume of the postcentral gyrus .
quantification of the volume of the posterior cingulate cortex .
quantification of the volume of the precentral gyrus .
quantification of the volume of the precuneus cortex .
quantification of the volume of the rostral anterior cingulate cortex .
quantification of the volume of the rostral middle frontal gyrus .
quantification of the volume of the superior frontal gyrus .
quantification of the volume of the superior parietal cortex .
quantification of the volume of the superior temporal gyrus .
quantification of the volume of the supramarginal gyrus .
quantification of the volume of the choroid plexus .
quantification of the volume of the temporal pole .
quantification of the volume of the choroid plexus .
quantification of the volume of the transverse temporal cortex .
quantification of the volume of the ventral diencephalon .
follicular lymphoma is a form of non - hodgkin lymphoma  ( see this term )  characterized by a proliferation of b cells whose nodular structure of follicular architecture is preserved .
quantification of the rate of change in forced vital capacity of an individual over the course of time ,  used as an indicator of improvement or decay of pulmonary function .
the quantification of cholesteryl ester 14:0 levels in a sample .
the quantification of cholesteryl ester 16:0 levels in a sample .
the quantification of cholesteryl ester 16:1 levels in a sample .
the quantification of cholesteryl ester 18:0 levels in a sample .
the quantification of cholesteryl ester 18:1 levels in a sample .
the quantification of cholesteryl ester 18:2 levels in a sample .
the quantification of cholesteryl ester 18:3 levels in a sample .
the quantification of cholesteryl ester 20:3 levels in a sample .
the quantification of cholesteryl ester 20:4 levels in a sample .
the quantification of cholesteryl ester 20:5 levels in a sample .
the quantification of cholesteryl ester 22:6 levels in a sample .
the quantification of cholesteryl ester levels in a sample .
the quantification of diacylglycerol 34:1 levels in a sample .
the quantification of diacylglycerol 34:2 levels in a sample .
the quantification of diacylglycerol 36:1 levels in a sample .
the quantification of diacylglycerol 36:2 levels in a sample .
the quantification of lysophosphatidylcholine 14:0 levels in a sample .
the quantification of lysophosphatidylcholine 16:0 levels in a sample .
the quantification of lysophosphatidylcholine 16:1 levels in a sample .
the quantification of lysophosphatidylcholine 18:0 levels in a sample .
the quantification of lysophosphatidylcholine 18:1 levels in a sample .
the quantification of lysophosphatidylcholine 18:2 levels in a sample .
the quantification of lysophosphatidylcholine 20:3 levels in a sample .
the quantification of lysophosphatidylcholine 20:4 levels in a sample .
the quantification of lysophosphatidylcholine 20:5 levels in a sample .
the quantification of lysophosphatidylcholine 22:6 levels in a sample .
the quantification of lysophosphatidylethanolamine 16:0 levels in a sample .
the quantification of lysophosphatidylethanolamine 18:0 levels in a sample .
the quantification of lysophosphatidylethanolamine 18:1 levels in a sample .
the quantification of lysophosphatidylethanolamine 18:2 levels in a sample .
the quantification of lysophosphatidylethanolamine 20:4 levels in a sample .
the quantification of lysophosphatidylethanolamine 22:6 levels in a sample .
the quantification of phosphatidylcholine 32:0 levels in a sample .
the quantification of phosphatidylcholine 32:1 levels in a sample .
the quantification of phosphatidylcholine 32:2 levels in a sample .
the quantification of phosphatidylcholine 34:1 levels in a sample .
the quantification of phosphatidylcholine 34:2 levels in a sample .
the quantification of phosphatidylcholine 34:3 levels in a sample .
the quantification of phosphatidylcholine 34:4 levels in a sample .
the quantification of phosphatidylcholine 36:1 levels in a sample .
the quantification of phosphatidylcholine 36:2 levels in a sample .
the quantification of phosphatidylcholine 36:3 levels in a sample .
the quantification of phosphatidylcholine 36:4 levels in a sample .
the quantification of phosphatidylcholine 36:5 levels in a sample .
the quantification of phosphatidylcholine 38:2 levels in a sample .
the quantification of phosphatidylcholine 38:3 levels in a sample .
the quantification of phosphatidylcholine 38:4 levels in a sample .
the quantification of phosphatidylcholine 38:5 levels in a sample .
the quantification of phosphatidylcholine 38:6 levels in a sample .
the quantification of phosphatidylcholine 40:6 levels in a sample .
the quantification of sphingomyelin 14:0 levels in a sample .
the quantification of sphingomyelin 16:0 levels in a sample .
the quantification of sphingomyelin 16:1 levels in a sample .
the quantification of sphingomyelin 18:0 levels in a sample .
the quantification of sphingomyelin 18:1 levels in a sample .
the quantification of sphingomyelin 22:0 levels in a sample .
the quantification of sphingomyelin 22:1 levels in a sample .
the quantification of sphingomyelin 24:0 levels in a sample .
the quantification of sphingomyelin 24:1 levels in a sample .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 44:1 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 46:0 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 46:1 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 46:2 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 48:0 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 48:1 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 48:2 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 48:3 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 48:4 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 50:1 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 50:2 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 50:3 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 50:4 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 50:5 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 52:1 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 52:2 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 52:3 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 52:4 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 52:5 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 52:6 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 54:1 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 54:2 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 54:3 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 54:4 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 54:5 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 54:6 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 54:7 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 54:8 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 54:9 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 56:10 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 56:2 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 56:3 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 56:4 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 56:5 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 56:6 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 56:7 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 56:8 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 56:9 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 58:10 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 58:11 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 58:12 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 58:6 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 58:7 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 58:8 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 58:9 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
the quantification of triacylglycerol 60:12 levels in some body fluid ,  used as a biomarker for disease .
a substance - related disorder that involves the recurring use of cocaine despite negative consequences .
quantification of 2 - hydroxyglutaric acid levels in a sample .
quantification of 3 - hydroxyanthranilic acid levels in a sample .
quantification of 3 - hydroxyphenylacetic acid levels in a sample .
quantification of 3 - methyladipic acid levels in a sample .
quantification of aconitate levels in a sample .
quantification of adenosine diphosphate levels in a sample .
quantification of adenosine levels in a sample .
quantification of adenosine monophosphate levels in a sample .
quantification of adipic acid levels in a sample .
quantification of allantoin levels in a sample .
quantification of alpha ketoglutarate levels in a sample .
quantification of alpha - hydroxybutyric acid levels in a sample .
quantification of aminoadipic acid levels in a sample .
quantification of anthrallic acid levels in a sample .
quantification of argininosuccinate levels in a sample .
quantification of aspartate levels in a sample .
quantification of asymmetric dimethylarginine levels in a sample .
quantification of beta - aminoisobutyric acid levels in a sample .
quantification of beta - hydroxybutyric acid levels in a sample .
quantification of carboxamide levels in a sample .
quantification of carboxylic acid anion levels in a sample .
quantification of carboxylic acid levels in a sample .
quantification of carnitine levels in a sample .
quantification of carnosine levels in a sample .
quantification of chenodeoxycholate levels in a sample .
quantification of creatine levels in a sample .
quantification of cyclic adenosine monophosphate levels in a sample .
quantification of cystathionine levels in a sample .
quantification of chenodeoxycholate levels in a sample .
quantification of dimethylglycine levels in a sample .
quantification of fructose levels in a sample .
quantification of fructose - 1 - phosphate levels in a sample .
quantification of fructose - 6 - phosphate levels in a sample .
quantification of fumarate levels in a sample .
quantification of galactose levels in a sample .
quantification of gamma - aminoisobutyric levels in a sample .
quantification of gentisic acid levels in a sample .
quantification of kglucose - 1 - phosphate levels in a sample .
quantification of glucose - 6 - phosphate levels in a sample .
quantification of glucuronate levels in a sample .
quantification of glutamate levels in a sample .
quantification of glycerol - 3 - phosphate levels in a sample .
quantification of glycerophosphocholine levels in a sample .
quantification of glycochenodeoxycholate levels in a sample .
quantification of glycocholate levels in a sample .
quantification of glycocholic acid levels in a sample .
quantification of glycodeoxycholate levels in a sample .
quantification of guanosine diphosphate levels in a sample .
quantification of guanosine monophosphate levels in a sample .
quantification of hippuric acid levels in a sample .
quantification of hydroxide levels in a sample .
quantification of hydroxyproline levels in a sample .
quantification of hyodeoxycholate levels in a sample .
quantification of hypoxanthine levels in a sample .
quantification of indole - 3 - propionate levels in a sample .
quantification of indoxyl sulfate levels in a sample .
quantification of inosine levels in a sample .
quantification of inositol levels in a sample .
quantification of isocitrate levels in a sample .
quantification of kynurenic acid levels in a sample .
quantification of lactose levels in a sample .
quantification of malate levels in a sample .
quantification of maleate levels in a sample .
quantification of ng - monomethyl - arginine levels in a sample .
quantification of niacinamide levels in a sample .
quantification of nucleoside levels in a sample .
quantification of nucleotide levels in a sample .
quantification of organic anion levels in a sample .
quantification of organic cation levels in a sample .
quantification of orotic acid levels in a sample .
quantification of oxalate levels in a sample .
quantification of oxide levels in a sample .
quantification of pantothenic acid levels in a sample .
quantification of peptide levels in a sample .
quantification of phosphocreatine levels in a sample .
quantification of phosphoenolpyruvic acid levels in a sample .
quantification of phosphoglyceric acid levels in a sample .
quantification of pimelic acid levels in a sample .
quantification of propionic acid levels in a sample .
quantification of purine levels in a sample .
quantification of pyridoxate levels in a sample .
quantification of quinolinic acid levels in a sample .
quantification of ribose - 5 - phosphate levels in a sample .
quantification of ribulose - 5 - phosphate levels in a sample .
quantification of s - adenosylhomocysteine levels in a sample .
quantification of salicylurate levels in a sample .
quantification of sorbitol levels in a sample .
quantification of suberic acid levels in a sample .
quantification of sucrose levels in a sample .
quantification of taurine levels in a sample .
quantification of taurochenodeoxycholate levels in a sample .
quantification of taurocholate levels in a sample .
quantification of taurodeoxycholate levels in a sample .
quantification of thiamine levels in a sample .
quantification of trimethylamine - n - oxide levels in a sample .
quantification of ureidopropionic acid levels in a sample .
quantification of uridine diphosphate galactose levels in a sample .
quantification of uridine diphosphate glucose levels in a sample .
quantification of uridine diphosphate levels in a sample .
quantification of uridine levels in a sample .
quantification of ursodeoxycholate levels in a sample .
quantification of xanthine levels in a sample .
quantification of xanthosine levels in a sample .
the sci - rna - seq uses the combinatorial indexing to identify single cells without single cell isolation .
quantification of xanthurenate levels in a sample .
a measurement of some aspect of an individual's social environment ,  including the people with whom they interact and the culture and behaviours to which they are exposed .
a quantification of some aspect of cocaine use
a quantification of some aspect of the vasculature of the retina ,  for example retinal venular tortuousity .
quantification of the volume of blood pumped from the left ventricle of the heart with each beat ,  calculated by subtracting the volume of blood in the ventricle at the end of a beat  ( end - systolic volume )  from the volume of blood just prior to the beat  ( end - diastolic volume )  .
quantification of the ratio of left ventricular mass to end - diastolic volume .
a test to determine the ability of an individual to metabolise lactose ,  an estimate of lactase activity .
in academic publishing ,  a preprint is a version of a scholarly or scientific paper that precedes formal peer review and publication in a peer - reviewed scholarly or scientific journal .
quantification of the levels of antibodies against biotherapeutic agents .
an autosomal recessive neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by intellectual disability ,  microcephaly ,  ataxia ,  and muscular hypotonia .
an autosomal recessive neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by severe global developmental delay with motor impairment ,  cognitive delays ,  absent or severely limited speech ,  dysmorphic features ,  hypotonia and cataracts .
an autosomal recessive neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by global developmental delay ,  profound intellectual disability ,  seizures ,  absent speech ,  spasticity ,  facial and limb dysmorphism ,  and subtle structural brain abnormalities including cerebellar hypoplasia .
an autosomal dominant neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by global developmental delay ,  severe intellectual disability ,  poor language ,  seizures ,  dysmorphic features ,  and thin corpus callosum .
an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by global developmental delay ,  severe - to - profound intellectual disability ,  muscular hypotonia ,  seizures ,  brain anomalies ,  including thin corpus callosum and cerebellar atrophy ,  scoliosis ,  and mild facial dysmorphism .
an autosomal recessive muscular disorder characterized by infantile onset of progressive muscular atrophy ,  hypotonia ,  ptosis ,  scoliosis and dysmorphic facial features .
an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by global developmental delay apparent in the first six months of life ,  followed by onset of seizures between 21 months and 4 years .
an autosomal recessive ,  neurologic disorder characterized by loss of motor abilities in the first year of life ,  after which severe ,  progressive spastic tetraparesis develops .
an autosomal dominant neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by profound infantile - onset hypotonia ,  developmental delay with poor speech ,  delayed walking ,  and impaired intellectual development .
a quantification of some aspect of the enlargement of the ventricles of the brain .
quantification of the rate of growth of an organism ,  in terms of the change in body mass ,  height or other anthropometric measurement per unit of time
quantification of the amount of kallikrein - 11 in a sample .
quantification of the amount of epithelial cell adhesion molecule in a sample .
quantification of the amount of vascular endothelial growth factor d in the sample .
quantification of the invasion of fibrous connective tissue into the liver ,  typically by histological assessment of biopsy samples .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a trait which cannot be accurately represented using standard efo terms ,  e .g .
the actual total expressed protein complement of an organism or the identifiable proteins of a single tissue or cell type or subcellular compartment .
a clinically aggressive neoplasm derived from the precursors of plasmacytoid dendritic cells  ( also called professional type i interferon - producing cells or plasmacytoid monocytes )  ,  with a high frequency of cutaneous and bone marrow involvement and leukemic dissemination .
poisoning due to organophosphates  ( a class of organophosphorus compounds also known as phosphate esters ,  or opes )  .
swelling and inflammation of the nerve between the ends of the metatarsal bones at the base of the toes .
quantification of the amount of alpha fetoprotein in a sample ,  typically serum
quantification of the amount of cancer antigen 19 .9 in a sample ,  typically serum .
quantification of the amount of cancer antigen 15 .3 in a sample ,  typically serum .
quantification of the amount of cd40 in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin - 2 receptor subunit alpha in a sample
quantification of the amount of matrix metalloproteinase 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of matrix metalloproteinase 10 in a sample
quantification of the amount of matrix metalloproteinase 12 in a sample
quantification of the amount of matrix metalloproteinase 7 in a sample
quantification of the amount of tumor necrosis factor ligand superfamily member 8 in a sample
quantification of the amount of cystatin b in a sample
quantification of the amount of fms - related tyrosine kinase 3 ligand in a sample
quantification of the amount of heat shock protein beta - 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of monocyte chemotactic protein 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of nf - kappa - b essential modulator in a sample
quantification of the amount of platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule in a sample
quantification of the amount of st2 protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of angiopoietin - 1 receptor in a sample
quantification of the amount of hepatitis a virus cellular receptor 1 in a sample
quantification or estimate of the age of the brain ,  e .g .
quantification of the amount of cancer antigen 125 in a sample ,  typically serum .
quantification of the amount of urine voided
quantification of the volume of the brainstem .
quantification of the amount of sclerostin in a sample .
quantification of the amount of tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 5 in a sample
quantification of the amount of mucin 16 in a sample
quantification of the amount of stromelysin 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 6 in a sample
quantification of the amount of cathepsin d in a sample
quantification of the amount of kit ligand in a sample
quantification of the amount of tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 14 in a sample
quantification of the amount of follistatin in a sample
quantification of the amount of galanin peptides in a sample
quantification of the amount of reninpeptides in a sample
quantification of the amount of tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 11 in a sample
quantification of pappalysin 1 in a sample
quantification of cathepsin l1 in a sample
quantification of dickkopfrelated protein 1 in a sample
quantification of stromelysin 2 in a sample
quantification of kallikrein 6 in a sample
quantification of tissue factor in a sample
quantification of tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 1b in a sample
quantification of xaapro aminopeptidase 2 in a sample
quantification of placenta growth factor in a sample
quantification of proadrenomedullin in a sample
quantification of natriuretic peptides b in a sample
quantification of prointerleukin 16 in a sample
an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by delayed development ,  speech delay with nasal speech ,  and characteristic facial features including upslanted palpebral fissures ,  anteverted nares ,  a thin upper lip ,  and micrognathia .
an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by severe global developmental delay ,  severely impaired intellectual development with poor or absent speech ,  severe encephalopathy ,  microcephaly with simplified gyral pattern ,  hypomyelination ,  thin corpus callosum ,  mild cerebellar hypoplasia ,  brainstem hypoplasia ,  congenital arthrogryposis ,  dysmorphic features ,  and respiratory problems often leading to early demise .
an autosomal recessive progeroid syndrome characterized by short stature ,  pinched facial features ,  prematurely gray hair ,  scleroderma - like skin changes ,  small kidneys and consecutive kidney failure ,  followed by severe arterial hypertension .
an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by early - onset progressive sensorineural hearing impairment ,  global developmental delay ,  regression of motor skills ,  dystonia ,  and low body mass index .
an autosomal dominant neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by global developmental delay ,  hypotonia ,  intellectual disability ,  autistic features ,  impairments in speech and language skills ,  and dysmorphic features including abnormal ,  cupped ,  or prominent ears and ocular anomalies .
an autosomal dominant ,  multiple congenital anomaly syndrome with variable expressivity and complete penetrance .
a form of pontocerebellar hypoplasia ,  a disorder characterized by structural defects of the pons and cerebellum ,  evident upon brain imaging .
quantification of some metabolite in saliva .
an asthma that is characterized by symptoms that are triggered by an allergic reaction caused by inhaled allergens such as dust mite allergen ,  pet dander ,  pollen and mold .
quantification of levels of pain .
quantification of pain that develops after a surgical procedure ,  and is present for at least 3 months after the procedure .
a quantification of the levels of 3 - ureidopropionate in a sample .
a childhood disorder that has a neurological basis and manifests as a developmental disability .
snijders blok - campeau syndrome  ( snibcps )  is an autosomal dominant neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by global developmental delay with impaired intellectual development and delayed speech acquisition .
developmental delay with variable intellectual impairment and behavioral abnormalities  ( ddviba )  is an autosomal dominant neurodevelopmental disorder .
cardiac - urogenital syndrome is characterized by partial anomalous pulmonary venous return in association with tracheal anomalies ,  pulmonary hypoplasia ,  congenital diaphragmatic hernia ,  thyroid fibrosis ,  thymic involution ,  cleft spleen ,  penoscrotal hypospadias ,  and cryptorchidism  ( pinz et al . ,  2018 )  .
stat3 gof is a rare genetic disorder of the immune system .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the characteristics of a set of cells according to the  ( surface level )  antigens expressed .
a quantification of an individual's creativity ,  i .e .
an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by intellectual disability ,  developmental delay ,  impaired language development ,  and dysmorphic features including telecanthus ,  epicanthus ,  arched eyebrows and low - set ears .
an autosomal recessive disorder with onset in infancy and characterized by intellectual disability ,  developmental delay ,  short stature ,  aphasia ,  and hypotonia .
an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by mild to severe intellectual disability ,  developmental delay ,  delayed or absent speech ,  hypotonia ,  short stature ,  autistic features ,  and highly variable dysmorphic facial features .
a form of mental retardation ,  a disorder characterized by significantly below average general intellectual functioning associated with impairments in adaptive behavior and manifested during the developmental period .
an autosomal dominant congenital anomaly characterized by a massively dilated urinary bladder with disrupted smooth muscle in the bladder wall .
an autosomal recessive mitochondrial disorder characterized by gross motor developmental delay manifesting in the first years of life ,  and subsequent episodic developmental regression .
a disorder characterized by neurodevelopmental abnormalities ,  including moderate to profound intellectual disability ,  with autistic features ,  seizures ,  severe impairments in speech ,  and gross motor delay .
an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by global developmental delay with severely impaired intellectual development ,  impaired motor development ,  axial and peripheral hypotonia ,  poor speech and significant behavioral abnormalities ,  including autism spectrum disorder ,  hyperactivity ,  mood disorders ,  aggression ,  hand and face stereotypies ,  sleep disturbances ,  anxiety ,  self - injurious behavior ,  and bruxism .
an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by intellectual disability ,  developmental delay ,  poor language acquisition ,  behavioural abnormalities ,  growth failure ,  feeding difficulties ,  microcephaly ,  facial dysmorphism ,  and mild skeletal anomalies of the hands and feet .
an autosomal dominant neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by impaired intellectual development ,  developmental delay of varying severity ,  impaired motor skills and language delay .
an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  seizures ,  autism spectrum disorder ,  behavioral abnormalities ,  and variable non - specific brain malformations .
an autosomal recessive ,  congenital neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by intrauterine growth retardation ,  microcephaly ,  marked developmental delay ,  spastic quadriplegia with profound contractures ,  pseudobulbar palsy with recurrent aspirations ,  epilepsy ,  dysmorphism ,  neurosensory deafness ,  optic nerve atrophy with no eye fixation ,  and death in early childhood .
an autosomal dominant multisystem disorder characterized by significant neurological impairment with structural brain defects and seizures ,  poor feeding ,  poor postnatal growth ,  ocular anomalies ,  dysmorphic facial features ,  and variable skeletal ,  cardiac and genitourinary defects .
a disease associated with shortened telomeres .
an autosomal recessive disease characterized by growth failure resulting in severe short stature ,  severe microcephaly ,  and delayed and dissociated bone age .
gland in the submucosal walls of the airways .
an endothelial cell that is part of the respiratory system lymphatic vessel .
an endothelial cell found in lung capillaries .
a pericyte derived from the lung .
any abnormal sound ( s )  of the chest .
an arterial embolism occurs when a foreign substance or tissue mass gets lodged in an artery and obstructs the blood flow .
is a medical procedure whereby blood vessels are either replaced with the patients own artery or vein ,  or alternatively with a vascular prosthesis or synthetic tube if the patients own blood vessel is not available .
a heart transplant is an operation in which a donor heart is implanted into a recipient .
a cardioverter defibrillator is an implanted device which regulates abnormal heart rhythms by generating and delivering electrical pulses .
chronic venous insufficiency is a result of venous hypertension which is secondary to venous valvular reflux in deep or superficial veins .
a cornea transplantation is a procedure whereby the damaged or scarred host cornea is being replacing by a healthy donor transplant to restore vision .
any cytological ,  histological or immunological finding ( s )  .
any discharge from the eye ( s )  .
swelling of eye ( s )  .
a hematoma is a collection of blood from a vascular structure into an extravascular space .
an ileostomy is an operation where a temporary or permanent surgical opening is created in the abdominal wall .
a liver transplant is an operation in which a donor liver is implanted into a recipient .
any localized superficial swelling ,  mass or lump .
a malunion fracture is a fracture which has healed in such a position that it can cause malalignment or deformity .
any disease during or after menopause .
stretching while the muscle is being activated can lead to strains .
erythema toxicum neonatorum is an eruption where yellowish papules or pustules are surrounded by red ,  irregular wheals .
any disease of the periapical tissue .
any disease of the perineum .
dialysis is a procedure whereby excess fluid and waste products are removed from the blood to artificially replace the function of the kidneys .
any infection of the retroperitoneum .
any infection of the subcutaneous tissue .
any disease of the tooth - supporting structures .
total parenteral nutrition is described as the artifical administration of nutrients intravenouslywhen oral or tube feeding is inadequate .
serum lactate dehydrogenase  ( ldh )  is a prognostic and diagnostic marker used to measure tissue breakdown .
quantification of soluble gp130 in a sample .
retinal breaks are full - thickness discontinuities in the retina .
quantification of diffuse plaques in the brain .
a quantification of some aspect of reticulocyte function ,  quantity ,  or composition .
mean volume of reticulocyte cells
a substance - related disorder that involves the recurring use of opioids despite negative consequences .
quantification of some aspect of trauma exposure .
a periportal endothelial cell that is part of the hepatic sinusoid .
a cental venous endothelial cell that is part of the hepatic sinusoid .
quantification of the amount of 3' - hydroxydotinine in a sample .
an endothelial cell that is part of the placenta .
a smooth muscle cell that is part of the placenta .
an epithelial cell that is part of an endometrial gland .
an endothelial cell that is part of the uterus .
this method creates libraries that can capture gene expression ,  v ( d ) j sequences and feature barcodes from the same cells depending on the type of enrichment used .
this method enriches 10x 5' gene expression libraries with alpha and beta chain t cell receptor  ( tcr )  sequences using pcr primers .
this method enriches 10x 5' gene expression libraries with heavy and light chain immunoglobulin  ( ig )  sequences from b cells using pcr primers .
the simultaneous infection of a host by multiple pathogen species .
the state of being free from fever .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
continuous positive airway pressure  ( cpap )  is the gold standard treatment for obstructive sleep apnoea and delivers continuous mild air pressure to keep the airways open .
a mechanical ventilator provides tidal breaths under positive pressure to acutely ill patient  via an endotracheal tube  ( ett )  .
a lung transplantation is a surgical procedure for patients with progressive respiratory diseases ,  including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ,  cystic fibrosis ,  pulmonary fibrosis ,  pulmonary hypertension or sarcoidosis .
ophthalmic procedure refers to any procedure of the eye ( s )  .
a leading cause of inflammatory eye disease is sarcoidosis .
quantification of some aspect of a subject's lifestyle .
a failure of the bond between an implant and bone in the absence of infection .
a surgical procedure in which an entire joint is replaced by a prosthetic implant .
vacuum or suction aspiration uses aspiration to remove uterine contents through the cervix .
curettage ,  in medical procedures ,  is the use of a curette to remove tissue by scraping or scooping .
quantification of some aspect of exposure to incident light from the sun .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
physiological response of an organism to being fed a diet low in calories .
quantification of the ratio of omega - 6 polyunsaturated fatty acid to omega - 3 polyunsaturated fatty acid .
the determination of the amount of polyunsaturated fatty acids present in a sample .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of the surface area of the cerebral cortex or parts thereof .
an autosomal dominant immunologic disorder characterized by onset of recurrent episodes of unexplained fever beginning in early infancy .
retinal dystrophy and leukodystrophy  ( rdlkd )  is a peroxisomal enzyme deficiency caused by impaired very long chain fatty acid  ( vlcfa )  metabolism .
early - onset epilepsy with or without developmental delay  ( epedd )  is an autosomal dominant neurologic disorder characterized by the onset of generalized tonic - clonic seizures in the first days ,  months ,  or years of life .
diets - jongmans syndrome  ( dijos )  is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by mild to moderately impaired intellectual development with a recognizable facial gestalt .
a method for sampling of epithelial cells and other effector cells from the nasal mucosa using a small nylon brush which is rotated over the epithelium and soaked and shaken in a small volume of a balanced salt solution .
quantification of the binding of a protein to another entity ,  usually another protein ,  for example using elisa  ( enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay )  .
quantification of some aspect of sperm e .g .
quantification of the size of the testis
quantification of some aspect of semen
quantification of amount of inhibin b in a sample .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of some aspect of motor function .
quantification of amount of tau ,  in the form of paired helical filaments ,  in a sample
distance between the start of a nucleotide sequence and the start of the actual read .
the number of nucleotides in a sequence .
the sequencing read in which the barcode is found .
the 0 - based offset of the start of the barcode in the read .
the length of the barcode in nucleotides .
hl - 60 / s4 is a subline of the hl - 60 cell line .
physiological response  ( usually immune system response )  of an organism to diet .
quantification of one or more antibodies to the kaposi's sarcoma - associated herpesvirus ,  typically in serum
quantification of some aspect of the male reproductive system
quantification of the amount of 4e - bp1 protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of adenosine deaminase protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of advanced glycosylation end product - specific receptor ligand in a sample
quantification of the amount of axin - 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of caspase 8 protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of ccl20 protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of ccl25 protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of ccl28 protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of ccl3 protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of cd244 protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of cd5 protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of cd6 protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of colony stimulating factor 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of cub domain containing protein 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of cxcl1 protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of cxcl10 protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of cxcl11 protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of cxcl9 protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of delta / notch like egf repeat containing protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of fms related receptor tyrosine kinase 3 ligand in a sample
quantification of the amount of fibroblast growth factor 5 in a sample
quantification of the amount of fibroblast growth factor 21 in a sample
quantification of the amount of fibroblast growth factor 19 in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin - 10 receptor b in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin - 12 subunit b in a sample
quantification of the amount of leukemia inhibitory factor receptor in a sample
quantification of the amount of monocyte chemotactic protein - 4 in a sample
quantification of the amount of monocyte chemotactic protein - 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of neurotrophin - 3 in a sample
quantification of the amount of oncostatin - m in a sample
quantification of the amount of programmed death - ligand 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of signaling lymphocytic activation molecule 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of sirtuin - 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of stam binding protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of sulfotrasferase 1a1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of transforming growth factor - alpha in a sample
quantification of the amount of transforming growth factor - beta in a sample
quantification of the amount of tumor necrosis factor ligand receptor superfamily member 10 in a sample
quantification of the amount of tumor necrosis factor ligand receptor superfamily member 12 in a sample
quantification of the amount of tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 9 in a sample
quantification of the amount of urokinase - type plasminogen activator in a sample
quantification of the amount of vascular endothelial growth factor a in a sample
a dna sequencing by ligation technique that involves a bead - based method that uses a complex approach of adapter ligation followed by adapter decoding ,  reading the sequence in increments of four nucleotides .
the enrichment of phosphorylation in proteins using different methods such as the use of titanium dioxide  ( tio2 )  .
a female embryonic stem cell derived by crossing male mus musculus castaneus and female mus musculus 129 .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
quantification of the fat intake of an individual .
quantification of the protein intake of an individual .
quantification of the carbohydrate intake of an individual .
quantification of the amount of t - cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain 1 protein in a sample .
a measurement of serum c - peptide levels at a predetermined point after a patient has fasted .
measurement of proinsulin ,  an insulin precursor that is processed into mature insulin and c - peptide .
measurement of remnant cholesterol  ( remnant lipoprotein )  ,  which is an atherogenic lipoprotein composed primarily of very low - density lipoprotein  ( vldl )  and intermediate - density lipoprotein  ( idl )  .
quantification of an individual's appreciation of lipids or fats in food or drink .
a risk factor for self - injurious attempts and completions .
a measurement of some aspect of an individual's perception or recognition of the contents of food or drink .
cellular proliferation of hematopoietic cells where a substantial proportion of the cells is derived from a single hematopoietic stem cell lineage .
the spontaneous occurrence of a dissection of the coronary artery .
a quantification of the fat content of the liver such as liver fat fraction ,  typically assessed by mri .
a disorder characterised by catching or locking of the involved finger .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
urolithiasis in which the composition of the stones is predominantly cystine .
myofibrillar myopathy - 9 with early respiratory failure  ( mfm9 )  is an autosomal dominant muscle disorder characterized by adult onset of slowly progressive muscle weakness with diaphragmatic involvement causing respiratory insufficiency .
a friable ,  benign vascular neoplasm with lobular capillary architecture that presents as a raised red skin growth .
a malignant germ cell tumor that arises from the testis and is characterized by the presence of more than one histologic component .
a chondrosarcoma arising from the central portion of bone without a benign precursor .
a rare ,  high grade sarcoma that arises from the endometrial stroma or myometrium without a specific type of differentiation .
the determination of the amount of tumor necrosis factor present in a sample .
lymphoblastoid cell line from a luhya female from webuye ,  kenya
lymphoblastoid cell line from a luhya male from webuye ,  kenya
lymphoblastoid cell line from a luhya male from webuye ,  kenya
lymphoblastoid cell line from a maasai male from kinyawa ,  kenya
lymphoblastoid cell line from a maasai male from kinyawa ,  kenya
lymphoblastoid cell line from a maasai female from kinyawa ,  kenya
lymphoblastoid cell line from a gambian female from the western division in the gambia
lymphoblastoid cell line from a gambian male from the western division in the gambia
lymphoblastoid cell line from a gambian male from the western division in the gambia
lymphoblastoid cell line from a gambian male from the western division in the gambia
lymphoblastoid cell line from a gambian male from the western division in the gambia
lymphoblastoid cell line from a gambian male from the western division in the gambia
lymphoblastoid cell line from a gambian male from the western division in the gambia
lymphoblastoid cell line from a gambian female from the western division in the gambia
lymphoblastoid cell line from a gambian male from the western division in the gambia
lymphoblastoid cell line from a gambian female from the western division in the gambia
lymphoblastoid cell line from a gambian female from the western division in the gambia
lymphoblastoid cell line from a gambian female from the western division in the gambia
lymphoblastoid cell line from a gambian male from the western division in the gambia
lymphoblastoid cell line from a gambian female from the western division in the gambia
lymphoblastoid cell line from an esan male from nigeria
lymphoblastoid cell line from an esan female from nigeria
lymphoblastoid cell line from an esan female from nigeria
lymphoblastoid cell line from an esan male from nigeria
lymphoblastoid cell line from an esan male from nigeria
lymphoblastoid cell line from a gambian female from the western division in the gambia
lymphoblastoid cell line from a gambian male from the western division in the gambia
lymphoblastoid cell line from a gambian male from the western division in the gambia
lymphoblastoid cell line from a mende male from sierra leone
lymphoblastoid cell line from a mende female from sierra leone
lymphoblastoid cell line from a mende male from sierra leone
lymphoblastoid cell line from a mende female from sierra leone
lymphoblastoid cell line from a mende female from sierra leone
lymphoblastoid cell line from an esan male from nigeria
lymphoblastoid cell line from an esan female from nigeria
lymphoblastoid cell line from an esan female from nigeria
lymphoblastoid cell line from an esan male from nigeria
lymphoblastoid cell line from an esan female from nigeria
lymphoblastoid cell line from an esan male from nigeria
lymphoblastoid cell line from an esan male from nigeria
lymphoblastoid cell line from an esan male from nigeria
lymphoblastoid cell line from an esan female from nigeria
lymphoblastoid cell line from an esan female from nigeria
lymphoblastoid cell line from a mende female from sierra leone
lymphoblastoid cell line from a mende male from sierra leone
lymphoblastoid cell line from a mende male from sierra leone
lymphoblastoid cell line from a mende male from sierra leone
lymphoblastoid cell line from a mende male from sierra leone
lymphoblastoid cell line from a mende male from sierra leone
lymphoblastoid cell line from a mende male from sierra leone
lymphoblastoid cell line from an esan female from nigeria
lymphoblastoid cell line from an esan male from nigeria
lymphoblastoid cell line from a mende female from sierra leone
lymphoblastoid cell line from a mende male from sierra leone
lymphoblastoid cell line from a mende male from sierra leone
lymphoblastoid cell line from a mende female from sierra leone
a method for detecting the accessible chromatin in individual cells by transposase - accessible chromatin sequencing assay .
a protocol to remove zona pellucida of mammalian oocytes by hydrolysis with 0 .012 m hydrochloric acid to obtain naked oocytes without contamination of granulosa cells .
a stromal cell found in the lamina propria of the large intestine .
a stromal cell found in the lamina propria of the small intestine .
a t cell which resides in the peyer's patch of the small intestine .
a mesothelial cell that is part of the small intestine .
a mesothelial cell that is part of the large intestine .
quantification of one or more antibodies to the merkel - cell virus ,  typically in serum .
quantification of one or more antibodies to the polyomavirus 2 ,  typically in serum .
quantification of one or more antibodies to the herpes simplex virus ,  typically in serum .
quantification of one or more antibodies to the herpes simplex virus ,  typically in serum .
quantification of one or more antibodies to the chlamydia trachomatis virus ,  typically in serum .
quantification of one or more antibodies to the bk polyomavirus ,  typically in serum .
the result of a measurement of circulating bk polyomavirus - specific antibodies .
the result of a measurement of circulating merkel cell virus - specific antibodies .
the result of a measurement of circulating polyomavirus 2 - specific antibodies .
the result of a measurement of circulating epstein - barr virus - specific antibodies .
quantification of the amount of adrenomedullin in a sample
quantification of the amount of c - c motif chemokine 20 in a sample
quantification of the amount of c - x - c motif chemokine 16 in a sample
quantification of the amount of endothelial cell - specific molecule 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of eosinophil cationic protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of fatty acid - binding protein ,  adipocyte in a sample
quantification of the amount of heat shock 27 kda protein in a sample
quantification of the amount of interleukin - 27 in a sample
quantification of the amount of kidney injury molecule 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of lectin - like oxidized ldl receptor 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of melusin in a sample
quantification of the amount of membrane - bound aminopeptidase p in a sample
quantification of the amount of n - terminal prohormone brain natriuretic peptide in a sample
quantification of the amount of p - selectin glycoprotein ligand 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of pentraxin - related protein ptx3 in a sample
quantification of the amount of proheparin - binding egf - like growth factor in a sample
quantification of the amount of protein s100 - a12 in a sample
quantification of the amount of proteinase - activated receptor 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of proto - oncogene tyrosine - protein kinase src in a sample
quantification of the amount of sir2 - like protein 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of tnf - related activation - induced cytokine in a sample
quantification of the amount of tnf - related apoptosis - inducing ligand receptor 2 in a sample
quantification of the amount of tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 in a sample
quantification of the amount of urokinase plasminogen activator surface receptor in a sample
response to the synthetic glucocorticoid with anti - inflammatory and immunomodulating properties ,  dexamethasone  ( 9 - fluoro - 16 - methylprednisolone )  .
the ratio between the levels of aspartate aminotransferase  ( ast )  and alanine aminotransferase  ( alt )  .
a protein assay measuring the types and amounts of cytokines that are released as the consequence of a signaling event .
a protein assay that allows protein separation by mass in a polyacrylamide - based discontinuous gel .
comparative genomic hybridization is an in - situ hybridization method for the analysis of regional genomic copy number imbalances  ( cna / cnv )  ,  based on the hybridization of test  ( e .g .
large - insert clone dna microarrays consist of usually several thousands of spots of dna from bacterial artificial chromosome  ( bac )  and p1 artificial chromosome  ( pac )  clones .
oligonucleotide dna microarrays consist of usually thousands to many hundreds of thousands spots of dna oligonucleotides  ( 25 -  to 60 bases )  which have been created by either in situ synthesis or deposition of presynthesized oligonucleotides on a carrier substrate .
the quantification of the amount of activated migroglia in the brain .
a neoplastic sample derived from a cancer metastasis  ( not from a primary tumor )  .
a neoplastic sample derived from a primary tumor  ( not from a cancer metastasis )  .
a neoplastic sample derived from a recurrent tumor  ( not from a primary occurrence of a neoplasm )  .
a mus musculus individual that is a substrain of cast / eij  ( mother )  and c57bl / 6j  ( father )  .
a mus musculus individual that is a substrain of c57bl / 6j  ( mother )  and cast / eij  ( father )  .
the determination of the amount of epidermal growth factor present in a sample .
quantification of some aspect of lower face morphology such as chin protrusion .
quantification of some aspect of upper face morphology such as forehead height .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a quantitative measurement of the total amount of potassium present in a sample of urine .
dilated cardiomyopathy ,  characterized by dilation and contractile dysfunction of the left and right ventricles ,  with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance .
xl - id with or without nystagmus  ( rapid ,  involuntary eye movements )  is a milder form of cask - related intellectual disability .
an autosomal recessive limb - girdle congenital muscular dystrophy ,  characterized by muscle weakness and delayed motor development in association with cognitive impairment .
a peroxisomal disorder arising from a failure of protein import into the peroxisomal membrane or matrix .
nucleic acid extraction protocol that specifies a procedure for separating and recovering the rna fraction of an input material .
a method to collect cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  from a human donor ,  using a needle .
a spatial transcriptomics method developed by 10x genomics that measures either the whole transcriptome or a defined set of transcripts in intact tissue sections and maps where gene activity is occurring .
the illumina nextseq 1000 is a benchtop high - throughput sequencing machine developed by illumina .
the illumina nextseq 2000 is a benchtop high - throughput sequencing machine developed by illumina .
a single - cell rna sequencing library construction method that generates barcoded libraries and is plate - based .
rnascope is a novel multiplex nucleic acid in situ hybridization  ( ish )  assay for detecting and visualising gene expression within intact cells .
quantification of the severity of the symptoms of pneumonia ,  an inflammation of the lung parenchyma caused by an infection .
the quantification of microalbumin in urine .
quantification of phosphate levels in a sample .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
severe malarial anemia is a leading cause of malaria - related morbidity and mortality in children .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the amount of phosphorus ,  measured as inorganic phosphate ,  in a specified sample of blood .
a human cancer cell line ,  derived from ascites of a patient of peritonitis carcinomatosa .
human induced pluripotent stem cell line ,  derived from a healthy white british male ,  with a normal karyotype .
macrovascular complications associated with diabetes mellitus ,  including stroke ,  heart disease ,  and peripheral vascular disease .
quantification of some aspect of cytotoxity such as survival time or cell viability ,  as a response to a chemotherapic drug .
quantification of 2 - hydroxyisobutyrate in a sample .
quantification of 3 - aminoisobutyrate in a sample .
quantification of 3 - hydroxybutyrate in a sample .
quantification of 3 - hydroxyisobutyrate in a sample .
quantification of 3 - hydroxyisovalerate in a sample .
quantification of 3 - indoxylsulfate in a sample .
quantification of 4 - deoxyerythronic acid in a sample .
quantification of 4 - deoxythreonic acid in a sample .
quantification of 5 - oxoproline in a sample .
quantification of acetone in a sample .
quantification of dimethylamine in a sample .
quantification of formate in a sample .
quantification of hippurate in a sample .
quantification of n - acetyl neuraminic acid in a sample .
quantification of n - methyl - 2 - pyridone - 5 - carboxamide in a sample .
quantification of n - methylnicotinic acid in a sample .
quantification of n - methylpicolinic acid in a sample .
quantification of n1 - methyl - nicotinamide in a sample .
quantification of p - cresol sulfate in a sample .
quantification of p - hydroxyphenylacetate in a sample .
quantification of proline beatine in a sample .
quantification of scyllo - inositol in a sample .
quantification of succinate in a sample .
quantification of trimethylamine in a sample .
quantification of trimethylamine oxide in a sample .
quantification of urea in a sample .
quantification of the levels of estrogen ,  or osetrogen ,  a category of sex hormone responsible for the development and regulation of the female reproductive system and secondary sex characteristics .
the determination of the amount of a sex hormone present in a sample .
quantification of the amount of glycochenodeoxycholate 3 - o - glucuronide in a sample .
quantification of the amount of glycodeoxycholate 3 - o - glucuronide in a sample .
quantification of some aspect of height ,  when assuming a sitting position .
the determination of the amount of bicarbonate present in a blood sample .
quantification of some aspect of an individual's microbiome of the vagina .
a measure to assess health - related quality of life  ( hrqol )  ,  which domains include physical health ,  emotional health ,  cognitive functioning ,  fatigue and pain .
a measure of academic performance through educational benchmarks such as national exams and curriculum assessments .
immunofish is a method combining immunolabelling  ( il )  with fluorescent in situ hybridisation  ( fish )  to simultaneously detect the nuclear distribution of proteins and specific dna sequences within chromosomes .
this c57bl / 6 congenic strain is used widely in transplant studies because it carries the differential ptprca pan leukocyte marker commonly known as cd45 .1 or ly5 .1 .
quantification of the amount of brain - derived neurotrophic factor present in a sample
a concussion ,  also known as a mild traumatic brain injury  ( mtbi )  ,  is a head injury that temporarily affects brain functioning .
10x 5' v1 is the first version of the 10x sequencing technology that sequences from the 5' end of nucleic acid molecules .
a sample dissociation process which uses non - enzymatic chemicals to separate the cells in a specimen .
the illumina hiseq 1500 is a sequencing machine developed by illumina .
brb - seq is a umi - based 3' assay for low - cost ,  highly - multiplexed transcriptome profiling of bulk samples .
the process of collecting a specimen of epithelial cells and other effector cells from the tracheal mucosa using a small brush .
the c57bl / 6ncrl is an inbred mouse strain derived from stock given to charles river from the nih in 1974 .
a deficiency of the essential metal zinc ;  an essential cofactor for many enzymes .
loeys - dietz syndrome - 5  ( lds5 )  ,  also known as rienhoff  ( pronounced reenhoff )  syndrome ,  is characterized by syndromic presentation of aortic aneurysms involving the thoracic and / or abdominal aorta ,  with risk of dissection and rupture .
a syndrome typically consisting of angina  ( cardiac chest pain )  at rest that occurs in cycles .
an abnormally high acidity of the blood and other body tissues .
an adenoma of the adrenal cortex that produces aldosterone .
a poorly differentiated non - small cell lung carcinoma composed of large polygonal cells without evidence of glandular or squamous differentiation
autosomal recessive form of disease .
a disease involving the urinary bladder .
a synovial sarcoma  ( disease )  that involves the breast .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the caecum
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the caecum
recurrent infections of the urinary bladder .
chronic form of sinusitis .
inflammation of the urinary bladder .
a neuroglial tumor that arises from the middle portion of the brain stem .
a group of neoplasms which arise from the ependymal lining of the cerebral ventricles and from the remnants of the central canal of the spinal cord .
a who grade ii ,  slow growing tumor of children and young adults ,  usually located intraventricularly .
a carcinoma that arises from the stomach and is characterized by the presence of malignant cells with glandular and squamous differentiation .
a variant of gastric adenocarcinoma characterized by prominent dilated or slit - like tubules .
a slow - growing ,  malignant tumor ,  characterize by the presence of granulosa - like cells and call - exner bodies ,  that is almost always found in the ovary .
an autosomal recessive disease characterized by multiple fetal developmental defects including polydactyly and central nervous system malformations that results from a single amino acid mutation of d211g of the hyls1 gene which plays a central role in cilia formation
it describes patients in whom a diagnosis of ulcerative colitis or crohn's disease cannot be made based on standard clinical testing ,  including colonoscopy ,  imaging ,  laboratory tests ,  and biopsy .
a viral or bacterial infectious process affecting the large intestine .
metabolic acidosis characterized by the accumulation of lactate in the body .
a neuroendocrine neoplasm that arises from the lung .
a lung carcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant non - keratinizing squamoid cells ,  mucin - producing cells and intermediate type cells
a bacterial infection of the membranes covering the brain and the spinal cord caused by mycobacterium tuberculosis .
a group of invasive breast carcinomas characterized by the presence of an adenocarcinomatous component which is admixed with a dominant component that is composed of squamous cells ,  spindle cells ,  or mesenchymal cells .
hardening of the kidney due to infiltration by fibrous connective tissue  ( fibrosis )  ,  usually caused by renovascular diseases or chronic hypertension .
a malignant glandular epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of clear and hobnail cells .
a malignant serous cystic epithelial neoplasm arising from the ovary .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the pancreas
pancreatic endocrine tumor ,  also known as pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor  ( pnet )  ,  describes a group of endocrine tumors originating in the pancreas that are usually indolent and benign ,  but may have the potential to be malignant .
a morphologic variant of lung adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of papillary structures .
a rare ,  aggressive ,  high grade invasive ductal carcinoma ,  not otherwise specified .
pig disease caused by porcine circovirus type 2  ( pcv2 )  .
a bacterial infection that affects the lungs and is caused by mycobacterium tuberculosis .
a leiomyoma that involves the kidney .
a benign or malignant ,  primary or metastatic neoplasm affecting the male and female reproductive system .
a neoplasm involving a sex cord .
a rare carcinoma that arises from the breast parenchyma and is entirely composed of squamous cells .
a lymphoma that arises from the thymus .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the tongue .
an embryonal neoplasm characterized by the presence of epithelial ,  mesenchymal ,  and blastema components .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the nasal cavity mucosa .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the nasopharynx .
a tear within the wall of any of the arteries of the neck  ( carotid artery or vertebral artery )  and that allows blood to separate the wall layers .
inherited or acquired disorders of sugar metabolism .
inability to fully digest and absorb lactose due to limited or no lactase activity in the small intestine .
adult onset lactose intolerance
a variant of acinar prostate adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant cells with abundant xanthomatous appearing cytoplasm .
a usually aggressive morphologic variant of acinar adenocarcinoma of the prostate gland characterized by the presence of lakes of extracellular mucin .
an adenoma of the pituitary gland that produces corticotropin .
a rare ,  hormonally functioning or non - functioning pituitary gland adenocarcinoma that produces corticotropin .
a clonal  ( malignant )  hematopoietic disorder with an acute onset ,  affecting the bone marrow and the peripheral blood .
a craniopharyngioma consisting of broad strands ,  cords and bridges of a multistratified squamous epithelium with peripheral palisading of nuclei .
a benign neoplasm characterized by the presence of connective tissue stroma and epithelial structures .
an adenoid cystic carcinoma primarily involving the breast .
a benign ,  slow growing neoplasm arising from tooth - forming tissues .
a carcinoma composed of malignant glandular cells and malignant squamous cells .
a benign soft tissue lesion arising from the adrenal gland .
a neuroblastoma arising from the adrenal gland .
a hyperplasia that involves the adrenal medulla .
a lymphoma  ( non - hodgkin or hodgkin )  arising from the central nervous system and occurring in hiv - positive patients .
a rare ,  cytologically malignant ameloblastoma that may metastasize .
a carcinoma arising from the ampulla of vater .
a melanoma arising from the anus .
a squamous cell carcinoma  ( scc )  arising from the anal canal or the anal margin  ( perianal skin )  .
a who grade iii meningioma characterized by the presence of malignant morphologic features ,  including malignant cytology and a very high mitotic index  ( 20 or more mitoses per ten high power fields )  .
alk - negative anaplastic large cell lymphoma  ( alk -  alcl )  is a type of alcl ,  a rare and aggressive peripheral t - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma affecting lymph nodes and extranodal sites ,  which is characterized by the lack of expression of a protein called anaplastic lymphoma kinase  ( alk )  .
a benign ,  slow - growing neoplasm that arises from the dermis or subcutaneous tissue .
a lipoma with prominent vascularity .
a who grade i meningioma characterized by the presence of small and medium sized vessels that predominate over the meningioma cells .
a benign soft tissue neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic spindle and stellate cells in a myxoid stroma .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the vermiform appendix .
a circumscribed neoplasm arising from the glandular epithelium of the appendix .
an invasive mixed adenoneuroendocrine carcinoma of the appendix characterized by a submucosal growth and the presence of neoplastic signet - ring cells resembling goblet cells of the intestine .
a non - neoplastic polyp that arises from the appendix .
a well differentiated ,  low grade tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the appendix .
an adenoma arising from the appendix .
a well differentiated ,  low grade neuroendocrine tumor  ( carcinoid tumor )  that arises from the ascending colon .
a primitive neuroectodermal tumor  ( small round blue cell tumor )  of the thorax which can involve the periosteum ,  thoracic wall and / or pleura though it spares the lung parenchyma .
any weakening or degeneration ,  especially through lack of use .
a carcinoid tumor characterized by a high mitotic rate ,  often associated with the presence of necrosis and nuclear pleomorphism .
an endometrial hyperplasia characterized by cytologic and architectural changes which may lead to endometrial carcinoma .
an intermediate ,  locally aggressive lipomatous neoplasm .
lobular neoplasia characterized by lobular epithelial proliferation that does not completely fill the lobular unit of the breast .
a who grade ii meningioma characterized by the presence of an increased mitotic activity or at least three of the following morphologic features: small cells ,  high cellularity ,  prominent nucleoli ,  lack of architectural pattern ,  and necrosis .
a neoplasm of prolymphocytes affecting the blood ,  bone marrow ,  and spleen .
a carcinoma that arises from the bartholin gland .
a carcinoma that arises from the bartholin gland and is characterized by the presence of malignant squamous epithelial cells .
a malignant epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic cells with hyperchromatic nuclei ,  small amount of cytoplasm ,  and peripheral nuclear palisading .
a sporadic or familial pheochromocytoma that is confined to the adrenal gland and does not have any metastatic potential .
a primary ,  slow growing ,  noninvasive neoplasm of the brain .
a carotid body paraganglioma that is confined to the site of origin ,  without metastatic potential .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the cerebral hemispheres during childhood .
abnormal growth of the cells of the conjunctiva without malignant characteristics .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the kidney .
a benign transitional cell tumor that arises from the ovary and is composed of a fibrotic stroma and nests of transitional cells without evidence of atypia .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of glands or cysts lined by benign endometrial - type cells .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is composed of at least two of the following cell types ,  serous ,  mucinous ,  endometrioid ,  transitional ,  or clear cell .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of neoplastic epithelium that resembles the epithelium of the endocervix or gastrointestinal tract .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the ovary .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that originates from the surface epithelium of the ovary .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the renal pelvis .
a rare benign tumor composed of sheets and islands of spindle ,  plasmacytoid ,  epithelioid ,  and clear cells that exhibit myoepithelial but not ductal differentiation .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the hair follicles ,  sebaceous glands ,  or sweat glands .
a benign mesenchymal neoplasm arising from smooth muscle tissue .
a benign neoplasm arising from the thyroid gland .
a benign ,  well - demarcated polypoid neoplasm arising from the bile duct epithelium .
a malignant neoplasm arising from mesothelial cells in the pleura .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the urinary bladder
a non - papillary neoplasm of the urinary bladder ,  whose classification categories include low - grade intraurothelial neoplasia and urothelial carcinoma in situ .
a multinodular intermediate fibroblastic neoplasm arising from the bladder .
a benign or malignant extra - adrenal sympathetic paraganglioma arising from the urinary bladder .
a highly aggressive carcinoma ,  histologically resembling small cell lung carcinoma .
a squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder arising from metaplastic epithelium .
an advanced phase of chronic myelogenous leukemia .
a bone hemangioma characterized by the presence of epithelioid endothelial cells ,  and eosinophilic and lymphocytic infiltrates .
a group of epithelial neoplasms that arise from the exocrine pancreatic tissue and have the potential to evolve into invasive malignant neoplasms .
a neoplasm of low malignant potential arising from the fallopian tube .
a neoplasm of low malignant potential arising from the ovary .
an epithelial neoplasm with low malignant potential affecting the ovary .
a neoplasm of low malignant potential arising from the ovary .
a low grade mucinous epithelial neoplasm arising from the ovary .
a low grade serous epithelial neoplasm arising from the ovary .
an epithelial tumor arising from the ovary without definitive morphologic characteristics of malignancy .
a malignant ,  clinically aggressive astrocytic tumor  ( glioma )  localized in the brain stem .
a neuroglial tumor that arises from the brain stem .
a header term that includes the following breast carcinoma subtypes determined by gene expression profiling: luminal a breast carcinoma ,  luminal b breast carcinoma ,  her2 positive breast carcinoma ,  basal - like breast carcinoma ,  triple - negative breast carcinoma ,  and normal breast - like subtype of breast carcinoma .
a diffuse large b - cell lymphoma that arises from the breast .
breast fibrocystic change characterized by the prominence of fibrotic changes in the parenchyma .
an extranodal marginal zone b - cell lymphoma of mucosa associated lymphoid tissue that arises from the breast as a primary tumor .
neoplastic or reactive proliferation of the c - cells in the thyroid gland .
a benign well - circumscribed paucicellular lesion arising from the soft tissues .
a rare malignant tumor that arises from the liver and occurs in children .
a well circumscribed benign tumor arising from cardiac muscle .
a hemangioma characterized by the presence of cavernous vascular spaces .
a cavernous hemangioma arising from the face .
a well differentiated ,  low grade neuroendocrine tumor  ( carcinoid tumor )  that arises from the cecum .
a neoplasm that arises from the glandular epithelium of the cecal mucosa .
an anaplastic large cell lymphoma that affects the brain ,  meninges ,  or spinal cord .
a non - hodgkin or hodgkin lymphoma that arises in the brain or spinal cord as a primary lesion .
a benign or malignant ,  primary or metastatic neoplasm that affects the brain ,  meninges ,  or spinal cord .
a rare ,  who grade ii cerebellar neoplasm which shows consistent neuronal ,  variable astrocytic and focal lipomatous differentiation .
a rare low grade carcinoma that arises from the cervix .
a rare carcinoma that arises from the cervix .
an uncommon carcinoma arising from the cervix .
a rare morphologic variant of cervical adenocarcinoma composed of clear and hobnail cells .
a cervical adenocarcinoma with the histologic characteristics of the endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the endometrium .
a neoplastic process that affects the glandular epithelial cells of the cervix .
a neoplastic process in the cervix characterized by morphologic features of both moderate and severe intraepithelial neoplasia .
a rare ,  aggressive neuroendocrine carcinoma that arises from the cervix and is characterized by the presence of malignant cells with abundant cytoplasm ,  large nuclei ,  and prominent nucleoli .
metaplastic changes in the cervical glandular or squamous epithelium .
a rare ,  extremely well differentiated cervical mucinous adenocarcinoma in which most of the neoplastic glands cannot be distinguished from the normal endocervical glands .
a cervical adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of a prominent villoglandular pattern .
a small cell carcinoma arising from the cervix .
a squamous cell carcinoma arising from the cervical epithelium .
an embryonal neoplasm arising from the cervix with morphologic features resembling wilms tumor of the kidney .
a slow - growing malignant bone tumor arising from the remnants of the notochord and occurring in the base of the skull .
a hamartoma that is characterized by the presence of chondroid elements .
a who grade ii ,  usually recurring meningioma characterized by the predominance of tissues that are histologically similar to chordoma .
a benign ,  slow growing tumor which may cause symptoms by blocking cerebrospinal fluid pathways .
a rare myeloproliferative neoplasm characterized by a clonal proliferation of eosinophilic precursors resulting in persistently increased numbers of eosinophils in the blood ,  marrow and peripheral tissues .
a rare chronic myeloproliferative neoplasm characterized by neutrophilic leukocytosis .
a who grade ii morphologic variant of meningioma characterized by the presence of clear glycogen - rich polygonal cells .
a benign cystic glandular epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic clear or hobnail cells which form papillary structures .
a rare burkitt lymphoma that arises from the colon .
a morphologic finding indicating the presence of dysplastic glandular epithelial cells in the colonic mucosa .
a non - neoplastic polypoid lesion in the colon .
a non - neoplastic hamartomatous polyp that arises from the colon .
an extranodal marginal zone lymphoma of mucosa - associated lymphoid tissue that arises from the colon .
a well differentiated ,  low grade neuroendocrine tumor  ( carcinoid tumor )  that arises from the colon .
a polyp that arises from the colon .
an unusual colorectal carcinoma characterized by the presence of glandular and squamous carcinomatous components .
a diffuse large b - cell lymphoma that arises from the colon or rectum .
a gastrointestinal stromal tumor that arises from the colon or rectum .
a non - neoplastic ,  hamartomatous polyp that arises from the colon and rectum .
a non - neoplastic hamartomatous polyp that arises from the colon and rectum .
a well differentiated ,  low grade neuroendocrine tumor  ( carcinoid tumor )  that arises from the colon or rectum .
a rare ,  invasive colorectal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of a malignant infiltrate with serrated glandular architecture .
a polyp that arises from the colon or rectum .
a very rare colorectal carcinoma characterized by the presence of a malignant squamous cell infiltrate .
a columnar cell lesion characterized by the presence of enlarged terminal ductal lobular units with dilated acini .
a lung carcinoma characterized by the presence of large or small neuroendocrine carcinoma cells in combination with malignant glandular or squamous epithelial cells .
url: https: /  / ncit .nci .nih .gov / ncitbrowser / conceptreport .jsp?dictionary=nci_thesaurus&code=c7588&ns=nci_thesaurus
a hyperplasia characterized by excessive proliferation of endometrial cells ,  resulting in the formation of complex epithelial structures .
any disorder of the conjunctiva .
a malignant melanoma within the conjunctiva of the eye .
a benign melanocytic neoplasm that arises from the conjunctiva .
a low - grade squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the conjunctiva .
an adenoma of the adrenal cortex that produces cortisol .
a benign ,  partly cystic ,  epithelial tumor of the sellar region ,  presumably derived from rathke pouch epithelium .
a carcinoma characterized by the presence of a cribriform architectural pattern .
a follicular lymphoma involving the skin .
an undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma arising from the skin .
a benign encapsulated neoplasm of the kidney ,  characterized by the presence of cysts separated by septa .
a solitary fibrous tumor characterized by the presence of areas of abrupt transition to high grade sarcoma .
an ameloblastoma with prominent desmoplastic stroma that causes compression of the neoplastic epithelial islands .
a diffuse or multifocal proliferation of uniform nevoid polygonal cells in the leptomeninges .
a sporadic or less frequently familial neoplasm ,  arising from the glandular epithelium of the stomach ,  small intestine ,  biliary tract ,  colon ,  and rectum .
a malignant neoplasm that arises from the epithelium of any part of the digestive system .
a carcinoma that arises from the digestive system and is characterized by the presence of a malignant glandular epithelial component and a malignant neuroendocrine component .
a rare ,  benign process that affects the peritoneal cavity and is characterized by the formation of multiple small nodules that are composed of well differentiated smooth muscle .
the co - existence of ductal and lobular carcinoma in situ in the breast ,  without evidence of stromal invasion .
a morphologic finding indicating the presence of typical or atypical proliferation of biliary epithelial cells in the portal tracts of the liver .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the duodenum .
a gastrin - producing neuroendocrine tumor that arises from the duodenum .
a neoplasm that arises from the glandular epithelium of the duodenum .
a morphologic finding indicating the presence of dysplastic epithelial changes in a large intestinal tissue sample that is affected by ulcerative colitis .
https: /  / ncit .nci .nih .gov / ncitbrowser / conceptreport .jsp?dictionary=nci_thesaurus&code=c4838&ns=nci_thesaurus
an epstein - barr virus - associated mature t - cell lymphoproliferative group of disorders affecting children .
a carcinoma with eccrine differentiation arising from the sweat glands .
an aggressive epithelial neoplasm arising from the temporal bone .
a clear cell adenocarcinoma that involves the endometrium .
it is caused by endometriosis ,  and formed when a tiny patch of endometrial tissue  ( the mucous membrane that makes up the inner layer of the uterine wall )  bleeds ,  sloughs off ,  becomes transplanted ,  and grows and enlarges inside the ovaries .
a primary endometrial adenocarcinoma composed of neoplastic cells that form complex glandular patterns associated with budding and branching of the neoplastic glands .
simple or complex endometrial hyperplasia characterized by the absence of epithelial atypia .
a premalignant neoplastic process that affects the endometrial epithelium and glands .
a primary ,  usually low grade adenocarcinoma of the endometrium in which the majority of the malignant epithelial cells contain abundant intracytoplasmic mucin .
a benign nodular lesion protruding above the surface of the endometrium .
a high grade ,  aggressive adenocarcinoma arising from the endometrium .
a primary carcinoma of the endometrium that is similar to the small cell carcinoma of the lung ,  histologically .
a primary carcinoma of the endometrium characterized by the presence of malignant squamous cells .
a non - infiltrating ,  benign mesenchymal neoplasm arising from the uterine corpus .
a primary carcinoma of the endometrium characterized by the presence of malignant cells that lack evidence of differentiation .
epidermal inclusion cyst  ( eic )  ,  also known as sebaceous cyst and epidermoid cyst ,  is the most common cyst of the skin .
a uveal melanoma characterized by the presence of malignant large epithelioid melanocytes .
a rare variant of malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor composed predominantly or exclusively of epithelioid cells .
an adenoid cystic carcinoma that affects the ethmoid sinus .
a carcinoma that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts .
a carcinoma that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts .
a malignant neoplasm in which there is infiltration of the skin by neoplastic large cells with abundant pale cytoplasm and large nuclei with prominent nucleoli  ( paget cells )  .
a spectrum of malignant tumors arising from the soft tissues ,  characterized morphologically by the presence of small round cells .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the fallopian tube .
a carcinosarcoma that arises from the fallopian tube .
a serous adenocarcinoma that arises from the fallopian tube .
a benign tumor of the breast characterized by the presence of stromal and epithelial elements .
a benign ,  intermediate ,  or malignant mesenchymal neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic fibroblasts .
a distinctive type of liver cell carcinoma that arises in non - cirrhotic livers and is seen predominantly in young patients .
a poorly circumscribed neoplasm arising from the soft tissues in infants .
a who grade i meningioma characterized by the presence of spindle cells that form bundles in a collagen matrix .
a type of hyperplasia that is characterized by a marked thickening of the urinary tract epithelium .
a mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the oral cavity that arises from the floor of the mouth .
a nonencapsulated variant of papillary carcinoma of the thyroid gland characterized by the predominance of follicular structures .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the gall bladder .
a polypoid epithelial neoplasm that arises from the gallbladder .
a carcinoma that arises from the gallbladder .
a neoplastic ,  non - invasive lesion that affects the gallbladder epithelium .
an aggressive ,  high - grade and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the gallbladder .
a carcinoma that arises from the gallbladder .
a neoplastic polyp that arises from the stomach .
a malignant germ cell tumor that arises from the stomach .
an extranodal diffuse large b - cell lymphoma that arises from the stomach with the bulk of the mass located in the stomach .
a non - neoplastic polyp that arises from the stomach and is characterized by the presence of connective tissue stroma overgrowth and cystic formations .
a mantle cell lymphoma that affects the stomach .
intestinal metaplasia of the gastric mucosa is an intermediate precancerous gastric lesion in the gastric cancer cascade from chronic gastritis and atrophy to dysplasia and adenocarcinoma .
a low grade ,  indolent b - cell lymphoma ,  usually associated with helicobacter pylori infection .
a well differentiated ,  low grade neuroendocrine tumor  ( carcinoid tumor )  that arises from the stomach .
a variant of gastric adenocarcinoma with exophytic growth and elongated finger - like processes lined by cylindrical or cuboidal cells supported by fibrovascular connective tissue cores .
an aggressive ,  high - grade and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the stomach .
a rare carcinoma of the stomach resembling squamous cell carcinomas arising elsewhere in the body .
a non - neoplastic ,  hamartomatous polyp that arises from the stomach ,  small intestine ,  and large intestine .
a painless ,  well circumscribed tumor arising in soft tissue ,  usually of the upper and lower extremities .
a teratoma that arises from the testis or ovary .
high grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia characterized by the presence of severe architectural and cytologic abnormalities .
an unusual benign or malignant neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic large polygonal cells with granular ,  eosinophilic cytoplasm which contains abundant lysosomes .
a generally benign intrasellar and / or suprasellar mass arising from the neurohypophysis or infundibulum .
a tumor mass composed of myeloblasts ,  neutrophils and neutrophil precursors .
an adenoma of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland that produces growth hormone .
a benign or malignant extra - adrenal paraganglioma arising from paraganglia in the head and neck .
a term that refers to vascular neoplasms with a prominent hemangiopericytic growth pattern .
a granuloma located in the liver .
hepatoblastoma  ( hb )  is a malignant hepatic tumor and is the most common pediatric liver cancer .
an adenocarcinoma with morphologic characteristics similar to hepatocellular carcinoma ,  arising from an anatomic site other than the liver .
a biologic subset of breast carcinoma defined by high expression of her2 ,  grb7 ,  and trap100 ,  and by lack of expression of estrogen receptor  ( er )  .
a carcinoma with apocrine and less often eccrine differentiation ,  arising from the sweat glands .
a usually aggressive high grade malignant bone - forming mesenchymal neoplasm arising from the surface of the bone .
rare tumors that affect the hematopoietic and lymphoid tissues .
a gestational trophoblastic disorder characterized by marked enlargement of the chorionic villi ,  hyperplasia of the villous trophoblastic cells and hydropic changes .
a polyp found mainly in the stomach and colon .
a well differentiated ,  low grade neuroendocrine tumor  ( carcinoid tumor )  that arises from the ileum .
a rare benign neoplasm arising from the soft tissues of the digits ,  in young children .
https: /  / ncit .nci .nih .gov / ncitbrowser / conceptreport .jsp?dictionary=nci_thesaurus&code=c39821&ns=nci_thesaurus
an invasive transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder that exhibits spindle cell sarcomatoid features .
an adenocarcinoma arising from epithelium which has undergone intestinal metaplasia .
a malignant neoplasm arising from the large blood vessels .
a benign papillary neoplasm that arises anywhere in the ductal system of the breast .
a carcinoma that infiltrates the breast parenchyma .
a well differentiated ,  low grade neuroendocrine tumor  ( carcinoid tumor )  that arises from the jejunum .
a myelodysplastic / myeloproliferative neoplasm of childhood that is characterized by proliferation principally of the granulocytic and monocytic lineages .
a non - neoplastic hamartomatous polyp that arises from the stomach and intestinal tract .
a benign histiocytic tumor that occurs during childhood ;  it is distinct from langerhans cell histiocytosis .
an angiomyolipoma arising from the kidney .
abnormal fluid filled sac within the kidney ,  either acquired or congenital .
a type of renal carcinoma affecting mostly young african - americans .
a benign tumor of the kidney ,  characterized by the presence of large cells with abundant eosinophilic granular cytoplasm .
metastatic signet - ring cell carcinoma to the ovary .
a adenoid cystic carcinoma that involves the lacrimal gland .
langerhans cell histiocytosis  ( lch )  is a systemic disease associated with the proliferation and accumulation  ( usually in granulomas )  of langerhans cells in various tissues .
a rare adenoid cystic carcinoma of the larynx .
a rare carcinoma that arises from the larynx .
a sex cord - stromal tumor occurring in the testis and rarely in the ovary .
a hemangioma with cavernous vascular spaces arising from the liver .
a rare diffuse large b - cell lymphoma that arises from the liver and the bulk of the tumor is located in the liver .
a multinodular intermediate fibroblastic neoplasm arising from the liver .
an extremely rare ,  usually solitary ,  well - differentiated neuroendocrine tumor  ( carcinoid tumor )  arising from the liver .
a non - invasive adenocarcinoma of the breast characterized by a proliferation of monomorphic cells completely filling the lumina .
a low grade osteosarcoma arising from the medullary portion of the bone .
a low grade ,  late - metastasizing variant of fibrosarcoma characterized by alternating fibrous and myxoid areas and a whorling growth pattern .
a low grade fibromyxoid sarcoma characterized by the presence of prominent collagen rosettes .
an intraepithelial lesion of the vulvar squamous epithelium that represents the clinical and morphological manifestation of a productive hpv infection .
a morphologic variant of lung sarcomatoid carcinoma characterized by the presence of mononuclear and multinucleated pleomorphic neoplastic giant cells that lack cohesion .
an intermediate fibroblastic neoplasm arising from the lung .
lymphangiomyomatosis involving the lungs and local lymph nodes .
a benign papillary neoplasm that arises endobronchially .
a rare ,  aggressive ,  poorly differentiated ,  non - small cell lung carcinoma characterized by the presence of a sarcomatoid component often associated with giant cell differentiation .
a benign tumor that arises from the lung .
a morphologic variant of lung adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of signet ring cells .
a malignant neoplasm arising from the endothelial cells of the lymphatic vessels .
a morphologic variant of large cell lung carcinoma characterized by the presence of a syncytial growth pattern ,  large vesicular nuclei with esophnophilic nucleoi ,  and dense lymphoplasmacytic infiltration .
a chronic ,  recurrent cutaneous disorder characterized by the presence of spontaneously regressing papules .
a who grade i meningioma characterized by the presence of prominent chronic inflammatory infiltrates that predominate over the meningioma cells .
a carcinoma that arises from the parotid gland ,  submandibular gland ,  or sublingual gland .
a carcinoma that arises from a pleomorphic adenoma in the major salivary glands .
a carcinoma that arises from the major salivary glands .
a malignant tumor that arises from the bone .
a pheochromocytoma that metastasizes to other anatomic sites .
an extra - adrenal sympathetic paraganglioma of the bladder that metastasizes to other anatomic sites .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the bone or articular cartilage .
a gonadal or extragonadal malignant neoplasm that arises from germ cells .
a jugulotympanic paraganglioma that metastasizes to other anatomic sites .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the larynx .
a malignant neoplasm of the pleura or peritoneum ,  arising from mesothelial cells .
a malignant neoplasm composed of a carcinomatous epithelial component and a sarcomatous mesenchymal component .
a malignant neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of an invasive malignant transitional cell component and nests of benign transitional cells in a fibrotic stroma .
a malignant epithelial tumor arising from the ovary .
a malignant neoplasm involving the pancreas .
a paraganglioma that metastasizes to regional or distant anatomic sites .
a malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor characterized by the presence of mesenchymal differentiation .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the pleura .
a primary or metastatic malignant tumor involving the urinary system .
a rare entity characterized by localized but destructive growth of a tumor consisting of highly atypical ,  immature mast cells .
an adenoid cystic carcinoma that arises from the maxillary sinus .
an extragonadal malignant germ cell tumor that arises from the mediastinum .
a neuroblastoma arising from the mediastinum .
a rare malignant embryonal neoplasm arising from the cerebellum .
a benign melanocytic proliferation within or adjacent to the optic disk .
a usually well differentiated melanocytic neoplasm arising from the meninges .
a rare vascular malformation in the cerebral cortex and overlying leptomeninges .
a who grade i meningioma characterized by the presence of tumor cells that form lobules .
a benign ,  well - circumscribed renal cortical neoplasm affecting females more often than males .
a group of invasive breast carcinomas characterized by the presence of an adenocarcinomatous component which is admixed with a dominant component that is composed of squamous cells ,  spindle cells ,  or mesenchymal cells .
a who grade i meningioma characterized by the presence of a prominent mesenchymal component .
a who grade i meningioma characterized by the presence of intercellular microcystic spaces that contain mucinous fluid .
an adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of complex micropapillary structures covered by round and cuboidal cells with a high nuclear to cytoplasmic ratio .
a rare squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the middle ear .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the minor salivary glands .
a melanoma arising from the choroid ,  ciliary body ,  or the iris .
a rare ,  usually benign neoplasm that arises from the kidney .
a breast carcinoma characterized by the presence of a lobular and a ductal component .
an infrequent pituitary gland adenoma composed of an admixture of acidophilic and chromophobic cells that produce growth hormone and prolactin respectively .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the saliva - secreting gland .
a rare ,  benign ,  slow - growing and painless neoplasm of sweat glands .
a variant of gastric adenocarcinoma with more than half of the tumor containing extracellular mucinous pools .
a category of clonal hematopoietic disorders that have both myelodysplastic and myeloproliferative features at the time of initial presentation .
a benign ,  localized ,  nodular and well - circumscribed neoplasm usually seen as a congenital neoplasm or in the first year of life .
a benign ,  mucus - filled cervical cyst that occurs when mucus - secreting columnar epithelial cells are covered with squamous epithelium .
a soft and painless polypoid mass that arises from the mucosa in the nasal cavity .
https: /  / ncit .nci .nih .gov / ncitbrowser / conceptreport .jsp?dictionary=nci_thesaurus&code=c37005&ns=nci_thesaurus
a group of nervous system tumors which display neuronal differentiation .
a benign neoplasm arising from nerve sheaths .
nevus of ito is a benign dermal melanocytosis occurring most frequently in the asian populations and characterized by unilateral ,  asymptomatic ,  blue ,  gray or brown skin pigmentation within the acromioclavicular and upper chest area  ( involving the side of the neck ,  the supraclavicular and scapular areas ,  and the shoulder region )  .
nevus of ota is an oculodermal melanocytosis more commonly found in asian and african populations ,  usually present at birth and characterized by a usually unilateral ,  bluish gray ,  patchy ,  speckled pigmentation  ( that may progressively enlarge and darken )  affecting the skin of the face along the distribution of the ophthalmic and maxillary divisions of the trigeminal nerve  ( periorbital region ,  temple ,  forehead ,  malar area ,  nose )  .
melanoma is a malignant tumor of melanocytes ,  cells that are derived from the neural crest .
a low or intermediate grade well differentiated tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the pancreas .
an adenoma of the adrenal cortex characterized by the absence of a hormonal syndrome or symptoms suggestive of adrenal disease .
a non - neoplastic disorder that affects the intrahepatic or extrahepatic bile ducts .
a group of testicular cancers that begin in the germ cells  ( cells that give rise to sperm )  .
a biologic subset of breast carcinoma defined by high expression of many genes expressed by adipose and other non - epithelial tissues .
a melanoma that arises from the structures of the eye or ocular adnexa .
a melanoma arising from and extending beyond the structures of the eye .
ocular sebaceous carcinoma is a rare condition and accounts for 1% to 5 .5% of eyelid malignancies and is the third most common eyelid malignancy after basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma .
a cyst in the jaw that arises from tissues of tooth development .
an olfactory neuroblastoma arising in the paranasal sinus .
a rare soft tissue tumor of uncertain lineage characterized by the presence of neoplastic spindle to round cells forming cords in a fibromyxoid stroma .
a benign neoplasm of the kidney occurring in infants .
a rare benign bone - forming neoplasm usually arising from the spine .
a common ,  benign cartiliginous neoplasm arising from the metaphysis of bone .
a highly aggressive malignant neoplasm arising from the ovary .
a choriocarcinoma arising from the ovary .
a malignant germ cell tumor arising from the ovary .
an embryonal carcinoma arising from the ovary .
an endometrioid adenocarcinoma arising from the ovary .
an endometrioid adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary and exhibits squamous differentiation .
a non - neoplastic disorder characterized by the growth of endometrial tissue in the ovaries .
a neoplasm that arises from the ovary and originates from germ cells .
a neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is composed of tissues that resemble dysgerminoma or seminoma and are admixed with sex cord tissues .
a granulosa - stromal cell tumor that arises from the ovary .
a rare neoplasm arising from the ovary .
a rare ,  benign steroid tumor that arises from the ovary and is composed of leydig cells that contain reinke crystals .
a benign ,  unilateral tumor that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of conspicuous microcystic changes ,  cellular areas ,  and a fibrous stroma .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant surface epithelial - stromal tumor of the ovary .
a benign ovarian stromal tumor characterized by the presence of cellular areas which contain fibroblasts and round cells .
a malignant neoplasm of the ovary with an invasive epithelial component and a fibrotic stroma .
a benign neoplasm of the ovary characterized by the presence of glands with serous epithelial cells in a fibrotic stroma .
a benign or malignant sex cord - stromal tumor arising from the ovary .
an ovarian sex cord - stromal tumor characterized by the presence of sertoli cells forming annular tubules .
a carcinoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of small malignant cells .
a usually high grade squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the ovary and is not associated with a germ cell tumor .
an ovarian tumor in which the vast majority of the cells  ( more than 90% of the tumor cells )  resemble steroid hormone - secreting cells .
a benign ovarian stromal tumor in which more than 90% of the tumor cells resemble steroid hormone - secreting cells .
a carcinoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells that resemble malignant urothelial cells .
a group of neoplasms that arise from the ovary and represent a spectrum of tumors ranging from neoplasms that are composed entirely of fibroblasts to those that are composed predominantly of theca cells .
a usually rapidly growing malignant germ cell tumor arising from the ovary .
a superficial fibromatosis arising from the soft tissue of the palm .
an adenocarcinoma arising from the pancreas .
a neuroendocrine tumor arising from the pancreas .
a usually malignant ,  glucagon - producing neuroendocrine tumor arising from the pancreatic alpha cells .
an aggressive ,  high - grade and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the pancreas .
a pathologic process that arises from the pancreas and has the potential to evolve into a malignant neoplasm .
an aggressive ,  high - grade and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the pancreas .
a usually malignant pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor producing vasoactive intestinal peptide  ( vip )  .
a rare malignant epithelial neoplasm arising from the pancreas .
a craniopharyngioma composed of sheets of squamous epithelium which separate to form pseudopapillae .
a benign ,  malignant ,  or borderline neoplasm characterized by the presence of papillary mucinous ,  serous ,  or clear cell structures and cystic structures .
a who grade iii meningioma characterized by the predominance of a perivascular pseudopapillary pattern .
a non - invasive or invasive transitional cell carcinoma characterized by a papillary growth pattern .
a rare tumor that arises from the pineal region and affects adults .
a rare ,  usually benign myoepithelial tumor characterized by the presence of epithelioid ,  often vacuolated neoplastic cells .
a benign or malignant neoplasm arising from paraganglia located along the sympathetic or parasympathetic nerves .
a rare adenoid cystic carcinoma that arises from the paranasal sinuses .
a papilloma that arises from the ciliated respiratory mucosa that lines the paranasal sinuses .
parathyroid carcinoma  ( prtc )  is a very rare ,  slow - growing ,  clinically serious endocrine tumor that generally develops in mid - adulthood .
a hyperplasia that involves the parathyroid gland .
an adenocarcinoma with serous acinar cell differentiation that arises from the parotid gland .
an aggressive carcinoma that arises from the parotid gland .
a carcinoma that arises from the parotid gland .
a carcinoma that arises from a pleomorphic adenoma in the parotid gland .
a benign ,  slow - growing tumor that arises from the parotid gland .
an invasive squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the parotid gland .
a soft tissue neoplasm composed of perivascular epithelioid cells .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the penis
fibromatosis arising from the soft tissues of the penis .
a benign or malignant mesothelial neoplasm that arises from the peritoneum .
a cystic mesothelioma that arises from the peritoneum and usually affects young to middle aged females .
a localized or multifocal mesothelioma arising from the peritoneum .
a hamartomatous polyp that occurs in the stomach ,  small and large intestines ,  and rarely within the esophagus ,  nasopharynx and the urinary tract .
a non - neoplastic polyp that arises from the stomach and is characterized by the presence of smooth muscle branching bands ,  and hyperplasia with cystic dilatation of the foveolar epithelium .
an adenoid cystic carcinoma that arises from the pharynx .
an extremely rare ,  benign or malignant mesenchymal tumor arising from the soft tissues or bones .
a who grade ii or iii pineal parenchymal neoplasm of intermediate - grade malignancy ,  affecting all ages .
pineoblastoma is a rare ,  malignant type of supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumor  ( spnet )  ,  found mainly in children  ( less than 10% of cases are reported in adults )  ,  and located in the pineal region of the brain but that can metastasize along the neuroaxis .
pineocytoma is the least aggressive form of pineal parenchymal tumors ,  manifesting with symptoms such as parinaud's syndrome  ( a group of eye movement abnormalities and pupil dysfunction ,  including deficiency in upward - gaze and convergence - retraction nystagmus )  ,  headaches ,  balance impairment ,  urinary incontinence ,  and changes in mood and that are not known to disseminate in a diffuse manner .
an extremely rare ,  who grade i ,  circumscribed and slow - growing tumor that arises from the neurohypophysis or infundibulum and described in adults .
a non - metastasizing tumor that arises from the adenohypophysial cells of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland .
choriocarcinoma that develops in the placenta .
a hemangioma arising from the fetal blood vessels in the placental villi .
a superficial fibromatosis arising from soft tissue of the plantar regions .
malignant mesothelioma that arises from the pleura .
malignant mesothelioma that arises from the pleura and is characterized by the presence of cells with epithelioid morphology .
a neoplasm that arises from the mesothelial cells of the pleura .
malignant mesothelioma that arises from the pleura and is characterized by the presence of spindle - shaped cells forming fascicles ,  or that are distributed haphazardly resembling a sarcoma .
a histologic variant of solid / multicystic ameloblastoma characterized by the presence of basal cells forming anastomosing strands and cords in a delicate stroma .
a lesion characterized by the presence of neoplastic neuroepithelial cells with palisading nuclei .
an adenocarcinoma arising from the thyroid gland showing only limited evidence of follicular cell differentiation .
an aggressive primary cutaneous b - cell lymphoma ,  usually involving the lower leg .
primary effusion lymphoma  ( pel )  is a large b - cell lymphoma located in the body cavities ,  characterized by pleural ,  peritoneal ,  and pericardial fluid lymphomatous effusions and that is always associated with human herpes virus - 8  ( hhv - 8 )  .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises centrally from the jaw .
a benign or malignant ,  circumscribed or diffuse neoplasm that arises from melanocytes in the leptomeninges .
a rare ,  serous adenocarcinoma that diffusely involves the pelvic peritoneum seen predominantly in elderly postmenopausal women .
a diffuse large b - cell lymphoma that is localized to the lungs at the time of presentation .
prolactinoma is a usually benign neoplasm of the pituitary gland that results in hyperprolactinemia .
a rare ,  hormonally functioning or non - functioning pituitary gland adenocarcinoma that produces prolactin .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm with skeletal muscle differentiation affecting the prostate .
a neuroendocrine carcinoma of the prostate gland with unfavorable prognosis ,  composed of small cells containing neurosecretory granules .
a who grade i meningioma characterized by the presence of psammoma bodies that predominate over the meningeal cells .
a rare neoplastic polyp that arises from the stomach .
a serrated polypoid lesion that arises in the rectum .
an adenoma that arises from the rectum .
a usually polypoid neoplasm that arises from the glandular epithelium of the rectal mucosa .
a neoplasm that arises from the glandular epithelium of the rectal mucosa .
a neoplasm that arises from the glandular epithelium of the rectal mucosa .
a very rare ,  benign ,  encapsulated tumor that arises from the kidney .
a group of kidney carcinomas characterized by the presence of different translocations involving the chromosome xp11 .2 .
a benign or malignant neoplasm affecting the retina .
a multinodular intermediate fibroblastic neoplasm arising from the retroperitoneum .
a who grade iii meningioma characterized by the predominant presence of rhabdoid cells forming sheets .
a rhabdoid tumor that arises from the kidney .
a carcinoma of the salivary gland characterized by serous acinar cell differentiation .
a rare ,  aggressive carcinoma that arises from the salivary glands .
a rare adenocarcinoma of the major and minor salivary glands ,  originating from basaloid ,  myoepithelial and ductal cells .
a carcinoma that arises from a pleomorphic adenoma in the salivary glands .
a rare ,  highly aggressive carcinoma that arises from the salivary gland ,  predominantly the parotid gland .
a benign ,  slow - growing tumor composed of cells that demonstrate both epithelial and mesenchymal differentiation .
an infrequent small cell carcinoma that arises from the salivary glands and is characterized by the presence of a high number of mitotic figures .
a malignant epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of spindle cells and anaplastic morphologic features .
a diffuse malignant mesothelioma arising from the pleura and less often the peritoneum .
a who grade i meningioma characterized by the presence of epithelial differentiation and numerous intracellular pas positive bodies that are rich in glycogen .
a rare adenoma of the adrenal cortex that produces androgens or estrogens .
a poorly cohesive gastric adenocarcinoma characterized by malignant cells containing intracytoplasmic mucin .
a proliferation of endometrial cells resulting in glandular enlargement and budding without changes in the basic structure of the endometrium .
a proliferation of endometrial cells resulting in glandular enlargement and budding without changes in the basic structure of the endometrium .
a rare ,  highly aggressive carcinoma that arises from the sinonasal tract .
a rare disorder of unknown etiology characterized by distention of the lymph node sinuses and sinusoidal histiocytic infiltration .
a basal cell carcinoma which displays squamous differentiation .
a cavernous hemangioma arising from the skin .
a sarcoma that arises from the skin .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the small intestine .
a burkitt lymphoma that arises from the small intestine .
a diffuse large b - cell lymphoma that arises from the small intestine .
an enteropathy - associated t - cell lymphoma arising from the small intestine ,  most commonly the jejunum or ileum .
a precancerous neoplastic process that affects the small intestine .
a mucosa - associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma  ( malt )  that arises from the small intestine .
a usually polypoid neoplasm that arises from the glandular epithelium of the small intestine .
a neoplasm that arises from the glandular epithelium of the small intestine .
a benign neoplasm arising from the extraskeletal soft tissues near tendons and joints .
a benign ,  intermediate ,  or malignant neoplasm that arises from the soft tissue .
a low - grade malignant neoplasm that arises from the exocrine pancreas .
a slow - growing malignant bone tumor arising from the remnants of the notochord and occurring in the spine .
a low or high grade astrocytoma that arises in the spinal cord .
a central nervous system embryonal tumor ,  not otherwise specified arising from the spinal cord .
a melanoma characterized by the presence of malignant spindle - shaped melanocytes .
a diffuse large b - cell lymphoma occurring in the spleen .
a rare hodgkin lymphoma that arises from the spleen .
a mantle cell lymphoma occurring in the spleen .
splenic marginal zone lymphoma is a rare ,  indolent b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma characterized by abnormal clonal proliferation of mature b - lymphocytes with involvement in the spleen ,  bone marrow and ,  frequently ,  the blood .
wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the predominance of the mesenchymal component .
subcutaneous panniculitis - like t - cell lymphoma  ( sptcl )  is a rare cytotoxic cutaneous lymphoma that has been recognized as a distinct subset of peripheral t - cell lymphomas originating and presenting primarily in the subcutaneous fat tissue .
subependymoma is a rare and slow growing type of ependymoma ,  often presenting in middle - aged adults ,  found more commonly in men than in women ,  usually located in the fourth and lateral ventricles and manifesting with variable symptoms including headache ,  nausea ,  and loss of balance .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the submandibular gland .
an aggressive carcinoma that arises from the submandibular gland .
a poorly circumscribed ,  intermediate fibrocytic neoplasm arising from the superficial soft tissues .
synovial chondromatosis is a type of non - cancerous tumor that arises in the lining of a joint .
a benign adnexal neoplasm occurring during childhood or adolescence .
systemic mastocytosis with an associated clonal hematological non - mast cell lineage disease is a form of systemic mastocytosis  ( sm )  associated with malignancy  ( other than mast cell leukemia )  .
a slow - growing type of leukemia  ( blood cancer )  in which too many lymphocytes are found in the bone marrow and / or blood .
a small ,  slow growing ,  benign neoplasm arising from the tendon sheaths .
a tumor usually arising in the synovium of joints ,  bursa or tendon sheath .
a teratoma which is characterized by morphologic transformation to malignancy and an aggressive clinical course .
a malignant germ cell tumor arising from the testis .
a malignant germ cell neoplasm arising from the testis .
a germ cell tumor arising from the testis .
a rare sex cord - stromal tumor that arises from the testis .
a testicular sertoli cell tumor characterized by the presence of large polygonal cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm in a myxoid and hyalinized stroma .
a sex cord - stromal tumor that arises from the testis and is characterized by the presence of cells that resemble the successive stages of development of leydig cells .
a testicular germ cell tumor characterized by the absence of a seminomatous component .
a rare testicular sertoli cell tumor characterized by the presence of neoplastic tubules that are surrounded by a dense fibrotic stroma .
a sex cord - stromal tumor that arises from the testis and is characterized by the presence of neoplastic cells with features of sertoli cells .
a non - seminomatous germ cell tumor arising from the testis .
a non - seminomatous malignant germ cell tumor arising from the testis .
acute myeloid leukemias ,  myelodysplastic syndromes ,  and myelodysplastic / myeloproliferative neoplasms arising as a result of the mutagenic effect of chemotherapy agents and / or radiation that are used for the treatment of neoplastic or non - neoplastic disorders .
thymic carcinoma  ( tc )  is a type of thymic epithelial neoplasm characterized by a high malignant potential .
a rare ,  usually aggressive ,  primary thymic carcinoma ,  characterized by the presence of tumor cells morphologically resembling soft tissue sarcoma .
an aggressive ,  small cell ,  poorly differentiated thymic neuroendocrine carcinoma ,  characterized by the presence of a high mitotic rate and numerous apoptotic bodies .
a rare primary thymic carcinoma ,  characterized by the presence of keratinizing or non - keratinizing malignant squamous cells .
a rare primary thymic carcinoma ,  characterized by an undifferentiated solid tumor growth ,  without associated sarcomatoid features .
a neoplasm arising from the epithelial cells of the thymus .
a thymic epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of a lymphocyte - poor component similar to that seen in type a thymoma and a lymphocyte - rich component which contains neoplastic small polygonal epithelial cells .
also known as well - differentiated thymic carcinoma ,  atypical thymoma ,  or epithelial thymoma ,  this type of thymoma displays morphologic characteristics of a well - differentiated carcinoma .
a thymic epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of expanded areas which resemble the normal thymic cortex .
a congenital benign cyst arising from the remnants of the thyroglossal duct .
a carcinoma arising from the thyroid gland .
a diffuse large b - cell lymphoma primarily involving the thyroid gland .
a rare ,  circumscribed or encapsulated tumor arising from the follicular cells of the thyroid gland .
a primary carcinoma of the thyroid gland containing a medullary carcinoma component that is immunohistochemically positive for calcitonin ,  and follicular cell carcinoma structures that are immunohistochemically positive for thyroglobulin .
a primary ,  low grade carcinoma of the thyroid gland composed of groups of squamoid and mucous cells ,  surrounded by fibrous tissue .
an extranodal marginal zone b - cell lymphoma arising from mucosa - associated lymphoid tissue in the thyroid gland .
a follicular carcinoma of the thyroid gland ,  characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm and pleomorphic nuclei with prominent ,  eosinophilic nucleoli .
a rare ,  slow growing ,  primary carcinoma of the thyroid gland characterized by a lobulated architectural pattern and the presence of a biphasic cellular population composed of spindle epithelial cells and glandular cells .
a rapidly growing primary carcinoma of the thyroid gland composed of malignant squamous cells .
a primary carcinoma of the thyroid gland composed of undifferentiated cells .
an adamantinoma arising from the tibia .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the mucosal lining of the tonsil and tends to metastasize early to the lymph nodes .
an adenoid cystic carcinoma that arises from the trachea .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the trachea .
a rare squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the mucosal lining of the trachea .
a malignant neoplasm arising from the transitional epithelium ,  usually affecting the urinary bladder ,  ureter ,  or renal pelvis .
a who grade i meningioma characterized by the coexistence of meningothelial cells and fibrous architectural patterns .
a renal cell carcinoma characterized by morphologic features that do not fit easily into one of the other well - defined categories of renal cell carcinoma .
a carcinoma without evidence of differentiation arising from the gallbladder .
an aggressive carcinoma arising from the ovary .
a carcinoma with poor prognosis that arises from the pancreas .
a rare variant of undifferentiated pancreatic carcinoma characterized by the presence of non - neoplastic osteoclast - like giant cells .
an undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma characterized by the presence of numerous inflammatory cells .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the ureter .
a rare carcinoma that arises from the ureter .
a morphologic finding indicating the presence of dysplastic changes in the transitional cell epithelium of the urinary tract .
a neoplastic ductal proliferative lesion of the breast characterized by the formation of secondary lumens and prominent intraductal proliferation of a heterogeneous cellular population that may include epithelial cells ,  myoepithelial cells ,  or metaplastic apocrine cells .
a usually aggressive malignant neoplasm arising from the uterine corpus and less often the cervix .
a rare morphologic variant of uterine leiomyoma characterized by the presence of scattered islands of mature adipocytes within the smooth muscle neoplasm .
an adenoid cystic carcinoma that arises from the vagina .
an aggressive mixed epithelial and mesenchymal neoplasm that arises from the vagina and is characterized by the presence of a malignant epithelial component and a malignant mesenchymal component .
a primary malignant neoplasm of the vagina composed of malignant melanocytes .
a squamous cell carcinoma arising from the vagina .
a benign or malignant extra - adrenal parasympathetic paraganglioma arising from paraganglia in the vagus nerve .
an often clinically aggressive neuroendocrine tumor located in the pancreas or small intestine .
a chronic inflammatory disorder of unknown etiology that affects the vulva .
an invasive squamous cell carcinoma arising from the vulva .
an adenoma characterized by an oncocytic ,  often papillary ,  epithelial component ,  dense lymphoid stroma ,  and cystic spaces .
a disease involving the thyroid gland .
a usually indolent mature b - cell lymphoma ,  arising from the marginal zone of lymphoid tissues .
a general term most often used to describe severe or complete loss of muscle strength due to motor system disease from the level of the cerebral cortex to the muscle fiber .
a group of disorders affecting the development of movement and posture ,  often accompanied by disturbances of sensation ,  perception ,  cognition ,  and behavior .
a polypoid adenoma that arises from and protrudes into the lumen of the colon .
a benign and excessive tumor - like growth of mature cells and normal tissues which grow in a disorganized pattern .
a benign vascular lesion characterized by the formation of capillary - sized or cavernous vascular channels .
inflammatory skin disorders covers a broad category that includes many conditions ranging in severity ,  from mild itching to grave medical health complications  these disorders are common in people of all ages and races .
progressive and life - threatening pulmonary distress in the absence of an underlying pulmonary condition ,  usually following major trauma or surgery .
a neuromuscular disease characterized by sporadic bouts of ataxia with or without continuous muscle movement
an instance of metabolic disease that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
a pathological condition caused by impaired blood flow in the basal regions of cerebral hemispheres  ( basal ganglia )  ,  such as infarction ;  hemorrhage ;  or ischemia in vessels of this brain region including the lateral lenticulostriate arteries .
any one of a group of congenital hemolytic anemias in which there is no abnormal hemoglobin or spherocytosis and in which there is a defect of glycolysis in the erythrocyte .
a disorder of iron metabolism characterized by a triad of hemosiderosis ;  liver cirrhosis ;  and diabetes mellitus .
an epileptic condition characterized by epileptiform abnormalities associated with progressive cerebral dysfunction .
infant acute respiratory distress syndrome is a lung disorder that affects premature infants caused by developmental insufficiency of surfactant production and structural immaturity of the lungs .
a condition characterized by development of symptoms while standing .
a malignant epithelial neoplasm characterized by a papillary growth pattern .
genetic defects in the selective or non - selective transport functions of the kidney tubules .
a spectrum of hip abnormalities commonly presenting in infancy involving the relationship between the femoral head and the acetabulum and that includes subluxation or dislocation at rest or upon provocation .
a subtype of breast cancer that is estrogen - receptor positive
a subtype of breast cancer that is estrogen - receptor negative
moderate to severe atopic dermatitis with allergic sensitisation .
an acute inflammatory process that leads to necrosis of the pancreatic parenchyma .
progressive decline in muscle mass due to aging which results in decreased functional capacity of muscles .
a malignant tumor that occurs in children .
sporadic creutzfeldt - jakob disease  ( scjd )  is the most common type of cjd ,  accounting for around 85% of cases .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the rectum .
a melanotic cutaneous lesion that develops in the axilla and other body folds .
a rare disorder which affects the volar surfaces of fingers .
cutaneous eruptions resembling acne ,  characterized by the presence of papulonodules ,  pustules ,  comedones ,  or cysts in the face ,  trunk ,  and extremities .
focal or diffuse thickening of the skin not inherited as a primary genetic disorder .
an inflammatory skin condition affecting children .
an acrodermatitis characterized by a chronically progressive course ,  leading to widespread atrophy of the skin .
a rare genetic skin keratinization disorder with an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance .
adiposis dolorosa or dercum's disease is characterised by the development of multiple ,  painful ,  subcutaneous lipomas in association with obesity ,  asthenia and fatigue ,  and range of mental disturbances including instability ,  depression ,  confusion ,  dementia and epilepsy .
an inflammatory skin condition caused by an immune response to direct contact between the skin and an allergen .
a urticaria with a basis in a pathological type i hypersensitivity reaction .
lack of sweating or the ability to sweat when provoked by the appropriate stimulus .
a bacteria - induced exanthem
a genetic disorder that affects the skin ,  hair ,  teeth ,  nails ,  and central nervous system .
an autoimmune disease of skin and connective tissue that is characterized by blisters filled with a watery fluid ,  located_in skin .
a cluster of boils ,  draining pus onto the skin .
a pathologic process characterized by the proliferation of keratinizing squamous epithelium resulting in the accumulation of keratin and cells in the middle ear and / or mastoid .
a cholesteatoma in the attic
a cholesteatoma  ( disease )  that involves the external ear .
a non - neoplastic lesion characterized by the proliferation of keratinizing squamous epithelium in the middle ear that results in the accumulation of keratin and cells .
a type of physical urticarias  ( or hives )  that appears when a person is sweating .
mucous membrane pemphigoid is a bullous dermatosis characterised clinically by blistering of the mucous membranes followed by scarring ,  and immunologically by igg ,  iga and / or c3 deposits on the epidermal basement membrane .
an extremely rare autosomal recessive condition ,  characterized by an extreme scarcity of fat in the subcutaneous tissues .
pigmented lesions that arise from the conjunctiva include nevus ,  complexion - associated melanosis  ( cam )  ,  primary acquired melanosis  ( pam )  ,  and malignant melanoma .1 , 2all of these lesions arise from melanocytes .
a pyoderma that is a milder form of diphtheria restricted to the skin producing shallow skin ulcers is caused by direct physical contact of indivduals infected with corynebacterium diphtheriae as the bacteria releases the diphtheria toxin .
dermatitis herpetiformis  ( dh )  is a chronic autoimmune subepidermal bullous disease characterized by grouped pruritic lesions such as papules ,  urticarial plaques ,  erythema ,  and herpetiform vesiculae ,  with a predominantly symmetrical distribution on extensor surfaces of the elbows  ( 90% )  ,  knees  ( 30% )  ,  shoulders ,  buttocks ,  sacral region ,  and face of children and adults .
familial dermographism is a condition also known as skin writing .
a benign skin condition commonly seen in dark - skinned individuals that is characterized by multiple small hyperpigmented papular lesions resembling seborrheic keratosis on the face and upper body .
a neoplastic process characterized by a diffuse poorly circumscribed overgrowth of adipose tissue .
a recurrent eczematous reaction characterized by the development of vesicular eruptions on the palms and soles ,  particularly along the sides and between the digits .
a skin infection characterised by crusted sores beneath which ulcers form .
epidermolysis bullosa  ( eb )  is a group of genetic skin diseases that cause the skin to blister very easily .
epidermolysis bullosa acquisita  ( eba )  is a subepidermal bullous dermatosis of autoimmune origin that was named as a result of its resemblance to hereditary forms of epidermolysis bullosa  ( heb )  ,  most notably dystrophic heb .
a genetic skin disorder caused by mutations in the type vii collagen gene  ( col7a1 )  .
a self - limited viral infectious disorder caused by the human parvovirus b19 .
erythema multiforme  ( em )  refers to a group ofhypersensitivity disorders characterized by symmetric red ,  patchy lesions ,  primarily on the arms and legs .
a skin condition that primarily affects the scalp and face and presents as scaly inflammation .
a skin disease that causes brown ,  scaly skin patches .
any change in the skin which affects its appearance or texture .
facial dermatosis ,  also known as facial dermatoses ,  is related tolipogranulomatosis .
a non - neoplastic polypoid lesion that arises from the anal canal or perianal skin .
a benign polypoid lesion of mesodermal origin that arises from the urethra .
a rare dermatologic disorder characterized by the accumulation of mucinous material in the hair follicles .
inflammation of the hair follicles .
fox - fordyce disease isa chronic skin diseasemost common in women aged 13 - 35 years .it is characterized by the development of intense itching in the underarm area ,  the pubic area ,  and around the nipple of the breast as a result of perspiration which becomes trapped in the sweat gland and surrounding areas .
granuloma annulare is a long - term  ( chronic )  skin disease consisting of a rash with reddish bumps arranged in a circle or ring .
an inflammatory reaction of the skin to various organic and inorganic antigens .
skin conditions characterised by dense infiltration of inflammatory cells  ( neutrophils )  in the affected tissue .
a hemangioma arising from the subcutaneous soft tissues .
a keratosis of the hands and feet characterized by persistent ,  asymptomatic ,  yellowish to white papules and plaques associated with fine - textured scalp hair and an atopic diathesis .
a rare pregnancy - associated autoimmune skin disease that is characterised by an itchy rash that develops into blisters .
a chronic suppurative and cicatricial disease of the apocrine glands occurring chiefly in the axillae in women and in the groin and anal regions in men .
over - production of pigment in the eyelid .
reduced sweating .causes include burns ,  dehydration ,  radiation ,  and leprosy .
under - production of pigment in the eyelid .
a pyoderma consisting of three forms of skin lesions having either a thick ,  adherent ,  recurrent ,  dirty yellow crust with an erythematous margin  ( common or superficial impetigo )  or lessions which are superficial ,  thin - walled ,  and bullous as found in bullous impetigo .
an impetigo that is characterized as a form of severe pustular psoriasis occurring in pregnancy .
a dermal melanocytic condition affecting the shoulder area .
seborrheic keratosis that arises from follicular structures in the skin .
an inflammatory skin condition caused by direct contact between the skin and an irritating substance .
dermatitis herpetiformis in children
a skin disorder consisting of hypertrophy of the stratum corneum of the skin .
encephalopathy in infants due to high levels of unconjugated bilirubin that are a result of rh incompatibility between the mother and the fetus .
kimura disease is a benign and chronic inflammatory disorder of unknown etiology ,  occurring mainly in asian countries  ( very rarely in western countries )  and predominantly affecting young men ,  that usually presents with a solitary or multiple non - tender subcutaneous masses in the head and neck region  ( in particular the preauricular and submandibular area )  and / or generalized painless lymphadenopathy ,  often with salivary gland involvement .
a nonspecific term used to denote any cutaneous lesion or group of lesions ,  or eruptions of any type on the leg .
a long - term skin condition that mainly affects the skin of the genitals .
a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by shiny ,  flat - topped ,  usually flesh - colored micropapules no larger than the head of a pin .
a chronic ,  recurrent ,  pruritic inflammatory disorder of unknown etiology that affects the skin and mucus membranes .
a congenital or acquired disorder characterized by abnormal loss or redistribution of the adipose tissue in the body .
a neoplastic process characterized by diffuse overgrowth of mature adipose tissue .
loiasis is a form of filariasis  ( see this term )  ,  caused by the parasitic worm loa loa ,  endemic to the forest and savannah regions of central and western africa .
severe cellulitis of the submaxillary space with secondary involvement of the sublingual and submental space .
a rare ,  progressive ,  non - neoplastic pathologic process that arises from the maxillary sinus mucosal epithelium .
a neoplastic process characterized by a diffuse poorly circumscribed overgrowth of adipose tissue in the mediastinum .
a benign ,  darkly pigmented skin lesion characterized by proliferation of keratinocytes and melanocytes .
a small  ( one mm or less )  vesicular ,  papular or pustular monomorphous rash ,  which is associated with heat ,  fever or occlusion of sweat glands .
miliaria rubraor prickly heat occurs deeper in the epidermis  ( outside layer of skin )  and results in very itchy red papules  ( bumps )  .
a benign ,  flat ,  congenital birthmark ,  with wavy borders and an irregular shape .
multiple symmetric lipomatosis  ( msl )  is a rare subcutaneous tissue disease characterized by growth of symmetric non - encapsulated masses of adipose tissue mostly around the face and neck with variable clinical repercussions  ( e .g .
necrobiosis lipoidica is a rare skin disorder of collagen degeneration .
jaundice that appears during the neonatal period .
skin findings arising from repeated rubbing ,  picking or scratching of a real or imagined irritation of the skin .
a condition in which patients produce skin lesions through repetitive ,  compulsive excoriation of their skin .
nodular non - suppurative panniculitis ,  known as weber - christian disease  ( wcd )  ,  is a rare skin disorder characterized by recurring inflammation in the subcutaneous layer of fat .
contact dermatitis associated with allergens or irritants found in the workplace .
a group of autosomal dominant ,  autosomal recessive ,  x - linked inherited or acquired disorders characterized by the thickening of the palms and soles due to hyperkeratosis .
inflammation of the subcutaneous adipose tissue .
parapsoriasis describes a group ofskin diseases that can be characterized by scaly patches or slightly elevated papules and / or plaques  ( red ,  scaly patches )  that have a resemblance to psoriasis .
a neoplastic process characterized by a diffuse poorly circumscribed overgrowth of adipose tissue in the pelvic region .
pemphigus is a group of rare autoimmune diseases that cause blistering of the skin and mucous membranes  ( mouth ,  nose ,  throat ,  eyes ,  and genitals )  .this conditioncan occur at any age ,  but often strikes people in middle or older age .
jaundice in perinates due to cellular damange of liver .
a form of allergic contact dermatitis in which the allergen must be activated by light to sensitize the allergic response ,  and to cause a rash or other systemic effects on subsequent exposure .
abnormal responses to sunlight or artificial light due to extreme reactivity of light - absorbing molecules in tissues .
dermatitis caused or precipitated by exposure to ultraviolet sunlight ,  or by mediating phototoxic or photoallergic material in response to ultraviolet sunlight .
a distinct subgroup of the urticaria that are induced by an exogenous physical stimulus rather than occurring spontaneously .
a group of diseases affecting the color of skin
a mild ,  self - limited skin disorder that is most commonly seen in children and young adults .
a clonal proliferation of abnormal keratinocytes characterized by the development of localized or multiple atrophic skin patches surrounded by an annular keratotic ring called cornoid lamella .
acrokeratoelastoidosis of costa is a rare dermatosis characterized by small ,  firm papules or plaques  ( resembling warts )  on the sides of the hands and feet .
a benign ,  epidermal skin lesion characterized by overexpression of collagen during wound healing .
a chronic erythematous skin disorder that affects the face .
dermotosis of scalp
a usually benign and self - limited skin disorder of unknown etiology ,  characterized by induration of the skin .
a disease involving the sebaceous gland .
a chronic ,  inflammatory skin disorder that affects the scalp ,  central face and skin folds ;  it is characterized by scaling and itching .
excessive shedding of dry scaly material from the scalp in humans .
the degeneration and thinning of the epidermis and dermis .
formation of non - necrotizing granulomas in the skin .
a generic term for a broadly defined histopathologic pattern characterised by eczema ,  often associated with an increase in eosinophils occurring in a background of contact dermatitis ,  atopy and drug reactions .
a neoplastic process characterized by a diffuse poorly circumscribed overgrowth of adipose tissue in the face ,  upper middle back ,  and sternal region .
stromal pigmentation such as that in ochronosis results from chronic irritation .
a rare ,  benign ,  chronic disease characterized by sterile pustular eruption ,  typically involving the flexural sites of the trunk and proximal extremities .
a disease involving the sweat gland .
an allergic contact dermatitis caused by exposure to plants of the genus toxicodendron  ( formerly rhus )  .
skin diseases characterized by local or general distributions of blisters .
this very rare form of angioedema develops in reply to contact with vibration .
a virus - induced exanthem
a polypoid lesion that arises from the vulva and is characterized by the presence of fibrovascular stroma lined by squamous epithelium .
seborrheic keratosis that arises from follicular structures in the vulva .
a benign squamous neoplasm that arises from the vulva .
60 years )  and presenting with abdominal pain ,  steatorrhea ,  obstructive jaundice and other organ  ( bile duct ,  kidneys and retroperitoneum )  involvement .
symptom of overactive detrusor muscle of the urinary bladder that contracts with abnormally high frequency and urgency .
multiple symptoms associated with reduced oxygen at high altitude .
a chronic ,  pathological complication associated with diabetes mellitus ,  where nerve damages are incurred due to diabetic microvascular injury involving small blood vessels that supply these nerves ,  resulting in peripheral and / or autonomic nerve dysfunction .
microscopic polyangiitis  ( mpa )  is an inflammatory ,  necrotizing ,  systemic vasculitis that affects predominantly small vessels  ( i .e .
sezary syndrome  ( ss )  is an aggressive form of cutaneous t - cell lymphoma characterized by a triad of erythroderma ,  lymphadenopathy and circulating atypical lymphocytes  ( sezary cells )  .
noninflammatory degenerative disease of the hip joint which usually appears in late middle or old age .
a degenerative joint disease involving the spine .
osteoarthritis of the foot generally affects the joint at the base of your big toe .
osteoarthritis of the hands usually happens as part of nodal osteoarthritis  ( a form of osteoarthritis that runs in families )  .
inflammation of the gallbladder in the absence of gallstones .
an epithelial neoplasm of the anterior pituitary gland in which the neoplastic cells stain positive with acidic dyes .
infections with bacteria of the genus acinetobacter .
infections with bacteria of the genus actinobacillus .
acute renal failure caused by the cell death of the renal tubules .
mild to fulminant necrotizing vaso - occlusive retinitis associated with a high incidence of retinal detachment and poor vision outcome .
a rare ,  usually large  ( greater than 5cm )  ,  malignant epithelial tumor arising from the adrenal cortical cells .
excess production of adrenal cortex hormones .
neoplasm derived from displaced cells  ( rest cells )  of the primordial adrenal glands ,  generally in patients with congenital adrenal hyperplasia .
a complication of gastrojejunostomy  ( billroth ii procedure )  ,  a reconstructive gastroenterostomy .
an acute organic mental disorder induced by cessation or reduction in chronic alcohol consumption .
a dilated cardiomyopathy which is associated with consumption of large amounts of alcohol over a period of years .
a disorder of the liver characterized by the presence of fibrotic scar tissue instead of healthy liver tissue .
any disease affecting more than one nerve .
tumors or cancer of the anal gland .
small breaks in the elastin - filled tissue of the retina .
a benign tumor consisting of vascular and smooth muscle elements .
necrosis occurring in the anterior cerebral artery system ,  including branches such as heubner's artery .
rapid swelling ,  increased tension ,  pain ,  and ischemic necrosis of the muscles of the anterior tibial compartment of the leg ,  often following excessive physical exertion .
anterior ischemic optic neuropathy  ( aion )  is an eye disease characterized by infarction of the optic disk leading to vision loss .
ischemia or infarction of the spinal cord in the distribution of the anterior spinal artery ,  which supplies the ventral two - thirds of the spinal cord .
inflammation of the iris and anterior chamber of the eye .
myocardial infarction in which the anterior wall of the heart is involved .
fibrosis of the lung parenchyma caused by inhalation of carbon and silica dust .
a chronic lung disorder characterized by deposition of coal dust in the lung parenchyma leading to the formation of black nodules and emphysema .
the downward displacement of the cuspal or pointed end of the trileaflet aortic valve causing misalignment of the cusps .
inflammation of the aorta .causes include trauma ,  infectious disorders ,  and connective tissue disorders .
an autosomal recessive disorder caused by a deficiency of 11 - beta - hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase ,  which is characterized by hypertension ,  hypokalemia ,  low renin ,  and hypoaldosteronism .
a corneal disease in which there is a deposition of phospholipid and cholesterol in the corneal stroma and anterior sclera .
the thickening of the wall of the small arteries and arterioles .
common occlusive arterial disease which is caused by atherosclerosis .
a localized vasculitis resulting from deposition of antibody - antigen complexes .
a condition due to a dietary deficiency of ascorbic acid  ( vitamin c )  ,  characterized by malaise ,  lethargy ,  and weakness .
inflammation of the membranes surrounding the brain and spinal cord without a bacterial pathogen .
respiratory failure in the newborn .
interauricular communication is a congenital malformation characterized by a communication between the atrial chambers of the heart .
atrophic gastritis that is persistent and long - standing .
tissue degeneration and diminished size of the thyroid gland .
an acute leukemia of ambiguous lineage characterized by blasts which coexpress myeloid and t or b lineage antigens or concurrent b and t lineage antigens .
inflammation of the conjunctiva caused by a variety of bacterial agents .
endocarditis that is caused by an infection with a bacterial agent .
inflammation of the membranes surrounding the brain and spinal cord due to a bacterial infection .
infections with bacteria of the genus bacteroides .
an infectious or non - infectious inflammatory process that affects the glans penis .
an epithelial neoplasm of the anterior pituitary gland in which the neoplastic cells stain positive with basic dyes .
a rare neoplasm ,  usually benign ,  derived from mesenchymal fibroblasts located in the submesothelial lining of the pleura .
conditions characterized by the presence of m protein  ( monoclonal protein )  in serum or urine without clinical manifestations of plasma cell dyscrasia .
beriberi is a condition that occurs in people who are deficient in thiamine  ( vitamin b1 )  .
retrograde bile flow .reflux of bile can be from the duodenum to the stomach  ( duodenogastric reflux )  ;  to the esophagus  ( gastroesophageal reflux )  ;  or to the pancreas .
a concretion in the urinary bladder .
blockage of the opening between the bladder and the urethra resulting in the reduction or prevention of the urine flow from the bladder into the urethra .
an intradermal nevus characterized by the presence of benign pigmented dendritic spindle - shaped melanocytes .
infections with bacteria of the genus borrelia .
an inflammatory process affecting the brachial plexus .
a brachial plexus disorder characterized by regional paresthesia ,  pain and muscle weakness ,  and limited movement in the arm or hand .
increased intracellular or extracellular fluid in brain tissue .
a reduction of oxygen in the blood combined with reduced blood flow  ( ischemia )  to the brain from a localized obstruction of a cerebral artery or from systemic hypoperfusion .
infarctions that occur in the brain stem which is comprised of the midbrain ;  pons ;  and medulla oblongata .
a fluid - filled closed cavity or sac that is lined by an epithelium and found in the breast .
tumors or cancer of the bronchi .
a condition characterized by a burning or tingling sensation on the lips ,  tongue ,  or entire mouth .
an occupational lung disorder caused by exposure to cotton dust .
a paraneoplastic syndrome comprising the signs and symptoms that occur secondary to carcinoid tumors .
blood clot formation in any part of the carotid arteries .
complex regional pain syndrome type 2  ( crps2 )  ,  or causalgia is a form of complex regional pain syndrome that develops after damage to a peripheral nerve and is characterized by spontaneous pain ,  allodynia and hyperalgesia ,  not necessarily limited to the territory of the injured nerve ,  as well as at some point ,  edema ,  changes in skin blood flow or sudomotor dysfunction in the pain area .
an inherited congenital myopathic condition characterized by weakness and hypotonia in infancy and delayed motor development .
a benign brain tumor composed of neural elements which most often arise from the septum pellucidum and the walls of the lateral ventricles .
a central nervous system disorder caused by demyelination within the central basis pontis of the brain .
primary or metastatic neoplasms of the cerebellum .
pathological conditions of intracranial arteries supplying the cerebrum .
atherosclerosis of the cerebral vasculature .
a condition associated with compression of the brachial plexus ;  subclavian artery ;  and subclavian vein at the thoracic outlet and caused by a complete or incomplete anomalous cervical rib or fascial band connecting the tip of a cervical rib with the first thoracic rib .
loss or destruction of the epithelial lining of the uterine cervix .
infections with bacteria of the genus chlamydia .
single or multiple ,  ovoid or irregular ,  solid particles that are formed from bile ,  cholesterol ,  and calcium in the gallbladder cavity .
presence or formation of gallstones in the common bile duct .
a malignant neoplasm involving the optic choroid .
an epithelial neoplasm of the anterior pituitary gland in which the neoplastic cells do not stain with acidic or basic dyes .
a rare neurological disorder in which there is inflammation of nerve roots and peripheral nerves and destruction of the fatty protective covering  ( myelin sheath )  over the nerves .
a condition with recurring discomfort or pain in the urinary bladder and the surrounding pelvic region without an identifiable disease .
conditions characterized by loss or dysfunction of myelin  ( see myelin sheath )  in the brain ,  spinal cord ,  or optic nerves secondary to autoimmune mediated processes .
functional obstruction of the colon leading to megacolon in the absence of obvious colonic diseases or mechanical obstruction .
infections with bacteria of the family bacteroidaceae .
infections with bacteria of the order bifidobacteriales .
infections with bacteria of the genus clostridium .
infections with bacteria of the family desulfovibrionaceae .
tumor or cancer of the common bile duct including the ampulla of vater and the sphincter of oddi .
a disorder characterized by recurrent partial seizures marked by impairment of cognition .
a heart disorder in which the pericardial sac becomes thickened and fibrotic ,  tightening the myocardium and impeding the normal myocardial function .
hazy ,  swollen cornea .
new blood vessels originating from the corneal veins and extending from the limbus into the adjacent corneal stroma .
abnormal balloon -  or sac - like dilatation in the wall of coronary vessels .
narrowing of the coronary artery lumen diameter .
coagulation of blood in any of the coronary vessels .
benign and malignant neoplasms that arise from one or more of the twelve cranial nerves .
a benign ,  intermediate ,  or malignant mesenchymal neoplasm composed of fibrohistiocytic cells ,  spindle fibroblastic cells ,  and histiocytes ,  in a storiform pattern .
skin lesions due to abnormal infiltration of mast cells .
cutaneous lesions arising from infection with treponema pallidum .
a benign lymphatic neoplasm usually arising from the neck and characterized by cystic dilation of the lymphatic vessels .
neoplasms containing cyst - like formations or producing mucin or serum .
dandy - walker malformation  ( dwm )  is the association of three signs: hydrocephalus ,  partial or complete absence of the cerebellar vermis ,  and posterior fossa cyst contiguous with the fourth ventricle ,  presenting early in life with hydrocephalus ,  bulging occiput and posterior fossa signs such as cranial nerve palsies ,  nystagmus and ataxia .
stenosing tenosynovitis of the abductor pollicis longus and extensor pollicis brevis tendons in the first dorsal wrist compartment .
a condition that results from excessive fluoride ingestion during tooth development ,  resulting in tooth discoloration ranging from white streaks to brown stains and cracks or pits in the tooth enamel .
inflammation of the mouth due to denture irritation .
a tumor consisting of displaced ectodermal structures along the lines of embryonic fusion ,  the wall being formed of epithelium - lined connective tissue ,  including skin appendages ,  and containing keratin ,  sebum ,  and hair .
desmoplastic small round cell tumor  ( dsrct )  is an aggressive soft tissue cancer that typically arises in serous lined surfaces of the abdominal or pelvic peritoneum ,  and spreads to the omentum ,  lymph nodes and hematogenously disseminates especially to the liver .
diabetic angiopathy is a form of angiopathy associated with diabetic complications .
the metabolic condition resulted from uncontrolled diabetes mellitus ,  in which the shift of acid - base status of the body toward the acid side because of loss of base or retention of acids other than carbonic acid is accompanied by the accumulation of ketone bodies in body tissues and fluids .
a congenital or acquired abnormality characterized by elevation of the hemidiaphragm .
heart failure caused by abnormal myocardial relaxation during diastole leading to defective cardiac filling .
inflammation of an intervertebral disc or disk space which may lead to disk erosion .
a type of constriction that is caused by the presence of a fibrous ring  ( discrete type )  below the aortic valve ,  anywhere between the aortic valve and the mitral valve .
psychotic organic mental disorders resulting from the toxic effect of drugs and chemicals or other harmful substance .
an uncomfortable feeling of inner restlessness and inability to stay still .
abnormal movements ,  including hyperkinesis ;  hypokinesia ;  tremor ;  and dystonia ,  associated with the use of certain medications or drugs .
liver disease lasting six months or more ,  caused by an adverse drug effect .
a syndrome characterized by dryness of the cornea and conjunctiva .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm arising from the wall of the duodenum .
hindrance of the passage of luminal contents in the duodenum .
retrograde flow of duodenal contents  ( bile acids ;  pancreatic juice )  into the stomach .
abnormal development of immature squamous epithelial cells of the uterine cervix ,  a term used to describe premalignant cytological changes in the cervical epithelium .
slow or difficult obstetric labor or childbirth .
a rare cutaneous tumor of eccrine sweat gland origin .
a transplantable ,  poorly differentiated malignant tumor which appeared originally as a spontaneous breast carcinoma in a mouse .
empty sella syndrome  ( ess )  is a condition that involves the sella turcica ,  a bony structure at the base of the brain that protects the pituitary gland .
localized atrophy of the brain parenchyma due to aging ,  hemorrhage ,  infarct ,  or inflammation .
thyroid gland enlargement caused by inadequate dietary iodine intake .
infection of the endocrine glands with species of mycobacterium ,  most often mycobacterium tuberculosis .
an accumulation of endolymph in the inner ear  ( labyrinth )  leading to buildup of pressure and distortion of intralabyrinthine structures ,  such as cochlea and semicircular canals .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm that affects the uterine corpus ,  and rarely ,  the ovaries ,  cervix ,  and vagina .
neoplasms of the endometrial stroma that sometimes involve the myometrium .
a disease characterized by fibrotic thickening of the endocardium ,  particularly the right and / or left inflow tracts .
disease caused by the liberation of exotoxins of clostridium perfringens in the intestines of sheep ,  goats ,  cattle ,  foals ,  and piglets .
neoplasms located in the space between the vertebral periosteum and dura mater surrounding the spinal cord .
a variant of epilepsy characterized by continuous focal jerking of a body part over a period of hours ,  days ,  or even years without spreading to other body regions .
a benign compound nevus occurring most often in children before puberty ,  composed of spindle and epithelioid cells located mainly in the dermis ,  sometimes in association with large atypical cells and multinucleate cells ,  and having a close histopathological resemblance to malignant melanoma .
erdheim - chester disease  ( ecd )  ,  a non - langerhans form of histiocytosis ,  is a multisystemic disease characterized by various manifestations such as skeletal involvement with bone pain ,  exophthalmos ,  diabetes insipidus ,  renal impairment and central nervous system  ( cns )  and / or cardiovascular involvement .
infections with bacteria of the genus erysipelothrix .
a disease caused by infection with erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae .
a form of gram - negative meningitis that tends to occur in neonates ,  in association with anatomical abnormalities  ( which feature communication between the meninges and cutaneous structures )  or as opportunistic infections in association with immunologic deficiency syndromes .
a pathological condition characterized by the presence of a number of esophageal diverticula in the esophagus .
abnormal thyroid function tests ,  low triiodothyronine with elevated reverse triiodothyronine ,  in the setting of non - thyroidal illness .
a localized tumor consisting of mature mast cells .
impairment of the bile flow caused by an obstruction in the portion of the bile duct system located outside of the liver .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the eyelid .
mycobacterium infections of the female reproductive tract  ( genitalia ,  female )  .
neuropathy of the femoral nerve .
a disorder of the fetus or newborn that occurs when fetal cells that are coated with igg alloantibodies from the mother attack antigens inherited from the father .
a disorder characterized by fibrous thickening of the arterial wall resulting in narrowing of the arterial lumen .
a condition occurring in the female offspring of dizygotic twins  ( twin ,  dizygotic )  in a mixed - sex pregnancy ,  usually in cattle .
an autonomic disorder characterized by excessive sweating of the forehead ,  upper lip ,  perioral region ,  or sternum subsequent to gustatory stimuli .
inflammation or irritation of a bursa ,  the fibrous sac that acts as a cushion between moving structures of bones ,  muscles ,  tendons or skin .
meningitis caused by fungal agents which may occur as opportunistic infections or arise in immunocompetent hosts .
infections with bacteria of the genus fusobacterium .
impaired ambulation not attributed to sensory impairment or motor weakness .
dilatation of the vessels in the antrum of the stomach .
mc ) nc ) trier disease  ( md )  is a rare premalignant hyperproliferative gastropathy characterized by massive overgrowth of foveolar cells in the gastric lining ,  resulting in large gastric folds ,  and manifesting with epigastric pain ,  nausea ,  vomiting ,  peripheral edema and ,  less commonly ,  anorexia and weight loss .
the hindering of output from the stomach into the small intestine .
paralysis of the muscles of the stomach wall resulting in delayed emptying of the gastric contents into the small intestine .
gastroschisis is marked by viscera protruding ,  without a covering sac ,  from the fetal abdomen on the right lateral base of the umbilicus .
a rare tumor - like lesion of the hands and feet characterized by the presence of hemorrhagic fibrous tissue ,  hemosiderin deposition ,  osteoclast - like giant cells which are irregularly distributed ,  and reactive bone formation .
inflammation of the tongue .
an x - linked recessive hepatic glycogen storage disease resulting from lack of expression of phosphorylase - b - kinase activity .
neoplasms composed of tissues of the ovary or the testis ,  not neoplasms located in the ovaries or testes .
three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions .
infections of the nervous system caused by bacteria of the genus haemophilus ,  and marked by prominent inflammation of the meninges .
hairy cell leukemia  ( hcl )  is a rare type of leukemia in which abnormal b - lymphocytes are present in the bone marrow ,  spleen and peripheral blood .
a benign condition affecting the dorsum of the tongue .
a benign melanocytic nevus with a halo appearance .
a localized bulging or dilatation in the muscle wall of a heart  ( myocardium )  ,  usually in the left ventricle .
a tick - borne septicemic disease of domestic and wild ruminants caused by ehrlichia ruminantium .
infections with organisms of the genus helicobacter ,  particularly ,  in humans ,  helicobacter pylori .
blood - filled uterus .
collection of air and blood in the pleural cavity .
a condition characterized as a coagulation disturbance in newborns due to vitamin k deficiency resulting in impaired production of coagulation factors ii ,  vii ,  ix ,  and x ,  and proteins c and s by the liver .
a systemic ,  usually self - limited immune complex vasculitis ,  characterized by immunoglobulin a deposition in the small vessels and kidneys .
a condition in which the hepatic venous outflow is obstructed anywhere from the small hepatic veins to the junction of the inferior vena cava and the right atrium .
a benign cystic proliferation of the sweat glands with apocrine or eccrine differentiation .
abnormal enlargement of the eye
abnormally high level of amylase in the blood .
a regressive change of teeth characterized by excessive development of secondary cementum on the tooth surface .
severe ,  intractable vomiting during pregnancy  ( usually the first trimester )  accompanied by dehydration ,  weight loss ,  and electrolyte imbalances .
purplish or brownish red discoloration of the skin associated with increase in circulating polyclonal globulins ,  usually gamma - globulins .
disease of the glandular ,  anterior portion of the pituitary  ( pituitary gland ,  anterior )  resulting in hypersecretion of adenohypophyseal hormones such as growth hormone ;  prolactin ;  thyrotropin ;  luteinizing hormone ;  follicle stimulating hormone  ;  and adrenocorticotropic hormone .
a small vessel vasculitis affecting the skin and / or internal organs .
overactive functioning of the spleen ,  resulting in excessive destruction of blood cells .
encephalopathy resulting from hypertension .
retinopathy due to hypertension .
a symptom complex resulting from ingesting excessive amounts of vitamin a .
a primary or metastatic neoplasm that affects the hypothalamus .
a form of apraxia characterized by an acquired inability to carry out a complex motor activity despite the ability to mentally formulate the action .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the wall of the ileum .
a syndrome characterized by abnormal secretion of antidiuretic hormone in conjunction with neoplastic growth occurring anywhere in the body .
myocardial infarction in which the inferior wall of the heart is involved .
an advanced ,  invasive breast adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of distinct changes in the overlying skin .
angina pectoris  ( or equivalent type of ischemic discomfort )  which has recently changed in frequency ,  duration ,  intensity ,  or occurs at rest .
inflammation of the pars plana .
a rupture in the wall of the small or large intestine due to traumatic or pathologic processes .
a type of ileus ,  a functional not mechanical obstruction of the intestines .
a twisting in the intestine  ( intestines )  that can cause intestinal obstruction .
pathological conditions involving arteries in the skull ,  such as arteries supplying the cerebrum ,  the cerebellum ,  the brain stem ,  and associated structures .
blocking of a blood vessel in the skull by an embolus which can be a blood clot  ( thrombus )  or other undissolved material in the blood stream .
a finding characterized by increased cerebrospinal fluid pressure within the skull .
reduction of cerebrospinal fluid pressure characterized clinically by headache which is maximal in an upright posture and occasionally by an abducens nerve palsy  ( see abducens nerve diseases )  ,  neck stiffness ,  hearing loss  ( see deafness )  ;  nausea ;  and other symptoms .
constriction of arteries in the skull due to sudden ,  sharp ,  and often persistent smooth muscle contraction in blood vessels .
a nevus characterized by the proliferation of nevus cells in the dermis without involvement of the dermal - epidermal junction .
tumors of the iris characterized by increased pigmentation of melanocytes .
inflammation of the iris .
a malignant neoplasm involving the jejunum .
any disorder of the joints .
a low grade malignant bone - forming mesenchymal neoplasm arising from the surface of the bone .
a rare neurologic disorder occurring in infants with jaundice .
death of cells in the kidney cortex ,  a common final result of various renal injuries including hypoxia ;  ischemia ;  and drug toxicity .
a complication of kidney diseases characterized by cell death involving kidney papilla in the kidney medulla .
cholangiocarcinoma arising near or at the confluence of the right and left hepatic ducts  ( common hepatic duct )  .
a sex chromosome disorder caused by the presence of an extra x chromosome in the male karyotype .
carcinoma having known association to krebs2 gene mutation
a prion disease found exclusively among the fore linguistic group natives of the highlands of new guinea .
a syndrome produced by severe protein deficiency ,  characterized by retarded growth ,  changes in skin and hair pigment ,  edema ,  and pathologic changes in the liver ,  including fatty infiltration ,  necrosis ,  and fibrosis .
landau - kleffner syndrome  ( lks )  is a rare neurological syndrome characterized by the sudden or gradual development of aphasia  ( the inability to understand or express language )  and recurrent seizures  ( epilepsy )  .
a syndrome caused by an infarct in the vertebral or posterior inferior cerebellar artery .
primary or secondary neoplasm in the arachnoid or subarachnoid space .
an aggressive ,  progressive ,  and destructive lesion affecting the nasal cavities ,  paranasal sinuses ,  and the palate .
a hematology test result that indicates the presence of an increased white blood cell count and increased neutrophil precursors resembling leukemia ,  in a peripheral blood smear .
a precancerous condition characterized by the presence of abnormal whitish areas on the glans or prepuce of the penis .
a disorder involving the aberrant infiltration and aggregation of leukocytes into the vasculature of the body .
the least progressive form of systemic scleroderma with skin thickening restricted to the face ,  neck and areas distal to the elbows and / or knees ,  sparing the trunk .
pathological enlargement of the lingual thyroid ,  ectopic thyroid tissue at the base of the tongue .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the lip .
a glomerular disorder characterized by the electron microscopic finding of loss of podocyte foot processes .
inflammation of the meninges caused by listeria monocytogenes infection ,  usually occurring in individuals under the age of 3 years or over the age of 50 years .
a form of glaucoma in which chronic optic nerve damage and loss of vision normally attributable to buildup of intraocular pressure occurs despite prevailing conditions of normal intraocular pressure .
a form of cutaneous tuberculosis .
a condition characterized by a combination of ostium secundum atrial septal defect and an acquired mitral valve stenosis .
dilatation of the lymphatic vessels .
a lymphangioma characterized by the presence of collagen bundle formation .
a neoplasm with perivascular epithelioid cell differentiation ,  often associated with tuberous sclerosis .
a hole in the macula of the retina .
a nutritional condition produced by a deficiency of magnesium in the diet ,  characterized by anorexia ,  nausea ,  vomiting ,  lethargy ,  and weakness .
mycobacterium infections of the male reproductive tract  ( genitalia ,  male )  .
severe hypertension that is characterized by rapid onset of extremely high blood pressure .
neoplasms composed of lymphoid tissue ,  a lattice work of reticular tissue the interspaces of which contain lymphocytes .
the lack of sufficient energy or protein to meet the body's metabolic demands ,  as a result of either an inadequate dietary intake of protein ,  intake of poor quality dietary protein ,  increased demands due to disease ,  or increased nutrient losses .
inflammation of breast tissue during lactation or postpartum due to an obstructed duct or infection .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the maxillary sinus .
a congenital pouch in the distal ileum .
a serious condition in which a newborn breathes a mixture of meconium  ( the first intestinal discharge )  and amniotic fluid into the lungs around the time of delivery .
a benign ,  rapidly growing ,  deeply pigmented tumor of the jaw and occasionally of other sites ,  consisting of an infiltrating mass of cells arranged in an alveolar pattern ,  and occurring almost exclusively in infants .
the melkersson - rosenthal syndrome is a rare disorder characterized by a triad of recurrent orofacial swelling ,  relapsing facial paralysis and fissured tongue and onset in childhood or early adolescence .
an acute bacterial disease caused by neisseria meningitides that presents usually ,  but not always ,  with a rash  ( non blanching petechial or purpuric rash )  ,  progressively developing signs of meningitis  ( fever ,  vomiting ,  headache ,  photophobia ,  and neck stiffness )  and later leading to confusion ,  delirium and drowsiness .
a morphologic variant of chondrosarcoma arising from bone and soft tissue .
a term describing a soft tissue tumor which consists of two or more mesenchymal lines of differentiation ,  excluding a fibroblastic line of differentiation .
obstruction of the flow in the splanchnic circulation by atherosclerosis ;  embolism ;  thrombosis ;  stenosis ;  trauma ;  and compression or intrinsic pressure from adjacent tumors .
a benign or malignant neoplasm arising from mesothelial cells .
necrosis occurring in the middle cerebral artery distribution system which brings blood to the entire lateral aspects of each cerebral hemisphere .
a syndrome of congenital facial paralysis ,  frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy ,  clubfeet ,  brachial disorders ,  cognitive deficits ,  and pectoral muscle defects .
a disease involving the mouth .
a benign or low malignant potential cystic epithelial neoplasm composed of cells which contain intracytoplasmic mucin .
a malignant epithelial tumor of glandular tissue ,  especially the salivary glands ,  characterized by acini with mucus - producing cells and by the presence of malignant squamous elements .
multiple system atrophy  ( msa )  is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by autonomic failure  ( cardiovascular and / or urinary )  ,  parkinsonism ,  cerebellar impairment and corticospinal signs with a median survival of 6 - 9 years .
classical mycosis fungoides is the most common type of mycosis fungoides  ( mf )  ,  a form of cutaneous t - cell lymphoma ,  and is characterized by slow progression from patches to more infiltrated plaques and eventually to tumors .
a tumor mass composed of myeloblasts or immature myeloid cells .
a condition marked by progressive cerebellar ataxia combined with myoclonus usually presenting in the third decade of life or later .
muscular pain in numerous body regions that can be reproduced by pressure on trigger points ,  localized hardenings in skeletal muscle tissue .
a condition characterized by severe hypothyroidism that is caused by autoimmune thyroid gland disorders ,  surgical reduction of thyroid tissue ,  radiation exposure ,  and viral infections .
an infiltrating malignant soft tissue neoplasm characterized by the presence of immature undifferentiated cells and abundant myxoid stroma formation .
a benign ,  inflammatory ,  variably ulcerated ,  occasionally bilateral ,  self - healing lesion of the minor salivary glands that is often confused clinically and histologically with carcinoma .
a bacterial infectious process affecting the gums .
a disorder of neuromuscular transmission that occurs in a minority of newborns born to women with myasthenia gravis .
neovascular glaucoma is the most common type of secondary glaucoma ,  usually caused by diabetic retinopathy ,  central retinal vein occlusion and carotid artery obstruction but sometimes by trauma ,  uvietis or ocular tumors ,  and characterized by severe eye pain ,  synechial angle glaucoma ,  high intraocular pressure and leading to loss of vision .
loss or absence of normal intestinal function due to nerve damage or birth defects .
goiter characterized by discrete tissue mass ( es )  that may or may not produce thyroid hormones .
noma is a gangrenous disease that causes severe destruction of the soft and osseous tissues of the face .
a highly malignant choriocarcinoma derived from the non - placental origin such as the totipotent cells in the testis ,  the ovary ,  and the pineal gland .
a form of compensated hydrocephalus characterized clinically by a slowly progressive gait disorder  ( see gait disorders ,  neurologic )  ,  progressive intellectual decline ,  and urinary incontinence .
allergic reaction to tree nuts that is triggered by the immune system .
a condition produced by dietary or metabolic deficiency .
a finding indicating increased bilirubin levels in the blood and urine ,  due to intrahepatic or extrahepatic obstruction of the biliary system .
abnormally high intraocular pressure .
tuberculous infection of the eye ,  primarily the iris ,  ciliary body ,  and choroid .
inflammation of the ovary ,  generally caused by an ascending infection of organisms from the endocervix .
infections with bacteria of the family moraxellaceae .
benign and malignant neoplasms which arise from or metastasize to the optic or second cranial nerve which extends from the optic disc of the eye and joins the optic chiasm .
swelling of the optic disk ,  usually in association with increased intracranial pressure ,  characterized by hyperemia ,  blurring of the disk margins ,  microhemorrhages ,  blind spot enlargement ,  and engorgement of retinal veins .
a disorder of the buccal mucosa resembling early leukoplakia ,  characterized by the presence of filmy opalescence of the mucosa in the early stages to a whitish gray cast with a coarsely wrinkled surface in the later stages ,  associated with intracellular edema of the spinous or malpighian layer .
inflammation of the eye tissues posterior to the orbital septum ,  and generally secondary to an infection spread from adjacent sinuses .
a nonspecific tumor - like inflammatory lesion in the orbit of the eye .
inflammation of one or both testes due to viral or bacterial infections .
a usually benign glandular tumor composed of oxyphil cells ,  large cells with small irregular nuclei and dense acidophilic granules due to the presence of abundant mitochondria .
a malignant neoplasm originating from the apical lung .
acute suppurative inflammation of the inner eye with necrosis of the sclera  ( and sometimes the cornea )  and extension of the inflammation into the orbit .
a disorder characterized by inflammation of the entire uvea which includes the iris ,  ciliary body ,  and choroid .
a thyroid neoplasm of mixed papillary and follicular arrangement .
inflammation of the parametrium ,  the connective tissue of the pelvic floor ,  extending from the subserous coat of the uterus laterally between the layers of the broad ligament .
a diffuse or multifocal peripheral neuropathy caused by the effects of a distant neoplasm .
a condition in which the foreskin of an uncircumcised male is retracted and cannot be pulled back over the glans penis .
a benign tumor arising from the parenchymal cells of the parathyroid glands .
an inflammatory disorder of the cilliary body in the uvea that affects healthy ,  younger individuals who are often asymptomatic .
a simple partial seizure consisting of clonus or spasm of a muscle or muscle group ;  it may be single or in a continuous and repetitive series or may spread to adjacent muscles .
a disorder characterized by recurrent focal onset seizures which have sensory  ( i .e . ,  olfactory ,  visual ,  tactile ,  gustatory ,  or auditory )  manifestations .
any of several bacterial diseases ,  usually caused by pasteurella multocida ,  marked by the presence of hemorrhagic areas in the subcutaneous tissues ,  serous membranes ,  muscles ,  lymph glands ,  and throughout the internal organs .
a syndrome characterized by retropatellar or peripatellar pain resulting from physical and biochemical changes in the patellofemoral joint .
an autosomal dominant inherited condition caused by mutations in the lamin b receptor gene .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant neoplasm that affects the penis .
inflammation of the esophagus that is caused by the reflux of gastric juice with contents of the stomach and duodenum .
chronic nonsuppurative inflammation of periapical tissue resulting from irritation following pulp disease or endodontic treatment .
inflammation of the tissues around a joint .
inflammation of the gingiva surrounding the crown of a tooth .
inflammation of the connective and adipose tissues surrounding the kidney .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the peritoneal cavity .
periventricular leukomalacia  ( pvl )  is a brain injury disorder characterized by the death of the white matter of the brain due to softening of the brain tissue .
paralysis of the nerves located in the legs .
a cardiopulmonary disorder characterized by systemic arterial hypoxemia secondary to pulmonary hypertension and extrapulmonary right to left shunting across the foramen ovale and ductus arteriosus .
a condition in which there is constriction in the tip of the foreskin resulting in inability to fully retract the foreskin over the glans penis .
a benign ,  small and slightly elevated brown or black skin lesion with usually well - demarcated borders .
pigmented villonodular synovitis  ( pvns )  is a rare benign proliferative disorder of the synovial membrane primarily affecting young adults  ( with a peak age of onset in the second to fourth decade of life )  characterized by proliferative ,  locally invasive tumor - like lesions ,  usually involving a single joint ,  tendon sheath or bursae  ( most commonly the joints of the knee and hip and rarely others such as the ankle ,  shoulder and temporomandibular joints )  .
a benign ,  small ,  papular or nodular skin neoplasm that usually arises above the upper lip .
a rare ,  potentially life - threatening disorder caused by acute ischemic infarction or hemorrhage in the pituitary gland .
proportionately decreased bodily growth due to failure of the pituitary gland to produce an adequate supply of growth hormone .
adrenocorticotropic hormone dependent cushing syndrome  ( acth - dependent cs )  is a form of endogenous cs caused by abnormal production of acth due ,  in 80% of cases ,  to acth oversecretion by a pituitary adenoma  ( cushing disease ,  cd )  and in 20% of cases to ectopic acth secretion  ( cs due to eas )  by an extrapituitary tumor  ( in 50% of cases originating in the lungs or less commonly in the thymus ,  pancreas ,  adrenal gland or thyroid )  or very rarely due to a tumor secreting both acth and corticotrophin - releasing hormone  ( crh )  .
placental site trophoblastic tumor is a rare gestational trophoblastic tumor  ( gtt )  which develops from the placental implantation site and always occurs following pregnancy ,  voluntary termination of pregnancy  ( vtp )  or miscarriage .
platelet storage pool deficiency refers to a group of conditions that are caused by problems with the platelet granules .
the presence of gas within the wall of the large or small intestine .
an acute purulent infection of the meninges and subarachnoid space caused by streptococcus pneumoniae ,  most prevalent in children and adults over the age of 60 .
poems syndrome is a paraneoplastic syndrome characterized by polyradiculoneuropathy  ( p )  ,  organomegaly  ( o )  ,  endocrinopathy  ( e )  ,  clonal plasma cell disorder  ( m )  ,  and skin changes  ( s )  .
diseases characterized by injury or dysfunction involving multiple peripheral nerves and nerve roots .
abdominal symptoms after removal of the gallbladder .
necrosis induced by ischemia in the posterior cerebral artery distribution system which supplies portions of the brain stem ;  the thalamus ;  temporal lobe ,  and occipital lobe .
inflammation of the choroid as well as the retina and vitreous body .
a condition due to decreased dietary intake of potassium ,  as in starvation or failure to administer in intravenous solutions ,  or to gastrointestinal loss in diarrhea ,  chronic laxative abuse ,  vomiting ,  gastric suction ,  or bowel diversion .
a condition in which blood glucose levels are high ,  but not high enough to be classified as type 2 diabetes .
infections with bacteria of the order actinomycetales .
infections with bacteria of the family anaplasmataceae .
infections with bacteria of the family bacillaceae .
infections with bacteria of the family bartonellaceae .
infections with bacteria of the family fusobacteriaceae ,  in the order fusobacterales ,  phylum fusobacteria .
infections with bacteria of the genus haemophilus .
infections with bacteria of the family rickettsiaceae .
vitreoretinal membrane shrinkage or contraction secondary to the proliferation of primarily retinal pigment epithelial cells and glial cells ,  particularly fibrous astrocytes ,  followed by membrane formation .
infections with bacteria of the genus proteus .
a condition affecting cranial nerves ix - xii resulting from upper motor neuron damage arising from a variety of causes .
idiopathic intracranial hypertension is a neurological disorder characterized by isolated increased intracranial pressure manifesting with recurrent and persistent headaches ,  nausea ,  vomiting ,  progressive and transient obstruction of the visual field ,  papilledema .
a single lung lesion that is characterized by a small round mass of tissue ,  usually less than 1 cm in diameter ,  and can be detected by chest radiography .
accumulation of fluid in the lung tissues causing disturbance of the gas exchange that may lead to respiratory failure .
a tumor - like inflammatory lesion of the lung that is composed of plasma cells and fibrous tissue .
the obstruction of the right ventricular outflow tract that originates within the body of the right ventricle ,  that exists at the time of birth ;  it often occurs in association with other intracardiac anomalies .
the pathologic narrowing of the orifice of the pulmonary valve .
inflammation of the dental pulp .
inflammation of the renal pelvis .
an inflammatory process affecting the kidney .
pyruvate carboxylase  ( pc )  deficiency is a rare neurometabolic disorder characterized by metabolic acidosis ,  failure to thrive ,  developmental delay ,  and recurrent seizures at an early age in severely affected patients .
a peripheral nerve lesion that involves the radial nerve .
an infectious disease that is caused transmitted by the bite of a rat .
an episodic vasoconstriction resulting in discoloration of the skin and pain in the affected areas ,  often involving fingers or toes .
reflex epilepsy refers to epilepsies where recurrent seizures are provoked by a clearly defined extrinsic  ( most commonly )  or intrinsic triggering stimuli such as flashing lights  ( photosensitive epilepsy )  ,  startling noises  ( startle epilepsy )  ,  urinating  ( micturition induced seizures )  ,  exposure to hot - water  ( hot water epilepsy )  ,  eating ,  reading ,  and thinking ,  while being associated with an enduring abnormal predisposition to have such seizures  ( thereby meeting the conceptual definition of epilepsy )  .
complex regional pain syndrome type 1  ( crps1 )  is a form of complex regional pain syndrome in which the pain is disproportionate to any known inciting event and is characterized by continuous pain ,  allodynia ,  or hyperalgesia as well as edema ,  coloration  ( changes in skin blood flow )  ,  or abnormal sudomotor activity in the region of pain .
relapsing polychondritis  ( rp )  is a rare ,  clinically heterogeneous ,  multisystemic inflammatory disease characterized by inflammation of the cartilage and proteoglycan rich structures leading to cartilage damage with joint ,  ocular and cardiovascular involvement .
a group of inherited kidney disorders characterized by the abnormally elevated levels of amino acids in urine .
narrowing or occlusion of the renal artery or arteries .
an autosomal inherited disorder due to defective reabsorption of glucose by the proximal renal tubules .
abnormalities of bone mineral metabolism associated with chronic kidney disease .
high blood pressure secondary to renal artery stenosis .
an occlusion of the retinal artery .
colloid or hyaline bodies lying beneath the retinal pigment epithelium .
inflammation of the retinal vasculature with various causes including infectious disease ;  lupus erythematosus ,  systemic ;  multiple sclerosis ;  behcet syndrome ;  and chorioretinitis .
an occlusion of the retinal vein .
a bilateral retinopathy characterized by neovascularization ,  scarring ,  retinal detachment ,  and eventually blindness .
the mother develops antibodies against red blood cell rhesus antigens .
rheumatic fever  ( rf )  is a multisystem inflammatory disease occurring as a post - infectious ,  nonsuppurative sequela of untreated streptococcus pyogenes  ( group a streptococcus  [ gas ]  )  pharyngitis ,  and mainly occurs in individuals aged 5 to 15 years .
an autoinflammatory condition following an infection with group a beta hemolytic streptococcus  ( gabhs )  ,  in which the heart is attacked by antibodies formed in reaction to a recent gabhs infection .
a group of infectious diseases that is caused by rickettsia .
dental caries involving the tooth root ,  cementum ,  or cervical area of the tooth .
sapho syndrome  ( acronym for synovitis ,  acne ,  pustulosis ,  hyperostosis and osteitis )  is an auto - inflammatory disease ,  mainly characterized by the association of neutrophilic cutaneous involvement and chronic osteomyelitis .
schnitzler syndrome is a rare ,  underdiagnosed disorder in adults characterized by recurrent febrile rash ,  bone and / or joint pain ,  enlarged lymph nodes ,  fatigue ,  a monoclonal igm component ,  leukocytosis and systemic inflammatory response .
disease or damage involving the sciatic nerve ,  which divides into the peroneal nerve and tibial nerve  ( see also peroneal neuropathies and tibial neuropathy )  .
scimitar syndrome is characterized by a combination of cardiopulmonary anomalies including partial anomalous pulmonary venous return connection of the right lung to the inferior caval vein leading to the creation of a left - to - right shunt .
a fatal disease of the nervous system in sheep and goats ,  characterized by pruritus ,  debility ,  and locomotor incoordination .
scurvy is a condition that develops in people who do not consume an adequate amount of vitamin c in their diet .
a congenital disease caused by an inborn error involving apolipoproteins e leading to abnormal lipid metabolism and the accumulation of glycosphingolipids ,  particularly sphingomyelins in the histiocytes .
an adenocarcinoma with sebaceous differentiation .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that arises from the sebaceous glands .
overproduction of parathyroid hormone in response to influence external to the parathyroid glands .
symmetrical osteitis of the four limbs ,  chiefly localized to the phalanges and the terminal epiphyses of the long bones of the forearm and leg ,  sometimes extending to the proximal ends of the limbs and the flat bones ,  and accompanied by dorsal kyphosis and joint involvement .
a condition with a clinical picture similar to that of parkinson disease ,  but which is caused by external factors ,  including medication .
hearing loss in which the root cause lies in the inner ear or sensory organ  ( cochlea and associated structures )  or the vestibulocochlear nerve  ( cranial nerve viii )  .
any type of abortion ,  induced or spontaneous ,  that is associated with infection of the uterus and its appendages .
compression of the rotator cuff tendons and subacromial bursa between the humeral head and structures that make up the coracoacromial arch and the humeral tuberosities .
sialadenitis is an infection of the salivary glands .
a concretion in the salivary gland .
tumors or cancer of the sigmoid colon .
a form of alveolitis or pneumonitis caused by hypersensitivity to high level of inhaled nitrogen oxides ,  decomposition products of silage .
a carcinoma arising from the sebaceous glands ,  sweat glands ,  or the hair follicles .
a sarcoma characterized by the presence of small round or elongated malignant cells with a small amount of cytoplasm .
a benign or malignant myomatous neoplasm arising from smooth muscle .
sneddon's syndrome  ( ss )  is a rare non - inflammatory thrombotic vasculopathy characterized by the combination of cerebrovascular disease with livedo racemosa .
a rare ,  usually malignant neuroendocrine tumor arizing from delta cells .
disorder characterized by nausea ,  vomiting ,  and dizziness ,  possibly in response to vestibular disorientation or fluid shifts associated with space flight .
a benign testicular cyst that is located in the epididymis ,  and which contains serous fluid ,  lymphocytes ,  spermatozoa ,  and debris .
insufficiency of arterial or venous blood supply to the spleen due to emboli ,  thrombi ,  vascular torsion ,  or pressure that produces a macroscopic area of necrosis .
a disease of cats and mink characterized by a marked inflammation of adipose tissue and the deposition of "ceroid" pigment in the interstices of the adipose cells .
an ovarian mature teratoma characterized by the presence of aberrant thyroid tissue .
subacute inflammation of the endocardium .
self - limited inflammation of the thyroid gland characterized by the presence of multinucleated giant cells .
an uncommon neurovascular condition seen with exertion of the upper extremity .
an intracranial or rarely intraspinal suppurative process invading the space between the inner surface of the dura mater and the outer surface of the arachnoid .
rare ,  slow - growing ,  benign intraventricular tumors ,  often asymptomatic and discovered incidentally .
an enlarged thyroid gland with at least 50% of the gland situated behind the sternum .
an aortic stenosis caused by fibromuscular stenosis or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy .
a morbid condition due to the presence of sulfmethemoglobin in the blood .
duodenal obstruction by the superior mesenteric artery  ( mesenteric artery ,  superior )  which travels in the root of the mesentery and crosses over the duodenum .
localized collection of pus in the tissues that enclose the root of a tooth .
intraocular infection caused mainly by pus - producing bacteria and rarely by fungi .
a benign or malignant neoplasm arising from the sweat glands .
sympathetic ophthalmia  ( so )  is a bilateral granulomatous anterior uveitis usually occurring within the three months following trauma or a surgical procedure involving one eye .
cardiovascular manifestations of syphilis ,  an infection of treponema pallidum .
heart failure caused by abnormal myocardial contraction during systole leading to defective cardiac emptying .
tarsal tunnel syndrome is a nerve disorder that is characterized by pain in the ankle ,  foot ,  and toes .
giant cell arteritis  ( gca )  is a large vessel vasculitis predominantly involving the arteries originating from the aortic arch and especially the extracranial branches of the carotid arteries .
a progressive neurological disorder characterized by the limitation of movement of the spinal cord within the spine .
buerger disease ,  also known as thromboangiitis obliterans  ( tao )  ,  is a rare inflammatory non - necrotizing vascular disease affecting the small -  and medium - sized arteries and veins of the upper and lower extremities characterized by endarteritis and vaso - occlusion due to occlusive thrombus development .
acute onset of severe ,  life - threatening hyperthyroidism caused by a sudden release of excessive thyroid hormone .
disease of the tibial nerve  ( also referred to as the posterior tibial nerve )  .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the tonsil .
solid fixation of a tooth resulting from fusion of the cementum and alveolar bone ,  with obliteration of the periodontal ligament .
a disease involving the calcareous tooth .
an disease caused by infection with treponema .
abnormal protrusion of one or more of the leaflets of tricuspid valve into the right atrium during systole .
trigeminal neuralgia is a nerve disorder that causes a stabbing or electric - shock - like pain in parts of the face .
a disease involving the trochlear nerve .
twin twin transfusion syndrome  ( ttts )  is a rare condition seen in twin monochorionic pregnancies ,  typically developing during the 15 - 26 week gestation period and usually due to unbalanced intertwin placental anastomoses ,  where an unequal exchange of blood between twins causes oligohydramnios in one sac and polyhydramnios in the other which can lead to a high perinatal mortality rate and a high rate of disability in survivors if left untreated
group of diseases mediated by the deposition of large soluble complexes of antigen and antibody with resultant damage to tissue .
inflammation of the rectum and the distal portion of the colon .
disease involving the ulnar nerve from its origin in the brachial plexus to its termination in the hand .
infections with bacteria of the genus ureaplasma .
a clinical syndrome associated with the retention of renal waste products or uremic toxins in the blood .
a cystic and dysplastic dilation of the distal ureter within the bladder that may extend into the bladder neck and urethra .
the presence of a calculus in the ureter of the kidney ;  this is most often composed of mineral salts and proteins .
the most common form of cutaneous mastocytosis  ( mastocytosis ,  cutaneous )  that occurs primarily in children .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the choroid ,  ciliary body ,  or iris .
an inflammatory process affecting a part of or the entire uvea .
a manifestation of sarcoidosis marked by chronic inflammation of the parotid gland and the uvea .
a form of creutzfeldt - jakob disease that is most commonly contracted after consuming meat from an animal suffering from bovine spongiform encephalopathy .
inability to achieve and maintain an erection  ( erectile dysfunction )  due to defects in the arterial blood flow to the penis ,  defect in venous occlusive function allowing blood drainage  ( leakage )  from the erectile tissue  ( corpus cavernosum penis )  ,  or both .
infections with bacteria of the genus vibrio .
inflammation of the membranes surrounding the brain and spinal cord due to a viral infection .
deficiency of vitamin a due to malnutrition ,  malabsorption ,  or dietary lack .
detachment of the vitreous humor from the retina .
inflammation of the vulva .it is characterized by pruritus and painful urination .
an inflammatory pathologic process that affects the vulva and the vagina .
an acute neurological disorder characterized by the triad of ophthalmoplegia ,  ataxia ,  and disturbances of mental activity or consciousness .
wernicke - korsakoff syndrome is a brain disorder ,  due to thiamine deficiency that has been associated with both wernicke's encephalopathy and korsakoff syndrome .
allergic reaction to wheat that is triggered by the immune system .
chronic ,  destructive infection of the kidney characterized by lipid - laden macrophages in the setting of obstruction secondary to infected renal stones ,  most commonly caused by proteus or escherichia coli .
infections with bacteria of the genus yersinia .
infections with bacteria of the species yersinia pseudotuberculosis .
the primary sore of syphilis ,  a painless indurated ,  eroded papule ,  occurring at the site of entry of the infection .
a benign form of fatty non - alcoholic fatty liver disease where the disease has not yet progressed to the inflammation of liver .
fatty replacement and damage to the hepatocytes not related to alcohol use .
tear of one or more of the tendons of the four rotator cuff muscles of the shoulder .
the symptoms and / or signs of branchio - oto - renal syndrome are consistent with underdeveloped  ( hypoplastic )  or absent kidneys with resultant renal insufficiency or renal failure .ear anomalies include extra openings in front of the ears ,  extra pieces of skin in front of the ears  ( preauricular tags )  ,  or further malformation or absence of the outer ear  ( pinna )  .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the cardia of stomach .
a type of rash characterized by a flat ,  red area on the skin that is covered with small confluent bumps .
a condition in which a person loses the ability to hear due to exposure to high intensity sound .
expulsion of the product of fertilization before completing the term of gestation and without deliberate interference .
symptom complex due to acth production by non - pituitary neoplasms .
a myeloproliferative disorder characterized by neoplastic proliferation of erythroblastic and myeloblastic elements with atypical erythroblasts and myeloblasts in the peripheral blood .
a neoplastic disease in which the alveoli and distal bronchi are filled with mucus and mucus - secreting columnar epithelial cells .
virus diseases caused by the adenoviridae .
a group of mental disorders associated with organic brain damage and caused by poisoning from alcohol .
an apraxia characterized by the affected limb having involuntary ,  autonomous ,  and purposeful behaviors that are perceived as being controlled by an external force .
opportunistic fungal infection by a member of alternaria genus .
blocking of maternal circulation by amniotic fluid that is forced into uterine veins by strong uterine contraction near the end of pregnancy .
autoimmune hemolytic anemia  ( aiha )  is an autoimmune disorder in which various types of auto - antibodies are directed against red blood cells causing their survival to be shortened and resulting in hemolytic anemia .
not an aneurysm but a well - defined collection of blood and connective tissue outside the wall of a blood vessel or the heart .
a condition in which the ocular image of an object as seen by one eye differs in size and shape from that seen by the other .
congenital narrowing of a segment of the aorta .
the tearing or bursting of the wall along any portion of the aorta ,  such as thoracic or abdominal .
a viral infection that is transmitted by an arthropod .
abnormal communication between two arteries that may result from injury or occur as a congenital abnormality .
inflammation of the vagina due to thinning of the vaginal wall and decreased lubrication associated with reduced estrogen levels at menopause .
acute infection of the lung parenchyma caused by bacteria  ( e .g . ,  streptococcus pneumoniae ,  haemophilus influenzae ,  chlamydia pneumoniae ,  mycoplasma pneumoniae ,  and legionella pneumophila )  .
autosomal dominant neoplastic syndrome characterised by genodermatosis ,  lung cysts ,  spontaneous and recurrent pneumothorax ;  and renal cancer .
malalignment of a bone in which its head and neck is rotated excessively forward or inward .
infections with bacteria of the genus bordetella .
bleeding into structures of brain stem ,  including the midbrain ;  pons ;  or medulla oblongata ,  as the result of craniocerebral trauma .
a tumor derived from branchial epithelium or branchial rests .
brown - sequard syndrome is a rare neurological condition that results from an injury or damage to one side of the spinal cord .
infections with bacteria of the genus burkholderia .
a cutaneous infection caused by mycobacterium ulcerans .
a form of invasive candidiasis where species of candida are present in the blood .
an important nosocomial fungal infection with species of the genus candida ,  most frequently candida albicans .
a syndrome characterized by leakage of intravascular fluids into the extravascular space .
acute compression of the heart caused by increased intrapericardial pressure due to the collection of blood or fluid in the pericardium from rupture of the heart ,  penetrating trauma ,  or progressive effusion .
caroli disease  ( cd )  is a rare congenital liver disease characterized by non - obstructive cystic dilatations of the intra - hepatic and rarely extra - hepatic bile ducts .
infections with true tapeworms of the helminth subclass cestoda .
infections with bacteria of the family chlamydiaceae .
acute inflammation of the gallbladder wall .
a rare movement disorder developed during pregnancy ,  characterized by involuntary jerky motion  ( chorea )  and inability to maintain stable position of body parts  ( athetosis )  .
poisoning caused by ingestion of seafood containing microgram levels of ciguatoxins .
virus diseases caused by the circoviridae .
a type of microscopic colitis of unknown etiology .
microscopic colitis characterized by the accumulation of lymphocytes in the colonic epithelium and lamina propria .
inflammation of the colon that is only apparent by microscopic examination .
a pouch or sac opening from the colon .
a complication of internal mammary - coronary artery anastomosis whereby an occlusion or stenosis of the proximal subclavian artery causes a reversal of the blood flow away from the coronary circulation ,  through the grafted internal mammary artery  ( internal thoracic artery )  ,  and back to the distal subclavian distribution .
hip deformity in which the femoral neck leans forward resulting in a decrease in the angle between femoral neck and its shaft .
severe systemic manifestation of trauma and ischemia involving soft tissues ,  principally skeletal muscle ,  due to prolonged severe crushing .
cryptogenic organizing pneumonia  ( cop )  is a form of idiopathic interstitial pneumonia characterized pathologically by organizing pneumonia  ( op )  that presents with non - specific flu - like symptoms ,  as well as cough and dyspnea and where no etiological agent is found .
compression of the ulnar nerve in the cubital tunnel ,  which is formed by the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle ,  humeral - ulnar aponeurosis ,  and medial ligaments of the elbow .
infection of the retina by cytomegalovirus characterized by retinal necrosis ,  hemorrhage ,  vessel sheathing ,  and retinal edema .
deficiency in the enamel tissue that results in the formation of grooves ,  pits ,  or dents on the surface of the affected teeth .
a papular eruption of unknown etiology that progresses to residual papular erythema and scaling usually confined to the area of the mouth ,  and almost exclusively occurring in young women .
diarrhea occurring in infants from newborn to 24 - months old .
a disorder of the gastrointestinal tract .
blockage of an artery due to passage of a clot  ( thrombus )  from a systemic vein to a systemic artery without its passing through the lung which acts as a filter to remove blood clots from entering the arterial circulation .
tick - borne encephalitis is caused by an arbovirus of the flaviviridae family  ( tick - borne encephalitis virus ,  tbev )  ,  transmitted principally by the bite of the ixodes ricinus tick .
inflammation of brain tissue caused by infection with the varicella - zoster virus  ( herpesvirus 3 ,  human )  .
final stage of a liver disease when the liver failure is irreversible and liver transplantation is needed .
an acute or chronic ,  usually bacterial infectious process affecting the endometrium .
infections with bacteria of the family enterobacteriaceae .
an acute inflammation of the intestinal mucosa that is characterized by the presence of pseudomembranes or plaques in the small intestine  ( pseudomembranous enteritis )  and the large intestine  ( pseudomembranous colitis )  .
a lymphoid neoplastic disease in cattle caused by the bovine leukemia virus .
a complex systemic syndrome with inflammatory and autoimmune components that affect the skin ,  fascia ,  muscle ,  nerve ,  blood vessels ,  lung ,  and heart .
one of the most common adolescent hip disorders and represents a unique type of instability of the proximal femoral growth plate .
infection with the organism escherichia coli .
infections with the protozoa of the phylum euglenozoa .
an infection that is due to human herpesvirus  ( hhv )  types 6 or 7 ;  it is characterized by 3 - 5 days of high fever followed by the acute onset of a rosy ,  pink ,  non - pruritic ,  macular rash that is predominantly on the neck and trunk .
an inflammatory interstitial lung disease caused by hypersensitivity reaction to inhalation or ingestion of antigens .
inanimate objects that become enclosed in the eye .
deeply perforating or puncturing type intraocular injuries .
a parasitic infection that is caused by liver flukes ,  usually fasciola hepatica ,  of sheep ,  goats ,  and cattle .
a relatively large mass of unusually firm scarlike connective tissue resulting from active participation of fibroblasts ,  occurring most frequently in the abdominal muscles of women who have borne children .
infections with viruses of the genus flavivirus ,  family flaviviridae .
infections with bacteria of the family flavobacteriaceae .
fluoride toxicity is characterized by a variety of signs and symptoms .
cyst due to the occlusion of the duct of a follicle or small gland .
conditions which produce injury or dysfunction of the second cranial or optic nerve ,  which is generally considered a component of the central nervous system .
tumor or cancer of the female reproductive tract  ( genitalia ,  female )  .
large benign ,  hyperplastic lymph nodes .
glycogen storage disease due to lamp - 2  ( lysosomal - associated membrane protein 2 )  deficiency is a lysosomal glycogen storage disease characterised by severe cardiomyopathy and variable degrees of muscle weakness ,  frequently associated with intellectual deficit .
a congenital or acquired occlusion of an opening in any part of the female genital tract .
a condition characterized by a series of interrelated digital symptoms and joint changes of the lesser digits and metatarsophalangeal joints of the foot .
an occupational disorder resulting from prolonged exposure to vibration ,  affecting the fingers ,  hands ,  and forearms .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the heart .
a condition caused by the failure of body to dissipate heat in an excessively hot environment or during physical exertion in a hot environment .
heavy - chain diseases  ( hcds )  are rare monoclonal lymphoplasma - cell proliferative disorders involving b cells and are characterized by the synthesis of truncated heavy chains without associated light chains .
a parasitic infection characterized by the infestation with worms ,  mainly in the intestine .
a vascular anomaly composed of a collection of large ,  thin walled tortuous veins that can occur in any part of the central nervous system but lack intervening nervous tissue .
bleeding into the joints .it may arise from trauma or spontaneously in patients with hemophilia .
acute hepatitis resulting from ingestion of alcohol .
hepatopulmonary syndrome  ( hps )  is a lung disease characterized by widening of arteries and veins  ( dilatation )  in the lungs in people who have chronic liver disease .
herpes simplex ,  caused by type 1 virus ,  primarily spread by oral secretions and usually occurring as a concomitant of fever .
defective metabolism leading to fat maldistribution in patients infected with hiv .
infection associated with htlv - 2 virus
a disorder characterized by proliferation of arborizing small vessels ,  prominent immunoblastic proliferations and amorphous acidophilic interstitial material .
the inflammation of one or more joints caused by a bacterial infection within the joint space .
an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by a triad of dextrocardia ;  infertility ;  and sinusitis .
infections with bacteria of the genus klebsiella .
kleine - levin syndrome  ( kls )  is a rare neurological disorder of unknown origin characterised by relapsing - remitting episodes of hypersomnia in association with cognitive and behavioural disturbances .
back flow of gastric contents to the laryngopharynx where it comes in contact with tissues of the upper aerodigestive tract .
a relatively rare smooth muscle tumor found most frequently in the wall of the gastrointestinal tract ,  especially in the stomach .
virus diseases caused by the lentivirus genus .
a form of leprosy classified by the world health organization for the purpose of treatment ,  based on clinical manifestations and skin smear results .
rare ,  autosomal recessive disorder caused by deficiency of the beta 2 integrin receptors  ( receptors ,  leukocyte - adhesion )  comprising the cd11 / cd18 family of glycoproteins .
epithelial hyperplasia of the oral mucosa associated with epstein - barr virus  ( herpesvirus 4 ,  human )  and found almost exclusively in persons with hiv infection .
localized scleroderma is the skin localized form of scleroderma characterized by fibrosis of the skin causing cutaneous plaques or strips .
a bacterial ,  fungal or parasitic abscess that develops in the lung parenchyma .
central nervous system vasculitis that is associated with systemic lupus erythematosus .
transfer of a neoplasm from its primary site to lymph nodes or to distant parts of the body by way of the lymphatic system .
b - cell lymphoid tumors that occur in association with aids .
pain in the breast generally classified as cyclical  ( associated with menstrual periods )  ,  or noncyclical ,  i .e .
skeletal muscle pain and tenderness along the posteromedial tibia resulting from exercise such as running and other physical activity .
cysts of one of the parts of the mediastinum: the superior part ,  containing the trachea ,  esophagus ,  thoracic duct and thymus organs ;  the inferior middle part ,  containing the pericardium ;  the inferior anterior part containing some lymph nodes ;  and the inferior posterior part ,  containing the thoracic duct and esophagus .
congenital ,  or rarely acquired ,  herniation of meningeal and spinal cord tissue through a bony defect in the vertebral column .
pain in the region of the metatarsus .
a sarcoma of the body of the uterus arising in older women ,  composed of more than one mesenchymal tissue ,  especially including striated muscle cells .
infection of ruminants with tapeworms of the genus moniezia .
a progressive condition usually characterized by combined failure of several organs such as the lungs ,  liver ,  kidney ,  along with some clotting mechanisms ,  usually postinjury or postoperative .
infections with bacteria of the order mycoplasmatales .
a disorder of cardiac function caused by insufficient blood flow to the muscle tissue of the heart .
a cutaneous necrobiotic disorder characterized by firm ,  yellow plaques or nodules ,  often in a periorbital distribution .
infections with bacteria of the family neisseriaceae .
chronic progressive degeneration of the stress - bearing portion of a joint ,  with bizarre hypertrophic changes at the periphery .
neuroleptic malignant syndrome  ( nms )  is an idiosyncratic condition associated with administration of antipsychotic and other central dopaminergic blockers ,  and characterized by hyperthermia ,  muscular rigidity ,  autonomic dysfunction and altered consciousness .
a group of inherited ,  severe metabolic disorders in which sphingomyelin accumulates in lysosomes in cells .
a parasomnia characterized by paroxysmal episodes of choreoathetotic ,  ballistic ,  dystonic movements ,  and semipurposeful activity .
hypoventilation syndrome in very obese persons with excessive adipose tissue around the abdomen and diaphragm is characterized by diminished to absent ventilatory chemoresponsiveness ;  chronic hypoxia ;  hypercapnia ;  polycythemia ;  and long periods of sleep during day and night  ( hypersomnolence )  .
opsoclonus myoclonus syndrome  ( oms )  is a rare neuroinflammatory disease of paraneoplastic ,  parainfectious or idiopathic origin ,  characterized by opsoclonus ,  myoclonus ,  ataxia ,  and behavioral and sleep disorders .
inflammation of the underlying layer of adipose tissue  ( panniculus )  of the peritoneum ,  usually of the mesentery or the omentum .
paralysis of an infant resulting from injury received at birth .
infections with bacteria of the family pasteurellaceae .
a vascular disease of the liver characterized by the occurrence of multiple blood - filled cysts or cavities .
pelvic inflammatory disease  ( pid )  is an acute or chronic inflammation in the pelvic cavity .
penetration of a peptic ulcer through the wall of duodenum or stomach allowing the leakage of luminal contents into the peritoneal cavity .
an inflammatory process with loss of supporting bone in the tissues surrounding functioning dental implants .
inflammation of the periapical tissue .
infectious processes ,  including abscesses ,  effusions ,  and empyemas which occur in the epidural or subdural spaces surrounding the brain and spinal cord .
an abnormal extension of a gingival sulcus accompanied by the apical migration of the epithelial attachment and bone resorption .
disorder characterized by a wide range of structural changes in peritoneum ,  resulting from fibrogenic or inflammatory processes .
inflammation of a vein .
an infectious disease of the skin caused by treponema carateum that occurs only in the western hemisphere .
infections with bacteria of the family piscirickettsiaceae ,  causing septicemic disease of salmonid fish  ( salmonidae )  .
presence of air or gas within the intracranial cavity  ( e .g . ,  epidural space ,  subdural space ,  intracerebral ,  etc . ) 
inflammation of the lungs due to the inhalation of solid or liquid material .
presence of air or gas in the space between the heart and the pericardium .
infections with viruses of the genus pneumovirus ,  family paramyxoviridae .
a disease believed to be caused by a viral illness that triggers degeneration of the nerve cells in the substantia nigra .
a transient autoimmune inflammatory disorder of thyroid gland that occurs postpartum due to any partum problem .
a nonspecific hypersensitivity reaction caused by trauma to the pericardium ,  often following pericardiotomy .
infections resulting from the implantation of prosthetic devices .
an infection occurring in puerperium ,  the period of 6 - 8 weeks after giving birth .
necrosis of lung tissue that is cause by the lack of oxygen or blood supply .
pyomyositis  ( pm )  is a rare primary bacterial infection of the skeletal muscle ,  usually resulting from hematogenous spread or due to muscle injury ,  and characterized by pain and tenderness in the affected muscle ,  fever and abscess formation .
a granulomatous disease caused by the aquatic organism pythium insidiosum and occurring primarily in horses ,  cattle ,  dogs ,  cats ,  fishes ,  and rarely in humans .
inflammation of the lung due to harmful effects of ionizing or non - ionizing radiation .
a severe intermittent and spasmodic pain in the lower back radiating to the groin ,  scrotum ,  and labia which is most commonly caused by a kidney stone  ( renal calculus )  passing through the ureter or by other urinary track blockage .
infection with the respiratory syncytial virus ,  an rna virus of the genus pneumovirus ,  in the family paramyxoviridae ,  which is characterized by the formation of syncytia in tissue culture .
hemorrhage within the orbital cavity ,  posterior to the eyeball .
an accumulation of purulent material in the space between the pharynx and the cervical vertebrae .
a small round or oval ,  mostly subcutaneous nodule made up chiefly of a mass of aschoff bodies and seen in cases of rheumatic fever .
allergic rhinitis caused by indoor allergens and lasting year round .
infections with bacteria of the genus salmonella .
schistosomiasis caused by schistosoma japonicum .
schistosomiasis caused by schistosoma mansoni .
infections with bacteria of the genus serratia .
sertoli cell - only syndrome  ( sco syndrome )  is a cause of male infertility .
brain injuries resulted from vigorous shaking of an infant or young child held by the chest ,  shoulders ,  or extremities causing extreme cranial acceleration .
a hemangioma arising from the skin .
fractures of the skull which may result from penetrating or nonpenetrating head injuries or rarely bone diseases  ( see also fractures ,  spontaneous )  .
reduced blood flow to the spinal cord which is supplied by the anterior spinal artery and the paired posterior spinal arteries .
a neuropathy due to vitamin b 12 deficiency or to excessive nitrous oxide inhalation .
leakage and accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid in the subdural space which may be associated with an infectious process ;  craniocerebral trauma ;  brain neoplasms ;  intracranial hypotension ;  and other conditions .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the sublingual gland .
acute inflammatory disease of the thyroid gland due to infections by bacteria ;  fungi ;  or other microorganisms .
abnormally rapid heartbeats caused by reentrant conduction over the accessory pathways between the heart atria and the heart ventricles .
a parasitic infection caused by tapeworms of the genus taenia .
disorders that are causes by overuse of tendons .
inflammation of the synovial lining of a tendon sheath .
a small circumscribed mass in the thyroid gland that can be of neoplastic growth or non - neoplastic abnormality .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the trachea .
infections caused by infestation with worms of the class trematoda .
a combination of congenital heart defects consisting of three key features including atrial septal defects ;  pulmonary stenosis ;  and right ventricular hypertrophy .
a variety of tuberculosis affecting various birds ,  including chickens and ducks .
an infection of cattle caused by mycobacterium bovis .
pathological conditions of the cardiovascular system caused by infection of mycobacterium tuberculosis .
a benign neoplasm that involves the placenta .
tularemia is an infection caused by the bacterium francisella tularensis .
an disease or disorder caused by infection with tunga penetrans .
a complication of obstetric labor in which the corpus of the uterus is forced completely or partially through the uterine cervix .
a benign or malignant neoplasm affecting the vagina .
occlusion of the outflow tract in either the left ventricle or the right ventricle of the heart .
localized or diffuse reduction in blood flow through the vertebrobasilar arterial system ,  which supplies the brain stem ;  cerebellum ;  occipital lobe ;  medial temporal lobe ;  and thalamus .
a cardiac conduction disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of ventricular pre - excitation ,  which is a short pr interval and a long qrs interval with a delta wave .
forms of combined immunodeficiency caused by mutations in the gene for interleukin receptor common gamma subunit .
yellow nail syndrome  ( yns )  is a very rare syndromic disorder characterized by the variable triad of characteristic yellow nails ,  chronic respiratory manifestations ,  and primary lymphedema .
herpes zoster but without eruption of vesicles .
pathologic partial or complete loss of the ability to recall past experiences  (  amnesia ,  retrograde )  or to form new memories  (  amnesia ,  anterograde )  .
a disease involving the auditory system .
an infectious process that affects the brain and / or spinal cord .
a disease affects cognitive processes .
diabetic cardiomyopathy is a disorder of the heart muscle in people with diabetes .
a diabetic foot is a foot that exhibits any pathology that results directly from diabetes mellitus or any long - term  ( or "chronic" )  complication of diabetes mellitus .
an infection that develops in the diverticula of the intestinal tract .
in vascular diseases ,  endothelial dysfunction is a systemic pathological state of the endothelium  ( the inner lining of blood vessels )  and can be broadly defined as an imbalance between vasodilating and vasoconstricting substances produced by  ( or acting on )  the endothelium .
an infection of the upper layers of the skin caused by species of streptococcus .
an inflammatory disorder that affects the upper and lower gastrointestinal tract .
a rare histological variant of glioblastoma  ( who grade iv )  characterized by a biphasic tissue pattern with alternating areas displaying glial and mesenchymal differentiation  ( who )  .
an autoimmune disorder of the eye ,  occurring in patients with graves disease .
hypereosinophilic syndrome  ( hes )  constitutes a rare and heterogeneous group of disorders ,  defined as persistent and marked blood eosinophilia and / or tissue eosinophilia associated with a wide range of clinical manifestations reflecting eosinophil - induced tissue / organ damage .
mantle cell lymphoma is a rare form of malignant non - hodgkin lymphoma affecting b lymphocytes in the lymph nodes in a region called the ``mantle zone'' .
a carcinoma arising from merkel cells located in the basal layer of the epidermis and occurring most commonly as a primary neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin .
an inflammatory process affecting the spinal cord .
a restrictive cardiomyopathy not inherited through genetics
a febrile disease caused by streptococcus pneumoniae .
an infectious disease caused by parasitic trematodes of the genus schistosoma that colonize human blood vessels and release eggs that can cause granulomatous reactions leading to acute  ( swimmer's itch or acute schistosomiasis syndrome )  or chronic disease .
any of the several infectious disorders caused by members of streptococcus ,  a genus of gram positive bacteria belonging to the family streptococcaceae .
systemic capillary leak syndrome  ( scls )  is a severe systemic disease due to increased capillary permeability ,  characterized by episodes of hypotension ,  edema and hypovolemia .
sirs is a serious condition related to systemic inflammation ,  organ dysfunction ,  and organ failure .
a group of metabolic abnormalities that can occur as a complication during the treatment of cancer ,  most commonly after the treatment of lymphomas and leukemias .
colorectal cancer that has already spread to distant sites and is considered stage iv
an inflammatory process affecting the small intestine and colon .
toxicity that impairs or damages the heart .
coronary disease that has not progressed to the point of causing significant occlusion  ( blockage )  of the coronary arteries .
loss of the ability to perceive and process pain .
acromegaly is an acquired disorder related to excessive production of growth hormone  ( gh )  and characterized by progressive somatic disfigurement  ( mainly involving the face and extremities )  and systemic manifestations .
primary biliary cholangitis  ( pbc )  is a chronic and slowly progressive cholestatic liver disease of autoimmune etiology characterized by injury of the intrahepatic bile ducts that may eventually lead to liver failure .
secondary biliary cirrhosis develops due to long - term partial or total obstruction of the large bile ducts outside of the liver .
viral infectious disease caused by the h1n1 strain of the influenza type a virus .
staphylococcus aureus infection that occurs specifically in skin or soft tissue and manifests through a specific range of symptoms including but not necesarrily limited to erysipelas ,  cellulitis ,  abscesses ,  mastitis ,  carbuncle and furuncle ,  acute lymphadenitis ,  impetigo ,  folliculitis and hidradenitis
acquired myasthenia gravis  ( mg )  is an autoimmune disorder of the neuromuscular junction characterized by fatigable muscle weakness with frequent ocular signs and / or generalized muscle weakness ,  and occasionally associated with thymoma .
the ending of pregnancy by removing a fetus or embryo before it can survive outside the uterus .
dry amd is most common type of macular degeneration and affects 90% of the people who have the condition .
an embolism that is a result of an obstruction in a cardiac vessel due to a blood clot or other foreign matters
plaque psoriasis is the most common presentation of psoriasis .
blockage of blood flow through a small artery ,  particularly in the brain
autosomal dominant form of polycystic kidney disease .
heart rhythm disturbance where the heartselectrical impulses are conducted very slowly .
atypical mycobacterial infections are infections caused by several types ofmycobacteria similar to the germ that causes tuberculosis .
rare hereditary disease characterized by histiocytic infiltration of the lungs and lymph nodes .
mental retardation with language impairment and with or without autistic features is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by global developmental delay with moderate to severe speech delay that particularly affects expressive speech .
any pulmonary fibrosis and / or bone marrow failure ,  telomere - related in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tert gene .
the rasopathies are developmental syndromes caused by germline mutations  ( or in rare cases by somatic mosaicism )  in genes that alter the ras subfamily and mitogen - activated protein kinases that control signal transduction .
acanthosis nigricans  ( an )  in type 2 diabetes mellitus  ( t2dm ) 
stroke caused by the blockage of blood flow in one of the small blood vessels in the brain
cystic disease of the liver is rare and can take several forms .
an angle - closure glaucoma characterized by closure of the anterior chamber angle by an intrinsic defect such that aqueous outflow is blocked and the intraocular pressure becomes inappropriately elevated leading to optic nerve damage and visual field loss .
acute pancreatits that is the result of treatment with asparaginase ,  an enzyme used in some cancer treatments
a language disorder characterized by difficulty in language acquisition despite otherwise normal development and in the absence of any obvious explanatory factors .
monogenic diabetes is any form of rare diabetes mellitus that can be attributed to a single genetic factor  ( rather than the more common polygenic autoimmune varieties )  .
a malignant tumor arising from the epithelium that lines the cavity of the uterine body .
a benign or malignant epithelial neoplasm that affects the liver parenchyma and intrahepatic bile ducts .
endometrioid carcinoma located in the lining of the uterus
endometrioid carcinoma located in the ovary
serous carcinoma located in the ovary
a final common manifestation of a wide variety of chronic kidney diseases characterized by glomerulosclerosis and tubulointerstitial fibrosis .
heavy metal poisoning refers to when excessive exposure to a heavy metal affects the normal function of the body .
an abscess located in the abdominal cavity ,  i .e . ,  the cavity between the diaphragm above and the pelvis below .
vaginal bleeding preceding the 20th week of gestation .
the phase of chronic myeloid leukemia following the chronic phase  ( leukemia ,  myeloid ,  chronic - phase )  ,  where there are increased systemic symptoms ,  worsening cytopenias ,  and refractory leukocytosis .
a condition seen primarily in childhood ,  most often resulting from chronic exposure to mercury compounds which may result in encephalopathy and polyneuropathy .
the extension of endometrial tissue  ( endometrium )  into the myometrium .
complete or severe loss of the subjective sense of taste ,  frequently accompanied by olfaction disorders .
a mental disorder associated with chronic ethanol abuse  ( alcoholism )  and nutritional deficiencies characterized by short term memory loss ,  confabulations ,  and disturbances of attention .
a locally aggressive and destructive benign cystic lesion of the bone .
a benign neoplasm of fibrous tissue in which there are numerous small and large ,  frequently dilated ,  vascular channels .
a syndrome associated with damage to the spinal cord above the mid thoracic level  ( see spinal cord injuries )  characterized by a marked increase in the sympathetic response to minor stimuli such as bladder or rectal distention .
a neoplastic proliferation of basal cells in the epidermis  ( part of the skin )  or other anatomic sites  ( most frequently the salivary glands )  .
virus diseases caused by the birnaviridae .
inflammation of the udder in cows .
a reduction in brain oxygen supply due to anoxemia  ( a reduced amount of oxygen being carried in the blood by hemoglobin )  ,  or to a restriction of the blood supply to the brain ,  or both .
benign and malignant intra - axial tumors of the mesencephalon ;  pons ;  or medulla oblongata of the brain stem .
poisoning occurring after exposure to cadmium compounds or fumes .
cardiac manifestation of gastrointestinal carcinoid tumor that metastasizes to the liver .
a carcinoma discovered by dr . margaret r . lewis of the wistar institute in 1951 .
abnormal fluid retention by the body due to impaired cardiac function or heart failure .
a syndrome associated with traumatic injury to the cervical or upper thoracic regions of the spinal cord characterized by weakness in the arms with relative sparing of the legs and variable sensory loss .
infections of the brain ;  spinal cord ;  or meninges caused by helminths  ( parasitic worms )  .
a vascular anomaly characterized by a radial or wedge - shaped arrangement of dilated veins draining into a larger vein in the brain ,  spinal cord ,  or the meninges .
discharge of cerebrospinal fluid through the external auditory meatus or through the eustachian tube into the nasopharynx .
interposition of a portion of the colon  ( e .g . ,  sigmoid colon )  between the liver and the diaphragm .
acne - like skin eruptions caused by exposure to chlorine - containing compounds .
defective nuclei produced during the telophase of mitosis or meiosis by lagging chromosomes or chromosome fragments derived from spontaneous or experimentally induced chromosomal structural changes .
a myelodysplastic / myeloproliferative neoplasm which is characterized by persistent monocytosis ,  absence of a philadelphia chromosome and bcr / abl fusion gene ,  fewer than 20 percent blasts in the bone marrow and blood ,  myelodysplasia ,  and absence of pdgfra or pdgfrb rearrangement .
the presence of chyle in the thoracic cavity .
a sudden cardiac arrhythmia  ( e .g . ,  ventricular fibrillation )  caused by a blunt ,  non - penetrating impact to the precordial region of chest wall .
the result of pathological changes in the hard tissue of a tooth caused by carious lesions ,  mechanical factors ,  or trauma ,  which render the pulp susceptible to bacterial invasion from the external environment .
a extremely rare bone tumor characterized by abundant collagen formation and a fibrous stroma ,  without evidence of mitosis or pleomorphism .
a form of leishmaniasis ,  cutaneous caused by leishmania aethiopica in ethiopia and kenya ,  l . pifanoi in venezuela ,  l . braziliensis in south america ,  and l . mexicana in central america .
a hypermotility disorder of the esophagus that is characterized by spastic non - peristaltic responses to swallowing ;  chest pain ;  and dysphagia .
a condition of the mucous membrane characterized by erythematous papular lesions .
arthritis that is induced in experimental animals .
injury to any part of the eye by extreme heat ,  chemical agents ,  or ultraviolet radiation .
an autosomal dominant disorder of lipid metabolism .
a condition of competitive female athletes in which there are interrelated problems of eating disorders ;  amenorrhea ;  and osteoporosis .
a groin hernia occurring inferior to the inguinal ligament and medial to the femoral vein and femoral artery .
fractures of the short ,  constricted portion of the thigh bone between the femur head and the trochanters .
deficient oxygenation of fetal blood .
transplacental passage of fetal blood into the circulation of the maternal organism .
fusariosis describes a superficial ,  locally invasive ,  disseminated infection with the pathogenic fungus species ,  fusarium ,  often found in soil and water ,  which is mainly transmitted to humans through traumatic inoculation and that manifests with keratitis ,  onychomycosis and less frequently peritonitis and cellulitis .
a paraganglioma involving the glomus jugulare ,  a microscopic collection of chemoreceptor tissue in the adventitia of the bulb of the jugular vein .
one of the sickle cell disorders characterized by the presence of both hemoglobin s and hemoglobin c . it is similar to ,  but less severe than sickle cell anemia .
a condition that is caused by hyperplasia of lymphocytes in the small intestine  ( intestine ,  small )  and the mesenteric lymph nodes .
premature loss of pregnancy in which not all the products of conception have been expelled .
an intervertebral disc in which the nucleus pulposus has protruded through surrounding fibrocartilage .
accumulation of blood in the subdural space over the cerebral hemisphere .
rare congenital cardiomyopathies characterized by the lack of left ventricular myocardium compaction .
a condition characterized by the presence of rudimentary thyroid tissue at the base of the tongue .
a condition characterized by a reticular or fishnet pattern on the skin of lower extremities and other parts of the body .
a chronic ,  fungal ,  subcutaneous infection endemic in rural regions in south america and central america .
a complication of rheumatic disease that is caused by excessive activation and uncontrolled proliferation of t lymphocytes and well - differentiated macrophages .
malakoplakia is a chronic multisystem granulomatous inflammatory disease characterized by the presence of single or multiple soft plaques on various organs of the body .
manganese poisoning is associated with chronic inhalation of manganese particles by individuals who work with manganese ore . clinical features include confusion ;  hallucinations ;  and an extrapyramidal syndrome  ( parkinson disease ,  secondary )  that includes rigidity ;  dystonia ;  retropulsion ;  and tremor .
marchiafava bignami disease is defined by characteristic demyelination of the corpus callosum  ( erosion of the protective covering of nerve fibers joining the 2 hemispheres of the brain )  .
mercury poisoning is caused mainly through ingestion or inhalation of any of the 3 forms of mercury ,  elemental ,  organic ,  and inorganic .
fracture in the proximal half of the shaft of the ulna ,  with dislocation of the head of the radius .
the formation of dense connective tissue in the tympanic membrane that does not necessarily cause or lead to loss of hearing .
an opening or hole in the nasal septum that is caused by trauma ,  injury ,  drug use ,  or pathological process .
a chronic ,  acquired ,  idiopathic ,  progressive eruption of the skin that occurs in the context of renal failure .
conditions associated with damage or dysfunction of the nervous system caused by exposure to heavy metals ,  which may cause a variety of central ,  peripheral ,  or autonomic nervous system injuries .
a syndrome characterized by inflammation in the ileum ,  the cecum ,  and the ascending colon .
a breach in the continuity of the posterior chamber of the eyeball .
oral submucous fibrosis  ( osmf )  is a chronic ,  progressive disease that alters the fibroelasticity of the oral submucosa ,  prevalent in india and southeast asia but rare elsewhere ,  and characterized by burning and pain in the oral cavity ,  loss of gustatory sensation ,  the presence of blanched fibrous bands and stiffening of the oral mucosa and oro - pharynx  ( leading to trismus and a progressive reduction in mouth opening )  and an increased risk of developing oral squamous cell cancer  ( 3 - 19% )  .
inflammation of the extraocular muscle of the eye .
a condition characterized by persistent or recurrent labial enlargement ,  oral ulcer ,  and other orofacial manifestations in the absence of identifiable crohn disease ;  or sarcoidosis .
necrosis of bone following radiation injury .
paroxysmal hemicrania  ( ph )  is a primary headache disorder characterized by multiple attacks of unilateral pain that occur in association with cranial autonomic symptoms .
fractures around joint replacement prosthetics or implants .
a yellowish thickened lesion on the conjunctiva near the cornea representing a benign degenerative change in the conjunctiva caused by the leakage and deposition of certain blood proteins through the permeable capillaries near the limbus .
inflammation of the pleura .it is usually caused by infections .
a benign adnexal neoplasm composed of epithelial cells .
the organic and psychogenic disturbances observed after closed head injuries  ( head injuries ,  closed )  .
transient reduction in blood pressure levels immediately after exercises that lasts 2 - 12 hours .
a condition that is characterized by headache ;  seizures ;  and visual loss with edema in the posterior aspects of the cerebral hemispheres ,  such as the brain stem .
a leukemia / lymphoma found predominately in children and young adults and characterized lymphadenopathy and thymus gland involvement .
a group of disorders having a benign course but exhibiting clinical and histological features suggestive of malignant lymphoma .
abscess of the psoas muscles resulting usually from disease of the lumbar vertebrae ,  with the pus descending into the muscle sheath .
separation of the pubic symphysis .
a aspergillosis that involves the lung .
inflammation of the kidney pelvis and the urinary bladder .
single or multiple areas of pus due to bacterial infection within the hepatic parenchyma .
herniation of the rectum into the vagina .
1 mmhg )  .the thin septae between the veins and the collecting system in the renal fornices rupture ,  with resultant left sided haematuria .
inhaling liquid or solids ,  such as stomach contents ,  into the respiratory tract .
complete or severe weakness of the muscles of respiration .
a syndrome characterized by lesions occurring on the face ,  scalp ,  or neck which consist of congenital hypoplastic malformations of cutaneous structures and which over time undergo verrucous hyperplasia .
serotoninergic syndrome is characterised by an excess of serotonin in the central nervous system ,  associated with the use of various agents ,  including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors  ( ssris )  .
abnormally rapid heartbeats caused by reentry circuit in or around the sinoatrial node .
a variant of cutaneous mastocytosis which occurs as a single lesion usually in infants .
acute and chronic conditions characterized by external mechanical compression of the spinal cord due to extramedullary neoplasm ;  epidural abscess ;  spinal fractures ;  bony deformities of the vertebral bodies ;  and other conditions .
outgrowth of immature bony processes or bone spurs  ( osteophyte )  from the vertebrae ,  reflecting the presence of degenerative disease and calcification .
subdural hematoma of the spinal canal .
a well - differentiated ,  benign ,  hamartomatous proliferation of odontogenic epithelium ,  probably arising from the rests of malassez .
an infection caused by staphylococcus .
saccular ,  outward protrusion of all or a portion of the wall of the stomach .
bursting of the stomach .
twisting of the stomach that may result in gastric ischemia and gastric outlet obstruction .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the submandibular gland .
accumulation of purulent exudates beneath the diaphragm ,  also known as upper abdominal abscess .
a condition that occurs when the obstruction of the thin - walled superior vena cava interrupts blood flow from the head ,  upper extremities ,  and thorax to the right atrium .
susac syndrome  ( ss )  is a rare disorder characterized by the triad of central nervous system  ( cns )  dysfunction ,  branch retinal artery occlusions  ( braos )  and sensorineural hearing loss  ( snhl )  .
takayasu arteritis  ( tak )  is a rare inflammatory large - vessel vasculitis primarily affecting the aorta and its major branches ,  but also other large vessels ,  causing stenosis ,  occlusion ,  or aneurysm .
perineurial cysts commonly found in the sacral region .
accumulation of serous fluid between the layers of membrane  ( tunica vaginalis )  covering the testis in the scrotum .
enlargement of the thymus .a condition described in the late 1940's and 1950's as pathological thymic hypertrophy was status thymolymphaticus and was treated with radiotherapy .
the type of diaphragmatic hernia caused by trauma or injury ,  usually to the abdomen .
an abnormal passage in the urinary bladder or between the bladder and any surrounding organ .
failure of the uterus to contract with normal strength ,  duration ,  and intervals during childbirth  ( labor ,  obstetric )  .
downward displacement of the uterus .
serious inflammation of the lung in patients who required the use of pulmonary ventilator .
a hernia caused by weakness of the anterior abdominal wall due to midline defects ,  previous incisions ,  or increased intra - abdominal pressure .
a diverticulum at the upper end of the esophagus through the cricopharyngeal muscle at the junction of the pharynx and the esophagus .
clifahdd is a congenital disorder characterized by congenital contractures of the limbs and face ,  resulting in characteristic facial features ,  hypotonia ,  and variable degrees of developmental delay .
acute inflammation of the intestine associated with infectious diarrhea of various etiologies ,  generally acquired by eating contaminated food containing toxins ,  biological derived from bacteria or other microorganisms .
this is the most common form of the disease ,  which happens to people age 65 and older .
acquired cold urticaria  ( acu )  represents a form of inducible urticaria that is characterized by the development of wheals ,  angioedema ,  or both in response to exposure to cold air ,  solids ,  or liquids .1 acu symptoms are usually limited to areas of the skin that have been exposed to cold .
an anxiety disorder characterized by an intense ,  irrational fear of venturing out into open places or situations in which help  ( or escape )  might not be available should excessive anxiety or panic symptoms develop .
an overwhelming ,  irrational ,  and persistent fear of contracting acquired immune deficiency syndrome .
nodular localized form of amyloidosis with predominantly thoracic localization  ( pulmonary amyloidosis )  ,  considered as secondary protein structure disease in which insoluble protein fibrils accumulate extracellularly .
a disorder characterized by the localized or diffuse accumulation of amyloid protein in various anatomic sites .
an overwhelming ,  irrational ,  and persistent fear of animals .
according to the dsm - iv classification of mental disorders blood - injection - injury type phobias constitute a subtype of specific phobias .
an overwhelming ,  irrational ,  and persistent fear of being diagnosed with cancer .
inflammation and ulceration of the gastrointestinal mucosa as a result of chemotherapy treatment
cold urticaria is a condition that affects the skin .
primary localized cutaneous nodular amyloidosis  ( plcna )  is the most rare form of primary cutaneous amyloidosis ,  a skin disease characterized by the accumulation of amyloid deposits in the dermis ,  characterized clinically by yellowish waxy crusted nodules and papules on the face ,  lower extremities ,  trunk ,  scalp ,  and genitalia and histologically by the localized deposition of immunoglobulin - derived amyloid in the papillary dermis and subcutis .
a form of herpetic keratitis with dendritic  ( branching )  ulcers
dental fear  ( also called dental phobia ,  odontophobia ,  dentophobia ,  dentist phobia ,  and dental anxiety )  is the fear of dentistry and of receiving dental care .
diffuse alveolar - septal amyloidosis ,  also known as diffuse parenchymal amyloidosis ,  is characterized by the presence of amyloid deposits in the alveolar septa and vessel walls .
various physiological or molecular disturbances that impair endoplasmic reticulum function .
inflammation of the lateral epicondyle .
an infectious process affecting any part of the eye .
an overwhelming ,  irrational ,  and persistent fear of traveling in an aircraft .
gastrointestinal disturbances ,  skin eruptions ,  or shock due to allergic reactions to allergens in food .
an anxiety disorder characterized by excessive and difficult - to - control worry about a number of life situations .
inflammation of the lateral epicondyle .
morvan syndrome is a rare ,  life - threatening ,  acquired neurologic disease characterized by neuromyotonia ,  dysautonomia and encephalopathy with severe insomnia .
mucositis is inflammation and damage of the mucous membranes lining the mouth and other parts of the gastrointestinal  ( gi )  tract .
a channelopathy that involves the muscle tissue .
a clinically diverse group of epilepsy syndromes characterized either by myoclonic seizures or by myoclonus in association with other seizure types .
endocrine tumours ,  also referred to as neuroendocrine tumours  ( nets )  ,  are defined by a common phenotype which is characterized by the expression of general markers  ( neuron specific enolase ,  chromogranin ,  synaptophysin )  and hormone secretion products .
any disease that impairs the functioning of the muscles ,  either directly ,  being pathologies of the voluntary muscle ,  or indirectly ,  being pathologies of nerves or neuromuscular junctions
a specific phobia that involves an irrational fear of contracting a disease .
inflammation of the mucous membranes of any of the structures in the mouth .
a disturbance in the prooxidant - antioxidant balance in favor of the former ,  leading to potential damage .
a disorder in which an individual experiences recurrent ,  unexpected panic attacks and persistent concern about having additional panic attacks .
a disorder in which an individual experiences recurrent ,  unexpected panic attacks and persistent concern about having additional panic attacks .
an anxiety disorder characterized by an intense ,  irrational fear of an object ,  activity ,  or situation .
inflammation of the plantar fascia  ( aponeurosis )  on the bottom of the foot causing heel pain .
amyloidosis is characterized by amyloid extracellular deposition in organs and tissues .
nodular pulmonary amyloidosis ,  also known as nodular parenchymal amyloidosis or nodular amyloidoma ,  is defined as 1 or more tumefactive amyloid deposits involving the lungs .
a severe ,  rapidly fatal reaction occurring most commonly in children following an infectious illness .
inflammation and ulceration of the gastrointestinal mucosa as a result of radiation treatment
renal nutcracker syndrome  ( ncs )  is a condition that occurs when the left renal vein  ( the vein that carries blood purified by the left kidney )  becomes compressed .
an anxiety disorder characterized by recurrent excessive distress due to fear of separation from the home or from major attachment figures ;  the distress is developmentally inappropriate and causes impairment in social ,  academic ,  or other areas of functioning .
an anxiety disorder characterized by an intense ,  irrational fear of one or more social or performance situations in which the individual believes that he or she will be scrutinized by others .
an anxiety disorder characterized by an intense ,  irrational fear cued by the presence or anticipation of a specific object or situation .
penetrating and non - penetrating injuries to the spinal cord resulting from traumatic external forces .
tracheobronchial amyloidosis is characterized by amyloid deposition in various segments of the tracheobronchial tree .
skin breakdown or ulceration in the drainage area of a varicose vein ,  usually in the leg .
presence of pneumococcus bacteria in the blood
a disorder characterized by a preoccupation with gambling and the excitement that gambling with increasing risk provides .
squameous cell carcinoma of the skin ,  representing the second most common cutaneous malignancy ,  behind only basal cell carcinoma in caucasians
a neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the small intestine .
a dysgammaglobulinemia characterized by low or undetectable serum levels of immunoglobulin class a  ( iga )  .
most common form of osteonecrosis ,  the death of bone tissue following microvascular injury .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the oropharynx .
an acute megakaryoblastic leukemia occurring in adults .
a acute monocytic leukemia that occurs in an adult .
an acute myeloid leukemia occurring in adults .
an acute b - lymphoblastic leukemia occurring in adults .
an acute t - lymphoblastic leukemia occurring in adults .
a melanoma characterized by the complete absence of melanin pigment in the melanoma cells .
the most common type of non - hodgkin lymphoma .
an adenocarcinoma arising from barrett metaplastic epithelium in the esophagus .
a squamous cell carcinoma characterized by the presence of cells with hyperchromatic nuclei ,  scant amount of cytoplasm ,  and peripheral nuclear palisading .
a well or moderately differentiated morphologic variant of lung adenocarcinoma characterized by tumor growth along the alveolar structures without stromal ,  vascular ,  or pleural invasion .
a lung carcinoma arising from the bronchial epithelium .
an acute megakaryoblastic leukemia occurring in children .
an acute monocytic leukemia occurring in children .
an acute myeloid leukemia with maturation occurring in children .
an acute b - lymphoblastic leukemia occurring in children .
an acute lymphoblastic leukemia of t - cell origin occurring in children .
a t lymphoblastic lymphoma that occurs during childhood .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the colon
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the colon
a malignant epithelial neoplasm that arises from the colon or rectum and invades through the muscularis mucosa into the submucosa .
a rare endometrial carcinoma characterized by the presence of both malignant glandular and malignant squamous cellular components .
an endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the endometrium showing squamous differentiation .
burkitt lymphoma can be classified into three forms which differ in geographic distribution and epsteinbarr virus  ( ebv )  association: endemic ,  sporadic and hivassociated .
acute erythroid leukemia characterised by the presence of at least 50% erythroid precursors and at least 20% myeloblasts in the bone marrow .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the gall bladder
a medullary thyroid gland carcinoma inherited through an autosomal dominant mode .
a rapidly growing serous adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary .
a cholangiocarcinoma that arises from the junction ,  or adjacent to the junction ,  of the right and left hepatic ducts .
a squamous cell carcinoma that involves the hypopharynx .
a carcinoma that arises from the intrahepatic bile duct epithelium in any site of the intrahepatic biliary tree .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of cystic structures .
an invasive cystic adenocarcinoma arising from the ovary .
a neuroendocrine tumor arising from the delta cells of the pancreas .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the pharynx .
an adenocarcinoma arising from the rectosigmoid area .
a squamous cell carcinoma arising from the salivary glands .
a malignant neoplasm arising from muscle tissue ,  adipose tissue ,  blood vessels ,  fibrous tissue ,  or other supportive tissues excluding the bones .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the breast parenchyma and is characterized by cellular discohesion resulting in a pseudoangiosarcomatous pattern .
a benign epithelial neoplasm characterized by a papillary growth pattern and a proliferation of neoplastic squamous cells without morphologic evidence of malignancy .
a malignant soft tissue neoplasm primarily involving the thyroid gland .
an undifferentiated soft tissue sarcoma characterized by the presence of a pleomorphic malignant cellular infiltrate .
a carcinoma that arises from the transitional epithelium of the ureter .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the uterine corpus .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the vulva .
stroke caused by the blockage of blood flow in a brain vessel through a clot or other foreign matters pumped from the heart to the brain
any 3mc syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the colec11 gene .
any 3mc syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the masp1 gene .
a hypopituitarrium that is characterized by a decreased or absent production of adrenocorticotropic hormone by the pituitary gland .
a rare disorder caused by mutation in the amacr gene .
deficiency of the aminoacylase - 1 enzyme
antisynthetase  ( as )  syndrome is a clinically heterogeneous form of idiopathic inflammatory myopathy characterized by myositis ,  arthralgia ,  raynaud phenomenon ,  mechanic hands ,  interstitial lung disease  ( ild )  ,  and serum autoantibodies to aminoacyl transfer rna synthetases  ( anti - ars )  .
any charcot - marie - tooth disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the spg11 gene .
cardiac amyloidosis is a condition whereby cardiac tissue is infiltrated by amyloid fibrils .
a disease involving the connective tissue .
dropped head syndrome  ( dhs )  is characterized by severe kyphotic deformity of the cervico - thoracic spine .
an idiopathic inflammatory myopathy of childhood resulting in muscle weakness .
monomelic amyotrophy  ( ma )  is a rare benign lower motor neuron disorder characterized by muscular weakness and wasting in the distal upper extremities during adolescence followed by a spontaneous halt in progression and a stabilization of symptoms .
an inflammatory process affecting the lung parenchyma .
scleroderma is a rare autoimmune connective tissue disorder characterized by abnormal hardening of the skin and ,  sometimes ,  other organs .
a rare autoimmune disorder in which patients present with overlapping symptoms of systemic scleroderma and polymyositis or dermatomyositis .
sclerodermatomyositis is an overlap syndrome of myositis and scleroderma ,  with dermatological ,  muscular and joint involvement ,  but may also present with ocular manifestations .
an inherited blood disorder characterized by a decreased synthesis of one of the polypeptide chains that form hemoglobin .
complex regional pain syndrome  ( crps )  is a rare neurologic disease painful progressive condition that corresponds to a group of disorders characterized by a disproportionate spontaneous or stimulus - induced pain ,  accompanied by a variably mixed myriad of autonomic and motor disorders including symptoms such as swelling ,  allodynia ,  skin blood supply and trophic disturbances .
systemic - onset juvenile idiopathic arthritis is marked by the severity of the extra - articular manifestations  ( fever ,  cutaneous eruptions )  and by an equal sex ratio .
takotsubo cardiomyopathy  ( tc )  is a recently described acute cardiac syndrome that mimics acute myocardial infarction and is characterized by ischemic chest symptoms ,  an elevated st segment on electrocardiogram ,  and elevated levels of cardiac disease markers .
acute myeloid leukemia characterized by the presence of t ( 8 ; 21 )  ( q22 ; q22 )  or inv ( 16 )  ( p13q22 )  / t ( 16 ; 16 )  ( p13 ; q22 )  .
a noncardiogenic form of pulmonary edema that develops in unacclimatized healthy individuals at altitudes above 25003000 m
an immune system disease that has basis in dysregulation of the hypersensitivity reaction ,  an inflammatory response to an exogenous environmental antigen or an endogenous antigen initiated by the adaptive immune system .
severe drug eruption characterized by high fever ,  erythematous rash and inflammation of internal organ ( s )  .
herniation or displacement of an intervertebral disc in the lumbar spinal region
high blood pressure that remains above treatment goals in spite of the concurrent use of three antihypertensive agents from different classes
a group of chronic ,  inflammatory childhood disorders of unknown etiology that primarily involve joints .
atypical teratoid rhabdoid tumor  ( atrt )  is a highly malignant central nervous system  ( cns )  rhabdoid tumor  ( rt )  found almost exclusively in children .
macular telangiectasia type 2 is a rare neurovascular degenerative retinal disease .
a biologic subset of breast carcinoma defined by high expression of tp53
asthma that starts in adulthood
partial or complete tear of a ligament ,  such as the anterior cruciate ligament  ( acl )  of the knee .
acute or chronic inflammation of the pancreas due to excessive alcohol drinking .
a subtype of depression characterized by the inability to find pleasure in positive things combined with physical agitation ,  insomnia ,  or decreased appetite .
a carcinoma that arises from the cervix and is caused by human papillomavirus infection
carcinomas of the follicular thyroid epithelium that retain sufficient differentiation to produce scattered small follicular structures and some thyroglobulin ,  but generally lack the usual morphologic characteristics of papillary and follicular carcinoma
differentiated thyroid carcinoma  ( dtc )  ,  also known as papillary or follicular thyroid carcinoma ,  is a slow - growing malignancy usually presenting in adults as an asymptomatic thyroid mass .
a disease involving the bronchus .
oligoarticular juvenile arthritis is the most common form of juvenile idiopathic arthritis  ( jia )  ,  representing nearly 50% of cases .
rheumatoid factor - negative polyarthritis is a term used to describe a group of poorly defined heterogenous conditions that incorporates forms of rheumatoid factor - negative polyarthritis and forms of oligoarticular arthritis that become extensive in less than 6 months after onset .
trauma to the ankle joint
a group of acute infections caused by herpes simplex virus type 1 or type 2 that is characterized by the development of one or more small fluid - filled vesicles with a raised erythematous base on the skin or mucous membrane .
a wart in the plantar surface of the foot .
inflammation of the throat due to streptococcus pyogenes .
a highly contagious viral infection caused by the measles virus .
a viral infection caused by the rubella virus .
disorder caused by an interruption of the mineralization of organic bone matrix leading to bone softening ,  bone pain ,  and weakness .
scarring hair loss ,  also known as cicatricial alopecia ,  is the loss of hair which is accompanied with scarring .
a type of chronic rhinosinusitis that is characterized by the presence of nasal polyps .
a type of chronic rhinosinusitis that is characterized by the absence of nasal polyps .
a subtype of classical hodgkin lymphoma with scattered reed - sternberg and hodgkin cells in a diffuse or vaguely nodular mixed inflammatory background without nodular sclerosing fibrosis .
hypertension that presents without an identifiable cause .
high blood pressure caused by an underlying medical condition .
hypertension caused by the kidney's hormonal response to narrowing or occlusion of the renal arteries .
a disease that involves the apocrine sweat gland .
a type of tick - borne disease which presents on the skin caused by bacteria of the genus rickettsia .
an acute or chronic condition that is characterized by the inability of the kidneys to adequately filter the blood .
a disease involving the renal glomerulus .
inflammation of renal tissue .
a disease involving the facial nerve .
the 48 , xxyy syndrome represents a chromosomal anomaly of the aneuploidic type characterized by the presence of an extra x and y chromosome in males .
ataxia - telangiectasia is the association of severe combined immunodeficiency  ( affecting mainly the humoral immune response )  with progressive cerebellar ataxia .
ocular albinism with late - onset sensorineural deafness  ( oasd )  ,  is a rare ,  x - linked inherited type of ocular albinism described in one african kindred  ( 7 males over 3 generations )  to date ,  characterized by severe visual impairment ,  translucent pale - blue iridies ,  a reduction in the retinal pigment and moderately severe deafness by middle age  ( fourth to fifth decade of life )  .
hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis ,  dutch type  ( hchwa - d )  is a form of hchwa ,  a group of familial central nervous system disorders ,  characterized by severe cerebral amyloid angiopathy  ( caa )  ,  hemorrhagic and non - hemorrhagic strokes and dementia .
hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis  ( hchwa )  ,  icelandic type is a form of hchwa characterized by an age of onset of 20 - 30 years ,  systemic amyloidosis and recurrent lobar intracerebral hemorrhages .
lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia type a  ( lcha )  is a form of lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia that encompasses classical lissencephaly with thickened cortical gray matter with either no discernable gradient ,  a gradient with posterior predominance ,  or a gradient with anterior predominance ,  and cerebellar vermis hypoplasia .
lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia type b  ( lchb )  is a form of lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia characterized by subtle microcephaly ,  hypotonia and neurological and cognitive development delay .
lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia type c  ( lchc )  is a severe form of lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia characterized by severe microcephaly ,  cleft palate ,  and severe cerebellar and brainstem hypoplasia leading to neonatal death .
lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia type d  ( lchd )  is a form of lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia characterized by pronounced microcephaly  ( at least b1 3 sd )  ,  intellectual disability ,  spastic diplegia and moderate to severe cerebellar hypoplasia involving both vermis and hemispheres .
lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia type e  ( lche )  is a form of lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia ,  characterized by an abrupt transition from agyria to gyral simplification ,  near the boundary between frontal and parietal cortex ,  microcephaly  ( b1 3 sd )  and brainstem hypoplasia .
lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia type f  ( lchf )  is a severe form of lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia ,  characterized by a microcephaly of at least  -  3 sd and a thick cortex associated with complete absence of the corpus callosum .
any amelogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fam83h gene .
any amelogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dlx3 gene .
autosomal dominant intermediate charcot - marie - tooth disease type a is a rare hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by intermediate motor median nerve conduction velocities  ( usually between 25 and 45 m / s )  and signs of both demyelination and axonal degeneration in nerve biopsies .
autosomal dominant intermediate charcot - marie - tooth disease type b is a rare hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by intermediate motor median nerve conduction velocities  ( usually between 25 and 45 m / s )  and signs of both demyelination and axonal degeneration in nerve biopsies .
autosomal dominant intermediate charcot - marie - tooth disease type c is a rare hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by intermediate motor median nerve conduction velocities  ( usually between 25 and 60 m / s )  .
autosomal dominant intermediate charcot - marie - tooth disease type d is a rare hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by intermediate motor median nerve conduction velocities  ( usually between 25 and 45 m / s )  and signs of both axonal degeneration and demyelination without onion bulbs in nerve biopsies .
esophageal duplication cyst is a rare ,  congenital ,  non - syndromic esophageal malformation ,  most frequently located in the distal esophagus and usually diagnosed in childhood ,  characterized by tubular or spherical cystic masses that have a double layer of surrounding smooth muscle lined with squamous or enteric epithelium ,  are continuous or contiguous to the esophagus and may ,  or may not ,  communicate with the esophageal lumen .
tubular duplication of the esophagous is a rare congenital malformation where a second structure with individual lumen and stratified squamous mucosa and muscularis mucosa lies within or adjacent to the true esophagus causing dysphagia ,  nausea ,  vomiting ,  retrosternal pain and respiratory problems  ( stridor and recurrent pneumonia )  and usually presenting in children .
primary interstitial lung disease specific to childhood due to pulmonary surfactant protein anomalies is a group of interstitial lung diseases  ( ild )  induced by genetic mutations disrupting surfactant function and gas exchange in the lung .
hereditary angioedema type 1  ( hae 1 )  is a form of hereditary angioedema characterized by acute edema in subcutaneous tissues ,  viscera and / or the upper airway .
hereditary angioedema type 2  ( hae 2 )  is a form of hereditary angioedema characterized by acute edema in subcutaneous tissues ,  viscera and / or the upper airway .
hereditary angioedema type 3  ( hae 3 )  is a form of hereditary angioedema characterized by acute edema in subcutaneous tissues ,  viscera and / or the upper airway .
semantic dementia  ( sd )  is a form of frontotemporal dementia  ( ftd )  ,  characterized by the progressive ,  amodal and profound loss of semantic knowledge  ( combination of visual associative agnosia ,  anomia ,  surface dyslexia or dysgraphia and disrupted comprehension of word meaning )  and behavioral abnormalities ,  attributable to the degeneration of the anterior temporal lobes .
progressive non - fluent aphasia  ( pnfa )  is a form of frontotemporal dementia  ( ftd )  ,  characterized by agrammatism ,  laborious speech ,  alexia ,  and agraphia ,  frequently accompanied by apraxia of speech  ( aos )  .
mosaic trisomy 3 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with high phenotypic variability ranging from a mild phenotype presenting joint pain and laxity ,  mild facial dysmorphism  ( e .g .
deletion 2q37 or monosomy 2q37 is a chromosomal anomaly involving deletion of chromosome band 2q37 and manifests as three major clinical findings: developmental delay ,  skeletal malformations and facial dysmorphism .
scalp defects - postaxial polydactyly syndrome is characterised by congenital scalp defects and postaxial polydactyly type a .
alopecia - contractures - dwarfism - intellectual disability syndrome  ( acd syndrome )  is a form of ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by a short stature of prenatal onset ,  alopecia ,  ichthyosis ,  photophobia ,  ectrodactyly ,  seizures ,  scoliosis ,  multiple contractures ,  fusions of various bones  ( particularly elbows ,  carpals ,  metacarpals ,  and spine )  ,  intellectual disability ,  and facial dysmorphism  ( microdolichocephaly ,  madarosis ,  large ears and long nose )  .
alopecia - epilepsy - pyorrhea - intellectual disability syndrome is characterized by congenital permanent alopecia universalis ,  intellectual disability ,  psychomotor epilepsy and periodontitis  ( pyorrhea )  .
porphyria of doss or deficiency of delta - aminolevulinic acid dehydratase  ( dalad )  is an extremely rare form of acute hepatic porphyria characterized by neuro - visceral attacks without cutaneous manifestations .
fraxe is a form of nonsyndromic x - linked mental retardation  ( ns - xlmr )  characterized by mild intellectual deficit .
fraxf syndrome was originally identified in a family with developmental delay and an expanded ccg repeat at the folate - sensitive fraxf fragile site .
bathing suit ichthyosis  ( bsi )  is a rare variant of autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis  ( arci )  characterized by the presence of large dark scales in specific areas of the body .
autosomal dominant form of complex hereditary spastic paraplegia .
autosomal dominant form of pure hereditary spastic paraplegia .
autosomal recessive form of complex hereditary spastic paraplegia .
autosomal recessive form of pure hereditary spastic paraplegia .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the atl1 gene .
autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia type 4  ( spg4 )  is a form of hereditary spastic paraplegia with high intrafamilial clinical variability ,  characterized in most cases as a pure phenotype with an adult onset  ( mainly the 3rd to 5th decade of life ,  but that can present at any age )  of progressive gait impairment due to bilateral lower - limb spasticity and weakness as well as very mild proximal weakness and urinary urgency .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 5a  ( spg5a )  is a form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by either a pure phenotype of slowly progressive spastic paraplegia of the lower extremities with bladder dysfunction and pes cavus or a complex presentation with additional manifestations including cerebellar signs ,  nystagmus ,  distal or generalized muscle atrophy and cognitive impairment .
autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia type 6  ( spg6 )  is a form of hereditary spastic paraplegia which usually presents in late adolescence or early adulthood as a pure phenotype of lower limb spasticity with hyperreflexia and extensor plantar responses ,  as well as mild bladder disturbances and pes cavus .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the washc5 gene .
any autosomal dominant complex spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the aldh18a1 gene .
autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia type 10  ( spg10 )  is a rare type of hereditary spastic paraplegia that can present as either a pure form of spastic paraplegia with lower limb spasticity ,  hyperreflexia and extensor plantar responses ,  presenting in childhood or adolescence ,  or as a complex phenotype associated with additional manifestations including peripheral neuropathy with upper limb amyotrophy ,  moderate intellectual disability and parkinsonism .
autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia type 12 is a pure form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by a childhood -  to adulthood - onset of slowly progressive lower limb spasticity and hyperreflexia of lower extremities ,  extensor plantar reflexes ,  distal sensory impairment ,  variable urinary dysfunction and pes cavus .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hspd1 gene .
a hereditary spastic paraplegia that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 3q27 - q28 .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 15 is a complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by a childhood to adulthood onset of slowly progressive lower limb spasticity  ( resulting in gait disturbance ,  extensor plantar responses and decreased vibration sense )  associated with mild intellectual disability ,  mild cerebellar ataxia ,  peripheral neuropathy  ( with distal upper limb amyotrophy )  and retinal degeneration .
a hereditary spastic paraplegia that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region xq11 .2 .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bscl2 gene .
autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia type 19 is a pure form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by a slowly progressive and relatively benign spastic paraplegia presenting in adulthood with spastic gait ,  lower limb hyperreflexia ,  extensor plantar responses ,  bladder dysfunction  ( urinary urgency and / or incontinence )  ,  and mild sensory and motor peripheral neuropathy .
dentatorubral pallidoluysian atrophy  ( drpla )  is a rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
autosomal dominant palmoplantar keratoderma with congenital alopecia  ( ppk - ca )  is a rare genetic skin disorder characterized by absence of scalp and body hair and palmoplantar keratoderma ,  without other hand complications .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 23  ( spg23 )  is a rare ,  complex type of hereditary spastic paraplegia that presents in childhood with progressive spastic paraplegia ,  associated with peripheral neuropathy ,  skin pigment abnormalities  ( i .e .
a hereditary spastic paraplegia that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 13q14 .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 25  ( spg25 )  is a rare ,  complex type of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by adult - onset spastic paraplegia associated with spinal pain that radiates to the upper or lower limbs and is related to disk herniation  ( with minor spondylosis )  ,  as well as mild sensorimotor neuropathy .
a rare ,  complex type of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by the onset in childhood / adolescence  ( ages 2 - 19 )  of progressive spastic paraplegia associated mainly with mild to moderate cognitive impairment and developmental delay ,  cerebellar ataxia ,  dysarthria ,  and peripheral neuropathy .
a hereditary spastic paraplegia that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 10q22 .1 - q24 .1 .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 28 is a pure form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by a childhood or adolescent onset of slowly progressive ,  pure crural muscle spastic paraparesis which manifests with mild lower limb weakness ,  gait difficulties ,  extensor plantar responses ,  and hyperreflexia of lower extremities .
autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia type 29  ( spg29 )  is a complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by a spastic paraplegia presenting in adolescence ,  associated with the additional manifestations of sensorial hearing impairment due to auditory neuropathy and persistent vomiting due to a hiatal or paraesophageal hernia .
autosomal spastic paraplegia type 30  ( spg30 )  is a form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by either a pure spastic paraplegia phenotype ,  usually presenting in the first or second decade of life ,  with spastic lower extremities ,  usteady spastic gait ,  hyperreflexia and extensor plantar responses ,  or as a complicated phenotype with the additional manifestations of distal wasting ,  saccadic ocular movements ,  mild cerebellar ataxia and mild ,  distal ,  axonal neuropathy .
a rare type of hereditary spastic paraplegia usually characterized by a pure phenotype of proximal weakness of the lower extremities with spastic gait and brisk reflexes ,  with a bimodal age of onset of either childhood or adulthood  (  > 30 years )  .
transaldolase deficiency is an inborn error of the pentose phosphate pathway that presents in the neonatal or antenatal period with hydrops fetalis ,  hepatosplenomegaly ,  hepatic dysfunction ,  thrombocytopenia ,  anemia ,  and renal and cardiac abnormalities .
female restricted epilepsy with intellectual disability is a rare x - linked genetic epilepsy syndrome affecting females .
familial hypofibrinogenemia is a coagulation disorder characterized by mild bleeding symptoms following trauma or surgery due to a reduced plasma fibrinogen concentration .
an autosomal dominant condition that is characterized by partial seizures originating in the temporal lobe and often accompanied by auditory sensory manifestations .
a familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the gna11 gene on chromosome 19p13 .
any familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ap2s1 gene .
a congenital condition in which there is complete right - to - left reversal of the position of the major thoracic and abdominal organs  ( that is ,  they are arranged in a mirror image of the normal positioning )  .
congenital stromal corneal dystrophy  ( cscd )  is an extremely rare form of stromal corneal dystrophy characterized by opaque flaky or feathery clouding of the corneal stroma ,  and moderate to severe visual loss .
bilateral frontoparietal polymicrogyria  ( bfpp )  is a sub - type of polymicrogyria  ( pmg )  ,  a cerebral cortical malformation characterized by excessive cortical folding and abnormal cortical layering ,  that involves the frontoparietal region of the brain and that presents with hypotonia ,  developmental delay ,  moderate to severe intellectual disability ,  pyramidal signs ,  epileptic seizures ,  non progressive cerebellar ataxia ,  dysconjugate gaze and / or strabismus .
charcot - marie - tooth neuropathy that is inherited in an x - linked manner ,  and is associated with mutation ( s )  in the gjb1 gene ,  encoding gap junction beta - 1 protein .
x - linked charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2 is a rare ,  genetic ,  peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy characterized by an x - linked recessive inheritance pattern and the infantile -  to childhood - onset of progressive ,  distal muscle weakness and atrophy  ( more prominent in the lower extremities than in the upper extremities )  ,  pes cavus ,  and absent tendon reflexes .
x - linked charcot - marie - tooth disease type 3 is a rare ,  genetic ,  peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy characterized by an x - linked recessive inheritance pattern and the childhood -  to adolescent - onset of progressive ,  distal muscle weakness and atrophy  ( beginning in the lower extremities and then affecting the upper extremities )  ,  as well as distal ,  pansensory loss in the upper and lower extremities ,  pes cavus ,  and absent or reduced distal tendon reflexes .
x - linked charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4 is a rare ,  genetic ,  axonal ,  peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy characterized by an x - linked recessive inheritance pattern and the neonatal -  to early childhood - onset of severe ,  slowly progressive ,  distal muscle weakness and atrophy  ( in particular of the peroneal group )  ,  as well as sensory impairment  ( with the lower extremities being more affected than the upper extremities )  ,  pes cavus ,  areflexia and hammertoes .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 1a  ( cmt1a )  is a type ofinherited neurological disorder that affects the peripheral nerves .
a sensorineural peripheral polyneuropathy affecting approximately 1 in 2 , 500 individuals ,  and is the most common inherited disorder of the peripheral nervous system .
any charcot - marie - tooth disease type 1 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the litaf gene .
a form of cmt1 ,  caused by mutations in the egr2 gene  ( 10q21 .1 )  ,  with a variable severity and age of onset  ( from infancy to adulthood )  ,  that usually presents with gait abnormalities ,  progressive wasting and weakness of distal limb muscles ,  with possible later involvement of proximal muscles ,  foot deformity and severe reduction in nerve conduction velocity .
a form of cmt1 ,  with a variable clinical presentation that can range from severe impairment with onset in childhood to mild impairment appearing during adulthood .
hyper igm syndrome type 1  ( higm - 1 )  is the x - linked variant of the hyper - igm syndrome .
a hyper - igm syndrome characterized by the absence of immunoglobulin class switch recombination ,  the lack of immunoglobulin somatic hypermutations ,  and lymph node hyperplasia caused by the presence of giant germinal centers .
a form of hyper igm syndrome characterized by mutations of the cd40 gene .
a form of hyper igm syndrome which is a defect in class switch recombination downstream of the aicda gene that does not impair somatic hypermutation .
any hyper - igm syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ung gene .
autosomal recessive charcot - marie - tooth disease with hoarseness  ( arcmt2k or cmt4c4 )  is a severe early - onset form of axonal cmt peripheral sensorimotor polyneuropathy .
charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  type 2b2  ( cmt2b2 ,  also referred to as cmt4c3 )  is an axonal cmt peripheral sensorimotor polyneuropathy that has been described in a large consanguineous costa rican family of spanish ancestry .
charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  type 2h  ( cmt2h ,  also referred to as cmt4c2 )  is an axonal cmt peripheral sensorimotor polyneuropathy associated with pyramidal involvement .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 23  ( sca23 )  is a very rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 28  ( sca28 )  is a very rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 20  ( sca20 )  is a very rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 25  ( sca25 )  is a very rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 26  ( sca26 )  is a very rare subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type iii  ( adca type iii )  characterized by late - onset and slowly progressive cerebellar signs  ( gait ataxia )  and eye movement abnormalities .
autosomal recessive dopa - responsive dystonia  ( dyt5b )  is a very rare neurometabolic disorder characterized by a spectrum of symptoms ranging from those seen in dopa - responsive dystonia  ( drd )  to progressive infantile encephalopathy .
porphyria cutanea tarda  ( pct )  is the most common form of chronic hepatic porphyria .
familial isolated congenital asplenia is a rare ,  non - syndromic ,  potentially life - threatening visceral malformation characterized by the absence of normal spleen function ,  resulting in a primary immunodeficiency .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of total alopecia  ( present at birth )  ,  mild intellectual deficit and hypergonadotropic hypogonadism .
the association of x - linked alport syndrome with leiomyomatosis of the esophagus ,  tracheobronchial tree or female genitals has been reported in more than 30 families .
an instance of cardiac rhythm disease that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
chronic primary adrenal insufficiency  ( cpai )  is a chronic disorder of the adrenal cortex resulting in the inadequate production of glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid hormones .
a broad classification of inherited disorders presenting at birth that affect both the cell - mediated and humoral aspects of the immune response .
a rare disorder characterized by recurrent infantile infections and absence of neutrophils in the peripheral blood .
early - onset autosomal dominant alzheimer disease  ( eoad )  is a progressive dementia with reduction of cognitive functions .
a hereditary spastic paraplegia that is part of a larger syndrome .
autosomal dominant form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy .
autosomal recessive form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy .
amaurosis hypertrichosis is characterised by severe retinal dystrophy marked by visual impairment and profound photophobia without night blindness .
congenital generalized hypertrichosis ,  ambras type is an extremely rare type of hypertrichosis lanuginosa congenita ,  a congenital skin disease ,  that is characterized by the presence of vellus - type hair on the entire body ,  especially on the face ,  ears and shoulders ,  with the exception of palms ,  soles ,  and mucous membranes .
autosomal recessive amelia is characterised by the absence of the upper limbs and severe underdevelopment of the lower limbs .
genetic optic atrophy  ( goa )  is a form of inherited optic neuropathy which typically manifest as symmetric ,  bilateral ,  and painless central visual loss .
amelogenesis imperfecta - nephrocalcinosis ,  also called enamel - renal syndrome ,  is an extremely rare syndrome which is characterized by hypoplastic amelogenesis imperfecta  ( hypoplastic dental enamel )  and nephrocalcinosis  ( precipitation of calcium salts in renal tissue )  .
hyperdibasic aminoaciduria ,  type 1 is characterised by increased renal clearance of lysine ,  ornithine and arginine ,  in the presence of normal concentrations of cystine .
amniotic band syndrome  ( abs )  describes a group of sporadic congenital anomalies ,  that occur in association with amniotic bands ,  involving the limbs ,  craniofacial regions ,  spine and trunk with a highly variable clinical spectrum ranging from simple digital band constriction  ( or amputation )  to complex craniofacial ,  central nervous system and visceral anomalies .
arthrogryposis multiplex congenita  ( amc )  is a group of disorders characterized by congenital limb contractures .
this syndrome is characterised by chronic diarrhoea in infancy or childhood in association with intestinal glucoamylase deficiency .
congenital sodium diarrhea is characterized by severe watery diarrhea containing high concentrations of sodium ,  hyponatremia and metabolic acidosis .
this syndrome is characterised by diarrhoea and vomiting after ingestion of trehalose ,  a disaccharide found mainly in mushrooms .
congenital enterocyte heparan sulphate deficiency is characterised by massive enteric protein loss ,  secretory diarrhoea ,  and intolerance to enteral feeds during the first few weeks of life .
leber's hereditary optic neuropathy  ( lhon )  is a mitochondrial neurodegenerative disease affecting the optic nerve and often characterized by sudden vision loss in young adult carriers .
metaphyseal anadysplasia is a very rare form of metaphyseal dysplasia characterized by short stature ,  rhizomelic micromelia and a mild varus deformity of the legs evident from the first months of life ,  that is associated with radiological features of severe metaphyseal changes  ( irregularities ,  widening and marginal blurring )  in long bones ,  most prominent in proximal femurs ,  and generalized osteopenia ,  and that usually spontaneously resolves by the age of three years .
a metabolic disease that involves the intestine .
waters - west syndrome is characterized by the association of lethal non - spherocytic ,  non - immune hemolytic anemia with abnormalities of the external genitalia  ( micropenis and hypospadias )  ,  flat occiput ,  dimpled earlobes ,  deep plantar creases ,  and increased space between the first and second toes .
anencephaly is a neural tube defect .
atresia of the urethra is a rare congenital bladder outlet obstruction ,  a fetal lower urinary tract obstruction  ( fetal luto )  ,  that is usually fatal .
ramos - arroyo syndrome  ( ras )  is a very rare genetic disorder characterized by corneal anesthesia ,  retinal abnormalities ,  bilateral hearing loss ,  distinct facies ,  patent ductus arteriosus ,  hirschsprung disease ,  short stature ,  and intellectual disability .
mosaic variegated aneuploidy  ( mva )  syndrome is a chromosomal anomaly characterized by multiple mosaic aneuploidies that leads to a variety of phenotypic abnormalities and cancer predisposition .
blue rubber bleb nevus  ( brbns )  is a rare vascular malformation disorder with cutaneous and visceral lesions frequently associated with serious ,  potentially fatal bleeding and anemia .
hereditary neurocutaneous angioma is characterised by the association of cerebral and cutaneous angiomatous lesions .
tufted angioma is a very rare ,  benign ,  cutaneous ,  slow - growing ,  vascular tumor mostly developing in infancy or early childhood .
aniridia  -  renal agenesis  -  psychomotor retardation is an extremely rare syndrome reported in two siblings of non consanguineous parents that is characterized by the association of ocular abnormalities  ( partial aniridia ,  congenital glaucoma ,  telecanthus )  with frontal bossing ,  hypertelorism ,  unilateral renal agenesis and mild psychomotor delay .
aniridia - cerebellar ataxia - intellectual disability syndrome ,  also known as gillespie syndrome ,  is a rare ,  congenital ,  neurological disorder characterized by the association of partial bilateral aniridia with non - progressive cerebellar ataxia ,  and intellectual disability .
aniridia  -  ptosis  -  intellectual disability  -  familial obesity is an extremely rare syndrome described in three members of a family  ( a mother and her two children )  that is characterized by the association of various ocular abnormalities  ( partial or complete aniridia ,  ptosis ,  pendular nystagmus ,  corneal pannus ,  persistent pupillary membrane ,  lenticular opacities ,  foveal hypoplasia ,  and low visual acuity )  with various systemic anomalies including intellectual disability and obesity in the two children ,  and alopecia ,  cardiac abnormalities ,  and frequent spontaneous abortion in the mother .
aniridia - intellectual disability syndrome is an extremely rare autosomal dominant developmental defect of the eye described in several members of one family that is characterized by the association of moderate intellectual disability with aniridia ,  lens dislocation ,  optic nerve hypoplasia and cataracts .
aniridia - absent patella is a syndrome described in three members of a family  ( a boy ,  his father ,  and his paternal grandmother )  that is characterized by the association of aniridia with patella aplasia or hypoplasia .
branchiootorenal  ( bor )  syndrome is characterized by branchial arch anomalies  ( branchial clefts ,  fistulae ,  cysts )  ,  hearing impairment  ( malformations of the auricle with pre - auricular pits ,  conductive or sensorineural hearing impairment )  ,  and renal malformations  ( urinary tree malformation ,  renal hypoplasia or agenesis ,  renal dysplasia ,  renal cysts )  .
ankyloblepharon - ectodermal defects - cleft lip / palate  ( aec )  syndrome is an ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with defining features of ankyloblepharon filiforme adnatum  ( afa )  ,  ectodermal abnormalities and a cleft lip and / or palate .
ankyloblepharon filiforme adnatum - imperforate anus syndrome is an extremely rare developmental defect during embryogenesis malformation syndrome characterized by bands of extensile tissue connecting the margins of the upper and lower eyelids ,  in association with anal atresia .
dental ankylosis is a rare disorder characterized by the fusion of the tooth to the bone ,  preventing both eruption and orthodontic movement .
thumb stiffness - brachydactyly - intellectual disability syndrome is characterized by intellectual deficit ,  mild dysmorphism ,  type a brachydactylia ,  signs of obesity and ankylosis of both thumbs .
microlissencephaly describes a heterogenous group of a rare cortical malformations characterized by lissencephaly in combination with severe congenital microcephaly ,  presenting with spasticity ,  severe developmental delay ,  and seizures and with survival varying from days to years .
isolated lissencephaly type 1 without known genetic defects belongs to the genetically heterogeneous group ,  classic lissencephaly .
a esophageal malformation that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a gastroduodenal malformation that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a gastroduodenal malformation that is part of a larger syndrome .
a intestinal malformation that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a intestinal malformation that is part of a larger syndrome .
a developmental defect of the eye that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a developmental defect of the eye that is part of a larger syndrome .
a respiratory or mediastinal malformation that is not part of a larger syndrome .
bannayan - riley - ruvalcaba syndrome  ( brrs )  is a rare congenital disorder characterized by hamartomatous intestinal polyposis ,  lipomas ,  macrocephaly and genital lentiginosis .
anonychia - microcephaly syndrome is a multiple congenital anomaly disorder characterized by anonychia congenita totalis and microcephaly ,  and normal intelligence along with some minor anomalies including single transverse palmar creases ,  fifth - finger clinodactyly and widely - spaced teeth .
pentasomy x is a sex chromosome anomaly caused by the presence of three extra x chromosomes in females  ( 49 , xxxxx instead of 46 , xx )  .
bardet - biedl syndrome  ( bbs )  is a ciliopathy with multisystem involvement .
anophthalmia - megalocornea - cardiopathy - skeletal anomalies syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies syndrome ,  reported in the offsprings of a consanguineous couple and characterized by multiple congenital skeletal  ( dolichocephaly ,  skull asymmetry ,  camptodactyly ,  clubfoot )  ,  muscular  ( muscle hypoplasia )  ,  ocular  ( anophthalmia ,  buphthalmos ,  retinal detachment ,  aniridia )  and cardiac  ( prolapse of tricuspid valves ,  mitral and tricuspid insufficiency )  abnormalities .
anophthalmia plus syndrome is a very rare multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by the presence of anophthalmia or severe microphthalmia ,  cleft lip / palate ,  facial cleft and sacral neural tube defects ,  along with various additional anomalies including congenital glaucoma ,  iris coloboma ,  primary hyperplastic vitreous ,  hypertelorism ,  low - set ears ,  clinodactyly ,  choanal atresia / stenosis ,  dysgenesis of sacrum ,  tethering of spinal cord ,  syringomyelia ,  hypoplasia of corpus callosum ,  cerebral ventriculomegaly and endocrine abnormalities .
microphthalmia with limb anomalies ,  also known as ophthalmo - acromelic syndrome  ( oas )  ,  is a rare developmental disorder characterized by bilateral microphthalmia or anophthalmia ,  synostosis ,  syndactyly ,  oligodactyly and / or polydactyly .
barth syndrome  ( bths )  is an inborn error of phospholipid metabolism characterized by dilated cardiomyopathy  ( dcm )  ,  skeletal myopathy ,  neutropenia ,  growth delay and organic aciduria .
aortic arch anomaly - peculiar facies - intellectual disability syndrome is a developmental anomaly characterized at birth by the presence of right - sided aortic arch ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( microcephaly ,  asymmetric ,  facial bones ,  broad forehead ,  borderline hypertelorism ,  nasal septum deviation ,  large nasal cavity ,  large ,  posteriorly rotated ears ,  and microstomia with downturned corners )  ,  and intellectual disability .
aphalangy - hemivertebrae - urogenital - intestinal dysgenesis is an extremely rare congenital limb malformation syndrome ,  described in only 3 patients to date ,  and characterized by the association of hypoplasia or aplasia of the hand and foot phalanges ,  hemivertebrae and various urogenital and / or intestinal abnormalities  ( i .e .
aphalangy - syndactyly - microcephaly is an extremely rare malformation syndrome characterized by the association of partial distal aphalangia with syndactyly ,  duplication of metatarsal iv ,  microcephaly ,  and mild intellectual disability .
recessive aplasia cutis congenita of limbs is an extremely rare variant of aplasia cutis congenita  ( acc )  characterized by the congenital absence of skin on the upper and / or lower limbs ,  with these lesions usually healing spontaneously resulting in a hypotrichotic scar .
aplasia cutis congenita  -  intestinal lymphangiectasia is an extremely rare association syndrome ,  described in only two brothers to date  ( one of which died at 2 months of age )  ,  characterized by aplasia cutis congenita of the vertex and generalized edema  ( as well as hypoproteinemia and lymphopenia )  due to intestinal lymphangiectasia .
aplasia cutis - myopia syndrome is characterised by the association of aplasia cutis congenita with high myopia ,  congenital nystagmus and cone - rod dysfunction .
fibular aplasia - ectrodactyly syndrome is characterized by fibular aplasia and ectrodactyly .
bartter syndrome is a group of rare renal tubular disease characterized by impaired salt reabsorption in the thick ascending limb of henle's loop and clinically by the association of hypokalemic alkalosis ,  hypercalciuria / nephrocalcinosis ,  increased levels of plasma renin and aldosterone ,  low blood pressure and vascular resistance to angiotensin ii .
lung agenesis  -  heart defect  -  thumb anomalies is a very rare syndrome characterized by unilateral complete or partial lung agenesis ,  congenital cardiac defects and ipsilateral thumb anomalies .
ulnar hypoplasia - split foot syndrome is characterised by the association of severe ulnar hypoplasia ,  absence of fingers two to five ,  and split - foot .
caudal appendage - deafness syndrome is characterized by caudal appendage ,  short terminal phalanges ,  deafness ,  cryptorchidism ,  intellectual deficit ,  short stature and dysmorphism .
ocular motor apraxia ,  cogan type is characterised by impairment of voluntary horizontal eye movements and compensatory head thrust .
arachnodactyly  -  abnormal ossification  -  intellectual disability is a multiple congenital developmental anomalies syndrome characterized by arachnodactyly of fingers and toes associated with craniofacial dysmorphism  ( including abnormal cranial ossification ,  frontal bossing ,  flat calvaria ,  shallow deformed orbits resulting in exophtalmos ,  midface hypoplasia and micrognathia )  ,  feeding difficulties in infancy ,  infantile muscular hypotonia ,  and developmental delay leading to intellectual disability .
bazex - dupre - christol syndrome is a rare genodermatosis with a predisposition to early - onset basal cell carcinomas .
arachnodactyly - intellectual disability - dysmorphism syndrome is characterized by moderate intellectual deficit ,  brachycephaly ,  typical facies  ( thin lips and microstomia )  ,  ectomorphic habitus with extremely long ,  thin fingers and toes ,  and hypoplastic external genitalia .
x - linked mandibulofacial dysostosis is an extremely rare multiple congenital abnormality syndrome that is characterized by microcephaly ,  malar hypoplasia with downslanting palpebral fissures ,  highly arched palate ,  apparently low - set and protruding ears ,  micrognathia ,  short stature ,  bilateral hearing loss ,  and learning disability .
aredyld stands for acral - renal - ectodermal - dysplasia - lipoatrophic - diabetes .this syndrome has been described in three individuals ,  one of whom was born to consanguineous parents .
arhinia - choanal atresia - microphthalmia is a malformation disorder characterized by complete or incomplete absence of nose  ( arrhinia )  ,  choanal atresia ,  microphthalmia ,  anophthalmia and cleft or high palate .
arnold - chiari malformation type ii is a rare ,  central nervous system malformation characterized by caudal displacement of the cerebellum ,  pons ,  medulla and fourth ventricle through the foramen magnum into the spinal canal ,  and is typically associated with myelomeningocele .
auriculoosteodysplasia is a very rare condition characterized by multiple osseous dysplasia ,  characteristic ear shape  ( elongation of the lobe that is attached and accompanied by a small ,  slightly posterior lobule )  and somewhat short stature .
neurogenic arthrogryposis multiplex congenita is a form of arthrogryposis multiplex congenita characterized by congenital immobility of the limbs with fixation of multiple joints and muscle wasting .
arthrogryposis - like hand anomaly - sensorineural deafness syndrome is characterized by an arthrogryposis - like hand anomaly and sensorineural deafness .
a rare form of spinal muscular atrophy characterized by the neonatal onset of severe hypotonia ,  areflexia ,  profound weakness ,  multiple congenital contractures ,  facial dysmorphic features  ( myopathic face with open ,  tent - shaped mouth )  ,  cryptorchidism ,  and mild skeletal abnormalities  ( i .e .
digitotalar dysmorphism ,  also known as distal arthrogryposis type 1  ( da1 )  ,  is an autosomal dominant congenital anomaly characterized by contractures of the distal regions of the hands and feet with no facial involvement or any additional anomalies .
sheldon - hall syndrome  ( shs )  is a rare multiple congenital contracture syndrome characterized by contractures of the distal joints of the limbs ,  triangular face ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  small mouth ,  and high arched palate .
arthrogryposis - like syndrome ,  also known as kuskokwim disease ,  is a very rare congenital contracture disorder ,  reported exclusively in yup'ik eskimos of the kuskokwim river delta region of alaska ,  characterized by multiple contractures of large joints  ( predominantly the knees and ankles )  that present at birth or during childhood but are lifelong ;  deformities of the spine ,  pelvis and feet ;  and sometimes proximally or distally displaced patellae and muscle atrophy in the limbs with contractures .
congenital contractural arachnodactyly  ( cca ,  beals syndrome )  is a connective tissue disorder characterized by multiple flexion contractures ,  arachnodactyly ,  severe kyphoscoliosis ,  abnormal pinnae and muscular hypoplasia .
arthrogryposis multiplex congenita - whistling face syndrome is an extremely rare type of arthrogryposis multiplex congenita characterized by the combination of multiple joint contractures with movement limitation ,  microstomia with a whistling appearance of the mouth that may cause feeding ,  swallowing ,  and speech difficulties ,  a distinctive expressionless facies ,  severe developmental delay ,  central and autonomous nervous system dysfunction  ( excessive salivation ,  temperature instability ,  myoclonic epileptic fits ,  bradycardia )  ,  occasionally pierre - robin sequence ,  and lethality generally occurring during the first months of life .
distal arthrogryposis type 5 is an inherited developmental defect syndrome characterized by multiple congenital contractures of limbs ,  without primary neurologic and / or muscle disease that affects limb function ,  and ocular anomalies  ( ptosis ,  external ophtalmoplegia and / or strabismus )  .
progressive pseudorheumatoid arthropathy  ( dysplasia )  of childhood  ( ppac ;  ppd )  presents as spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia  ( sed )  tarda with progressive arthropathy and is described as a specific autosomal recessive subtype of sed .
beckwith - wiedemann syndrome  ( bws )  is a genetic disorder characterized by overgrowth ,  tumor predisposition and congenital malformations .
congenital unilateral hypoplasia of depressor anguli oris is a congenital anomaly ,  characterized by the unilateral hypoplasia / agenesis of the depressor anguli oris muscle ,  resulting in an asymmetric crying facies in neonatal period /  infancy  ( drooping of one corner of the mouth during crying )  while eye closure ,  nasolabial fold and forehead wrinkling are symmetric .
ataxia with oculomotor apraxia type 1  ( aoa1 )  is a rare autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia  ( arca )  ,  characterized by progressive cerebellar ataxia associated with oculomotor apraxia ,  severe neuropathy ,  and hypoalbuminemia .
the disorders involving primarily the cerebellar parenchyma have been classified into six forms .
cerebellar ataxia  -  areflexia  -  pes cavus  -  optic atrophy  -  sensorineural hearing loss  ( capos syndrome )  is a rare autosomal dominant neurological disorder characterized by early onset cerebellar ataxia ,  associated with areflexia ,  progressive optic atrophy ,  sensorineural deafness ,  a pes cavus deformity ,  and abnormal eye movements .
autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxias  ( arca )  are a heterogeneous group of rare neurological disorders involving both the central and peripheral nervous system  ( and in some cases other systems and organs )  ,  and characterized by degeneration or abnormal development of the cerebellum and spinal cord and ,  in most cases ,  early onset occurring before the age of 20 years .
cerebellar ataxia - hypogonadism syndrome is a very rare autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the combination of progressive cerebellar ataxia with onset from early childhood to the fourth decade ,  and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism  ( delayed puberty and lack of secondary sex characteristics )  .
cereballar ataxia  -  ectodermal dysplasia is a very rare disease ,  characterized by hypodontia and sparse hair in combination with cerebellar ataxia and normal intelligence .
a anorectal malformation that is part of a larger syndrome .
early onset cerebellar ataxia with retained reflexes  ( eocarr )  or harding ataxia is a cerebellar ataxia characterized by the progressive association of a cerebellar and pyramidal syndrome with progressive cerebellar ataxia ,  brisk tendon reflexes ,  and sometimes profound sensory loss .
benign paroxysmal tonic upgaze of childhood with ataxia is a rare paroxysmal movement disorder characterized by episodes of sustained ,  conjugate ,  upward deviation of the eyes and down beating saccades in attempted downgaze  ( with preserved horizontal eye movements )  which is accompanied by ataxic symptomatology  ( unsteady gait ,  lack of balance and movement coordination disturbances )  in an otherwise healthy individual .
beta - mannosidosis is a very rare lysosomal storage disease characterized by developmental delay of varying severity and hearing loss ,  but that can manifest a wide phenotypic heterogeneity .
ataxia - hypogonadism - choroidal dystrophy syndrome is a very rare autosomal recessive ,  slowly progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the triad of cerebellar ataxia  ( that generally manifests at adolescence or early adulthood )  ,  chorioretinal dystrophy ,  which may have a later onset  ( up to the fifth - sixth decade )  leading to variable degrees of visual impairment ,  and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism  ( delayed puberty and lack of secondary sex characteristics )  .
spastic ataxia with congenital miosis is a rare hereditary ataxia characterized by an apparently non - progressive or slowly progressive symmetrical ataxia of gait ,  pyramidal signs in the limbs ,  spasticity and hyperreflexia  ( especially in the lower limbs )  together with dysarthria and impaired pupillary reaction to light ,  presenting as a fixed miosis  ( with pupils that seldom exceed 2 mm in diameter and dilate poorly with mydriatics )  .
spinocerebellar ataxia - dysmorphism is marked by characteristic facies associated with dysarthria ,  delayed psychomotor development ,  ataxia ,  scoliosis and foot deformities .
infantile - onset spinocerebellar ataxia  ( iosca )  is a hereditary neurological disorder with early and severe involvement of both the peripheral and central nervous systems .
lethal ataxia with deafness and optic atrophy  ( also known as arts syndrome )  is characterized by intellectual deficit ,  early - onset hypotonia ,  ataxia ,  delayed motor development ,  hearing impairment and loss of vision due to optic atrophy .
this syndrome is characterised by progressive ataxia beginning during childhood ,  deafness and intellectual deficit .
autosomal recessive limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 2e  ( lgmd2e )  is a subtype of autosomal recessive limb girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by a childhood to adolescent onset of progressive pelvic -  and shoulder - girdle muscle weakness ,  particularly affecting the pelvic girdle  ( adductors and flexors of hip )  .
atelosteogenesis i is a perinatally lethal skeletal dysplasia characterized by severe short - limbed dwarfism ,  joint dislocations ,  club feet along with distinctive facies and radiographic findings .
atherosclerosis - deafness - diabetes - epilepsy - nephropathy syndrome is characterised by sensorineural deafness ,  diabetes mellitus ,  progressive neurological deterioration with photomyoclonic epilepsy ,  and progressive nephropathy .
atkin - flaitz syndrome is characterised by moderate to severe intellectual deficit ,  short stature ,  macrocephaly ,  and characteristic facies .
a mitochondrial complex deficiency characterized by early neonatal onset of hypotonia ,  hypetrophic cardiomyopathy and apneic spells within hours after birth accompanied by lactic acidosis ,  hyperammonemia and 3 - methylglutaconic aciduria .
congenital atransferrinemia is a very rare hematologic disease caused by a transferrin  ( tf )  deficiency and characterized by microcytic ,  hypochromic anemia  ( manifesting with pallor ,  fatigue and growth retardation )  and iron overload ,  and that can be fatal if left untreated .
colonic atresia is a congenital intestinal malformation resulting in a non - latent segment of the colon and characterized by lower intestinal obstruction manifesting with abdominal distention and failure to pass meconium in newborns .
choanal atresia  -  deafness  -  cardiac defects  -  dysmorphism syndrome ,  also known as burn - mckeown syndrome ,  is an extremely rare multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by bilateral choanal atresia associated with a characteristic cranio - facial dysmorphism  ( hypertelorism with narrow palpebral fissures ,  coloboma of inferior eyelid with presence of eyelashes medial to the defect ,  prominent nasal bridge ,  thin lips ,  prominent ears )  ,  that can be accompanied by hearing loss ,  unilateral cleft lip ,  preauricular tags ,  cardiac septal defects and anomalies of the kidneys .
atresia of small intestine is a special form of intestinal atresia with absence of mesentery ,  which is most likely due to an intrauterine intestinal vascular accident .
a congenital malformation of the larynx in which there is failure of recanalization of the laryngotracheal tube during gestation .
duodenal atresia is an embryopathy of the cranial intestine that leads to a complete absence of the duodenal lumen .
autosomal dominant optic atrophy plus syndrome  ( adoa plus )  is a variant of autosomal dominant optic atrophy  ( adoa )  associating the typical optic atrophy with other extra - ocular manifestations such as sensorineural deafness ,  myopathy ,  chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia ,  ataxia and peripheral neuropathy .
autosomal dominant congenital benign spinal muscular atrophy is a rare distal hereditary motor neuropathy ,  with a variable clinical phenotype ,  typically characterized by congenital ,  non - progressive ,  predominantly distal ,  lower limb muscle weakness and atrophy and congenital  ( or early - onset )  flexion contractures of the hip ,  knee and ankle joints .
spinal atrophy - ophthalmoplegia - pyramidal syndrome is a rare ,  bulbospinal muscular atrophy characterized by generalized neonatal hypotonia ,  progressive pontobulbar and spinal palsy ,  pyramidal signs ,  and deafness .
birt - hogg - dube  ( bhd )  syndrome is characterized by skin lesions ,  kidney tumors ,  and pulmonary cysts that may be associated with pneumothorax .
baller - gerold syndrome is characterized by the association of coronal craniosynostosis with radial ray anomalies  ( oligodactyly ,  aplasia or hypoplasia of the thumb ,  aplasia or hypoplasia of the radius )  .
bamforth - lazarus syndrome is a very rare syndrome of congenital hypothyroidism characterized by thyroid dysgenesis  ( in most cases athyreosis )  ,  cleft palate and spiky hair ,  with or without choanal atresia ,  and bifid epiglottis .
bangstad syndrome is a rare endocrine disease characterized by the association of primordial birdheaded nanism ,  progressive ataxia ,  goiter ,  primary gonadal insufficiency and insulin resistant diabetes mellitus .
banki syndrome is a synostosis syndrome ,  reported in a single hungarian family in which members of 3 generations showed lunotriquetral synostosis ,  clinodactyly ,  clinometacarpy ,  brachymetacarpy and leptometacarpy  ( thin diaphysis )  .
congenital intrauterine infection - like syndrome is characterised by the presence of microcephaly and intracranial calcifications at birth accompanied by neurological delay ,  seizures and a clinical course similar to that seen in patients after intrauterine infection with toxoplasma gondii ,  rubella ,  cytomegalovirus ,  herpes simplex  ( so - called torch syndrome )  ,  or other agents ,  despite repeated tests revealing the absence of any known infectious agent .
bjrnstad syndrome is characterized by congenital sensorineural hearing loss and pili torti .
barber say syndrome  ( bss )  is a rare ectodermal dysplasia with neonatal onset characterized by congenital generalized hypertrichosis ,  atrophic skin ,  ectropion and microstomia .
bartsocas - papas syndrome is a rare ,  inherited ,  popliteal pterygium syndrome characterized by severe popliteal webbing ,  microcephaly ,  a typical face with short palpebral fissures ,  ankyloblepharon ,  hypoplastic nose ,  filiform bands between the jaws and facial clefts ,  oligosyndactyly ,  genital abnormalities ,  and additional ectodermal anomalies  ( i .e .
beemer - ertbruggen syndrome is a lethal malformation syndrome reported in 2 brothers of first - cousin parents that is characterized by hydrocephalus ,  cardiac malformation ,  dense bones ,  and unusual facies with down - slanting palpebral fissures ,  bulbous nose ,  broad nasal bridge ,  micrognathia and a long upper lip .
behr syndrome is a disorder characterized by early - onset optic atrophy along with neurological features ,  including ataxia ,  spasticity ,  and intellectual disability .
a congenital aregenerative and often macrocytic anemia with erythroblastopenia .
metaphyseal acroscyphodysplasia is an extremely rare form of metaphyseal dysplasia characterized by the distinctive radiological sign of cone - shaped upper tibial and lower femoral epiphyses embedded in large cup - shaped metaphyses ,  associated with short stature and micromelia .
bencze syndrome or hemifacial hyperplasia with strabismus is a malformation syndrome involving the abnormal growth of the facial skeleton as well as its soft tissue structure and organs ,  and is characterized by mild facial asymmetry with unaffected neurocranium and eyeballs ,  as well as by esotropia ,  amblyopia and / or convergent strabismus ,  and occasionally submucous cleft palate .
best vitelliform macular dystrophy  ( bvmd )  is a genetic macular dystrophy characterized by loss of central visual acuity ,  metamorphopsia and a decrease in the arden ratio secondary to an egg yolk - like lesion located in the foveal or parafoveal region .
brachydactyly - nystagmus - cerebellar ataxia syndrome is characterized by brachydactyly ,  nystagmus and cerebellar ataxia .
binder syndrome is a rare developmental anomaly ,  affecting primarily the anterior part of the maxilla and nasal complex .
bloom syndrome  ( bsyn )  is a rare chromosomal breakage syndrome characterized by a marked genetic instability associated with pre -  and postnatal growth retardation ,  facial sun - sensitive telangiectatic erythema ,  increased susceptibility to infections ,  and predisposition to cancer .
blepharonasofacial syndrome is a rare otorhinolaryngological malformation syndrome characterized by a distinctive mask - like facial dysmorphism ,  lacrimal duct obstruction ,  extrapyramidal features ,  digital malformations and intellectual disability .
ascher syndrome is a very rare syndrome characterized by a combination of blepharochalasis ,  double lip ,  and non - toxic thyroid enlargement  ( seen in 10 - 50% of cases )  ,  although the occurrence of all three signs at presentation is uncommon .
this syndrome is characterised by bilateral congenital blepharoptosis ,  ectopia lentis and high myopia .
blepharophimosis ,  ptosis ,  and epicanthus inversus syndrome  ( bpes )  is an ophthalmic disorder characterized by blepharophimosis ,  ptosis ,  epicanthus inversus ,  and telecanthus ,  that can appear associated with  ( type i )  or without premature ovarian failure  ( pof )   ( type ii )  .
bonnemann - meinecke - reich syndrome is a syndrome of multiple congenital anomalies characterized by an encephalopathy which predominantly occurs in the first year of life and presenting as psychomotor delay .
book syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant ectodermal dysplasia syndrome reported in a swedish family  ( 25 cases from 4 generations )  ,  and one isolated case ,  and is characterized by premolar aplasia ,  hyperhidrosis ,  and premature graying of the hair .
boomerang dysplasia  ( bd )  is a rare lethal skeletal dysplasia characterized by severe short - limbed dwarfism ,  dislocated joints ,  club feet ,  distinctive facies and diagnostic x - ray findings of underossified and dysplastic long tubular bones ,  with a boomerang - like bowing .
tricho - retino - dento - digital syndrome is an autosomal dominant ectodermal dysplasia syndrome ,  characterized by uncombable hair syndrome ,  congenital hypotrichosis and dental abnormalities such as oligodontia or hyperdontia ,  and associated with early - onset cataract ,  retinal pigmentary dystrophy ,  and brachydactyly with brachymetacarpia .
dermatocardioskeletal syndrome ,  borrone type ,  is a malformation syndrome characterized by a coarse facies with full lips ,  severe acne  ( acne conglobata )  ,  mitral valve prolapse ,  brachydactyly and vertebral abnormalities .
borjeson - forssman - lehmann syndrome  ( bfls )  is a rare x - linked obesity syndrome characterized by intellectual deficit ,  truncal obesity ,  characteristic facial features ,  hypogonadism ,  tapered fingers and short toes .
bowen - conradi syndrome  ( bcs )  is a lethal autosomal recessive ribosomal biogenesis disorder characterized by severe prenatal and postnatal growth retardation ,  microcephaly ,  a distinctive facial appearance ,  extreme psychomotor delay ,  hip and knee contractures and rockerbottom feet .
fine - lubinsky syndrome is characterised by psychomotor delay ,  brachycephaly with flat face ,  small nose ,  microstomia ,  cleft palate ,  cataract ,  hearing loss ,  hypoplastic scrotum and digital anomalies .
brachydactyly - elbow wrist dysplasia syndrome is a rare ,  genetic bone development disorder characterized by dysplasia of all the bony components of the elbow joint ,  abnormally shaped carpal bones ,  wrist joint radial deviation and brachydactyly .
brachydactyly  -  arterial hypertension is a rare genetic brachydactyly syndrome characterized by the association of brachydactyly type e with hypertension  ( due to vascular or neurovascular anomalies )  as well as the additional features of short stature and low birth weight  ( compared to non - affected family members )  ,  stocky build and a round face .
brachydactyly - mesomelia - intellectual disability - heart defects syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  thin habitus with narrow shoulders ,  mesomelic shortness of the arms ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( e .g .
preaxial brachydactyly - hallux varus syndrome is characterized the association of hallux varus with short thumbs and first toes  ( involving the metacarpals ,  metatarsals ,  and distal phalanges ;  the proximal and middle phalanges are of normal length )  and abduction of the affected digits .
brachymorphism - onychodysplasia - dysphalangism  ( bod )  is a very rare malformation syndrome that is characterized by short stature ,  hypoplastic fifth digits with tiny dysplastic nails ,  facial dysmorphism with coarse features including a wide mouth and broad nose ,  and mild intellectual disability .
brachyolmia is a rare ,  clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of bone disorders characterized by short trunk ,  mild short stature ,  scoliosis and generalized platyspondyly without significant abnormalities in the long bones .
brachytelephalangy  -  dysmorphism  -  kallmann syndrome is a developmental anomaly characterized by brachytelephalangy ,  distinct craniofacial features  ( prominent square forehead ,  telecanthus ,  small nose ,  malar hypoplasia ,  smooth philtrum and thin upper lip )  ,  and relative to other family members ,  a short stature .
lambert syndrome is a very rare syndrome described in four sibs of one french family and characterized by branchial dysplasia  ( malar hypoplasia ,  macrostomia ,  preauricular tags and meatal atresia )  ,  club feet ,  inguinal herniae and cholestasis due to paucity of interlobular bile ducts and intellectual deficit .
branchio - oculo - facial syndrome  ( bofs )  is characterised by low birth weight and growth retardation ,  bilateral branchial clefts that may be hemangiomatous ,  sometimes with linear skin lesions behind the ears  ( 'burn - like' lesions )  ,  congenital strabismus ,  obstructed nasolacrimal ducts ,  a broad nasal bridge with a flattened nasal tip ,  a protruding upper lip with an unusually broad and prominent philtrum ,  and full mouth .
an extremely rare multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome ,  described in three boys from one family ,  and characterized by intellectual disability ,  hypertelorism ,  broad and flat nasal bridge ,  maxillary hypoplasia ,  mandibular prognathism ,  bifid uvula or partial cleft palate ,  multiple dental cysts ,  schmorl nodes ,  fused cervical spinous processes ,  pectus excavatum ,  and penoscrotal hypospadias .
an autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the pts gene ,  encoding 6 - pyruvoyl tetrahydrobiopterin synthase .
a genetically heterogeneous condition characterized by complete or incomplete right bundle branch block accompanied by st elevation in leads v1 - v3 .
autosomal dominant popliteal pterygium syndrome  ( ad - pps )  is a rare genetic malformative disorder characterized by cleft lip ,  with or without cleft palate ,  contractures of the lower extremities ,  abnormal external genitalia ,  syndactyly of fingers and / or toes ,  and a pyramidal skin fold over the hallux nail .
feingold syndrome  ( fs )  ,  also known as oculo - digito - esophageal - duodenal  ( oded )  syndrome ,  is a rare inherited malformation syndrome characterized by microcephaly ,  short stature and numerous digital anomalies and is comprised of two subtypes: fs type 1  ( fs1 )  and fs type 2  ( fs2 )  .
buschke - ollendorff syndrome  ( bos )  is a benign disorder characterized by the association of osteopoikilosis lesions  ( ``spotted bones'' )  in the skeleton and connective tissue nevi in the skin .
the distal limb deficiencies - micrognathia syndrome is characterized by the combination of symmetric severe distal limb reduction deficiencies affecting all four limbs  ( oligodactyly )  ,  microretrognathia ,  and microstomia with or without cleft palate .
c syndrome is a rare multiple congenital anomaly / intellectual disability syndrome characterized by trigonocephaly and metopic suture synostosis ,  dysmorphic facial features ,  short neck ,  skeletal anomalies ,  and variable intellectual disability .
medullary sponge kidney  ( msk )  is a birth defect of the tubules  -  tiny tubes inside the kidneys .
caffey disease is an osteosclerotic dysplasia characterized by acute inflammation with massive subperiosteal new bone formation usually involving the diaphyses of the long bones ,  as well as the ribs ,  mandible ,  scapulae ,  and clavicles .
campomelia ,  cumming type ,  is characterized by the association of limb defects and multivisceral anomalies .
camptobrachydactyly is an extremely rare brachydactyly syndrome ,  characterized by short broad hands and feet with brachydactyly associated with congenital flexion contractures of the proximal and / or distal interphalangeal joints of the fingers ,  as well as syndactyly of feet .
butyrylcholinesterase  ( bche )  deficiency is a metabolic disorder characterised by prolonged apnoea after the use of certain anaesthetic drugs ,  including the muscle relaxants succinylcholine or mivacurium and other ester local anaesthetics .
camptodactyly - taurinuria syndrome is a congenital malformation syndrome characterized by the association of a permanent camptodactyly of the fingers with the over excretion of taurine in the urine .
camptodactyly syndrome ,  guadalajara type 2 is an extremely rare multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by distinctive intrauterine growth retardation ,  skeletal dysplasia with multiple malformations including camptodactyly of all fingers ,  bilateral hallux valgus ,  short second ,  fourth and fifth toes ,  hypoplastic patella ,  microcephaly ,  low - set ears ,  short neck ,  cuboid - shaped vertebral bodies ,  pectus excavatum ,  hip dislocation ,  and hypoplastic pubic region and genitalia .
camptodactyly syndrome ,  guadalajara type 1 is a rare syndrome consisting of growth retardation ,  facial dysmorphism ,  camptodactyly and skeletal anomalies .
camurati - englemann disease  ( ced )  is a rare ,  clinically variable bone dysplasia syndrome characterized by hyperostosis of the long bones ,  skull ,  spine and pelvis ,  associated with severe pain in the extremities ,  a wide - based waddling gait ,  joint contractures ,  muscle weakness and easy fatigability .
prostate carcinoma that has developed in relatives of patients with a history of prostate carcinoma .
familial pancreatic carcinoma is defined by the presence of pancreatic cancer  ( pc )  in two or more first - degree relatives .
pentalogy of cantrell  ( poc )  is a lethal multiple congenital anomalies syndrome ,  characterized by the presence of 5 major malformations: midline supraumbilical abdominal wall defect ,  lower sternal defect ,  diaphragmatic pericardial defect ,  anterior diaphragmatic defect and various intracardiac malformations .
hyperkeratosis - hyperpigmentation syndrome describes a very rare hyperpigmentation of the skin characterized by tiny hyperpigmented spots mainly on skin exposed to sunlight ,  together with mild punctate palmoplantar papular hyperkeratosis as a major feature .
cardiofaciocutaneous  ( cfc )  syndrome is a rasopathy characterized by craniofacial dysmorphology ,  congenital heart disease ,  dermatological abnormalities  ( most commonly hyperkeratotic skin and sparse ,  curly hair )  ,  growth retardation and intellectual disability .
heart - hand syndrome type 3 is a very rare heart - hand syndrome ,  described in three members of a spanish family to date ,  which is characterized by a cardiac conduction defect  ( sick sinus ,  bundle - branch block )  and brachydactyly ,  resembling brachydactyly type c of the hands ,  affecting principally the middle phalanges in conjunction with an extra ossicle on the proximal phalanx of both index fingers .
atrial standstill is a rare cardiac rhythm disease with a few familial and sporadic cases described to date that is characterized by a transient or permanent absence of electrical and mechanical atrial activity .
cardiomyopathy  -  cataract  -  hip spine disease describes the extremely rare triad of dilated cardiomyopathy ,  premature cataract ,  and articular disease of the hips and spine characterized by hip joint degeneration ,  irregular intervertebral disks ,  and platyspondyly .
maternally inherited cardiomyopathy and hearing loss is a mitochondrial disease described in two unrelated families to date that has a heterogeneous clinical presentation characterized by the association of progressive sensorineural hearing loss with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and ,  in the majority of cases ,  encephalomyopathy symptoms such as ataxia ,  slurred speech ,  progressive external opthalmoparesis  ( peo )  ,  muscle weakness ,  myalgia ,  and exercise intolerance .
a new leukoencephalopathy ,  the cach syndrome  ( childhood ataxia with central nervous system hypomyelination )  or vwm  ( vanishing white matter )  was identified on clinical and mri criteria .
heart - hand syndrome type 2 is an extremely rare heart - hand syndrome described in two families to date ,  that is characterized by upper limb malformations  ( brachytelephalangy type d ,  hypoplastic deltoids ,  mild shortening of the fourth and fifth metacarpals in some individuals ,  skeletal anomalies in the humerus ,  radius ,  ulnae ,  and thenar bones )  and cardiac arrhythmias  ( junctional rhythms and atrial fibrillation )  .
heart defects limb shortening is an association disorder combining congenital heart malformation and skeletal dysplasia  ( including coronal clefting of the vertebral bodies and short limbs )  .
heart defect b round face b congenital developmental delay is very rare syndrome described in three sibs of one japanese family and characterized by congenital heart disease ,  round face with depressed nasal bridge ,  small mouth ,  short stature ,  and relatively dark skin and typical dermatoglyphic anomalies ,  and intellectual deficit .
carey - fineman - ziter  ( cfz )  syndrome is a rare condition characterized by the association of hypotonia ,  moebius sequence  ( bilateral congenital facial palsy with impairment of ocular abduction )  ,  pierre - robin sequence  ( micrognathia ,  glossoptosis ,  and high - arched or cleft palate )  ,  unusual face ,  and growth delay .
carney complex  ( cnc )  is characterized by spotty skin pigmentation ,  endocrine overactivity and myxomas .
cadasil  ( cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy )  is a hereditary cerebrovascular disorder characterized by mid - adult onset of recurrent subcortical ischemic stroke and cognitive impairment progressing to dementia in addition to migraines with aura and mood disturbances seen in about a third of patients .
carnosinemia is a very rare inherited disorder that presents with serum carnosinase deficiency .
autosomal recessive palmoplantar hyperkeratosis and congenital alopecia  ( ppk - ca )  is a rare genetic skin disorder characterized by congenital alopecia and palmoplantar hyperkeratosis .
cataract - ataxia - deafness syndrome is characterised by mild intellectual deficit ,  congenital cataract ,  progressive sensorineural deafness and ataxia .
congenital cataract  -  hypertrophic cardiomyopathy  -  mitochrondrial myopathy  ( ccm )  is a mitochondrial disease characterized by cataracts ,  hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ,  muscle weakness and lactic acidosis after exercise .
congenital disorder of glycosylation  ( cdg )  is a fast growing group of inborn errors of metabolism characterized by defective activity of enzymes that participate in glycosylation  ( modification of proteins and other macromolecules by adding and processing of oligosaccharide side chains )  .
cataract - aberrant oral frenula - growth delay syndrome is characterized by cataracts and short stature associated with variable anomalies ,  including aberrant oral frenula ,  a characteristic facial appearance  ( posteriorly angulated ears ,  upslanting palpebral fissures ,  small nose ,  ptosis and epicanthal folds )  cavernous hemangiomas and hernias .
cataract - hypertrichosis - intellectual disability syndrome is characterized by congenital cataract ,  generalized hypertrichosis and intellectual deficit .
congenital cataract - ichthyosis syndrome is characterized by congenital cataract associated with ichthyosis .
legius syndrome ,  also known as nf1 - like syndrome ,  is a rare ,  genetic skin pigmentation disorder characterized by multiple cafc )  - au - lait macules with or without axillary or inguinal freckling .
segmental outgrowth - lipomatosis - arteriovenous malformation - epidermal nevus syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  polymalformative syndrome characterized by progressive ,  proportionate ,  asymmetric segmental overgrowth  ( with soft tissue hypertrophy and ballooning effect )  that develops and progresses rapidly in early childhood ,  arteriovenous and lymphatic vascular malformations ,  lipomatosis and linear epidermal nevus  ( arranged in whorls along the lines of blaschko )  .
intractable diarrhea - choanal atresia - eye anomalies syndrome is characterised by the association of intractable diarrhoea of infancy with choanal atresia .
glycogen storage disease due to muscle and heart glycogen synthase deficiency is characterised by muscle and heart glycogen deficiency .
cardiac anomalies - heterotaxy syndrome is characterised by non - compaction of the ventricular myocardium ,  bradycardia ,  pulmonary valve stenosis ,  and secundum atrial septal defect .
lung fibrosis - immunodeficiency - 46 , xx gonadal dysgenesis syndrome is characterised by immune deficiency ,  gonadal dysgenesis and fatal lung fibrosis .
this syndrome is characterised by tall stature ,  learning difficulties and facial dysmorphism .
leukoencephalopathy - ataxia - hypodontia - hypomyelination syndrome is characterised by ataxia ,  delayed dentition ,  hypomyelination and cerebral atrophy .
this syndrome is characterised by microcephaly ,  severe intellectual deficit ,  phalangeal anomalies  ( cutaneous syndactyly of the fingers ,  toe brachyclinodactyly and nail hypoplasia )  and neurological manifestations  ( epilepsy ,  spastic / dystonic paraplegia and brisk reflexes )  .
this syndrome is characterised by the association of multiple capillary malformations  ( cm )  with an arteriovenous malformation  ( avm )  and arteriovenous fistulas .
histiocytoid cardiomyopathy is an arrhythmogenic disorder characterised by cardiomegaly ,  severe cardiac arrhythmias or sudden death ,  and the presence of histiocyte - like cells within the myocardium .
czech dysplasia ,  metatarsal type is a form of skeletal dysplasia characterised by severe arthropathy beginning in childhood and hypoplasia / dysplasia of the third ,  fourth and / or fifth toes .
hepatoencephalopathy due to combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency type 1 is a rare ,  inherited mitochondrial disorder due to a defect in mitochondrial protein synthesis characterized by intrauterine growth retardation ,  metabolic decompensation with recurrent vomiting ,  persistent severe lactic acidosis ,  encephalopathy ,  seizures ,  failure to thrive ,  severe global developmental delay ,  poor eye contact ,  severe muscular hypotonia or axial hypotonia with limb hypertonia ,  hepatomegaly and / or liver dysfunction and / or liver failure ,  leading to fatal outcome in severe cases .
cataract - microcornea syndrome is characterized by the association of congenital cataract and microcornea without any other systemic anomaly or dysmorphism .
aminoacylase 1 deficiency  ( acy1d )  is an inborn error of metabolism marked by a characteristic pattern of urinary n - acetyl amino acid excretion and neurologic symptoms .
lethal congenital contracture syndrome type 2 is a rare arthrogryposis syndrome characterized by multiple congenital contactures  ( typically extended elbows and flexed knees )  ,  micrognathia ,  anterior horn cell degeneration ,  skeletal muscle atrophy  ( mainly in the lower limbs )  ,  presence of a markedly distended urinary bladder and absence of hydrops ,  pterygia and bone fractures .
lethal congenital contracture syndrome type 3 is a rare arthrogryposis syndrome characterized by clinical features identical to lethal congenital contracture syndrome type 2  ( i .e .
x - linked intellectual deficit - cerebellar hypoplasia ,  also known as ophn1 syndrome ,  is a rare syndromic form of cerebellar dysgenesis characterized by moderate to severe intellectual deficit and cerebellar abnormalities .
frank - ter haar syndrome  ( formerly considered as an autosomal recessive form of melnick - needles syndrome )  is defined by megalocornea ,  multiple skeletal anomalies ,  characteristic facial dysmorphism  ( wide fontanels ,  prominent forehead ,  hypertelorism ,  prominent eyes ,  full cheeks and micrognathia )  and developmental delay .
madras motor neuron disease  ( mmnd )  is characterized by weakness and atrophy of limbs ,  multiple lower cranial nerve palsies and sensorineural hearing loss .
laminopathy ,  type decaudain - vigouroux is characterised by severe metabolic alterations  ( insulin resistance or hyperinsulinaemia ,  hypertriglyceridaemia with low hdl - cholesterol ,  and altered glucose tolerance )  and muscular hypertrophy ,  myalgia ,  or weakness .
auriculo - condylar syndrome  ( acs )  presents with bilateral external ear malformations  ( 'question mark' ears )  ,  mandibular condyle hypoplasia ,  microstomia ,  micrognathia ,  microglossia and facial asymmetry .
male infertility due to large - headed multiflagellar polypoid spermatozoa is a male infertility due to sperm disorder characterized by the presence ,  in sperm ,  of a very high percentage of spermatozoa with enlarged head ,  irregular head shape ,  multiple flagella ,  and abnormal midpiece and acrosome .
this disease is characterised by progressive cerebellar ataxia with pyramidal and spinal cord dysfunction ,  associated with distinctive mri anomalies and increased lactate in the abnormal white matter .
this syndrome is characterised by severe hypotonia ,  lactic academia and congenital hyperammonaemia .
this syndrome is characterised by the presence of a unilateral angioma on the face and autistic developmental problems characterised by language delay and atypical social interactions .
charge syndrome is a multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by the variable combination of multiple anomalies ,  mainly coloboma ;  choanal atresia / stenosis ;  cranial nerve dysfunction ;  characteristic ear anomalies  ( known as the major 4 c's )  .
cataract  -  nephropathy  -  encephalopathy syndrome describes a lethal combination of manifestations including short stature ,  congenital cataracts ,  encephalopathy with epileptic fits ,  and postmortem confirmation of nephropathy  ( renal tubular necrosis )  .
cataract - intellectual disability - anal atresia - urinary defects syndrome is characterised by congenital cataracts with squint ,  intellectual deficit ,  anomalies of the genitourinary tract  ( rectovesical fistula ,  micropenis ,  undescended testis ,  and hypospadias )  ,  imperforate anus and other anomalies .
cataract - deafness - hypogonadism syndrome is an extremely rare multiple congenital abnormality syndrome ,  described in only three brothers to date ,  that is characterized by the association of congenital cataract ,  sensorineural deafness ,  hypogonadism ,  mild intellectual deficit ,  hypertrichosis ,  and short stature .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of intellectual deficit ,  congenital cataract ,  and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism .
catel - manzke syndrome is a rare bone disease characterized by bilateral hyperphalangy and clinodactyly of the index finger typically in association with pierre robin sequence comprising micrognathia ,  cleft palate and glossoptosis .
this syndrome is characterised by cortical blindness ,  intellectual deficit ,  and polydactyly .
child syndrome  ( congenital hemidysplasia with ichthyosiform nevus and limb defects ,  cs )  is an x - linked dominant genodermatosis characterized by unilateral inflammatory and scaling skin lesions with ipsilateral visceral and limb anomalies .
this syndrome is characterized by night blindness ,  skeletal abnormalities  ( sloping shoulders ,  joint hyperextensibility ,  minor radiological anomalies )  and characteristic facies  ( periorbital anomalies ,  malar flatness ,  retrognathia )  .
cerebro - costo - mandibular syndrome  ( ccms )  is characterized at birth by posterior rib gaps and orofacial anomalies reminiscent of pierre robin syndrome that include palatal defects  ( short hard palate ,  absent soft palate ,  absent uvula )  ,  micrognathia and glossoptosis .
autosomal recessive type 2 hereditary methemoglobinemia ,  also referred to as recessive congenital methemoglobinemia type 2  ( rhm type 2 / rcm type 2 )  ,  is a rare red cell disorder characterized by severe encephalopathy with generalized dystonia and mild cyanosis .
a craniosynostosis that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a craniosynostosis that is part of a larger syndrome .
x - linked cerebral adrenoleukodystrophy  ( x - cald )  ,  a subtype of x - linked adrenoleukodystrophy  ( x - ald )  ,  is a peroxisomal disease characterized by severe inflammatory demyelination in the brain ,  and often associated with adrenal insufficiency .
adrenomyeloneuropathy  ( amn )  is an adult form of the peroxisomal disease x - linked adrenoleukodystrophy  ( x - ald )  ,  characterized by spastic paraparesia and often associated with peripheral adrenal insufficiency in males .
cerebro - facio - thoracic dysplasia or pascual - castroviejo syndrome type 1 is a rare syndrome characterized by facial dysmorphism ,  intellectual deficit and costovertebral abnormalities .
encephalopathy due to prosaposin deficiency is a lysosomal storage disease belonging to the group of sphingolipidoses .
carney's triad is a rare non - hereditary condition characterized by gastrointestinal stromal tumors  ( gist ,  intramural mesenchymal tumors of the gastrointestinal tract with neuronal or neural crest cell origin )  ,  pulmonary chondromas and extraadrenal paragangliomas .
hypomyelination with atrophy of basal ganglia and cerebellum  ( h - abc )  is characterized by slowly progressive spasticity ,  extrapyramidal movement disorders  ( dystonia ,  choreoathetosis and rigidity )  ,  cerebellar ataxia ,  moderate to severe cognitive deficit ,  and anarthria / dysarthria .
leukoencephalopathy with bilateral anterior temporal lobe cysts is a nonprogressive neurological disorder marked by intellectual deficit ,  spasticity and motor retardation associated with characteristic mri findings of anterior bilateral temporal lobe cysts and multilobar leukoencephalopathy .
progressive cavitating leukoencephalopathy is characterized by acute episodes of neurological deficit  ( ataxia ,  dysarthria ,  seizures )  with irritability and opisthotonus followed by either steady deterioration or alternating periods of rapid progression and prolonged periods of stability .
this syndrome is characterised by the association of microtia ,  eye coloboma ,  and imperforation of the nasolacrimal duct .
autosomal recessive bestrophinopathy  ( arb )  is a retinal dystrophy ,  characterized by central visual loss in the first 2 decades of life ,  associated with an absent electrooculogram  ( eog )  light rise and a reduced electroretinogram  ( erg )  .
serkal  ( sex reversion ,  kidneys ,  adrenal and lung dysgenesis )  syndrome is characterised by female to male sex reversal and developmental anomalies of the kidneys ,  adrenal glands and lungs .
microphthalmia with brain and digit anomalies is characterised by anophthalmia or microphthalmia ,  retinal dystrophy ,  and / or myopia ,  associated in some cases with cerebral anomalies .
17q11 .2 microduplication syndrome is characterized by dysmorphic features and intellectual deficit .
this syndrome is characterised by progressive spastic paraplegia and distal muscle wasting .
this syndrome is characterised by childhood - onset progressive ataxia and cerebellar atrophy .
hemochromatosis type 4  ( also called ferroportin disease )  is a form of rare hereditary hemochromatosis  ( hh )  ,  a group of diseases characterized by excessive tissue iron deposition of genetic origin .
african iron overload is a rare disorder described in sub - saharan african populations and is characterized by iron overload due to excess dietary iron intake and possibly genetic factors ,  leading to hepatic portal fibrosis and micronodular cirrhosis .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of sensorineural hearing impairment and peripheral neuropathy .
charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  type 4j  ( cmt4j )  belongs to the genetically heterogeneous group of cmt peripheral sensorimotor polyneuropathy diseases .
an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder characterized by juvenile onset ,  distal motor weakness without sensory impairment ,  and anterior horn cell degeneration .
distal spinal muscular atrophy type 3 is a rare neuromuscular disease characterized by progressive muscular weakness and atrophy predominantly affecting distal parts of limbs ,  later involvement of proximal and trunk muscles with marked hyperlordosis and late diaphragmatic dysfunction .
hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy ,  type 1b  ( hsan1b )  is characterized by the association of type 1 hsan with paroxysmal cough and gastroesophageal reflux  ( gor )  .
this syndrome is characterized by a sensory and autonomic axonal neuropathy ,  sensorineural hearing loss and persistent global developmental delay .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of an axonal sensory and autonomic neuropathy with spastic paraplegia .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of an axonal sensory and autonomic neuropathy with hearing loss .
distal hereditary motor neuropathy type 7 is a rare ,  slowly progressive genetic peripheral neuropathy characterized by distal atrophy and weakness affecting the upper limbs  ( with a predilection for the thenar eminence )  and subsequently the lower limbs ,  associated with uni -  or bilateral vocal cord paresis leading to hoarse voice and breathing difficulties ,  and facial weakness .
this syndrome is characterised by infantile hypotonia followed by onset of ataxia ,  cataract and intellectual deficit by preschool age .
richards - rundle syndrome is an extremely rare neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive spinocerebellar ataxia ,  sensorineural hearing loss ,  and hypergonadotropic hypogonadism associated with additional neurological manifestations  ( such as peripheral muscle wasting ,  nystagmus ,  intellectual disability or dementia )  and ketoaciduria .
abetalipoproteinemia /  homozygous familial hypobetalipoproteinemia  ( abl / hofhbl )  is a severe form of familial hypobetalipoproteinemia characterized by permanently low levels  ( below the 5th percentile )  of apolipoprotein b and ldl cholesterol ,  and by growth delay ,  malabsorption ,  hepatomegaly ,  and neurological and neuromuscular manifestations .
campomelic dysplasia is a very rare disorder characterised by a variable association of skeletal abnormalities  ( bowed and fragile long bones ,  pelvis and chest abnormalities ,  eleven rib pairs instead of the usual twelve )  ,  and extraskeletal abnormalities  ( facial dysmorphology ,  cleft palate ,  sexual ambiguity or sex reversal in two thirds of the affected boys ,  and brain ,  heart and kidney malformations )  .
the inherited predisposition toward getting a tumor .
primary intraosseous venous malformation is a rare ,  genetic vascular anomaly characterized by severe blood vessel expansion  ( most frequently within the craniofacial bones )  with painless bone enlargement  ( usually of mandibule ,  maxilla and / or orbital ,  nasal ,  and frontal bones )  ,  typically resulting in facial asymmetry and contour deformation .
a group of slowly progressive inherited disorders affecting motor and sensory peripheral nerves .
autosomal dominant form of distal hereditary motor neuropathy .
autosomal recessive form of distal hereditary motor neuropathy .
an instance of sensory peripheral neuropathy that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
autosomal dominant form of hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy .
autosomal recessive form of hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy .
autosomal dominant slowed nerve conduction velocity is a hereditary demyelinating motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by slowed nerve conduction velocities ,  in the absence of clinically apparent neurological deficits ,  gait abnormalities or muscular atrophy ,  associated with a germline mutation in the arghef10 gene .
charlie m syndrome is a rare bone developmental disorder which belongs to a group of oromandibular limb hypogenesis syndromes that includes hypoglossia - hypodactyly and glossopalatine ankylosis .
calderon - gonzalez - cantu syndrome is characterized by the association of stubby ,  coarse ,  sparse and fragile hair ,  eyebrows and eyelashes with photosensitivity and nonprogressive intellectual deficit without a demonstrable metabolic aberration .
joubert syndrome  ( js )  and related disorders  ( jsrd )  are a group of developmental delay / multiple congenital anomaly syndromes in which the mandatory feature is the ``molar tooth sign''  ( mts )  ,  a complex midbrain - hindbrain malformation recognizable on brain imaging .
hyperlipidemia due to hepatic triacylglycerol lipase deficiency is a rare ,  genetic hyperalphalipoproteinemia characterized by elevated plasma cholesterol and triglyceride  ( tg )  levels with a marked tg enrichment of low -  and high - density lipoproteins  ( hdl )  ,  presence of circulating beta - very low density lipoproteins and elevated hdl cholesterol levels ,  in the presence of a very low ,  or undetectable ,  postheparin plasma hepatic lipase activity .
brachydactyly type b2 is a rare ,  genetic congenital limb malformation disorder characterized by hypoplasia / aplasia of distal and / or middle phalanges in fingers and toes ii - v  ( frequently severe in fingers / toes iv - v ,  milder in fingers / toes ii - iii )  in association with proximal ,  and occasionally distal ,  symphalangism ,  fusion of carpal / tarsal bones and partial cutaneous syndactyly .
stapes ankylosis with broad thumbs and toes is a very rare genetic bone disorder characterized by ankylosis of stapes ,  broad thumbs and halluces ,  conductive hearing loss and hyperopia .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2j  ( lgmd2j )  is a form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy that usually has a childhood onset  ( but can range from the first to third decade of life )  of severe progressive proximal weakness ,  eventually involving the distal muscles .
benign familial neonatal - infantile seizures  ( bfnis )  is a benign familial epilepsy syndrome with an intermediate phenotype between benign familial neonatal seizures  ( bfns )  and benign familial infantile seizures  ( bfis )  .
linear atrophoderma of moulin  ( lam )  is characterized by mildly atrophic and hyperpigmented band - like lesions that follow the lines of blaschko on the trunk or limbs .
lelis syndrome is characterised by the association of ectodermal dysplasia  ( hypotrichosis and hypohidrosis )  with acanthosis nigricans .
short stature due to primary acid - labile subunit  ( als )  deficiency is characterized by moderate postnatal growth deficit ,  markedly low circulating levels of insulin - like growth factor 1  ( igf - 1 )  and insulin - like growth factor binding protein 3  ( igfbp - 3 )  ,  and hyperinsulinemia ,  in the absence of growth hormone  ( gh )  deficiency or gh insensitivity .
clove syndrome is characterized by congenital lipomatous overgrowth ,  progressive ,  complex and mixed truncal vascular malformations ,  and epidermal nevi .
this syndrome is characterised by the association of toe syndactyly ,  facial dysmorphism including telecanthus  ( abnormal distance between the eyes )  and a broad nasal tip ,  urogenital malformations and anal atresia .
this syndrome is characterized by congenital thrombocytopenia associated with the presence of large platelets .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of bilateral microtia with severe to profound hearing impairment ,  and cleft palate .
keratosis ,  nagashima - type is a transgressive and nonprogressive palmoplantar keratoderma resembling a mild form of mal de meleda .
rhyns syndrome is characterised by the association of retinitis pigmentosa ,  hypopituitarism ,  nephronophthisis ,  and skeletal dysplasia .
two syndromes of oral ,  facial ,  and digital malformations .
canavan disease  ( cd )  is a neurodegenerative disorder ;  its spectrum varies between severe forms with leukodystrophy ,  macrocephaly and severe developmental delay ,  and a very rare mild / juvenile form characterized by mild developmental delay .
uncombable hair syndrome  ( uhs )  ,  or pili trianguli et canaliculi ,  is a rare scalp hair shaft dysplasia .
orofaciodigital syndrome type 11 is an extremely rare ,  sporadic form of orofaciodigital syndrome  ( ofds )  with only a few reported cases ,  and characterized by facial  ( blepharophimosis ,  bulbous nasal tip ,  broad nasal bridge ,  downslanting palpebral fissures and low set ears )  and skeletal  ( post - axial polydactyly and fusion of vertebrae )  malformations along with severe intellectual disability ,  deafness and congenital heart defects .
oral - facial - digital syndrome ,  type 9 is characterized by highly arched palate with bifid tongue and bilateral supernumerary lower canines ,  hamartomatous tongue ,  multiple frenula ,  hypertelorism ,  telecanthus ,  strabismus ,  broad and / or bifid nasal tip ,  short stature ,  bifid halluces ,  forked metatarsal ,  poly -  and syndactyly ,  mild intellectual deficit and specific retinal abnormalities  ( bilateral optic disc coloboma and retinal dysplasia with partial detachment )  .
nasal encephalocele is an extracranial herniation of intracranial contents  ( that maintain a connection to the subarachnoid space )  into the fonticulus frontalis ,  presenting with nasal broadening and / or as a compressible ,  blue ,  pulsatile mass near the nasal bridge  ( that enlarges on crying or with jugular vein compression )  or as an intranasal mass originating in the cribiform plate and that can cause nasal obstruction or respiratory distress .
hemifacial hyperplasia is a rare morphological anomaly of the maxillofacial region characterized by unilateral overgrowth of all facial structures  ( bone ,  soft tissues ,  teeth )  ,  called true hemifacial hypertrophy ,  or overgrowth of one or more but not all facial structures ,  called partial hemifacial hypertrophy .
isolated aglossia and hypoglossia are terms covering the spectrum from partial to total absence of the tongue .
glossopalatine ankylosis is a disorder belonging to the group of oromandibular - limb hypogenesis syndromes  ( olhs )  and is characterised by the presence of an intraoral band of variable thickness attaching the tongue to the hard palate or maxillary alveolar ridge .
tarsal - carpal coalition syndrome is characterised by fusion of the carpals ,  tarsals ,  and phalanges .
greatly exaggerated width of the mouth ,  resulting from failure of union of the maxillary and mandibular processes ,  with extension of the oral orifice toward the ear .
orofaciodigital syndrome type 12 is a rare subtype of orofaciodigital syndrome ,  with sporadic occurrence ,  characterized by cardiac  ( septum hypertrophy )  and central nervous system abnormalities  ( myelomeningocele ,  sylvius aqueduct stenosis ,  corpus callosum agenesis ,  vermis hypoplasia )  ,  in addition to oral ,  facial and digital malformations  ( gingival frenulae ,  bifid tongue ,  supernumerary teeth ,  macrocephaly ,  hypertelorism ,  pre -  and post - axial polydactyly in hands ,  preaxial polydactyly in feet and club feet )  .
orofaciodigital syndrome type 13 is a rare subtype of orofaciodigital syndrome ,  with sporadic occurrence ,  characterized by cardiac  ( mitral and tricuspid valve dysplasia )  and neuropsychiatric manifestations  ( epilepsy ,  depression )  ,  in addition to oral ,  facial and digital malformations  ( lingual hamartomas ,  cleft lip ,  and brachydactyly ,  clinodactyly ,  syndactyly of hands and feet )  .
biemond syndrome type 2  ( bs2 )  is a rare genetic neurological and developmental disorder reported in a very small number of patients with a poorly defined phenotype which includes iris coloboma ,  short stature ,  obesity ,  hypogonadism ,  postaxial polydactyly ,  and intellectual disability .
cholestasis - lymphedema syndrome is a rare genetic disorder characterized by neonatal intrahepatic cholestasis ,  often lessening and becoming intermittent with age ,  and severe chronic lymphedema which mainly affects the lower limbs .
chondrodysplasia  -  disorder of sex development is an extremely rare disorder of sex development ,  reported in only two siblings  ( one terminated in pregnancy )  to date ,  characterized by the clinical features of 46 , xy complete gonadal dysgenesis  ( normal external female genitalia ,  lack of pubertal development ,  primary amenorrhea ,  and hypergonadotrophic hypogonadism )  in association with severe dwarfism with generalized chondrodysplasia  ( bell - shaped thorax ,  micromelia ,  brachydactyly )  .
lethal recessive chondrodysplasia is an extremely rare lethal form of chondrodysplasia characterized by severe micromelic dwarfism ,  short and incurved limbs with normal hands and feet ,  facial dysmorphism  ( disproportionately large skull ,  frontal prominence ,  slightly flattened nasal bridge and short neck )  ,  muscular hypotonia ,  hyperlaxity of the extremities ,  and a narrow thorax .
desbuquois syndrome  ( dbqd )  is an osteochondrodysplasia characterized by severe micromelic dwarfism ,  facial dysmorphism ,  joint laxity with multiple dislocations ,  vertebral and metaphyseal abnormalities and advanced carpotarsal ossification .
a very rare lethal skeletal dysplasia characterized by fetal hydrops ,  short limbs and abnormal chondro - osseous calcification .
otospondylomegaepiphyseal dysplasia  ( osmed )  is an inborn error of cartilage collagen formation characterized by sensorineural hearing loss ,  enlarged epiphyses ,  skeletal dysplasia with disproportionately short limbs ,  vertebral body anomalies and a characteristic facies .
familial chondromalacia patellae is an inherited bone disorder described in 5 families in 1963 and is characterized by localized patellar pain and male - to - male transmission .
benign hereditary chorea  ( bhc )  is a rare movement disorder that beginsin infancy or childhood .
paroxysmal dyskinesia  ( pd )  is a rare heterogenous group of movement disorders manifesting as abnormal involuntary movements that recur episodically and last only a brief time .
choroidal atrophy  -  alopecia is a very rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome ,  characterized by the association of choroidal atrophy  ( sometimes regional )  ,  together with other ectodermal dysplasia features including fine and sparse hair ,  absent or decreased lashes and eyebrows ,  and possibly mild visual loss and dysplastic / thick / grooved nails .
choroideremia - deafness - obesity syndrome is an x - linked retinal dystrophy characterized by choroideremia ,  causing in affected males progressive nyctalopia and eventual central blindness .
skeletal dysplasia - intellectual disability syndrome combines skeletal anomalies  ( short stature ,  ridging of the metopic suture ,  fusion of cervical vertebrae ,  thoracic hemivertebrae ,  scoliosis ,  sacral hypoplasia and short middle phalanges )  and mild intellectual deficit .
ring chromosome 1 syndrome is an autosomal anomaly characterized by variable clinical features ,  most commonly including significant intrauterine and postnatal growth failure ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  microcephaly ,  and dysmorphic facial features .
ring chromosome 10 syndrome is characterized by intellectual deficit ,  growth retardation ,  and various dysmorphic features .
ring chromosome 12 syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with a highly variable phenotype principally characterized by postnatal growth retardation ,  variable degrees of developmental delay and intellectual disability ,  microcephaly and facial dysmorphism  ( incl .
an autosomal dominant hereditary neoplastic syndrome characterized by the development of colorectal carcinoma and a high risk of developing endometrial carcinoma ,  gastric carcinoma ,  ovarian carcinoma ,  renal pelvis carcinoma ,  and small intestinal carcinoma .
ring chromosome 14 syndrome is characterized by intellectual deficit ,  retinal and skin pigmentation disorders ,  seizures ,  and dysmorphic features ,  including flat occiput ,  epicanthal folds ,  downward slanting eyes ,  flat nasal bridge ,  upturned nostrils ,  short neck ,  and large low set ears .
ring chromosome 17 syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from partial deletion of chromosome 17 ,  characterized by highly variable manifestations ,  ranging from a severe phenotype which presents with lissencephaly and severe intellectual disability to a milder phenotype that includes short stature ,  microcephaly ,  intellectual disability ,  seizures  ( that may be pharmacoresistant )  ,  caf - au - lait spots ,  retinal flecks and minor facial dysmorphism ,  depending on the presence or absence of the miller - dieker critical region .
ring chromosome 18 syndrome is an autosomal anomaly characterized by variable clinical features ,  most commonly including hypotonia ,  neonatal feeding and respiratory difficulties ,  microcephaly ,  global developmental delay and intellectual disability ,  growth hormone deficiency ,  hypothyroidism ,  hearing loss ,  aural atresia ,  dysmorphic facial features and behavioral characteristics .
ring chromosome 19 syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with a highly variable phenotype that may range from normal to patients with profound intellectual disability ,  developmental delay ,  learning disability  ( esp .
ring chromosome 20 syndrome is marked by a characteristic seizure phenotype .
ring chromosome 21 syndrome is an autosomal anomaly characterized by variable clinical features ,  most commonly including growth retardation ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  epilepsy ,  microcephaly ,  short stature ,  dysmorphic features ,  hypogammaglobulinemia ,  thrombocytopenia and unspecific skeletal anomalies  ( hemivertebrae ,  clinodactyly ,  syndactyly )  .
ring chromosome 22 is a rare condition caused by having an abnormal chromosome 22 that forms a ring .
ring chromosome 4 syndrome is an autosomal anomaly characterized by variable clinical features ,  most commonly including significant intrauterine and postnatal growth retardation ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  microcephaly ,  and dysmorphic facial features .
ring chromosome 6 syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with highly variable phenotype principally characterized by prenatal / postnatal growth failure ,  intellectual disability ,  developmental delay ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
ring chromosome 7 syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  with highly variable phenotype ,  principally characterized by growth failure ,  short stature ,  intellectual disability ,  dermatological abnormalities  ( nevus flammeus ,  dark pigmented nevi ,  caf - au - lait spots )  ,  microcephaly and facial dysmorphism  ( incl .
an autosomal dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the brca1 or brca2 genes .
chronic infantile neurological ,  cutaneous ,  and articular  ( cinca )  syndrome is characterised by skin rash ,  joint involvement ,  chronic meningitis with granulocytes and ,  in some cases ,  sensorineural hearing loss and ocular signs .
cleidocranial dysplasia  ( ccd )  is a condition that primarily affects the development of the bones and teeth .
cleidorhizomelic syndrome is a rhizo - mesomelic dysplasia characterized by rhizomelic short stature / dwarfism in combination with lateral clavicular defects .
joubert syndrome with hepatic defect is a very rare subtype of joubert syndrome and related disorders  ( jsrd )  characterized by the neurological features of js associated with congenital hepatic fibrosis  ( chf )  .
codas syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by cerebral ,  ocular ,  dental ,  auricular and skeletal anomalies .
isolated complex iii deficiency is a rare ,  genetic ,  mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation disorder characterized by a wide spectrum of clinical manifestations ranging from isolated myopathy or transient hepatopathy to severe multisystem disorder  ( that may include hypotonia ,  failure to thrive ,  psychomotor delay ,  cardiomyopathy ,  encephalopathy ,  renal tubulopathy ,  hearing impairment ,  lactic acidosis ,  hypoglycemia and other signs and symptoms )  .
coffin - siris syndrome  ( css )  is a rare congenital multi - systemic genetic disorder characterized by aplasia or hypoplasia of the distal phalanx or nail of the fifth digit ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  coarse facial features ,  and other variable clinical manifestations .
cerebrooculofacioskeletal  ( cofs )  syndrome is a rare genetic disorder ,  belonging to a family of diseases of dna repair ,  characterized by a severe sensorineural involvement .
carbamyl phosphate synthetase deficiency is an urea cycle disorder strictly limited to the liver and intestine that results in congenital hyperammonemia and defective citrulline synthesis .
coloboma of macula  -  brachydactyly type b or sorsby syndrome is a malformation syndrome characterized by the combination of bilateral coloboma of macula with horizontal pendular nystagmus and severe visual loss ,  and brachydactyly type b .
uveal coloboma - cleft lip and palate - intellectual disability is characterised by coloboma of the iris ,  bilateral cleft lip and palate ,  and intellectual deficiency of varying degree .
renal coloboma syndrome  ( rcs )  is a genetic condition characterized by optic nerve dysplasia and renal hypodysplasia .
atrial septal defect  ( asd )  with atrioventricular conduction defects is an extremely rare genetic congenital heart disease characterized by the presence of asd ,  mostly of the ostium secundum type ,  associated with conduction anomalies like atrioventricular block ,  atrial fibrillation or right bundle branch block .
multiple carboxylase deficiency  ( mcd )  is a term used to describe inborn errors of biotin metabolism characterized by reduced activities of biotin - dependent enzymes resulting in a wide spectrum of symptoms ,  including feeding difficulty ,  breathing difficulties ,  lethargy ,  seizures ,  skin rash ,  alopecia ,  and developmental delay .
the presence of a defect  ( opening )  in the septum that separates the two ventricles of the heart .
contractures  -  ectodermal dysplasia  -  cleft lip / palate is an ectodermal dyplasia syndrome characterized by severe arthrogryposis ,  multiple ectodermal dysplasia features ,  cleft lip / palate ,  facial dysmorphism ,  growth deficiency and a moderate delay of psychomotor development .
arthrogryposis - hyperkeratosis syndrome ,  lethal form is an arthrogryposis syndrome ,  described in two siblings to date ,  characterized by the association of multiple congenital joint contractures  ( of the large joints ,  fingers and toes )  and hyperkeratosis  ( i .e .
lethal congenital contracture syndrome type 1 is a rare ,  genetic arthrogryposis syndrome characterized by total fetal akinesia  ( detectable since the 13th week of gestation )  accompanied by hydrops ,  micrognathia ,  pulmonary hypoplasia ,  pterygia and multiple joint contractures  ( usually flexion contractures in the elbows and extension in the knees )  ,  leading invariably to death before the 32nd week of gestation .
cooks syndrome is a malformation syndrome affecting the apical structures of digits and presenting with hypo / aplasia of nails and distal phalanges .
cooper - wang - jabs syndrome is a multiple malformation syndrome characterized by atresia of the auditory canal together with ventricular septal defect ,  anteriorly displaced anus ,  mild clubfoot ,  and intellectual deficit .
corneal dystrophy - perceptive deafness  ( cdpd )  or harboyan syndrome is a degenerative corneal disorder characterized by the association of congenital hereditary endothelial dystrophy  ( ched )  with progressive ,  postlingual sensorineural hearing loss .
vici syndrome is a very rare and severe congenital multisystem disorder characterized by the principal features of agenesis of the corpus callosum ,  cataracts ,  oculocutaneous hypopigmentation ,  cardiomyopathy and combined immunodeficiency .
intellectual disability - hypoplastic corpus callosum - preauricular tag syndrome is characterised by a hypoplastic corpus callosum ,  microcephaly ,  severe intellectual deficit ,  preauricular skin tags ,  camptodactyly ,  growth retardation ,  and recurrent bronchopneumonia .
corpus callosum agenesis - neuropathy is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by severe progressive sensorimotor neuropathy beginning in infancy with resulting hypotonia ,  areflexia ,  amyotrophy and variable degrees of dysgenesis of the corpus callosum .
x - linked complicated corpus callosum dysgenesis is a historical term used to describe a phenotype now considered to be part of the l1 clinical spectrum  ( l1 syndrome )  .
achondroplasia is the most common form of chondrodysplasia ,  characterized by rhizomelia ,  exaggerated lumbar lordosis ,  brachydactyly ,  and macrocephaly with frontal bossing and midface hypoplasia .
short rib - polydactyly syndromes are a group of bone malformations characterized by a narrow thorax and polydactyly  ( usually preaxial )  .
autosomal recessive robinow syndrome  ( rrs )  is the less common type of robinow syndrome  ( rs )  characterized by short - limb dwarfism ,  costovertebral segmentation defects and abnormalities of the head ,  face and external genitalia .
coxoauricular syndrome is an extremely rare primary bone defect ,  described only in a mother and her three daughters to date ,  characterized by short stature ,  hip dislocation ,  minor vertebral and pelvic changes ,  and microtia with hearing loss .
small patella syndrome  ( sps )  is a very rare benign bone dysplasia affecting skeletal structures of the lower limb and the pelvis .
crane - heise syndrome is a very rare syndrome characterized by poorly mineralized calvarium ,  facial dysmorphism ,  vertebral abnormalities and absent clavicles .
craniodiaphyseal dysplasia is a rare sclerotic bone disorder with a variable phenotypic expression with massive generalized hyperostosis and sclerosis ,  particularly of the skull and facial bones ,  that may lead to severe deformity .
craniodigital syndrome  -  intellectual deficit is characterised by syndactyly of the fingers and toes ,  characteristic facies  ( `startled' facial expression with a small pointed nose ,  micrognathia ,  long dark eyelashes and prominent eyebrows )  and intellectual deficit .
cranioectodermal dysplasia  ( ced )  is a rare developmental disorder characterized by congenital skeletal and ectodermal defects associated with dysmorphic features ,  nephronophthisis ,  hepatic fibrosis and ocular anomalies  ( mainly retinitis pigmentosa )  .
craniofacial dyssynostosis  ( cfd )  is a rare cranial malformation syndrome characterized by the premature closure of both lambdoid sutures and the posterior sagittal suture ,  resulting in abnormal skull contour  ( frontal bossing ,  anterior turricephaly with mild brachycephaly ,  biparietal narrowing ,  occipital concavity )  and dysmorphic facial features  ( low - set ears ,  midfacial hypoplasia )  .
cantu syndrome is a rare disorder characterized by congenital hypertrichosis ,  osteochondrodysplasia ,  cardiomegaly ,  and dysmorphism .
teebi type hypertelorism is a rare genetic disease characterized by hypertelorism with facial features that can closely resemble craniofrontonasal dysplasia ,  such as prominent forehead ,  widow's peak ,  heavy and broad eyebrows ,  long palpebral fissures ,  ptosis ,  high and broad nasal bridge ,  short nose ,  low - set ears ,  natal teeth ,  thin upper lip and a grooved chin ,  as well as limb  ( i .e .
craniofrontonasal dysplasia is an x - linked malformation syndrome characterized by facial asymmetry  ( particularly orbital )  ,  body asymmetry ,  midline defects  ( hypertelorism ,  frontal bossing ,  broad grooved or bifid nasal tip ,  cleft lip and / or palate ,  high arched palate )  ,  skeletal anomalies  ( clavicle pseudoarthrosis ,  coronal craniosynostosis ,  various digital and limb anomalies including syndactyly ,  clinodactyly of the 5th finger ,  broad thumbs )  and ectodermal dysplasias  ( dental anomalies ,  grooved nails ,  wiry hair )  .
cranio - fronto - nasal dysplasia  -  poland anomaly is a polymalformative syndrome characterised by craniosynostosis ,  poland anomaly ,  cranio - fronto - nasal dysplasia ,  and genital and breast anomalies .
craniometaphyseal dysplasia  ( cmd )  is a very rare genetic bone disease characterized by progressive diffuse hyperostosis of cranial bones causing facial dysmorphism and functional repercussions ,  and metaphyseal widening of long bones .
craniomicromelic syndrome is a very rare disorder characterized by intrauterine growth retardation ,  underossification of the skull with large fontanels ,  short limbs with absent phalanges and finger and toe syndactyly .
cranio - osteoarthropathy  ( coa )  is a form of primary hypertrophic osteoarthropathy characterized by delayed closure of the cranial sutures and fontanels ,  digital clubbing ,  arthropathy ,  and periostosis .
craniosynostosis ,  philadelphia type is a form of syndromic craniosynostosis ,  characterized by sagittal / dolichocephalic head shape with a relatively normal facial appearance and complete soft tissue syndactyly of hand and foot .
craniotelencephalic dysplasia is an extremely rare ,  genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome characterized by craniosynostosis with frontal encephalocele and various additional brain anomalies  ( severe hydrocephalus ,  agenesis of the corpus callosum ,  lissencephaly and polymicrogyria ,  parenchymal cysts ,  septo - optic dysplasia )  resulting in marked cerebral dysfunction ,  seizures and very severe psychomotor delay .
craniofacial - deafness - hand syndrome  ( cdhs )  is an autosomal dominant disorder ,  described in one family to date ,  characterized by characteristic facial features  ( flat facial profile with normal calvarium ,  hypertelorism ,  small downslanting palpebral fissures ,  hypoplastic nose with button tip and slitlike nares ,  small ''pursed'' mouth )  ,  profound sensorineural deafness ,  and ulnar deviations and contractures of the hand .
craniosynostosis is defined as the premature fusion of one or more cranial sutures leading to secondary distortion of skull shape resulting in skull deformities with a variable presentation .
lopez - hernandez syndrome ,  which may be classified among the neurocutaneous syndromes ,  associates abnormalities of the cerebellum  ( rhombencephalosynapsis )  ,  cranial nerves  ( trigeminal anesthesia )  ,  and scalp  ( alopecia )  .
craniosynostosis - fibular aplasia is an extremely rare genetic disease ,  reported in only 2 brothers to date ,  characterized by the combination of craniosynostosis  ( involving both coronal sutures )  ,  congenital absence of the fibula ,  cryptorchidism ,  and bilateral simian creases .
craniosynostosis ,  dandy - walker malformation and hydrocephalus is a malformation disorder characterized by sagittal craniosynostosis ,  dandy - walker malformation ,  hydrocephalus ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( including dolichocephaly ,  hypertelorism ,  micrognathia ,  positional ear deformity )  and variable developmental delay .
familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy is a rare ,  genetically heterogeneous cardiac disease characterized by dilatation leading to systolic and diastolic dysfunction of the left and / or right ventricles ,  causing heart failure or arrhythmia .
jackson - weiss syndrome  ( jws )  is a rare genetic disorder characterized by foot malformations  ( tarsal and metatarsal fusions ;  short ,  broad ,  medially deviated great toes )  and in some patients craniosynostosis with facial anomalies .
a form of syndromic craniosynostosis ,  characterized by a highly variable craniosynostosis with frontal bossing ,  turribrachycephaly and cloverleaf skull anomaly .
crisponi syndrome  ( cs )  is a severe disorder characterized by muscular contractions at birth ,  intermittent hyperthermia ,  facial abnormalities and camptodactyly .
cryptomicrotia  -  brachydactyly  -  excess fingertip arch syndrome describes a combination of malformations that include bilateral cryptomicrotia ,  brachytelomesophalangy with short middle and distal phalanges of digits 2 through 5 ,  hypoplastic toenails and excess fingertip arch patterns ,  and has been reported in one family  ( mother and son )  .
cryptorchidism - arachnodactyly - intellectual disability syndrome is a rare ,  multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by psychomotor delay ,  severe intellectual deficit ,  severe muscle hypoplasia  ( with absence of subcutaneous fatty tissue )  ,  generalized contractures ,  craniofacial dysmorphic features  ( dolichocephaly ,  esotropia ,  ears of unequal size ,  high palate )  ,  chest and spinal deformities  ( i .e .
familial benign copper deficiency is a rare disorder of mineral absorption and transport characterized by hypocupremia that manifests as failure to thrive ,  mild anemia ,  repeated seizures ,  hypotonia ,  and seborrheic skin .
currarino syndrome  ( cs )  is a rare congenital disease characterized by the triad of anorectal malformations  ( arms )   ( usually anal stenosis )  ,  presacral mass  ( commonly anterior sacral meningocele  ( asm )  or teratoma )  and sacral anomalies  ( i .e .
curry - jones syndrome is a form of syndromic craniosynostosis ,  characterized by unilateral coronal craniosynostosis or multiple suture synostosis associated with complete or partial agenesis of the corpus callosum ,  preaxial polysyndactyly and syndactyly of hands and / or feet ,  along with anomalies of the skin  ( characteristic pearly white areas that become scarred and atrophic ,  abnormal hair growth around the eyes and / or cheeks ,  and on the limbs )  ,  eyes  ( iris colobomas ,  microphthalmia ,  )  and intestine  ( congenital short gut ,  malrotation ,  dysmotility ,  chronic constipation ,  bleeding and myofibromas )  .
cutis gyrata - acanthosis nigricans - craniosynthosis also known as beare - stevenson syndrome  ( bss )  is a severe form of syndromic craniosynostosis ,  characterized by a variable degree of craniosynostosis ,  with cloverleaf skull reported in over 50% of cases ,  cutis gyrata ,  corduroy - like linear striations in the skin ,  acanthosis nigricans ,  skin tags ,  and choanal stenosis or atresia .
coloboma of superior eyelid is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by a typically unilateral ,  partial or full - thickness ,  variably sized defect of the superior eyelid ,  ranging from a small notch to complete absence of the entire lid ,  which is commonly triangular in shape  ( with base at eyelid margin )  and located on the medial third of the lid .
coloboma of inferior eyelid is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by a unilateral or bilateral ,  partial or full - thickness ,  variably sized defect of the inferior eyelid  ( ranging from a small notch to complete absence of the entire lid )  which is usually triangular in shape  ( with base at eyelid margin )  and located on the lateral third of the lid .
a hereditary disorder occurring in two forms: the complete form  ( franceschetti's syndrome )  is characterized by antimongoloid slant of the palpebral fissures ,  coloboma of the lower lid ,  micrognathia and hypoplasia of the zygomatic arches ,  and microtia .
carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1a  ( cpt - 1a )  deficiency is an inborn error of metabolism that affects mitochondrial oxidation of long chain fatty acids  ( lcfa )  in the liver and kidneys ,  and is characterized by recurrent attacks of fasting - induced hypoketotic hypoglycemia and risk of liver failure .
a degenerative ,  structural disorder of the eye ,  characterized by a cone - shaped protrusion of the cornea .
fatal infantile cytochrome c oxidase deficiency is a very rare mitochondrial disease characterized clinically by cardioencephalomyopathy resulting in death in infancy .
a dystonia  ( disease )  that is not part of a larger syndrome .
dacryocystitis  -  osteopoikilosis is an exceedingly rare autosomal dominant disorder reported in only a few patients to date and is characterized by dacryocystitis due to lacrimal canal stenosis , and osteopoikilosis  ( demonastratedr adiologically as discrete spherical osteosclerotic lesions of 2 - 10mm in diameter )  .
the presence of an excessively large tongue ,  which may be congenital or may develop as a result of a tumor or edema due to obstruction of lymphatic vessels ,  or it may occur in association with hyperpituitarism or acromegaly .
dahlberg - borer - newcomer syndrome is a very rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome ,  described in 2 adult brothers ,  characterized by the association of hypoparathyroidism ,  nephropathy ,  congenital lymphedema ,  mitral valve prolapse and brachytelephalangy .
dandy - walker malformation with postaxial polydactyly syndrome is a syndromic disorder with ,  as a major feature ,  the association between dandy - walker malformation and postaxial polydactyly .
genetic biliary tract disease .
an instance of hypertension that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia ,  matrilin - 3 type is characterized by disproportionate early - onset dwarfism ,  bowing of the lower limbs ,  short ,  wide and stocky long bones with severe epiphyseal and metaphyseal changes ,  lumbar lordosis ,  hypoplastic iliac bones ,  flat ovoid vertebral bodies and normal hands .
x - linked dandy - walker malformation with intellectual disability ,  basal ganglia disease and seizures  ( xdibs )  ,  or pettigrew syndrome is a central nervous system malformation characterized by severe intellectual deficit ,  early hypotonia with progression to spasticity and contractures ,  choreoathetosis ,  seizures ,  dysmorphic face  ( long face with prominent forehead )  ,  and brain imaging abnormalities such as dandy - walker malformation ,  and iron deposition .
carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii  ( cpt ii )  deficiency is an inherited metabolic disorder that affects mitochondrial oxidation of long chain fatty acids  ( lcfa )  .
symbrachydactyly of hands and feet is a rare ,  non - syndromic limb reduction defect disorder characterized by unilateral or bilateral brachydactyly ,  cutaneous syndactyly and global hypoplasia of the hand and / or foot ,  with underlying muscles ,  tendons ,  ligaments and bones being affected but without other associated limb anomalies .
knobloch syndrome  ( ks )  is defined by vitreoretinal and macular degeneration ,  and occipital encephalocele .
common variable immunodeficiency  ( cvid )  comprises a heterogeneous group of diseases characterized by a significant hypogammaglobulinemia of unknown cause ,  failure to produce specific antibodies after immunizations and susceptibility to bacterial infections ,  predominantly caused by encapsulated bacteria .
hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets with hypercalciuria  ( hhrh )  is a hereditary renal phosphate - wasting disorder characterized by hypophosphatemia and hypercalciuria associated with rickets and / or osteomalacia .
hypotrichosis with juvenile macular degeneration  ( hjmd )  is a very rare syndrome characterized by sparse and short hair from birth followed by progressive macular degeneration leading to blindness .
retinal degeneration - nanophthalmos - glaucoma syndrome is characterized by progressive pigmentary retinal degeneration  ( with nyctalopia and visual field restriction )  ,  cystic macular degeneration and angle closure glaucoma .
infantile bilateral striatal necrosis  ( ibsn )  comprises several syndromes of bilateral symmetric spongy degeneration of the caudate nucleaus ,  putamen and globus pallidus characterized by developmental regression ,  choreoathetosis and dystonia progressing to spastic quadriparesis .
hypospadias - hypertelorism - coloboma and deafness is a very rare syndrome consisting of short stature ,  facial dysmorphism ,  hypospadias and mixed hearing loss .
hereditary mixed polyposis syndrome  ( hmps )  describes an autosomal dominantly inherited large - bowel disease characterized by the presence of a mixture of hyperplastic ,  atypical juvenile and adenomatous polyps that are associated with an increased risk of developing colorectal cancer if left untreated .
hyperplastic polyposis syndrome is a rare ,  genetic intestinal disease characterized by the presence of multiple  ( usually large )  hyperplastic / serrated colorectal polyps ,  usually with a pancolonic distribution .
dehydratase deficiency or pterin - 4 alpha - carbinolamine dehydratase  ( pcd )  is considered a transient and benign form of hyperphenylalaninemia due to tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency ,  characterized by muscular hypotonia ,  irritability  ( detected by eeg )  ,  slow acquisition of psychomotor skills ,  age - dependent movement disorders ,  including dystonia and an accompanying excretion of 7 - substituted pterins .
mesoaxial synostotic syndactyly  ( mssd )  with phalangeal reduction is a novel and distinct form of non - syndromic syndactyly including complete syndactyly of the 3rd and 4th fingers with synostoses of the corresponding metacarpals and associated single phalanges ,  syndactyly of the 2nd and 3rd toes and 5th finger clinodactyly .
cold - induced sweating syndrome  ( ciss )  is characterized by profuse sweating  ( involving the chest ,  face ,  arms and trunk )  induced by cold ambient temperature .
neuroferritinopathy is a late - onset type of neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation  ( nbia )  characterized by progressive chorea or dystonia and subtle cognitive deficits .
pantothenate kinase - associated neurodegeneration  ( pkan )  is the most common type of neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation  ( nbia )  ,  a rare neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive extrapyramidal dysfunction  ( dystonia ,  rigidity ,  choreoathetosis )  ,  iron accumulation on the brain and axonal spheroids in the central nervous system .
any neurodegenerative disease with chorea in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prnp gene .
huntington disease - like 3 is a rare huntington disease - like syndrome characterized by childhood - onset progressive neurologic deterioration with pyramidal and extrapyramidal abnormalities ,  chorea ,  dystonia ,  ataxia ,  gait instability ,  spasticity ,  seizures ,  mutism ,  and  ( on brain mri )  progressive frontal cortical atrophy and bilateral caudate atrophy .
ane syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  neuro - endocrino - cutaneous disorder characterized by highly variable degrees of alopecia ,  moderate to severe intellectual disability ,  progressive ,  late - onset motor deterioration and combined anterior pituitary hormone deficiency ,  manifesting with central hypogonadotropic hypogonadism ,  delayed or absent puberty ,  growth hormone deficiency  ( resulting in short stature )  ,  progressive central adrenal insufficiency and a hypoplastic anterior pituitary gland .
oculoauricular syndrome ,  schorderet type is a rare ,  genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by various ophthalmic anomalies  ( including congenital microphthalmia ,  microcornea ,  cataract ,  anterior segment dysgenesis ,  ocular coloboma and early onset rod - cone dystrophy )  ,  and abnormal external ears  ( low - set pinna with crumpled helix ,  narrow intertragic incisure ,  abnormal bridge connecting the crus of the helix and the anthelix ,  narrow external acoustic meatus ,  and lobule aplasia )  .
ehlers - danlos syndrome ,  spondylocheirodysplastic type is a subtype of ehlers - danlos syndrome characterized by skeletal dysplasia comprising platyspondyly with moderate short stature ,  osteopenia and widened metaphyses ,  in addition to hyperextensible ,  thin ,  easily bruised skin ,  hypermobility of small joints with tendency to contractures ,  prominent eyes with bluish sclerae ,  wrinkled palms ,  atrophy of the thenar muscle and tapering fingers .
congenital muscular dystrophy due to lmna mutation is a rare congenital muscular dystrophy characterized by prominent axial hypotonia ,  dropped head syndrome ,  predominantly proximal muscle weakness in upper limbs / distal in lower limbs  ( with absent ,  poor or lost motor development )  ,  joint contractures  ( initially distal ,  later proximal )  ,  spine rigidity ,  and early respiratory insufficiency ,  in the presence of moderately elevated serum creatine kinase .
systemic primary carnitine deficiency  ( spcd )  is a potentially lethal disorder of fatty acid oxidation characterized classically by early childhood onset cardiomyopathy often with weakness and hypotonia ,  failure to thrive and recurrent hypoglycemic hypoketotic seizures and / or coma .
distal monosomy 10p is a rare chromosomal disorder in which the tip of the short arm  ( p arm )  of chromosome 10 is deleted resulting in a variable phenotype depending on the size of the deletion .
a rare ,  inherited or acquired syndrome characterized by the presence of histiocytes in the bone marrow which contain granules stained blue with hematoxylin - eosin stain ,  mild thrombocytopenia and purpura ,  and splenomegaly .
genetic hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis .
non - distal monosomy 10q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from a partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 10 ,  with a highly variable phenotype principally characterized by developmental delays  ( usually of language and speech )  ,  variable cognitive impairment and neurobehavioral abnormalities such as autism spectrum disorders and attention deficit disorder .
genetic dementia .
a form of epidermolysis bullosa simplex in which blistering occurs above the basal keratinocytes .
a form of epidermolysis bullosa simplex in which blistering occurs within the basal keratinocytes .
epidermolysis bullosa simplex due to plakophilin deficiency  ( ebs - pd )  is a suprabasal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs )  characterized by generalized superficial erosions and less commonly blistering .
acral dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa is a very rare subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( deb )  characterized by blistering confined primarily to the hands and feet .
dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa ,  nails only is a rare subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( deb )  that shows no blistering and that is characterized by dystrophic or absent nails .
epidermolysis bullosa simplex with circinate migratory erythema  ( ebs - migr )  is a basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs )  characterized by belt - like areas of erythema with multiple vesicles and small blisters at the advancing edge of erythema .
epidermolysis bullosa simplex with pyloric atresia  ( ebs - pa )  is a basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs )  characterized by generalized severe blistering with widespread congenital absence of skin and pyloric atresia .
lethal acantholytic epidermolysis bullosa is a suprabasal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs )  characterized by generalized oozing erosions ,  usually in the absence of blisters .
carnitine - acylcarnitine translocase  ( cact )  deficiency is a life - threatening ,  inherited disorder of fatty acid oxidation which usually presents in the neonatal period with severe hypoketotic hypoglycemia ,  hyperammonemia ,  cardiomyopathy and / or arrhythmia ,  hepatic dysfunction ,  skeletal muscle weakness ,  and encephalopathy .
distal monosomy 13q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from a partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 13 ,  with a highly variable phenotype typically characterized by varying degrees of intellectual disability and developmental delay ,  as well as cns malformations  ( e .g .
distal monosomy 17q is a very rare chromosomal disorder of unknown prevalence characterized by multiple craniofacial  ( microcephaly and eye ,  ear ,  and nose deformities )  ,  limb and other multiple organ abnormalities ,  growth and motor retardation and intellectual deficit .
monosomy 18p refers to a chromosomal disorder resulting from the deletion of all or part of the short arm of chromosome 18 .
blue cone monochromatism  ( bcm )  is a recessive x - linked disease characterized by severely impaired color discrimination ,  low visual acuity ,  nystagmus ,  and photophobia ,  due to dysfunction of the red  ( l )  and green  ( m )  cone photoreceptors .
1p36 deletion syndrome is a chromosomal anomaly characterized by distinctive facial dysmorphic features ,  hypotonia ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  seizures ,  heart defects ,  hearing impairment and prenatal onset growth deficiency .
2q24 microdeletion syndrome is a chromosomal anomaly consisting of a partial long arm deletion of chromosome 2 and characterized clinically by a wide range of manifestations  ( depending on the specific region deleted )  which can include seizures ,  microcephaly ,  dysmorphic features ,  cleft palate ,  eye abnormalities  ( coloboma ,  cataract and microphthalmia )  ,  growth retardation ,  failure to thrive ,  heart defects ,  limb anomalies ,  developmental delay and autism .
deletion 5q35 is an extremely rare congenital malformation syndrome characterized by varying degrees of facial dysmorphism and developmental delay ,  associated with contractures of the fingers and cardiac defects .
hereditary hyperferritinemia with congenital cataracts is characterized by the association of early onset  ( although generally absent at birth )  cataract with persistently raised plasma ferritin concentrations in the absence of iron overload .
hb bart's hydrops fetalis is the most severe form of alpha - thalassemia and is almost always lethal .
distal monosomy 7q36 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from a partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 7 ,  with a highly variable phenotype typically characterized by holoprosencephaly ,  growth restriction ,  developmental delay ,  facial dysmorphism  ( facial clefts ,  prominent forehead ,  hypertelorism ,  low - set ears ,  flat and broad nasal bridge ,  large mouth )  ,  abnormal fingers and palm or sole creases ,  ocular abnormalities ,  and other congenital malformations  ( incl .
maffucci syndrome is a very rare genetic bone and skin disorder characterized by multiple enchondromas ,  leading to bone deformities ,  combined with multiple dark ,  irregularly shaped hemangiomas or less commonly lymphangiomas .
a spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia characterized by spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia ,  craniosynostosis ,  cataracts ,  cleft palate and intellectual deficit .
spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia ,  cantu type is an extremely rare type of spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia described in about 5 patients to date and characterized by clinical signs including short stature ,  peculiar facies with blepharophimosis ,  upward slanted eyes ,  abundant eyebrows and eyelashes ,  coarse voice ,  and short hands and feet  ( brachymetacarpalia ,  brachymetatarsalia and brachyphalangia )  .
spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia ,  reardon type is an extremely rare type of spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia described in several members of a single family to date and characterized by short stature ,  vertebral and femoral abnormalities ,  cervical instability and neurologic manifestations secondary to anomalies of the odontoid process .
spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia tarda ,  kohn type is characterized by short trunk dwarfism ,  progressive involvement of the spine and epiphyses and mild - to - moderate intellectual deficit .
spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia  ( sed )  ,  macdermot type is characterized by short stature ,  femoral epiphyseal dysplasia ,  mild vertebral changes and sensorineural deafness .
an autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the cntnap2 gene ,  encoding contactin - associated protein - like 2 .
leukoencephalopathy - dystonia - motor neuropathy syndrome is a peroxisomal neurodegenerative disorder characterized by spasmodic torticollis ,  dystonic head tremor ,  intention tremor ,  nystagmus ,  hyposmia ,  and hypergonadotrophic hypogonadism with azoospermia .
hypotonia - cystinuria syndrome  ( hcs )  is a rare syndrome including neonatal and infantile hypotonia and failure to thrive ,  cystinuria type 1 and nephrolithiasis ,  growth retardation due to growth hormone deficiency ,  and minor facial dysmorphism .
the 2p21 microdeletion syndrome consists of cystinuria ,  neonatal seizures ,  hypotonia ,  severe growthand developmental delay ,  facial dysmorphism ,  and lactic acidemia .
action myoclonus - renal failure syndrome  ( amrf )  is a rare epilepsy syndrome characterized by progressive myoclonus epilepsy in association with primary glomerular disease .
cryptogenic late - onset epileptic spasms is a rare epilepsy syndrome characterized by late - onset  ( after 1 year old )  epileptic spasms that ocurr in clusters ,  associated with tonic seizures ,  atypical absences and cognitive deterioration .
benign familial mesial temporal lobe epilepsy is a rare epilepsy characterized by seizures with viscerosensory or experential auras ,  onset in adolescence or early adulthood and good prognosis .
rolandic epilepsy - speech dyspraxia syndrome is a rare ,  genetic epilepsy characterized by speech disorder  ( including a range of symptoms from dysarthria ,  speech dyspraxia ,  receptive and expressive language delay / regression and acquired aphasia to subtle impairments of conversational speech )  and epilepsy  ( mostly focal and secondary generalized childhood - onset seizures ,  sometimes with aura )  .
waardenburg - shah syndrome ,  neurologic variant ,  also referred to as peripheral demyelinating neuropathy ,  central dysmyelinating leukodystrophy ,  waardenburg syndrome ,  and hirschsprung disease  ( pcwh )  ,  is characterized by the association of the features of wss  ( sensorineural hearing loss ,  pigmentary abnormalities and hirschsprung disease )  with neurological features ,  namely ,  neonatal hypotonia ,  intellectual deficit  ( of variable severity )  ,  nystagmus ,  progressive spasticity ,  ataxia and epilepsy .
najm type x - linked intellectual deficit is a rare cerebellar dysgenesis syndrome characterized by variable clinical manifestations ranging from mild intellectual deficit with or without congenital nystagmus ,  to severe cognitive impairment associated with cerebellar and pontine hypoplasia / atrophy and abnormalities of cortical development .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  nascimento type is a rare x - linked intellectual disability syndrome characterized by intellectual disability  ( with severe speech impairment )  ,  a myxedematous appearance ,  dysmorphic facial features  ( including large head ,  synophrys ,  prominent supraorbital ridges ,  almond - shaped and deep - set eyes ,  large ears ,  wide mouth with everted lower lip and downturned lip corners )  ,  low posterior hairline ,  short ,  broad neck ,  marked general hirsutism and abnormal hair whorls ,  skin changes  ( e .g .
x - linked dominant chondrodysplasia chassaing - lacombe type is a rare genetic bone disorder characterized by chondrodysplasia ,  intrauterine growth retardation  ( iugr )  ,  hydrocephaly and facial dysmorphism in the affected males .
x - linked intellectual deficit ,  cilliers type is characterized by mild intellectual deficit associated with short stature ,  hypergonadotropic hypogonadism ,  microcephaly and mild facial dysmorphism  ( deep - set eyes ,  prominent supraorbital ridges ,  a high nasal bridge and large ears )  .
x - linked intellectual deficit ,  van esch type is characterized by mild to moderate intellectual deficit associated with low birth weight ,  short stature ,  microcephaly and variable hypergonadotropic hypogonadism .
x - linked intellectual disability - craniofacioskeletal syndrome is a rare ,  hereditary ,  syndromic intellectual disability characterized by craniofacial and skeletal abnormalities in association with mild intellectual disability in females and early postnatal lethality in males .
distal monosomy 9p is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from a partial deletion of the short arm of chromosome 9 ,  with a highly variable phenotype typically characterized by intellectual disability ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( trigonocephaly ,  upslanting palpebral fissures ,  hypoplastic supraorbital ridges )  ,  abnormal digits  ( long middle phalanges with short distal phalanges )  ,  as well as frequent association with genitourinary abnormalities  ( cryptorchidism ,  hypospadias ,  ambiguous genitalia ,  46 , xy testicular dysgenesis )  .
xp22 .3 microdeletion syndrome is a microdeletion syndrome resulting from a partial deletion of the chromosome x . phenotype is highly variable  ( depending on length of deletion )  ,  but is mainly characterized by x linked ichthyosis ,  mild - moderate intellectual deficit ,  kallmann syndrome ,  short stature ,  chondrodysplasia punctata and ocular albinism .
male sterility due to chromosome y deletion is characterized by a severe deficiency of spermatogenesis .
oculocerebrocutaneous syndrome  ( occs )  is a rare congenital disorder associated with an intellectual disability and is typically characterized by the triad of eye ,  central nervous system and skin malformations .
familial advanced sleep - phase syndrome  ( fasps )  is a very rare circadian rhythm sleep disorder characterized by very early sleep onset and offset possibly resulting in emotional and physical disruptions .
neutral lipid storage disease  ( nlsd )  refers to a group of diseases characterized by a deficit in the degradation of cytoplasmic triglycerides and their accumulation in cytoplasmic lipid vacuoles in most tissues of the body .
dent disease is a rare genetic renal tubular disease characterized by manifestations of proximal tubule dysfunction .
dentin dysplasia  ( dd )  is a rare disorder belonging to the group of hereditary dentin defects and is characterized by abnormal dentin structure and root development resulting in abnormal tooth development .
mullerian derivatives - lymphangiectasia - polydactyly syndrome is characterised by prenatal linear growth deficiency ,  hypertrophied alveolar ridges ,  redundant nuchal skin ,  postaxial polydactyly and cryptorchidism .
dermatoosteolysis ,  kirghizian type ,  is characterised by recurrent skin ulceration ,  arthralgia ,  fever ,  peri - articular osteolysis ,  oligodontia and nail dystrophy .
a urogenital tract malformation that is part of a larger syndrome .
absence of fingerprints - congenital milia syndrome is characterized by neonatal blisters and milia  ( small white papules ,  especially on the face )  and congenital absence of dermatoglyphics on the hands and feet .
diazoxide - resistant diffuse hyperinsulism  ( drdh )  is a form of diazoxide resistant hyperinsulinism characterized by recurrent episodes of profound hypoglycemia caused by an excessive /  uncontrolled insulin secretion  ( inappropriate for the level of glycemia )  due to diffuse involvement of pancreas that is unresponsive to medical treatment with diazoxide ,  often necessitating near total / total pancreatectomy .
exercise - induced hyperinsulinism  ( eihi )  is a form of diazoxide - sensitive diffuse hyperinsulinism  ( dhi )  characterized by episodes of hypoglycemia induced by exercise due to an inappropriate lactate and pyruvate sensitivity in pancreatic beta - cells .
pituitary resistance to thyroid hormone is a rare ,  genetic thyroid disease ,  due to reduced pituitary gland responsiveness to thyroid hormone ,  characterized by mild to moderate hyperthyroidism in association with elevated circulating thyroid hormone levels ,  normal or elevated thyroid stimulating hormone ,  and no abnormalities of the pituitary gland on mri .
an inherited degenerative disorder involving the peripheral nerves .
dermo - odonto dysplasia belongs to the group of tricho - odonto - onychial dysplasias .
multiple epiphyseal dysplasia due to collagen 9 anomaly is a rare primary bone dysplasia disorder characterized by normal or mild short stature ,  early - onset pain and / or stiffness of the joints  ( mainly affecting knees but also elbows ,  wrists ,  ankles and fingers ,  with relative sparing of the hips )  and early degenerative joint disease .
multiple epiphyseal dysplasia ,  beighton type is a skeletal dysplasia characterized by epiphyseal dysplasia  ( usually mild )  associated with progressive myopia ,  retinal thinning ,  crenated cataracts ,  conductive deafness ,  and stubby digits .
multiple epiphyseal dysplasia ,  lowry type is a rare primary bone dysplasia characterized by small ,  flat epiphyses  ( esp .
multiple epiphyseal dysplasia ,  al - gazali type is a skeletal dysplasia characterized by multiple epiphyseal dysplasia ,  macrocephaly and facial dysmorphism .
multiple epiphyseal dysplasia ,  with severe proximal femoral dysplasia is a rare primary bone dysplasia characterized by severe ,  early - onset dysplasia of the proximal femurs ,  with almost complete absence of the secondary ossification centers and abnormal development of the femoral necks  ( short and broad with irregular metaphyses )  .
multiple epiphyseal dysplasia ,  with miniepiphyses is a rare primary bone dysplasia disorder characterized by strikingly small secondary ossification centers  ( mini - epiphyses )  in all or only some joints ,  resulting in severe bone dysplasia of the proximal femoral heads .
metaphyseal chondrodysplasia ,  kaitila type is a rare multiple metaphyseal dysplasia disease characterized by disproportionate short stature ,  short limbs and digits ,  tracheobronchial malacia and progressive thoracolumbar scoliosis .
pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 4  ( pch4 )  is a very rare form of pch ,  characterized by prenatal onset of polyhydramnios and contractures followed by hypertonia ,  severe clonus ,  primary hypoventilation leading to an early postnatal death .
pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 5  ( pch5 )  is a very rare severe form of pch with prenatal onset and characterized by fetal onset of clonus or seizures - like activity persisting in infancy and microencephaly leading to early postnatal death .
pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 6  ( pch6 )  is a rare form of pontocerebellar hypoplasia characterized clinically at birth by hypotonia ,  clonus ,  epilepsy impaired swallowing and from infancy by progressive microencephaly ,  spasticity and lactic acidosis .
type 1 von willebrand disease  ( type 1 vwd )  is a form of vwd characterized by a bleeding disorder associated with a partial quantitative plasmatic deficiency of an otherwise structurally and functionally normal willebrand factor  ( von willebrand factor ;  vwf )  .
type 2 von willebrand disease  ( type 2 vwd )  is a form of vwd characterized by a bleeding disorder associated with a qualitative deficiency and functional anomalies of the willebrand factor  ( von willebrand factor ;  vwf )  .
type 2a von willebrand disease  ( type 2a vwd )  is a subtype of type 2 vwd characterized by a bleeding disorder associated with a decrease in the affinity of the willebrand factor  ( von willebrand factor ;  vwf )  for platelets and the subendothelium caused by a deficiency of high molecular weight vwf multimers .
type 2b von willebrand disease  ( type 2b vwd )  is a subtype of type 2 vwd characterized by a bleeding disorder associated with an increase in the affinity of the willebrand factor  ( von willebrand factor ;  vwf )  for platelets .
type 2m von willebrand disease  ( type 2m vwd )  is a subtype of type 2 vwd characterized by a bleeding disorder associated with a decrease in the affinity of the willebrand factor  ( von willebrand factor ;  vwf )  for platelets and the subendothelium in the absence of any deficiency of high molecular weight vwf multimers .
type 2n von willebrand disease  ( type 2n vwd )  is a subtype of type 2 vwd characterized by a bleeding disorder associated with a marked decrease in the affinity of the willebrand factor  ( von willebrand factor ;  vwf )  for factor viii  ( fviii )  .
type 3 von willebrand disease  ( type 3 vwd )  is the most severe form of vwd characterized by a bleeding disorder associated with a total or near - total absence of willebrand factor  ( von willebrand factor ;  vwf )  in the plasma and cellular compartments ,  also leading to a profound deficiency of plasmatic factor viii  ( fviii )  .
x - linked corneal dermoid  ( x - cnd )  is an exceedingly rare ,  benign ,  congenital ,  corneal tumor characterized by bilateral opacification of the cornea with superficial grayish layers and irregular raised whitish plaques ,  as well as fine blood vessels covering the central cornea ,  and intact peripheral corneal borders .no other ocular or systemic abnormality is noted .
a rare ,  genetic ,  multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by craniofacial dysmorphism  ( midface hypoplasia ,  depressed nasal bridge ,  small nose with upturned tip ,  cleft palate ,  pierre robin sequence )  ,  bilateral ,  pronounced sensorineural hearing loss ,  and skeletal / joint anomalies  ( including spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia ,  arthralgia / arthropathy )  ,  in the absence of ocular abnormalities .
bazex syndrome is a rare paraneoplastic syndrome characterized by acral psoriasiform lesions .
a osteopoikilosis  ( disease )  that is not part of a larger syndrome .
restrictive dermopathy  ( rd )  is a neonatal lethal genetic disease characterized by very tight and thin skin with erosions and scaling ,  associated to a typical facial dysmorphism ,  arthrogryposis multiplex ,  fetal akinesia or hypokinesia deformation sequence  ( fads )  and pulmonary hypoplasia without neurological abnormalities .
dentinogenesis imperfecta type 2  ( dgi - 2 )  is a rare ,  severe form of dentinogenesis imperfecta  ( dgi )  and is characterized by weakness and discoloration of all teeth .
dentinogenesis imperfecta type 3  ( dgi - 3 )  is a rare ,  severe form of dentinogenesis imperfecta  ( dgi )  characterized by opalescent primary and permanent teeth ,  marked attrition ,  large pulp chambers ,  multiple pulp exposure and shell teeth radiographically  ( i .e .
odontochondrodysplasia ,  also called goldblatt syndrome ,  is a very rare syndrome associating chondrodysplasia with dentinogenesis imperfecta .
skeletal dysplasia with wormian bone - multiple fractures - dentinogenesis imperfecta is a skeletal disorder ,  reported in three patients to date ,  characterized clinically by multiple fractures ,  wormian bones of the skull ,  dentinogenesis imperfecta and facial dysmorphism  ( hypertelorism ,  periorbital fullness )  .
sick sinus syndrome is a rare cardiac rhythm disease ,  usually of the elderly ,  characterized by electrocardiographic findings of sinus bradycardia ,  atrial fibrillation ,  atrial tachycardia sinus arrest ,  or sino - atrial block ,  and that manifest with symptoms like syncope ,  dizziness ,  palpitations ,  fatigue ,  or even heart failure .
a rare ,  congenital disorder of the eccrine sweat ducts that presents as grouped keratotic papules and plaques with a linear distribution and / or multiple punctate pits filled with tiny keratotic plugs resembling comedones .
benign partial epilepsy of infancy with complex partial seizures is a rare infantile epilepsy syndrome characterized by complex partial seizures presenting with motion arrest ,  decreased responsiveness ,  staring ,  automatisms and mild clonic movements ,  with or without apneas ,  normal interictal eeg and focal ,  mostly temporal discharges in ictal eeg .
benign partial epilepsy with secondarily generalized seizures in infancy is a rare infantile epilepsy syndrome characterized by seizures presenting with motion arrest and staring .
benign infantile seizures associated with mild gastroenteritis is a rare infantile epilepsy syndrome characterized by benign afebrile seizures in previously healthy infants and children  ( age range 1 month to 6 years )  with mild acute gastroenteritis without any central nervous system infection ,  severe dehydration ,  or electrolyte imbalances .
benign infantile focal epilepsy with midline spikes and waves during sleep is a rare infantile epilepsy syndrome characterized by age of onset between 4 and 30 months ,  partial sporadic seizures presenting with motion arrest ,  staring ,  cyanosis and ,  less common ,  automatisms and lateralizing signs ,  and characteristic interictal sleep eeg changes consisting of a spike followed by a bell - shaped slow wave in the midline region .
wolcott - rallison syndrome  ( wrs )  is a very rare genetic disease ,  characterized by permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus  ( pndm )  with multiple epiphyseal dysplasia and other clinical manifestations ,  including recurrent episodes of acute liver failure .
chc ) diak - higashi syndrome  ( chs )  is a rare severe genetic disorder generally characterized by partial oculocutaneous albinism  ( oca )  ,  severe immunodeficiency ,  mild bleeding ,  neurological dysfunction and lymphoproliferative disorder .
chronic diarrhea with villous atrophy is a rare ,  genetic gastroenterological disease characterized by the early onset of chronic diarrhea ,  vomiting ,  anorexia ,  lactic acidosis ,  renal insuficiency and hepatic involvement  ( mild elevation of liver enzymes ,  steatosis ,  hepatomegaly )  .
a rare congenital abnormality in which the spinal cord is split in half by fibrous or bony tissue .
dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase  ( dpd )  deficiency isaconditionin which the body cannot break down the nucleotides thymine and uracil .
idiopathic dilatation of the right atrium  ( idra )  is a rare congenital heart malformation of unknown etiology that is characterized by an extremely dilated right atrium ,  and that is usually asymptomatic and fortuitously discovered by echocardiography or chest radiography ,  and can be sometimes associated with other anomalies such as atrial arrhythmias  ( e .g .
the hereditary dentin disorders ,  dentinogenesis imperfecta  ( dgi )  and dentin dysplasia  ( dd )  ,  comprise a group of conditions characterized by abnormal dentin structure affecting either the primary or both the primary and secondary dentitions .
loose anagen syndrome is a rare benign hair disorder affecting predominantly blond females in childhood and characterized by the presence of hair that can be easily and painlessly pulled out .
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia - hypotrichosis syndrome is a rare primary bone dysplasia disorder characterized by congenital hypotrichosis associated with rhizomelic short stature  ( more pronounced in upper limbs than lower limbs )  ,  limited hip abduction and mild genu varum .
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia ,  bieganski type is a rare primary bone dysplasia disorder characterized by infantile - onset ,  progressive ,  multiple skeletal deformities in association with slowly progressive central and peripheral neurodegeneration .
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia - abnormal dentition syndrome is a rare primary bone dysplasia disorder characterized by the association of dental anomalies  ( oligodontia with pointed incisors )  and generalized platyspondyly with epiphyseal and metaphyseal involvement .
congenital neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis  ( cncl )  is a severe form of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis  ( ncl )  with onset at birth characterized by primary microcephaly ,  neonatal epilepsy ,  and death in early infancy .
late infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses  ( lincls )  are a genetically heterogeneous group of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses  ( ncls )  typically characterized by onset during infancy or early childhood with decline of mental and motor capacities ,  epilepsy ,  and vision loss through retinal degeneration .
spondylometaphyseal dysplasia ,  golden type is a rare primary bone dysplasia disorder characterized by severe short stature ,  coarse facies ,  thoracolumbar kyphoscoliosis and enlarged joints with contractures .
axial spondylometaphyseal dysplasia is a genetic disorder of bone growth .
clah due to loss - of - function mutations in the cyp11a1 gene ,  resulting in decreased or absent activity of the enzyme p450scc ,  which leads to reduced conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone ,  the first step in steroidogenesis .
combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency type 3 is an extremely rare clinically heterogenous disorder described in about 5 patients to date .
h syndrome is a systemic inherited histiocytosis ,  with characteristic cutaneous findings accompanying systemic manifestations .
bailey - bloch congenital myopathy is a neuromuscular disorder characterized by weakness ,  arthrogryposis ,  kyphoscoliosis ,  short stature ,  cleft palate ,  ptosis and susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia during anesthesia .
hereditary north american indian childhood cirrhosis is a severe autosomal recessive intrahepatic cholestasis that has only been described in aboriginal children from northwestern quebec .
a disorder in which there is a failure to regenerate the active glucocorticoid cortisol from cortisone via 11beta - hsd1 .
sudden infant death with dysgenesis of the testes  ( siddt )  syndrome is a lethal condition in infants with dysgenesis of testes .
hypermethioninemia due to methionine adenosyltransferase deficiency is a very rare metabolic disorder resulting in isolated hepatic hypermethioninemia that is usually benign due to partial inactivation of enzyme activity .
congenital enteropathy due to enteropeptidase deficiency is a rare ,  genetic ,  gastroenterological disease characterized by early - onset failure to thrive ,  edema ,  hypoproteinemia ,  diarrhea and fat malabsorption  ( or steatorrhea )  in the presence of very low or absent trypsin activity in duodenal fluid .
congenital deficiency in alpha - fetoprotein is a benign genetic condition characterized by a dramatically decreased level of alpha - fetoprotein in fetus or neonate .
hereditary persistence of alpha - fetoprotein is a benign genetic condition characterized by persistence of high alpha - fetoprotein  ( afp )  levels throughout life ,  with no associated clinical disability and thus no need for specific therapy
meyer dysplasia of the femoral head is a mild localized form of skeletal dysplasia characterized by delayed ,  irregular ossification of femoral capital epiphysis .
familial scaphocephaly syndrome ,  mcgillivray type is a rare newly described craniosynostosis syndrome characterized by scaphocephaly ,  macrocephaly ,  severe maxillary retrusion ,  and mild intellectual disability .
generalized basaloid follicular hamartoma syndrome is a rare ,  genetic skin disease characterized by multiple milium - like ,  comedone - like lesions and skin - colored to hyperpigmented ,  1 to 2 mm - sized papules ,  associated with hypotrichosis and palmar / plantar pits .
childhood disintergrative disorder is a rare pervasive developmental disorder with a disease onset before the age of three and characterized by a dramatic loss of behavioral and developmental functioning after atleast two years of normal development .
heart - hand syndrome of slovenian type is a rare autosomal dominant form of heart - hand syndrome ,  first described in members of a slovenian family ,  that is characterized by adult onset ,  progressive cardiac conduction disease ,  tachyarrhythmias that can lead to sudden death ,  dilated cardiomyopathy and brachydactyly ,  with the hands less severely affected than the feet .
clapo syndrome is a newly described syndrome consisting of capillary malformation of the lower lip  ( c )  ,  lymphatic malformation of the face and neck  ( l )  ,  asymmetry of face and limbs  ( a )  and partial or generalized overgrowth  ( o )  .
pili annulati is an isolated ,  benign hair shaft abnormality ,  usually presenting after the age of 2 and affecting the hair of the scalp or very rarely beard ,  axillary ,  or pubic hair ,  that is characterized by a banded or speckled appearance due to alternating light bands  ( corresponding to air - filled cavities within the cortex of the affected hair shafts )  and dark bands .
cernunnos - xlf deficiency is a rare form of combined immunodeficiency characterized by microcephaly ,  growth retardation ,  and t and b cell lymphopenia .
combined immunodeficiency due to cd3gamma deficiency is an extremely rare genetic combined primary immunodeficiency characterized by a selective partial lymphopenia  ( t +  /  - b + nk +  )  phenotype and decreased cd3 complex resulting in a variable but usually mild clinical presentation ranging from asymptomatic until adulthood to high susceptibility to infections from early infancy with predominant automimmune manifestations .
susceptibility to respiratory infections associated with cd8 alpha chain mutation is a rare primary immunodeficiency due to a defect in adaptive immunity characterized by the absence of cd8 +  t cells with normal immunoglobulin and specific antibody titres in blood and susceptibility to recurrent respiratory bacterial and viral infections .
combined immunodeficiency  ( cid )  due to ca2 +  release activated ca2 +  ( crac )  channel dysfunction is a form of cid characterized by recurrent infections ,  autoimmunity ,  congenital myopathy and ectodermal dysplasia .
a severe combined immunodeficiency characterized by congenital alopecia ,  severe t - cell immunodeficiency ,  and ridging ,  pitting or curving of all nails that has material basis in homozygous mutation in the foxn1 gene on chromosome 17q11 - q12 .
a rare ,  primary humoral immunodeficiency of childhood characterized by decreasing serum levels of immunoglobulin g  ( igg )  as maternal antibodies clear the circulation while serum levels of immunoglobulin a and immunoglobulin m remain normal or are slightly decreased .
a genetic deficiency of any membrane attack complex  ( mac ,  also known as terminal component complex  ( tcc )  )  component of the complement system  ( c5 ,  c6 ,  c7 ,  c8 ,  c9 )  .
a severe combined immunodeficiency that results from defective il7r expression causes t - b + nk +  scid .
autosomal recessive centronuclear myopathy  ( ar - cnm )  is an inherited neuromuscular disorder defined by numerous centrally placed nuclei on muscle biopsy and clinical features of a congenital myopathy .
autosomal dominant centronuclear myopathy  ( ad - cnm )  is an inherited neuromuscular disorder defined by numerous centrally placed nuclei on muscle biopsy and clinical features of a congenital myopathy .
autosomal recessive hyper ige syndrome  ( ar - hies )  is a very rare severe primary immunodeficiency disorder characterized by the clinical triad of highly elevated serum ige levels ,  recurring staphylococcal skin abscesses ,  and recurrent pneumonia .
non - distal trisomy 10q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 10 ,  characterized by mild to moderate developmental delay ,  postnatal growth retardation ,  central hypotonia ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
severe hemophilia b is a form of hemophilia b characterized by a large deficiency of factor ix leading to frequent spontaneous hemorrhage and abnormal bleeding as a result of minor injuries ,  or following surgery or tooth extraction .
moderately severe hemophilia b is a form of hemophilia b characterized by factor ix deficiency leading to abnormal bleeding as a result of minor injuries ,  or following surgery or tooth extraction .
mild hemophilia b is a form of hemophilia b characterized by a small deficiency of factor ix leading to abnormal bleeding as a result of minor injuries ,  or following surgery or tooth extraction .
mosaic trisomy 12 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  with a highly variable phenotype ,  principally characterized by developmental or growth delay ,  short stature ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( e .g .
severe hemophilia a is a form of hemophilia a characterized by a large deficiency of factor viii leading to frequent spontaneous hemorrhage and abnormal bleeding as a result of minor injuries ,  or following surgery or tooth extraction .
moderately severe hemophilia a is a form of hemophilia a characterized by factor viii deficiency leading to abnormal bleeding as a result of minor injuries ,  or following surgery or tooth extraction .
mild hemophilia a is a form of hemophilia a characterized by a small deficiency of factor viii leading to abnormal bleeding as a result of minor injuries ,  or following surgery or tooth extraction .
congenital vitamin k - dependent coagulation factors deficiency involving multiple coagulation factors .
trisomy 12p is an extremely rare chromosomal disorder  ( over 30 cases reported worldwide )  characterized by craniofacial malformations  ( round face ,  prominent cheeks ,  high bulging forehead ,  broad and flat nasal bridge ,  short nose with anteverted nostrils ,  long philtrum ,  prominent and everted lower lip ,  low - set ears ,  abnormally folded helix ,  protuberant antihelix )  ,  postnatal growth retardation ,  mental and psychomotor retardation ,  generalized hypotonia ,  abnormally short wide hands and / or other abnormalities .
fatal infantile lactic acidosis with methylmalonic aciduria is a rare neurometabolic disease characterized by infantile onset of severe encephalomyopathy ,  lactic acidosis and elevated methylmalonic acid urinary excretion .
woolly hair is a rare congenital abnormality of the structure of the scalp hair marked by extreme kinkiness of the hair .
non - distal trisomy 13q is a rare chromosomal anomaly disorder ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the proximal long arm of chromosome 13 ,  with a highly variable phenotype principally characterized by increased polymorphonuclear leucocyte projections and persistence of fetal hemoglobin ,  as well as growth and developmental delay and craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
mosaic trisomy 14 is a rare chromosomal disorder in which there are 3 copies  ( trisomy )  of chromosome 14 in some cells of the body ,  while other cells have the usual two copies .
mosaic trisomy 15 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome principally characterized by intrauterine growth restriction ,  congenital cardiac anomalies  ( incl .
mosaic trisomy 16 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with a highly variable phenotype ranging from minor anomalies with normal development to intrauterine growth retardation ,  abnormal skin pigmentation ,  craniofacial and body asymmetry ,  cardiac  ( e .g .
mosaic trisomy 17 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  with a highly variable clinical presentation ,  mostly characterized by growth delay ,  intellectual disability ,  body asymmetry with leg length differentiation ,  scoliosis ,  and congenital heart anomalies  ( e .g .
high anorectal malformation is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic subtype of anorectal malformation ,  resulting from a developmental defect during embryogenesis ,  characterized by a wide spectrum of anorectal anomalies ,  with or without a rectourogenital fistula ,  located above the pubococcygeal line  ( i .e .
intermediate anorectal malformation is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic subtype of anorectal malformation ,  resulting from a developmental defect during embryogenesis ,  characterized by a wide spectrum of anorectal anomalies lying between the pubococcygeal line and the ischial tuberosity  ( e .g . ,  rectovestibular and rectovaginal fistulas in the female ,  rectobulbar fistula in the male ,  and anal agenesis )  .
low anorectal malformation is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic subtype of anorectal malformation ,  resulting from a developmental defect during embryogenesis ,  characterized by a wide spectrum of anorectal anomalies lying below the ischial tuberosity  ( e .g . ,  anovestibular fistula in female ,  perineal and anocutaneous fistulas ,  and anal stenosis )  .
rectal duplication is a rare congenital anorectal malformation characterized by an egg - like ,  cystic ,  mucus - filled mass ,  composed of intestinal mucosal lining and smooth muscle tissue .
severe congenital nemaline myopathy is a severe form of nemaline myopathy  ( nm )  characterized by severe hypotonia with little spontaneous movement in neonates .
intermediate nemaline myopathy is a type of nemaline myopathy  ( nm )  that shows features of typical nm in neonates with a more severe progression .
typical nemaline myopathy is a moderate neonatal form of nemaline myopathy  ( nm )  characterized by facial and skeletal muscle weakness and mild respiratory involvement .
childhood onset nemaline myopathy ,  or mild nemaline myopathy is a type of nemaline myopathy  ( nm )  characterized by distal muscle weakness ,  and sometimes slowness of muscle contraction .
adult - onset nemaline myopathy is a rapidly progressive type of nemaline myopathy  ( nm )  characterized by a very late onset .
muscle filaminopathy is a rare myofibrillar myopathy characterized by slowly progressive ,  proximal skeletal muscle weakness ,  which is initially more prominent in lower extremities and involves upper extremities with disease progression .
trisomy 18p is an extremely rare chromosomal anomaly with a poorly defined clinical phenotype .
x - linked spastic paraplegia type 34 is a pure form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by late childhood -  to early adulthood - onset of slowly progressive spastic paraplegia with spastic gait and lower limb hyperreflexia ,  brisk tendon reflexes and ankle clonus .
autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia type 37 is a pure form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by a childhood -  to adulthood - onset of slowly progressive spastic gait ,  extensor plantar responses ,  brisk tendon reflexes in arms and legs ,  decreased vibration sense at ankles and urinary dysfunction .
a hereditary spastic paraplegia that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 4p16 - p15 .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 32  ( spg32 )  is a rare ,  complex type of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by a slowly progressive spastic paraplegia  ( with walking difficulties appearing at onset at 6 - 7 years of age )  associated with mild intellectual disability .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 35 is a rare form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by childhood  ( exceptionally adolescent )  onset of a complex phenotype presenting with lower limb  ( followed by upper limb )  spasticity with hyperreflexia and extensor plantar responses ,  with additional manifestations including progressive dysarthria ,  dystonia ,  mild cognitive decline ,  extrapyramidal features ,  optic atrophy and seizures .
lissencephaly  ( lis )  due to tuba1a mutation is a congenital cortical development anomaly due to abnormal neuronal migration involving neocortical and hippocampal lamination ,  corpus callosum ,  cerebellum and brainstem .
metabolic myopathy due to lactate transporter defect is a rare metabolic myopathy characterized by muscle cramping and / or stiffness after exercise  ( especially during heat exposure )  ,  post - exertional rhabdomyolysis and myoglobinuria ,  and elevation of serum creatine kinase .
a parkinson's disease that has material basis in mutation in the fbxo7 gene on chromosome 22q12 .3 .
distal trisomy 19q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome characterized by low birth weight ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  short stature ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
microcephaly - polymicrogyria - corpus callosum agenesis syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  central nervous system malformation syndrome characterized by marked prenatal - onset microcephaly ,  severe motor delay with hypotonia ,  bilateral polymicrogyria ,  corpus callosum agenesis ,  ventricular dilation ,  small cerebellum and early lethality .
short stature - delayed bone age due to thyroid hormone metabolism deficiency is a rare ,  genetic congenital hypothyroidism disorder characterized by mild global developmental delay in childhood ,  short stature ,  delayed bone age ,  and abnormal thyroid and selenium levels in serum  ( high total and free t4 concentrations ,  low t3 ,  high reverse t3 ,  normal to high tsh ,  decreased selenium )  .
male infertility due to globozoospermia is a male infertility due to sperm disorder characterized by the presence ,  in sperm ,  of a large majority of round - headed spermatozoa that lack the acrosome and have an aberrant nuclear membrane and midpiece defects .
any hereditary mucosal leukokeratosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the krt4 gene .
deletion 6q16 syndrome is a prader - willi like syndrome characterized by obesity ,  hyperphagia ,  hypotonia ,  small hands and feet ,  eye / vision anomalies ,  and global developmental delay .
this syndrome associates gingival fibromatosis with dental abnormalities including generalized thin hypoplastic amelogenesis imperfecta ,  intrapulpal calcifications ,  and delay of tooth eruption .
capra - demarco syndrome is characterized by sagittal craniosynostosis ,  hydrocephalus ,  chiari i malformation and radioulnar synostosis .
this syndrome associates progressive visual loss with scoliosis or kyphoscoliosis and arachnodactyly of the fingers and toes .
fiskerstrand type peripheral neuropathy is a slowly - progressive refsum - like disorder associating signs of peripheral neuropathy with late - onset hearing loss ,  cataract and pigmentary retinopathy that become evident during the third decade of life .
mednik syndrome ,  previously known as erythrokeratodermia variabilis type 3  ( ekv3 )  ,  is characterized by intellectual deficit ,  enteropathy ,  sensorineural hearing loss ,  peripheral neuropathy ,  lamellar and erythrodermic ichthyosis ,  and keratodermia  ( mednik stands for mental retardation ,  enteropathy ,  deafness ,  peripheral neuropathy ,  ichtyosis ,  keratodermia )  .
this syndrome is characterized by severe intellectual deficit ,  kyphosis with onset in childhood and cataract with onset in late adolescence .
autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia type 42 is a pure form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by slowly progressive spastic paraplegia of lower extremities with an age of onset ranging from childhood to adulthood and patients presenting with spastic gait ,  increased tendon reflexes in lower limbs ,  extensor plantar response ,  weakness and atrophy of lower limb muscles and ,  in rare cases ,  pes cavus .
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia ,  aggrecan type is a new form of skeletal dysplasia characterized by severe short stature ,  facial dysmorphism and characteristic radiographic findings .
renal pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1  ( renal pha1 )  is a mild form of primary mineralocorticoid resistance restricted to the kidney .
generalized pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1  ( generalized pha1 )  is a severe form of primary mineralocorticoid resistance with systemic involvement and salt loss in multiple organs .
cap myopathy is a very rare congenital myopathy presenting a weakness of facial and respiratory muscles associated with craniofacial and thoracic deformities ,  as well as weakness of limb proximal and distal muscles .
cylindrical spirals myopathy is a rare form of congenital myopathy characterized by global muscle weakness ,  hypotonia ,  myotonia and cramps in the presence of cylindrical ,  spiral - shaped inclusions  ( located in the central and / or subsacrolemmal areas of muscle fibers )  in skeletal muscle biopsy .
myopathy with hexagonally cross - linked tubular arrays is a rare ,  congenital ,  non - dystrophic ,  mild ,  slowly progressive ,  proximal myopathy characterized by exercise intolerance and post - exercise myalgia without rhabdomyolysis ,  associated with highly organized hexagonally cross - linked tubular arrays in skeletal muscle biopsy .
trisomy 10p is a syndrome of mental retardation / multiple congenital malformations  ( mr - mca )  that is caused by the total or partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 10 .
progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis  ( pfic )  refers to a heterogeneous group of autosomal recessive disorders of childhood that disrupt bile formation and present with cholestasis of hepatocellular origin .
mosaic trisomy 2 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  with a highly variable phenotype ,  principally characterized by intrauterine growth restriction ,  growth and motor delay ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( e .g .
mosaic trisomy 20 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with a highly variable phenotype ranging from normal  ( in the majority of cases )  to a mild ,  subtle phenotype principally characterized by spinal abnormalities  ( i .e .
the newly described 22q11 .2 microduplication syndrome  ( dup22q11 syndrome )  is the association of a broad clinical spectrum and a duplication of the region that is deleted in patients with digeorge or velocardiofacial syndrome  ( dg / vcfs )  ,  establishing a complementary duplication syndrome .
trisomy 4p is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 4 ,  with a highly variable phenotype ,  typically characterized by pre -  and postnatal growth delay ,  psychomotor developmental delay and craniofacial dysmorphism  ( microcephaly ,  prominent glabelle ,  hypertelorism ,  enlarged ears with abnormal helix and antihelix ,  bulbous nose with flat or depressed nasal bridge ,  long philtrum ,  retrognathia with pointed chin )  .
schmid metaphyseal chondrodysplasia is a rare disorder characterized by moderately short stature with short limbs ,  coxa vara ,  bowlegs and an abnormal gait .
trisomy 5p is a chromosomal abnormality resulting from the duplication of a segment of variable size of the short arm of chromosome 5 ,  which usually involves the distal band 5p15 .
distal trisomy of the short arm of chromosome 6 is characterized by pre -  and postnatal growth retardation ,  a pattern of specific facial features  ( mostly of the eyes )  ,  microcephaly ,  and developmental delay .
congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism  ( chh )  is a rare disorder of sexual maturation characterized by gonadotropin  ( gn )  deficiency with low sex steroid levels associated with low levels of follicle stimulating hormone  ( fsh )  and luteinizing hormone  ( lh )  .
mosaic trisomy 7 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  with a highly variable phenotype ,  mostly characterized by blaschkolinear skin pigmentary dysplasia ,  body asymmetry ,  enamel dysplasia ,  and developmental and growth delay .
cartilage - hair hypoplasia is a disease affecting the bone metaphyses causing small stature from birth .
trisomy 8q is a very rare disorder characterized by duplication of the long arm of chromosome 8 .
caudal duplication  ( cd )  is a rare developmental anomaly in which structures derived from the embryonic cloaca and notochord are duplicated to varying extents .
fibular dimelia - diplopodia syndrome is a rare developmental anomaly .
thoraco - abdominal enteric duplication is a rare ,  syndromic intestinal malformation characterized by single or multiple smooth - walled ,  often tubular ,  cystic lesions ,  which on occasion contain ectopic gastric mucosa ,  located in the thorax  ( usually in the posterior mediastinum and to the right of the midline )  and in the abdomen .
nonrhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata is a form of chondrodysplasia punctata ,  a group of diseases in which the common characteristic is bone calcifications near joints from birth .
distal xq duplications refer to chromosomal disorders resulting from involvement of the long arm of the x chromosome  ( xq )  .
a congenital disorder caused by mutations in the ikbkap gene .
dyschondrosteosis  -  nephritis is characterized by the association of short stature due to mesomelic shortening of the limbs and madelung deformity ,  with hereditary nephritis .
a non - progressive cerebellar disorder characterized by ataxia associated with an intellectual disability ,  delayed ambulation and cerebellar hypoplasia .
familial caudal dysgenesis is a rare ,  genetic ,  developmental defect during embryogenesis disorder characterized by varying degrees of caudal dysgenesis ,  ranging from a single umbilical artery or imperforate anus to full sirenomelia ,  in several members of the same family .
rhizomelic chondrodysplasia is a form chondrodysplasia punctata ,  a group of diseases in which the common characteristic is calcifications near joints at birth .
gonadal dysgenesis with multiple anomalies is an association syndrome described only once in two sisters aged 1 1 / 2 and 8 1 / 2 years .
a hypothyroidism that is part of a larger syndrome .
45 , x / 46 , xy mixed gonadal dysgenesis  ( 45 , x / 46 , xy mgd )  is a disorder of sex development  ( dsd )  associated with a numerical sex chromosome abnormality resulting from y - chromosome mosaicism and leading to abnormal gonadal development .
dyskeratosis congenita  ( dc )  is a rare ectodermal dysplasia that often presents with the classic triad of nail dysplasia ,  skin pigmentary changes ,  and oral leukoplakia associated with a high risk of bone marrow failure  ( bmf )  and cancer .
temtamy syndrome is a very rare congenital genetic neurological disorder characterized by agenesis / hypoplasia of corpus callosum with developmental abnormalities ,  ocular disorders ,  and variable craniofacial and skeletal abnormalities .
facial dysmorphism - shawl scrotum - joint laxity syndrome is characterised by facial dysmorphism  ( hypertelorism ,  telecanthus ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  ptosis ,  malar hypoplasia ,  broad nasal bridge ,  thin upper lip ,  smooth philtrum ,  and low - set prominent ears )  and associated with joint anomalies  ( genu valgum or cubitus valgus ,  hyper - extensible joints ,  etc . )  .
dysmorphism - cleft palate - loose skin syndrome is a rare ,  genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by severe psychomotor delay ,  intellectual disability ,  congential ,  symmetrical circumferential skin creases of arms and legs ,  cleft palate ,  and facial dysmorphism  ( incl .
a form of hemophilia a that manifests in some women with mutations in the f8 gene  ( xq28 )  ,  encoding coagulation factor viii .
a form of hemophilia b  ( see this term )  that manifests in some women with mutations in the f9 gene  ( xq28 )  ,  encoding coagulation factor ix .
chordomas are rare malignant tumors arising from embryonic remnants of the notochord in axial skeleton .
precocious puberty caused by sex hormones .
dysosteosclerosis is a skeletal dysplasia characterized by progressive osteosclerosis and platyspondyly .
the 8q22 .1 microdeletion syndrome or nablus mask - like facial syndrome is a rare microdeletion syndrome associated with a distinct facial appearance .
a pigmentation disease characterized by lesions that initially arise as letiginous ,  hyperpigmented macules in a reticular pattern on the dorsal aspect of the hands and feet .
aland island eye disease  ( aied )  is an x - linked recessive retinal disease characterized by fundus hypopigmentation ,  decrased visual acuity ,  nystagmus ,  astigmatism ,  progressive axial myopia ,  defective dark adaptation and protanopia .
uv - sensitive syndrome is a condition that is characterized by sensitivity to the ultraviolet  ( uv )  rays in sunlight .
aromatase excess syndrome is a rare ,  genetic endocrine disease characterized by increased levels of estrogen due to elevated extraglandular aromatase activity .
smith - mccort dysplasia  ( smc )  is a rare spondylo - epi - metaphyseal dysplasia characterized by the clinical manifestations of coarse facies ,  short neck ,  short trunk dwarfism with barrel - shaped chest and rhizomelic limb shortening ,  as well as specific radiological features  ( i .e .
syndromic microphthalmia ,  type 5 is characterized by the association of a range of ocular anomalies  ( anophthalmia ,  microphthalmia and retinal abnormalities )  with variable developmental delay and central nervous system malformations .
this newly described syndrome is characterized by osteosclerosis ,  developmental delay and craniosynostosis .
isolated congenital vertical talus  ( cvt )  is a rare pedal deformity recognizable at birth by a dislocation of the talonavicular joint ,  resulting in a characteristic radiographic near - vertical orientation of the talus .
any autosomal recessive malignant osteopetrosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tnfrs11a gene .
acro - fronto - facio - nasal dysostosis is a congenital malformation syndrome characterized by the association of facial and skeletal anomalies with severe intellectual deficit and occasional genitourinary anomalies .
x - linked myopathy with postural muscle atrophy is a rare progressive muscular dystrophy characterized by an adult - onset scapulo - axio - peroneal myopathy .
autosomal dominant form of non - syndromic intellectual disability .
perry syndrome is a rare inherited neurodegenerative disorder characterized by rapidly progressive early - onset parkinsonism ,  central hypoventilation ,  weight loss ,  insomnia and depression .
acrofacialdysostosis ,  catania type is a very rare type of acrofacialdysostosis characterized by mild intrauterine growth retardation  ( iugr )  ,  postnatal short stature ,  microcephaly ,  widow's peak ,  mandibulofacial dysostosis without cleft palate ,  frequent caries ,  mild pre -  and postaxial limb hypoplasia with brachydactyly ,  mild interdigital webbing ,  simian creases ,  inguinal hernia and cryptorchidism and hypospadias in males .
acrofacial dysostosis ,  palagonia type is a very rare form of acrofacial dysostosis ,  reported in four members of a family from the sicilian village of palagonia ,  characterized by normal intelligence ,  shortness of stature ,  and mild acrofacial dysostosis  ( malar hypoplasia ,  micrognathia and webbing of digits with shortening of the fourth metacarpals )  associated with oligodontia ,  normal or high arched palate ,  aplasia cutis verticis with pili torti ,  mild cutaneous syndactyly of digits 2 - 5 ,  webbing of digits and shortening of the fourth metacarpals ,  and unilateral cleft lip .
acrofacial dysostosis rodriguez type is a multiple malformative syndrome in which mandibulofacial dysostosis and severe limb reduction defects are associated with complex malformations of different organs and systems especially the cns ,  urogenital tract ,  heart ,  and lungs .
birdshot chorioretinopathy is a posterior uveitis characterized by multiple cream - colored ,  hypopigmented choroidal lesions in the fundus and a strong association with hla - a29 and clinically presenting with blurred vision ,  floaters ,  photopsia ,  scotoma and nyctalopia .
hypomandibular faciocranial dysostosis is a cranial malformation characterized by facial dysmorphism  ( proptosis ,  frontal bossing ,  midface and zygomatic arches hypoplasia ,  short nose with anteverted nostrils ,  microstomia with persistent buccopharyngeal membrane ,  severe hypoglossia with glossoptosis ,  severe mandibular hypoplasia ,  and low set ears )  associated with laryngeal hypoplasia and craniosynostosis .
fronto - facio - nasal dysostosis is characterized by multiple craniofacial anomalies  ( brachycephaly ,  blepharophimosis ,  ptosis ,  s - shaped palpebral fissures ,  coloboma ,  cleft lip and palate ,  deformed nostrils ,  encephalocele ,  hypertelorism ,  midface hypoplasia ,  malformed eyes ,  and absent inner eyelashes )  .
oculomaxillofacial dysostosis is a rare ,  genetic bone developmental disorder characterized by short stature ,  orbital region and ocular abnormalities  ( e .g .
autosomal dominant spondylocostal dysostosis is a very rare and mild form of spondylocostal dysostosis characterized by vertebral and costal segmentation defects ,  often with a reduction in the number of ribs .
stanescu type dysostosis is a rare form of osteosclerosis .
distal renal tubular acidosis  ( drta )  is a disorder of impaired net acid secretion by the distal tubule characterized by hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis .
choroideremia  ( chm )  is an x - linked chorioretinal dystrophy characterized by progressive degeneration of the choroid ,  retinal pigment epithelium  ( rpe )  and retina .
true unicornuate uterus is a rare ,  non - syndromic uterovaginal malformation characterized by a crescent - shaped ,  small - sized uterus containing a single horn and fallopian tube with no rudimentary horn .
pseudounicornuate uterus is a rare ,  non - syndromic uterovaginal malformation characterized by a crescent - shaped ,  small - sized uterus containing a single horn and fallopian tube associated with a rudimentary second horn  ( which can be solid or contain a cavity with functioning endometrium and be communicating or non - communicating )  .
kyphomelic dysplasia is a prenatal skeletal disease that causes dwarfism characterized bythe following: a disproportionately short stature with a short narrow chest , shortening and bending  ( bowing ) of the limbs ,  flared irregular metaphyses of the bones ,  and characteristicfacial features .bone changes are said to improve with age .kyphomelic dysplasia is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern .
ghosal hematodiaphyseal dysplasia syndrome  ( ghdd )  is a rare disorder characterized by increased bone density  ( predominantly diaphyseal )  and aregenerative corticosteroid - sensitive anemia .
this syndrome is characterised by kniest dysplasia ,  spine abnormalities and severe dwarfism .
ectodermal dysplasia - blindness syndrome is characterized by intellectual deficit ,  blindness caused by ocular malformations  ( microphthalmia ,  microcornea and sclerocornea )  ,  short stature ,  dysmorphic facial features  ( narrow nasal bridge and prominent ears )  ,  hypotrichosis ,  and malaligned teeth .
focal facial dermal dysplasia type iii  ( ffdd3 )  is a rare focal facial facial dysplasia  ( ffdd )  ,  characterized primarily by congenital bitemporal scar - like depressions and a typical ,  but variable facial dysmorphism ,  which may include distichiasis  ( upper lids )  or lacking eyelashes ,  slanted eyebrows and a flattened and / or bulbous nasal tip and other features such as a low frontal hairline ,  sparse hair ,  redundant skin ,  epicanthal folds ,  low - set dysplastic ears ,  blepharitis and conjunctivitis .
hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia ,  christianson - fourie type is a rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by tricho -  and onychodysplasia in association with cardiac rhythm abnormalities .
hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia ,  halal type is a form of ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by trichodysplasia ,  with absent eyebrows and eyelashes ,  onychodysplasia ,  mild retrognathia ,  abnormal dermatoglyphics  ( excess of whorls on fingertips ,  radial loop on finger ,  hypothenar pattern )  ,  intellectual disability and normal teeth and sweating .
an x - linked form of ectodermal dysplasia which results from mutations of the gene encoding ectodysplasin .
autosomal dominant form of hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia .
odontomicronychial dysplasia is a rare ,  hereditary ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by involvement of teeth and nails  -  precocious eruption and shedding of deciduous dentition ,  precocious eruption of secondary dentition with short ,  rhomboid roots ,  and short ,  thin ,  slow growing nails .
ectodermal dysplasia - intellectual disability - central nervous system malformation syndrome is a rare ,  multiple developmental anomalies syndrome characterized by the triad of ectodermal dysplasia  ( mostly hypohidrotic with dry skin and reduced sweating and sparse ,  fair scalp hair ,  eyebrows and eyelashes )  ,  severe intellectual disability and variable central nervous system anomalies  ( cerebellar hypoplasia ,  dilatation of ventricles ,  corpus callosum agenesis ,  dandy - walker malformation )  .
growth hormone insensitivity syndrome  ( ghis )  is a group of diseases characterized by marked short stature associated with normal or elevated growth hormone  ( gh )  concentrations ,  which fail to respond to exogenous gh administration .
abnormal sex differentiation or congenital disorders of sex development caused by abnormal levels of steroid hormones expressed by the gonads or the adrenal glands ,  such as in congenital adrenal hyperplasia and adrenal cortex neoplasms .
major hypertriglyceridemia comprises a group of endocrine diseases characterized by permanently high levels of triglycerides  ( tg )  in the blood  ( higher than 4g / l after 12 hours of fasting )  and an increased risk of acute pancreatitis ,  making screening essential .
an autosomal dominant genetic condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the cetp gene ,  encoding cholesteryl ester transfer protein .
a inherited lipid metabolism disorder that is part of a larger syndrome .
ectodermal dysplasia ,  trichoodontoonychial type is a form of ectodermal dysplasia with hair ,  teeth and nail involvement characterized predominantly by hypodontia ,  hypotrichosis ,  delayed hair growth and brittle nails .
an inherited giant platelet disorder with a complex phenotype characterized by congenital thrombocytopenia and possible subsequent manifestations of sensorineural hearing loss ,  presenile cataracts ,  elevation of liver enzymes ,  and / or progressive nephropathy often leading to end - stage renal disease  ( esrd )  .
an occupational lung disorder caused by inhalation of dust particles .
dysplasia epiphysealis hemimelica  ( deh )  ,  or trevor's disease ,  is a rarecondition that most commonly affects the epiphysis  ( the end )  of long bones in children .early diagnosis and treatment are necessary to prevent jointdysfunction and deformity and may be surgical or non - surgical depending on the location and the symptoms .
lowry - wood syndrome is characterized by the association of epiphyseal dysplasia ,  short stature ,  microcephaly and ,  in the first reported cases ,  congenital nystagmus .
epiphyseal dysplasia - hearing loss - dysmorphism syndrome is a rare multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  short stature ,  sensorineural hearing impairment ,  facial dysmorphism  ( incl .
frontometaphyseal dysplasia  ( fmd )  belongs to the otopalatodigital syndrome spectrum disorder and is characterized by anomalous ossification and skeletal patterning of the axial and appendicular skeleton ,  facial dysmorphism and conductive and sensorineural hearing loss .
acromelic frontonasal dysplasia  ( afnd )  is a rare variant of frontonasal dysplasia characterized by distinct craniofacial  ( large fontanelle ,  hypertelorism ,  bifid nasal tip ,  nasal clefting ,  brachycephaly ,  median cleft face ,  carp - shaped mouth )  ,  brain  ( interhemispheric lipoma ,  agenesis of the corpus callosum )  ,  and limb  ( tibial hypoplasia / aplasia ,  club foot ,  symmetric preaxial polydactyly of the feet and bilateral clubbed and thickened nails of halluces )  malformations as well as intellectual disability .
schimke immuno - osseous dysplasia  ( siod )  is a multisystem disorder characterized by spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia and disproportionate short stature ,  facial dysmorphism ,  t - cell immunodeficiency ,  and glomerulonephritis with nephrotic syndrome .
lethal osteosclerotic bone dysplasia is defined by generalized osteosclerosis with periosteal bone formation ,  characteristic facial dysmorphism ,  brain abnormalities including intracerebral calcifications ,  and neonatal lethal course .
axial mesodermal dysplasia spectrum is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome characterized by congenital manifestations of both oculo - auriculo - vertebral spectrum and caudal regression sequence .
polymalformative genetic syndrome with increased risk of developing cancer  ( pgsirc )  comprises a wide range of syndromes characterized by congenital malformations with a high risk of developing tumors including up to 50 different rare diseases .
an instance of ichthyosis  ( disease )  that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of epidermal appendage anomaly that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of hair anomaly that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of nail anomaly that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of sebaceous gland anomaly that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
a pigmentation disease that involves the zone of skin .
a condition caused by a deficiency or a loss of melanin pigmentation in the epidermis ,  also known as hypomelanosis .
hereditary photodermatoses are a spectrum of rare photosensitive disorders that are often caused by genetic deficiency or malfunction of various components of the dna repair pathway .
an inherited disorder characterized by progressive degeneration and atrophy of the nervous system .
an instance of multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a urinary system disease characterized by structural malformations in the kidney and / or urinary tract containing vesicoureteral reflux .
the syndromes of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia ,  thrombocytopenia ,  and variable signs of organ impairment ,  due to platelet aggregation in the microcirculation .
mesomelic dysplasia kantaputra type  ( mdk )  is a rare skeletal disease characterized by symmetric shortening of the middle segments of limbs and short stature .
hemorrhagic and thrombotic disorders that occur as a consequence of inherited abnormalities in blood coagulation .
severe combined immunodeficiency  ( scid )  comprises a group of rare monogenic primary immunodeficiency disorders characterized by a lack of functional peripheral t lymphocytes resulting in early - onset severe respiratory infections and failure to thrive .
a decreased level of serum immunoglobulins .
deficiencies in immunoglobulin  ( ig )  isotypes  ( including: isolated igg subclass deficiency ,  igg sublcass deficiency with iga deficiency and kappa chain deficiency )  are primary immunodeficiencies that are often asymptomatic but can be characterized by recurrent ,  often pyogenic ,  sinopulmonary infections .
hermansky - pudlak syndrome type 2  ( hps - 2 )  is a type of hermansky - pudlak syndrome  ( hps )  ,  a multi - system disorder characterized by oculocutaneous albinism ,  bleeding diathesis and neutropenia .
ulna metaphyseal dysplasia syndrome is a rare primary bone dysplasia characterized by dysplasia of the distal ulnar metaphyses ,  as well as metacarpal / metatarsal dysplasia and metaphyseal changes resembling enchondromata .
neutrophil immunodeficiency syndrome is a primary immunodeficiency characterized by neutrophilia with severe neutrophil dysfunction ,  leukocytosis ,  a predisposition to bacterial infections and poor wound healing ,  including an absence of pus in infected areas .
pyogenic bacterial infection due to myd88 deficiency is a primary immunodeficiency characterized by increased susceptibility to pyogenic bacterial infections ,  including invasive pneumococcal ,  invasive staphylococcal and pseudomonas disease .
hereditary mucoepithelial dysplasia  ( hmd )  is a condition that affects the skin ,  hair ,  mucosa  ( areas ofthe body that are lined with mucus )  ,  gums  ( gingiva )  ,  eyes ,  nose and lungs .
cherubism is a rare ,  self - limiting ,  fibro - osseous ,  genetic disease of childhood and adolescence characterized by varying degrees of progressive bilateral enlargement of the mandible and / or maxilla ,  with clinical repercussions in severe cases .
bone dysplasia lethal holmgren type  ( bdlh )  is a lethal bone dysplasia characterized at birth by low birth weight ,  a rhizomelic dwarfism ,  bent femora and short chest producing asphyxia .
bone dysplasia azouz type is a form of generalized enchondromatosis with involvement of the spine  ( so called spondyloenchondromatosis )  .
bilateral renal agenesis is the most profound form of renal agenesis ,  characterized by complete absence of kidney development ,  absent ureters and subsequent absence of fetal renal function resulting in potter sequence with pulmonary hypoplasia related to oligohydramnios ,  which is fatal shortly after birth .
infundibulopelvic stenosis - multicystic kidney syndrome is a rare ,  genetic renal malformation syndrome characterized by variable degrees of malformation in the pelvicalyceal system  ( including unilateral or bilateral calyceal dilatation ,  infundibular stenosis ,  hypoplasia or stenosis of the renal pelvis )  which lead to multicystic kidney .
multicystic dysplastic kidney  ( mcdk )  is a congenital anomaly of the kidney and urinary tract  ( cakut )  in which one or both kidneys  ( unilateral or bilateral mcdk respectively )  are large ,  distended by multiple cysts ,  and non - functional .
an autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the col2a1 gene ,  encoding collagen alpha - 1 ( ii )  chain .
skeletal dysplasia - epilepsy - short stature syndrome is characterized by moderate to severe intellectual deficit ,  seizures ,  short stature ,  and skeletal dysplasia .
thanatophoric dysplasia type 1  ( td1 )  is a form of td characterized by short ,  bowed femurs ,  micromelia ,  narrow thorax ,  and brachydactyly .
1 / 100 , 000 )  usually diagnosed by echocardiography .
dyssegmental dysplasia ,  silverman - handmaker type is a rare ,  genetic ,  primary bone dysplasia ,  and lethal form of neonatal short - limbed dwarfism ,  characterized by anisospondyly ,  severe short stature and limb shortening ,  metaphyseal flaring and distinct dysmorphic features  ( i .e .
a rare neurologic movement disorder characterized by sustained muscle contractions of a single body region ,  usually producing twisting and repetitive movements or abnormal postures or positions .
bullous dystrophy ,  macular type is a genetic disorder characterised by formation of bullae without traumatic origin ,  alopecia ,  hyperpigmentation ,  acrocyanosis ,  short stature ,  microcephaly ,  intellectual deficit ,  tapering fingers and nail abnormalities .
citrullinemia is an autosomal recessively inherited disorder of urea cycle metabolism and ammonia detoxification characterized by elevated concentrations of serum citrulline and ammonia .
an inherited ocular disorder characterized by the loss of cone cells ,  the photoreceptors responsible for both central and color vision .
cone rod dystrophies  ( crds )  are inherited retinal dystrophies that belong to the group of pigmentary retinopathies .
jalili syndrome is characterized by the association of amelogenesis imperfecta  ( ai )  and cone - rod retinal dystrophy  ( cord )  .
congenital muscular dystrophy - infantile cataract - hypogonadism syndrome is characterized by congenital muscular dystrophy ,  infantile cataract and hypogonadism .
oculogastrointestinal muscular dystrophy is an extremely rare autosomal recessively inherited neuromuscular disease characterized by ocular manifestations such as ptosis and diplopia followed by chronic diarrhea ,  malnutrion and intestinal peudo - obstruction .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2h  ( lgmd2h )  is a mild subtype of autosomal recessive limb girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by slowly progressive proximal muscle weakness and wasting of the pelvic and shoulder girdles with onset that usually occurs during the second or third decade of life .
melorheostosis with osteopoikilosis is a rare sclerosing bone dysplasia ,  combining the clinical and radiological features of melorheostosis and osteopoikilosis ,  that has been reported in some families with osteopoikilosis and that is characterized by a variable presentation of limb pain and deformities .
hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia - hypothyroidism - ciliary dyskinesia syndrome is characterised by alopecia ,  nail dystrophy ,  ophthalmic complications ,  thyroid dysfunction  ( primary hypothyroidism )  ,  hypohidrosis ,  ephelides ,  enteropathy ,  and respiratory tract infections due to ciliary dyskinesia ,  leading to suggestion of the acronym another syndrome as alternative name for this condition .
ectodermal dysplasia - sensorineural deafness syndrome is characterised by hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia ,  sensorineural hearing loss ,  and contracture of the fifth fingers .
ectopia lentis - chorioretinal dystrophy - myopia syndrome is characterised by anomalies of the lens  ( ectopia and cataracts )  and retina  ( generalized tapetoretinal dystrophy and total retinal detachment )  .
isolated ectopia lentis  ( iel )  is a rare ,  clinically variable ,  eye disorder characterized by dislocation of the lens ,  often causing significant reduction in visual acuity .
intellectual disability - spasticity - ectrodactyly syndrome is a rare intellectual disability syndrome characterized by severe intellectual disability ,  spastic paraplegia  ( with wasting of the lower limbs )  and distal transverse defects of the limbs  ( e .g .
ectrodactyly - polydactyly syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  congenital limb malformation disorder characterized by hypoplasia or absence of central digital rays of the hands and / or feet and the presence of one or more ,  unilateral or bilateral ,  supernumerary digits on postaxial rays ,  ranging from hypoplastic digits devoid of osseous structures to complete duplication of a digit .
primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease  ( ppnad )  is a form of bilateral adrenocortical hyperplasia that is often associated with adrenocorticotrophin hormone  ( acth )  independent cushing syndrome and is characterized by small to normal sized adrenal glands containing multiple small cortical pigmented nodules  ( less than 1 cm in diameter )  .
eec syndrome is a genetic developmental disorder characterized by ectrodactyly ,  ectodermal dysplasia ,  and orofacial clefts  ( cleft lip / palate )  .
eem syndrome is characterised by the association of ectodermal dysplasia ,  ectrodactyly ,  and macular dystrophy .
arthrochalasia ehlers - danlos syndrome  ( aeds )  is an inherited connective tissue disorder that is caused by defects in a protein called collagen .
2 - hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a group of neurometabolic disorders with a wide clinical spectrum ranging from severe neonatal presentations to progressive forms ,  and asymptomatic cases ,  characterized biochemically by increased levels of 2 - hydroxyglutaric acid in the plasma ,  cerebrospinal fluid and urine .
coats disease  ( cd )  is an idiopathic disorder characterized by retinal telangiectasia with deposition of intraretinal or subretinal exudates ,  potentially leading to retinal detachment and unilateral blindness .
ehlers - danlos syndrome ,  kyphoscoliotic type  ( edkt )  is a form of ehlers - danlos syndrome characterized by severe hypotonia and kyphoscoliosis at birth ,  generalized joint hyperextensibility and ocular globe fragility .
a form of ehlers - danlos syndrome  ( eds )  characterized by extreme skin fragility and laxity ,  a prominent facial gestalt ,  excessive bruising and ,  sometimes ,  major complications due to visceral and vascular fragility .
cockayne syndrome  ( cs )  is a multisystem condition characterized by short stature ,  a characteristic facial appearance ,  premature aging ,  photosensitivity ,  progressive neurological dysfunction ,  and intellectual deficit .
coffin - lowry syndrome  ( cls )  is a rare genetic neurological disorder characterized by psychomotor and growth retardation ,  facial dysmorphism ,  digit abnormalities ,  and progressive skeletal changes .
congenital lobar emphysema  ( cle )  is a respiratory abnormality characterized by respiratory distress due to hyperinflation of one or more affected lobes of the lung .
cohen syndrome  ( cs )  is a rare genetic developmental disorder characterized by microcephaly ,  characteristic facial features ,  hypotonia ,  non - progressive intellectual deficit ,  myopia and retinal dystrophy ,  neutropenia and truncal obesity .
herpes simplex virus encephalitis  ( hse )  is caused by the infection of the central nervous system by herpes simplex virus  ( hsv )  that could have a devastating clinical course and a potentially fatal outcome particularly with delay or lack of treatment .
mitochondrial dna depletion syndrome ,  encephalomyopathic form with methylmalonic aciduria is characterised by the association of a mitochondrial encephalomyopathy and an aminoacidopathy .
early infantile epileptic encephalopathy  ( eiee )  ,  or ohtahara syndrome ,  is one of the most severe forms of age - related epileptic encephalopathies ,  characterized by the onset of tonic spasms within the first 3 months of life that can be generalized or lateralized ,  independent of the sleep cycle and that can occur hundreds of times per day ,  leading to psychomotor impairment and death .
early myoclonic encephalopathy  ( eme )  is characterized clinically by the onset of fragmentary myoclonus appearing in the first month of life ,  often associated with erratic focal seizures and a suppression - burst eeg pattern .
juvenile absence epilepsy  ( jae )  is a genetic epilepsy with onset occurring around puberty .
myoclonic astatic epilepsy  ( mae )  is a rare epilepsy syndrome of childhood characterized by the occurrence of multiple different seizure types including myoclonic - astatic ,  generalized tonic - clonic and absence seizures ,  usually in previously healthy children .
rolandic epilepsy  ( re )  is a focal childhood epilepsy characterized by seizures consisting of unilateral facial sensory - motor symptoms ,  with electroencephalogram  ( eeg )  showing sharp biphasic waves over the rolandic region .
kohlschtter - tc6nz syndrome  ( kts )  is a genetically heterogeneous autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by the triad of amelogenesis imperfect ,  infantile onset epilepsy ,  intellectual disability with or without regression and dementia .
progressive epilepsy - intellectual deficit ,  finnish type  ( also known as northern epilepsy )  is a subtype of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis  ( ncl )  characterized by seizures ,  progressive decline of intellectual capacities and variable loss of vision .
epilepsy - microcephaly - skeletal dysplasia syndrome is characterized by the association of moderate to severe intellectual deficit ,  microcephaly ,  epilepsy ,  coarse face ,  hirsutism and skeletal abnormalities  ( scoliosis and retarded bone development )  .
benign familial neonatal epilepsy  ( bfne )  is a rare genetic epilepsy syndrome characterized by the occurrence of afebrile seizures in otherwise healthy newborns with onset in the first few days of life .
cat eye syndrome  ( ces )  is a rare chromosomal disorder with a highly variable clinical presentation .
epilepsy telangiectasia syndrome is characterized by intellectual deficit ,  epilepsy ,  palpebral conjunctival telangiectasias and diminished serum iga ,  particular facies and a shortened fifth finger .
pacman dysplasia is characterized by epiphyseal stippling and osteoclastic overactivity .
congenital lethal erythroderma is a rare skin disorder characterized by erythrodermic ,  peeling skin from birth with no obvious nail or hair - shaft abnormalities and other associated anomalies including diarrhea ,  failure to thrive and severe hypoalbuminaemia resistant to correction by enteral or intravenous supplementation .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 34  ( sca34 )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type i  ( adca type i )  ,  characterized by papulosquamous ,  ichthyosiform plaques on the limbs appearing shortly after birth and later manifestations including progressive ataxia ,  dysarthria ,  nystagmus and decreased reflexes .
erythromelalgia is a rare neurovascular peripheral pain disorder due to the intermittent blockage of the blood vessels ,  usually in the lower extremities or hands .
exostoses - anetodermia - brachydactyly type e syndrome is an association reported in a single kindred characterized by the variable presence of the following features: anetodermia  ( macular atrophy of the skin )  ,  multiple exostoses ,  and brachydactyly type e . there have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1985 .
facial dysmorphism - macrocephaly - myopia - dandy - walker malformation syndrome is characterised by dandy - walker malformation ,  severe intellectual deficit ,  macrocephaly ,  brachytelephalangy ,  facial dysmorphism and severe myopia .
lethal faciocardiomelic dysplasia is an extremely rare polymalformative syndrome .
faciocardiorenal syndrome is a very rare syndrome characterized by intellectual deficit ,  horseshoe kidney ,  and congenital heart defects .
autosomal recessive facio - digito - genital syndrome is a very rare syndrome including short stature ,  facial dysmorphism ,  hand abnormalities and shawl scrotum .
deficiency of the peptidic growth factors is characterized by loss of subcutaneous fat layers on the limbs ,  lipodystrophy in the face and trunk and scleroderma - like skin disorders  ( thickened skin on the palms and soles and skin pigment changes on the limbs and trunk )  .
occipital horn syndrome  ( ohs )  is a mild form of menkes disease  ( md )  ,  a syndrome characterized by progressive neurodegeneration and connective tissue disorders due to a copper transport defect .
bilateral striopallidodentate calcinosis  ( bspdc ,  also erroneously called fahr disease )  is characterized by the accumulation of calcium deposits in different brain regions ,  particularly the basal ganglia and dentate nucleus ,  and is often associated with neurodegeneration .
gollop - wolfgang complex is a very rare malformation characterized by ectrodactyly of the hand and ipsilateral bifurcation of the femur .
congenital short femur is a rare malformation of variable severity ranging from mild hypoplasia to complete absence of the femur .
femoral - facial syndrome is characterized by predominant femoral hypoplasia  ( bilateral or unilateral )  and unusual facies .
a rare syndrome characterized by low birth weight ,  delayed growth ,  intellectual disabillity ,  behavioral problems ,  and a distinctive facial appearance  ( thin ,  arched eyebrows ,  low set ears ,  small teeth ,  and small nose )  .
a rare form of pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  characterized by a capillary infiltration of the pulmonary interstitium ,  bronchioles and pleura leading to elevated pulmonary arterial resistance and right heart failure .
corticosteroid - binding globulin deficiency is a genetic disorder characterized by extreme tiredness  ( fatigue )  ,  particularly after physical exertion ,  and low blood pressure  ( hypotension )  .
familial multiple lipomatosis is a rare ,  benign ,  genetic skin disease characterized by numerous ,  painless ,  encapsulated lipomas located in the subcutaneous adipose tissue of the trunk and extremities ,  with relative sparing of the neck and shoulders .
familial angiolipomatosis is a rare ,  genetic ,  subcutaneous tissue disorder characterized by the presence of benign ,  usually multiple ,  subcutaneous tumors composed of adipose tissue and blood vessels ,  typically manifesting as yellow ,  firm ,  circumscribed ,  1 - 4 cm in diameter tumors located in the arms ,  legs and trunk ,  with deep extension of the lesions between muscles ,  tendons and joint capsules  ( without infiltration of these structures )  ,  in several members of a single family .
harlequin syndrome  ( hsd )  is an autonomic disorder occurring at any age and characterized by unilateral flushing and sweating ,  involving the face and sometimes arm and chest ,  in condition of thermal ,  exercise or emotional stress without sympathetic ocular manifestations .
hereditary hypercarotenemia and vitamin a deficiency is an extremely rare metabolic disorder characterized clinically by skin discoloration ,  elevated levels of carotene and low levels of vitamin a described in fewer than 5 patients to date .
pai syndrome is an idiopathic developmental disorder characterized by median cleft of the upper lip  ( mcl )  ,  midline polyps of the facial skin and nasal mucosa ,  and pericallosal lipomas .
tetragametic chimerism is a rare ,  sex chromosome disorder of sex development characterized by the two different haploid sets of maternal and paternal chromosomes and variable phenotype  -  from normal male or female genitalia ,  to different degrees of ambiguous genitalia ,  and often infertility .
familial clubfoot with or without associated lower limb anomalies is a rare congenital limb malformation syndrome characterized by malalignment of the bones and joints of the foot and ankle ,  with presence of forefoot and midfoot adductus ,  hindfoot varus ,  and ankle equinus ,  presenting as rigid inward turning of the foot towards the midline ,  in various members of a single family .
15q13 .3 microdeletion  ( microdel15q13 .3 )  syndrome is characterized by a wide spectrum of neurodevelopmental disorders with no or subtle dysmorphic features .
isolated autosomal dominant hypomagnesemia ,  glaudemans type  ( iadhg )  is a form of familial primary hypomagnesemia  ( fph )  ,  characterized by low serum magnesium  ( mg )  values but normal urinary mg values .
paradas type congenital myopathy is an early - onset form of dysferlinopathy presenting with postnatal hypotonia ,  weakness in the proximal lower limbs and neck flexor muscles at birth and delayed motor development .
endocrine - cerebro - osteodysplasia  ( eco )  syndrome is characterized by various anomalies of the endocrine ,  cerebral ,  and skeletal systems resulting in neonatal mortality .
this syndrome is characterized by exocrine pancreatic insufficiency ,  dyserythropoietic anemia ,  and calvarial hyperostosis .
sesame syndrome is characterized by seizures ,  sensorineural deafness ,  ataxia ,  intellectual deficit ,  and electrolyte imbalance  ( hypokalemia ,  metabolic alkalosis ,  and hypomagnesemia )  .
thiamine - responsive encephalopathy is a wernicke - like encephalopathy characterized by seizures responsive to high doses of thiamine .
adult - onset dystonia - parkinsonism is a rare neurodegenerative disease usually presenting before the age of 30 and which is characterized by dystonia ,  l - dopa - responsive parkinsonism ,  pyramidal signs and rapid cognitive decline .
carasil is a hereditary cerebral small vessel disease characterized by early - onset gait disturbances ,  premature scalp alopecia ,  ischemic stroke ,  acute mid to lower back pain and progressive cognitive disturbances leading to severe dementia .
cleft lip  -  retinopathy is an exceedingly rare association characterized by cleft lip and progressive retinopathy .
atypical autism is a pervasive developmental disorder that does not fit the diagnosis for the other specific autistic spectrum disorders  ( autism ,  asperger syndrome ,  rett syndrome or childhood disintegrative disorder )  and is characterized by usually milder developmental and social delay and less stereotypical autistic behavior . '
brain tissue herniation through a congenital or acquired defect in the skull .
blepharo - cheilo - odontic syndrome is an ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by the association of abnormalities of the eyelids ,  lips ,  and teeth .
3 - hydroxy - 3 - methylglutaric aciduria  ( 3hmg )  is an organic aciduria ,  due to deficiency of 3 - hydroxy - 3 - methylglutaryl - coa - lyase  ( a key enzyme in ketogenesis and leucine metabolism )  usually presenting in infancy with episodes of metabolic decompensation triggered by periods of fasting or infections ,  which when left untreated are life - threatening and may lead to neurological sequelae .
cleft lip / palate  -  intestinal malrotation  -  cardiopathy is a multiple congenital anomaly syndrome described in 5 patients to date ,  characterized by flat face ,  hypertelorism ,  flat occiput ,  upward slanting palpebral fissures ,  cleft palate ,  micrognathia ,  short neck ,  and severe congenital heart defects which were lethal in 3 of the 5 patients reported .
cleft lip / palate - deafness - sacral lipoma syndrome is characterised by cleft lip / palate ,  profound sensorineural deafness ,  and a sacral lipoma .
alar cartilages hypoplasia -  coloboma -  telecanthus is a very rare dysmorphic disorder characterized by hypoplasia and coloboma of the alar cartilages and telecanthus described in 2 sisters .
acro - cardio - facial syndrome  ( acfs )  is a rare genetic disorder characterized by split - hand / split - foot malformation  ( shfm )  ,  facial anomalies ,  cleft lip / palate ,  congenital heart defect  ( chd )  ,  genital anomalies ,  and intellectual deficit .
 mutations ,  it belongs to the pten hamartoma tumor syndrome  ( phts ;  see this term )  group .
cleft palate  -  stapes fixation  -  oligodontia is characterized by cleft soft palate ,  severe oligodontia of the deciduous teeth ,  absence of the permanent dentition ,  bilateral conductive deafness due to fixation of the footplate of the stapes ,  short halluces with a wide space between the first and second toes ,  and fusion of carpal and tarsal bones .
cleft palate - large ears - small head syndrome is a rare ,  genetic syndrome characterized by cleft palate ,  large protruding ears ,  microcephaly and short stature  ( prenatal onset )  .
cleft palate -  short stature -  vertebral anomalies is a multiple congenital anomalies syndrome described in a father and son characterized by the association of cleft palate ,  peculiar facies  ( asymmetrical appearance ,  inner epicanthal folds ,  short nose ,  anteverted nostrils ,  low and back - oriented ears ,  thin upper lip and micrognathism )  ,  short stature ,  short neck ,  vertebral anomalies and intellectual disability .
cleft palate - lateral synechia syndrome  ( cpls )  is a congenital malformation syndrome characterized by the association of cleft palate and intra - oral lateral synechiae connecting the free borders of the palate and the floor of the mouth .
femur - fibula - ulna  ( ffu )  complex is a non - lethal congenital anomaly of unknown etiology ,  more frequently reported in males than females ,  characterized by a highly variable combination of defects of the femur ,  fibula ,  and / or ulna ,  with striking asymmetry ,  including absence of the proximal part of the femur ,  absence of the fibula and malformation of the ulnar side of the upper limb .
this syndrome is characterized by progressive sensorineural deafness ,  alopecia and hypogonadism with lh and gh deficiencies .
a rare genetic disorder caused by mutations in the tpm3 ,  acta1 ,  ryr1 or sepn1 genes .
fibrochondrogenesis is a rare ,  neonatally lethal ,  rhizomelic chondrodysplasia .
hereditary gingival fibromatosis  ( hgf )  is a rare benign ,  slowly progressive ,  non - inflammatory fibrous hyperplasia of the maxillary and mandibular gingivae that generally occurs with the eruption of the permanent  ( or more rarely the primary )  dentition or even at birth .
gingival fibromatosis  -  facial dysmorphism is a very rare syndrome characterized by the association of gingival fibromatosis and craniofacial dysmorphism .
gingival fibromatosis  -  hypertrichosis syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a generalized enlargement of the gingiva occurring at birth or during childhood that is associated with generalized hypertrichosis developing at birth ,  during the first years of life ,  or at puberty and predominantly affecting the face ,  upper limbs ,  and midback .
gingival fibromatosis - progressive deafness syndrome is characterized by gingival fibromatosis associated with progressive sensorineural hearing loss .
juvenile hyaline fibromatosis  ( jhf )  is a rare soft tissue tumor ,  characterized by papulo - nodular skin lesions  ( especially around the head and neck )  ,  soft tissue masses ,  gingival hypertrophy ,  joint contractures ,  and osteolytic bone lesions in variable degrees .
an instance of anomaly of puberty or / and menstrual cycle that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
a microphthalmia that is part of a larger syndrome .
hepatic fibrosis - renal cysts - intellectual disability syndrome is a rare ,  syndromic intellectual disability characterized by early developmental delay with failure to thrive ,  intellectual disability ,  congenital hepatic fibrosis ,  renal cystic dysplasia ,  and dysmorphic facial features  ( bilateral ptosis ,  anteverted nostrils ,  high arched palate ,  and micrognathia )  .
scalp - ear - nipple syndrome is characterised by the following triad: areas of hairless raw skin over the scalp  ( present at birth and healing during childhood )  ,  prominent ,  hypoplastic ears with almost absent pinnae ,  and bilateral amastia .
floating - harbor syndrome is a genetic developmental disorder characterized by facial dysmorphism ,  short stature with delayed bone age ,  and expressive language delay .
flotch syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  cutaneous disorder characterized by leuchonychia and multiple ,  recurrent pilar cysts ,  associated or not with ciliar dystrophy and / or koilonychia .
flynn - aird syndrome is a neuroectodermal disorder involving the nervous ,  cutaneous ,  skeletal ,  and glandular systems .
crigler - najjar syndrome  ( cns )  is a hereditary disorder of bilirubin metabolism characterized by unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia due to a hepatic deficit of bilirubin glucuronosyltransferase  ( gt )  activity .
cole - carpenter syndrome is an extremely rare form of bone dysplasia characterized by the features of osteogenesis imperfecta such as bone fragility associated with multiple fractures ,  bone deformities  ( metaphyseal irregularities and bowing of the long bones )  and blue sclera ,  in association with growth failure ,  craniosynostosis ,  hydrocephalus ,  ocular proptosis ,  and distinctive facial features  ( e .g .
fraser syndrome is a rare clinical entity including as main characteristics cryptophthalmos and syndactyly .
freeman - sheldon syndrome  ( fss )  is a very rare ,  multiple congenital contractures syndrome characterized by a microstomia with a whistling appearance of the mouth ,  distinctive facies ,  club foot and joint contractures .
essential fructosuria is a rare autosomal recessive disorder of fructose metabolism caused by a deficiency of fructokinaseenzyme activity .
blepharophimosis - ptosis - esotropia - syndactyly - short stature syndrome is characterised by the association of blepharophimosis and ptosis ,  v - esotropia ,  and weakness of extraocular and frontal muscles with syndactyly of the toes ,  short stature ,  prognathism ,  and hypertrophy and fusion of the eyebrows .
fryns syndrome  ( fs )  is a multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by dysmorphic facial features ,  congenital diaphragmatic hernia ,  pulmonary hypoplasia ,  and distal limb hypoplasia ,  in addition to variable expression of additional malformations .
progressive non - infectious anterior vertebral fusion  ( pavf )  is an early childhood spinal disorder characterized by the gradual onset of thoracic and / or lumbar spine ankylosis often in conjunction with kyphosis with distinctive radiological features .
splenogonadal fusion - limb defects - micrognatia syndrome is a rare dysostosis syndrome characterized by abnormal fusion of the spleen with the gonad  ( or more rarely with remnants of the mesonephros )  ,  limb abnormalities  ( consisting of amelia or severe reduction defects leading to upper and / or lower rudimentary limbs )  and orofacial abnormalities such as cleft palate ,  bifid uvula ,  microglossia and mandibular hypoplasia .
posterior fusion of lumbosacral vertebrae - blepharoptosis syndrome is characterized by congenital ptosis and posterior fusion of the lumbosacral vertebrae .
hypoxanthine - guanine phosphoribosyltransferase  ( hprt )  deficiency is a hereditary disorder of purine metabolism associated with uric acid overproduction and a continuum spectrum of neurological manifestations depending on the degree of the enzyme deficiency .
a krabbe disease that occurs in an adult .
galloway syndrome is characterized by the association of nephrotic syndrome and central nervous system anomalies .
symptomatic forms of duchenne and becker muscular dystrophies  ( dmd and bmd )  in females carriers are characterized by variable degrees of muscle weakness due to progressive skeletal myopathy ,  sometimes associated with dilated cardiomyopathy or left ventricle dilation .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2l  ( lgmd2l )  is a form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy most often characterized by an adult onset  ( but ranging from 11 to 51 years )  of mainly proximal lower limb weakness ,  with difficulties standing on tiptoes being one of the initial signs .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2m  ( lgmd2m )  is a form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by an infantile onset of hypotonia ,  axial and proximal lower limb weakness  ( with severe weakness noted after febrile illnesses )  ,  cardiomyopathy and normal or reduced intelligence .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2n  ( lgmd2n )  is a form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by proximal weakness  ( manifesting as slowness in running )  presenting in infancy ,  along with calf hypertrophy ,  mild lordosis ,  scapular winging and normal intelligence or mild intellectual disability .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2o  ( lgmd2o )  is a form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by an onset in childhood or adolescence of rapidly progressive proximal limb muscle weakness  ( particularly affecting the neck ,  hip girdle ,  and shoulder abductors )  ,  hypertrophy in the calves and quadriceps ,  ankle contractures ,  and myopia .
autosomal recessive lower motor neuron disease with childhood onset is a rare ,  genetic ,  neuromuscular disease characterized by proximal muscle weakness with an early involvement of foot and hand muscles following normal motor development in early childhood ,  a rapidly progressive disease course leading to generalized areflexic tetraplegia with contractures ,  severe scoliosis ,  hyperlordosis ,  and progressive respiratory insufficiency leading to assisted ventilation .
adult polyglucosan body disease  ( apbd )  is a glycogen storage disease of adults characterized by progressive upper and lower motor neuron dysfunction ,  progressive neurogenic bladder and cognitive difficulties that can lead to dementia .
isolated hyperckemia is a condition characterized by elevated levels of an enzyme called creatine kinase in the blood .
gamma - aminobutyric acid transaminase  ( gaba - t )  deficiency is an extremely rare disorder of gaba metabolism characterized by a severe neonatal - infantile epileptic encephalopathy  ( manifesting with symptoms such as seizures ,  hypotonia ,  hyperreflexia and developmental delay )  and growth acceleration .
a disease involving the skeletal muscle tissue .
an inherited progressive disorder affecting the muscles .
autosomal dominant form of distal myopathy .
autosomal recessive form of distal myopathy .
a group of rare skeletal muscle ion - channel disorders caused by genetic mutations in the sodium and chloride channel genes .
gapo syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies  ( mca )  syndrome involving connective tissue characterized by growth retardation ,  alopecia ,  pseudoanodontia and ocular manifestations
a bulbospinal muscular atrophy that occurs during childhood .
a bulbospinal muscular atrophy that occurs in an adult .
myopathy caused by mitochondrial abnormalities .
crouzon disease is characterized by craniosynostosis and facial hypoplasia .
deficiencies or mutations in the genes for the sarcoglycan complex subunits .
a group of muscle diseases with basis in cav3 ,  which encodes caveolin - 3 ,  a muscle - specific membrane protein and the principal component of caveolae membrane in muscle cells in vivo .
gaucher disease  -  ophthalmoplegia  -  cardiovascular calcification is a variant of gaucher disease ,  also known as a gaucher - like disease that is characterized by cardiac involvement .
genitopalatocardiac syndrome is a rare ,  multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by male ,  46 , xy gonadal dysgenesis ,  cleft palate ,  micrognathia ,  conotruncal heart defects and unspecific skeletal ,  brain and kidney anomalies .
german syndrome is an autosomal recessive arthrogryposis syndrome ,  described in 5 cases .
geroderma osteodysplastica  ( go )  is characterized by lax and wrinkled skin  ( especially on the dorsum of the hands and feet and abdomen )  ,  progeroid features ,  hip dislocation ,  joint laxity ,  severe short stature / dwarfism ,  severe osteoporosis ,  vertebral abnormalities and spontaneous fractures ,  and developmental delay and mild intellectual deficit .
prominent glabella b microcephaly b hypogenitalism is a very rare syndrome described in two sibs and characterized by prenatal onset of growth deficiency ,  microcephaly ,  hypoplastic genitalia ,  and birth onset of convulsions .
glaucoma - ectopia - microspherophakia - stiff joints - short stature syndrome is characterized by progressive joint stiffness ,  glaucoma ,  short stature and lens dislocation .
bilateral frontal polymicrogyria is one of the rarest subtypes of polymicrogyria .
bilateral generalized polymicrogyria is a rare neurological disorder that affects the cerebral cortex  ( the outer surface of the brain )  .
glaucoma - sleep apnea syndrome is characterized by sleep apnoea associated with glaucoma .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 29  ( sca29 )  is a rare subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type i  ( adca type i )  characterized by very slowly progressive or non - progressive ataxia ,  dysarthria ,  oculomotor abnormalities and intellectual disability .
genetic hypoparathyroidism .
genetic hyperparathyroidism .
cryopyrin associated periodic syndrome  ( caps )  defines a group of autoinflammatory diseases ,  characterized by recurrent episodes of systemic inflammatory attacks in the absence of infection or autoimmune disease .
fanconi - bickel glycogenosis  ( fbg )  is a rare glycogen storage disease characterized by hepatorenal glycogen accumulation ,  severe renal tubular dysfunction and impaired glucose and galactose metabolism .
glycogen synthetase deficiency ,  or glycogen storage disease  ( gsd )  type 0 ,  is a genetically inherited anomaly of glycogen metabolism and a form of gsd characterized by fasting hypoglycemia .
cutis laxa  ( cl )  is an inherited or acquired connective tissue disorder characterized by wrinkled ,  redundant and sagging inelastic skin associated with skeletal and developmental anomalies and ,  in some cases ,  with severe systemic involvement .
gms syndrome describes an extremely rare syndrome involving goniodysgenesis ,  intellectual disability and short stature in addition to microcephaly ,  short nose ,  small hands and ears ,  and that has been seen in one family to date .
multinodular goiter  -  cystic kidney  -  polydactyly syndrome is a very rare syndrome characterized by the association of multinodular goiter ,  cystic renal disease and digital anomalies .
goltz syndrome or focal dermal hypoplasia is characterized by a polymorphic cutaneous disorder and highly variable anomalies affecting the eyes ,  teeth ,  skeleton and the central nervous ,  urinary ,  gastrointestinal and cardiovascular systems .
an x - linked recessive condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the mecp2 gene ,  encoding methyl - cpg - binding protein 2 .
gorlin - chaudhry - moss  ( gcm )  syndrome is a multiple congenital anomaly syndrome ,  characterized by craniofacial dysostosis ,  facial dysmorphism ,  conductive hearing loss ,  generalized hypertrichosis ,  hypoplasia of labia majora ,  and extremity ,  ocular and dental anomalies .
grant syndrome is a rare osteogenesis imperfecta - like disorder ,  described in two patients to date ,  characterized clinically by persistent wormian bones ,  blue sclera ,  mandibular hypoplasia ,  shallow glenoid fossa ,  and campomelia .
acromesomelic dysplasia ,  grebe type is an autosomal recessively inherited form of acromesomelic dysplasia characterized by severe dwarfism at birth ,  abnormalities confined to limbs ,  severe shortening and deformity of long bones ,  fusion or absence of carpal and tarsal bones ,  ball shaped fingers and ,  occasionally ,  polydactyly and absent joints .
autosomal dominant form of rhegmatogenous retinal detachment .
familial juvenile hyperuricemic nephropathy type 1  ( fjhn1 )  is a rare kidney disorder characterized by hyperuricemia ,  progressive nephropathy ,  and gout occurring at an early age .
brain - lung - thyroid syndrome is a rare disorder characterized by congenital hypothyroidism  ( ch )  ,  infant respiratory distress syndrome  ( irds )  and benign hereditary chorea  ( bhc )  .
cone dystrophy with supernormal rod response  ( cdsrr )  is an inherited retinopathy ,  with an onset in the first or second decade of life ,  characterized by poor visual acuity  ( due to central scotoma )  ,  photophobia ,  severe dyschromatopsia ,  and occasionally ,  nystagmus .
a rare ,  complex type of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by progressive spastic paraplegia  ( presenting in early childhood )  associated with delayed motor development ,  severe intellectual disability and joint contractures .
episodic ataxia type 6  ( ea6 )  is an exceedingly rare form of hereditary episodic ataxia with varying degrees of ataxia and associated findings including slurred speech ,  headache ,  confusion and hemiplegia .
episodic ataxia type 7  ( ea7 )  is an exceedingly rare form of hereditary episodic ataxia characterized by ataxia with weakness ,  vertigo ,  and dysarthria without interictal findings .
benign nocturnal alternating hemiplegia of childhood is a rare neurologic disease characterized by recurrent attacks of nocturnal screaming or crying followed or accompanied by unilateral or sometimes bilateral hemiplegia .
irida  ( iron - refractory iron deficiency anemia )  syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive iron metabolism disorder characterized by iron deficiency anemia  ( hypochromic ,  microcytic )  that is often unresponsive to oral iron intake and partially responsive to parenteral iron treatment .
grubben - de cock - borghgraef syndrome is a rare intellectual disability syndrome characterized by pre -  and postnatal growth deficiency ,  generalized muscular hypotonia ,  developmental delay  ( particularly of speech and language )  ,  hypotrophy of distal extremities ,  small and puffy hands and feet ,  eczematous skin and dental anomalies  ( i .e .
any autosomal recessive malignant osteopetrosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the plekhm1 gene .
an autoinflammatory disease caused by mutations in the il1rn gene ,  which encodes the il1 receptor antagonist .
congenital alveolar capillary dysplasia  ( acd )  is a rare and fatal developmental lung disease characterized by respiratory distress in neonates due to refractory hypoxemia and severe pulmonary arterial hypertension .
encephalopathy due to urocanase deficiency is an extremely rare histidine metabolism disorder characterized by urocanic aciduria and other variable manifestations including intellectual deficit and intermittent ataxia in the 4 cases reported to date .
leukonychia totalis - acanthosis - nigricans - like lesions - abnormal hair syndrome is a rare ,  syndromic nail anomaly disorder characterized by the association of leukonychia totalis with acanthosis - nigricans - like lesions  ( occurring in the neck ,  axillae and abdomen regions )  and hair dysplasia ,  manifesting with dry ,  brittle hair which presents an irregular pattern of complete or incomplete twists and an irregular surface with londitudinal furrows on electronic microscopy .
a type of spastic cerebral palsy characterized by increased muscle tone of all four extremities .
a disease characterized by a deficiency in gtp cyclohydrolase i ,  which leads to a consequent reduction in bh4 and reduces the activity of three bh4 - cofactor dependent enzymes  -  phenylalanine hydroxylase ,  tyrosine hydroxylase ,  and tryptophan hydroxylase .
an autosomal dominant disease characterized by macrocephaly ,  facial phenotypes including square outline with frontal bossing ,  'dished - out' midface ,  biparietal narrowing ,  and long philtrum ,  developmental delay and autism that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the pten gene on chromosome 10q23 .
dystonia 16  ( dyt16 )  is a very rare and newly discovered movement disorder which is characterized by early - onset progressive limb dystonia ,  laryngeal and oromandibular dystonia ,  and parkinsonism .
hall - riggs syndrome is a very rare syndrome consisting of microcephaly with facial dysmorphism ,  spondylometaepiphyseal dysplasia and severe intellectual deficit .
hallermann - streiff syndrome is a rare genetic syndrome characterized mainly by head and facial abnormalities such as bird - like facies  ( with beak - shaped nose and retrognathia )  ,  hypoplastic mandible ,  brachycephaly with frontal bossing ,  dental abnormalities  ( e .g .
hallux varus - preaxial polysyndactyly syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  congenital limb malformation disorder characterized by bilateral medial displacement of the hallux and preaxial polysyndactyly of the first toes .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 30  ( sca30 )  is a very rare subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type iii  ( adca type iii )  characterized by a slowly progressive and relatively pure ataxia .
autosomal dominant form of proximal spinal muscular atrophy .
hereditary episodic ataxia  ( ea )  represents a group of neurological disorders characterized by recurrent episodes of ataxia and vertigo which may be progressive .
episodic ataxia type 5  ( ea5 )  is an extremely rare form of hereditary episodic ataxia characterized by recurrent episodes of vertigo and ataxia lasting several hours .
an instance of vascular anomaly that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
beukes familial hip dysplasia  ( bfhd )  is a primary bone dysplasia ,  characterized by premature degenerative arthropathy of the hip .
harrod syndrome is characterized by the association of intellectual deficit ,  facial dysmorphism  ( a highly arched palate ,  pointed chin ,  and small mouth ,  hypotelorism ,  a long nose and large protruding ears )  ,  arachnodactyly ,  hypogenitalism  ( undescended testes and hypospadias )  and failure to thrive .
hartnup disease is a rare metabolic disorder belonging to the neutral aminoacidurias and characterized by abnormal renal and gastrointestinal transport of neutral amino acids  ( tryptophan ,  alanine ,  asparagine ,  glutamine ,  histidine ,  isoleucine ,  leucine ,  phenylalanine ,  serine ,  threonine ,  tyrosine and valine )  .
hawkinsinuria is an inborn error of tyrosine metabolism characterized by failure to thrive ,  persistent metabolic acidosis ,  fine and sparse hair ,  and excretion of the unusual cyclic amino acid metabolite ,  hawkinsin  (  ( 2 - l - cystein - s - yl ,  4 - dihydroxycyclohex - 5 - en - 1 - yl ) acetic acid )  ,  in the urine .
cystathioninuria is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by cystathionine gamma - lyase deficiency .
isolated hemihyperplasia is a rare overgrowth syndrome characterized by an asymmetric regional body overgrowth ,  involving at least one limb ,  and associated with an increased risk of developing embryonal tumors ,  principally nephroblastoma and hepoblastoma .
cystinosis is a metabolic disease characterized by an accumulation of cystine inside the lysosomes ,  causing damage in different organs and tissues ,  particularly in the kidneys and eyes .
hemimelia is a limb malformation characterized by the absence or gross shortening of the lower portion of one or more of the limbs .
alternating hemiplegia of childhood  ( ahc )  is a rare neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by recurrent episodes of hemiplegia and paroxysmal disturbances associated with persistent developmental delay and cognitive impairment .
hemoglobin c disease  ( hbc )  is a hemoglobinopathy characterized by production of abnormal variant hemoglobin known as hemoglobin c ,  with no or mild clinical manifestations  ( hemolytic anemia )  .
hemoglobin e disease  ( hbe )  is a hemoglobinopathy characterized by production of abnormal variant hemoglobin known as hemoglobin e ,  with a generally benign ,  asymptomatic presentation .
atypical hemolytic - uremic syndrome  ( ahus )  is a thrombotic microangiopathy characterized by mechanical hemolytic anemia ,  thrombocytopenia ,  and renal dysfunction .
hennekam - beemer syndrome is characterized by the association of skin mastocytosis  ( appearing as diffuse pigmentation )  ,  short stature ,  microcephaly ,  conductive hearing loss ,  and dysmorphic features .
an instance of ovarian cancer that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
hereditary site - specific ovarian cancer syndrome refers to ovarian cancer caused by germline mutations in various genes ,  usually associated with additional cancer risks .
hennekam syndrome is characterised by the association of lymphoedema ,  intestinal lymphangiectasia ,  intellectual deficit and facial dysmorphism .
46 , xx ovotesticular disorder of sex development  ( 46 , xx ovotesticular dsd )  is characterized by histologically confirmed testicular and ovarian tissue in an individual with a 46 , xx karyotype .
hernndez - aguirre negrete syndrome is characterized by major seizures ,  dysmorphic features  ( round face ,  bulbous nose ,  wide mouth ,  prominent philtrum )  ,  pes planus ,  psychomotor retardation and obesity .
cystinuria is a renal tubular amino acid transport disorder characterized by recurrent formation of kidneys cystine stones .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of classical diaphragmatic hernia  ( bochdalek type )  with severe lung hypoplasia ,  and variable associated malformations .
donnai - barrow syndrome  ( dbs )  is a rare ,  often severe ,  multiple congenital malformation syndrome with typical facial dysmorphism ,  ocular findings ,  hearing loss ,  agenesis of the corpus callosum ,  and variable intellectual disability .
craniosynostosis ,  herrmann - opitz type is a rare bone development disorder characterized by intellectual disability ,  short stature ,  turribrachycephaly ,  facial dysmorphism  ( i .e .
type 1 lissencephaly due to doublecortin  ( dcx )  gene mutations is a semi - dominant x - linked disease characterised by intellectual deficiency and seizures that are more severe in male patients .
#8805 ;  - 10 .00 d )  ,  nystagmus ,  strabismus ,  normal color vision and fundus abnormalities .
hirschsprung disease - type d brachydactyly syndrome is characterized by hirschsprung disease and absence or hypoplasia of the nails and distal phalanges of the thumbs and great toes  ( type d brachydactyly )  .
mowat - wilson syndrome  ( mws )  is a multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by a distinct facial phenotype ,  intellectual disability ,  epilepsy ,  hirschsprung disease  ( hscr )  and variable congenital malformations .
hirschsprung disease  -  nail hypoplasia  -  dysmorphism is a fatal malformative disorder that is characterized by hirschsprung disease ,  hypoplastic nails ,  distal limb hypoplasia and minor craniofacial dysmorphic features  ( flat facies ,  upward slanting palpebral fissures ,  narrow philtrum ,  narrow ,  high arched palate ,  micrognathia ,  low set ears with abnormal helices )  .
hirschsprung disease - deafness - polydactyly is an extremely rare malformative association ,  described in only two siblings to date ,  and characterized by hirschsprung disease  ( defined by the presence of an aganglionic segment of variable extent in the terminal part of the colon that leads to the symptoms of intestinal obstruction including constipation and abdominal distension )  ,  polydactyly of hands and / or feet ,  unilateral renal agenesis ,  hypertelorism and congenital deafness .
histidinemia is a rare metabolic disorder characterized by elevated histidine levels in blood ,  urine ,  and cerebrospinal fluid ,  generally with no clinical repercussions .
neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses  ( ncls )  are a group of inherited progressive degenerative brain diseases characterized clinically by a decline of mental and other capacities ,  epilepsy ,  and vision loss through retinal degeneration ,  and histopathologically by intracellular accumulation of an autofluorescent material ,  ceroid lipofuscin ,  in the neuronal cells in the brain and in the retina .
holoprosencephaly  ( hpe )  is a complex brain malformation resulting from incomplete cleavage of the prosencephalon ,  occurring between the 18th and 28th day of gestation ,  and affecting both the forebrain and face ,  which results in neurological manifestations and facial anomalies of variable severity .
holoprosencephaly - craniosynostosis syndrome is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome characterized by the association of primary craniosynostosis  ( usually involving the coronal and metopic sutures )  with holoprosencephaly  ( ranging from alobar to ,  most commonly ,  semilobar )  and various skeletal anomalies  ( typically ,  hand and feet anomalies including fifth digit clinodactyly ,  hypoplastic phalanges and cone - shaped epiphyses ,  small vertebral bodies ,  scoliosis ,  coxa valga and / or flexion deformities of hips )  .
prelingual non - syndromic genetic deafness is a rare ,  genetically highly heterogeneous otorhinolaryngologic disease ,  resulting from inner and / or middle ear or hearing nerve anomalies ,  typically characterized by bilateral ,  severe to profound hearing loss  ( mean sensorineural hearing impairment of 60 db or more for 500 -  ,  1 , 000 -  ,  and 2 , 000 - hz frequency tones in the better ear )  which occurs before the onset of speech development and is not associated with visible external ear abnormalities or any other medical problems .
postlingual non - syndromic genetic deafness is a rare ,  genetically highly heterogeneous otorhinolaryngologic disease ,  resulting from inner and / or middle ear or hearing nerve anomalies ,  typically characterized by progressive ,  bilateral ,  moderate to profound hearing loss  ( mean sensorineural hearing impairment equal to 40 db or more for 500 -  ,  1 , 000 -  ,  and 2 , 000 - hz frequency tones in the better ear )  which occurs after the onset of speech development and is not associated with visible external ear abnormalities or any other medical problems .
holoprosencephaly - postaxial polydactyly syndrome associates ,  in chromosomally normal neonates ,  holoprosencephaly ,  severe facial dysmorphism ,  postaxial polydactyly and other congenital abnormalities ,  suggestive of trisomy 13 .
a syndrome characterized by potter sequence ,  heart defect ,  cleft palate ,  polydactyly ,  and skeletal defects .
osteogenesis imperfecta type i is a mild type of osteogenesis imperfecta  ( oi )  ,  a genetic disorder characterized by increased bone fragility ,  low bone mass and susceptibility to bone fractures .
homocarnosinosis is a metabolic defect characterised by progressive spastic diplegia ,  intellectual deficit and retinitis pigmentosa .
osteogenesis imperfecta type ii is a lethal type of osteogenesis imperfecta  ( oi )  ,  a genetic disorder characterized by increased bone fragility ,  low bone mass and susceptibility to bone fractures .
osteogenesis imperfecta type iii is a severe type of osteogenesis imperfecta  ( oi )  ,  a genetic disorder characterized by increased bone fragility ,  low bone mass and susceptibility to bone fractures .
osteogenesis imperfecta type iv is a moderate type of osteogenesis imperfecta  ( oi )  ,  a genetic disorder characterized by increased bone fragility ,  low bone mass and susceptibility to bone fractures .
osteogenesis imperfecta type v is a moderate type of osteogenesis imperfecta  ( oi )  ,  a genetic disorder characterized by increased bone fragility ,  low bone mass and susceptibility to bone fractures with variable severity .
an autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the mtrr gene ,  encoding methionine synthase reductase .
methylcobalamin deficiency cbl g type is a rare condition that occurs when the body is unable to process certain amino acids  ( building blocks of protein )  properly .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 31  ( sca31 )  is a very rare subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type iii  ( adca type iii )  characterized by the late - onset of cerebral ataxia ,  dysarthria and horizontal gaze nystagmus ,  and that is occasionally accompanied by pyramidal signs ,  tremor ,  decreased vibration sense and hearing difficulties .
microcephaly - facio - cardio - skeletal syndrome ,  hadziselimovic type is a rare syndrome with cardiac malformations ,  characterized by prenatal - onset growth retardation  ( low birth weight and short stature )  ,  hypotonia ,  developmental delay and intellectual disability associated with microcephaly and craniofacial  ( low anterior hairline ,  hypotelorism ,  thick lips with carp - shaped mouth ,  high - arched palate ,  low - set ears )  ,  cardiac  ( conotruncal heart malformations such as tetralogy of fallot )  and skeletal  ( hypoplastic thumbs and first metacarpals )  abnormalities .
childhood - onset cortical cataract is an autosomal recessive cataract that develops during childhood or adolescence with increasing opacity of the lens not present at birth ,  potentially leading to blindness .
early - onset non - syndromic cataract is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic developmental defect of the eye ,  with high clinical and genetic heterogeneity ,  most frequently characterized by bilateral ,  symmetrical ,  non - progressive cataracts which present at birth or in early - childhood .
autosomal recessive intermediate charcot - marie - tooth disease type a is a subtype of autosomal recessive intermediate charcot - marie - tooth  ( cmt )  disease characterized by severe ,  early childhood - onset cmt neuropathy with prominent pes equinovarus deformity and impairment of hand muscles .
isolated congenital digital clubbing is a rare genodermatosis disorder characterized by enlargement of the terminal segments of fingers and toes with thickened nails without any other abnormality .
mucopolysaccharidosis type 2  ( mps2 )  ,  severe form  ( mps2s )  ,  is associated with a massive accumulation of glycosaminoglycans and a wide variety of symptoms including a rapidly progressive cognitive decline ;  it is most often fatal in the second or third decade .
mucopolysaccharidosis type 2 ,  attenuated form  ( mps2att )  ,  the less severe form of mps2 ,  leads to a massive accumulation of glycosaminoglycans and a wide variety of symptoms including distinctive facies ,  short stature ,  cardiorespiratory and skeletal findings .
this syndrome is characterised by intellectual deficit ,  marfanoid habitus ,  microcephaly ,  and glomerulonephritis .
bnar syndrome is a very rare multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by a bifid nose  ( with bulbous nasal tip but not associated with hypertelorism )  with or without the presence of anal defects  ( i .e .
familial juvenile hyperuricemic nephropathy type 2 is a rare autosomal dominantly inherited disease of childhood characterized by hypoproliferative anemia ,  hyperuricemia and slowly progressing kidney failure due to dysregulation of the renin - angiotensin system  ( ras )  .
rin2 syndrome ,  formerly known as macrocephaly ,  alopecia ,  cutis laxa and scoliosis  ( macs )  syndrome ,  is a very rare inherited connective tissue disorder characterized by macrocephaly ,  sparse scalp hair ,  soft - redundant and hyperextensible skin ,  joint hypermobility ,  and scoliosis .
the newly described 17q21 .31 microduplication syndrome is associated with a broad clinical spectrum ,  of which behavioral disorders and poor social interaction seem to be the most consistent .
the 19q13 .11 microdeletion is characterized by several major features including pre and postnatal growth retardation ,  slender habitus ,  severe postnatal feeding difficulties ,  microcephaly ,  intellectual deficit with speech disturbance ,  hypospadias and ectodermal dysplasia presented by scalp aplasia ,  thin and sparse hair ,  eyebrows and eyelashes ,  thin and dry skin and dysplasic nails .
acute infantile liver failure due to mtdna - encoded proteins synthesis defect is a very rare mitochondrial respiratory chain deficiency described in fewer than 10 infants ,  primarily of middle eastern descent ,  and characterized clinically by transient but life - threatening liver failure with elevated liver enzymes ,  jaundice ,  vomiting ,  coagulopathy ,  hyperbilirubinemia ,  and lactic acidemia .
a form of methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria  ( see this term )  ,  an inborn error of vitamin b12  ( cobalamin )  metabolism characterized by megaloblastic anemia ,  lethargy ,  failure to thrive ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual deficit and seizures .
17p13 .3 microduplication syndrome is characterized by variable psychomotor delay and dysmorphic features .
combined immunodeficiency due to dedicator of cytokinesis 8 protein  ( dock8 )  deficiency is a form of t and b cell immunodeficiency characterized by recurrent cutaneous viral infections ,  susceptibility to cancer and elevated serum levels of immunoglobulin e  ( ige )  .
progressive polyneuropathy with bilateral striatal necrosis is a rare ,  genetic disorder of thiamine metabolism and transport characterized by the childhood - onset of recurrent episodes of flaccid paralysis and encephalopathy ,  associated with bilateral striatal necrosis and chronic progressive axonal polyneuropathy with proximal and distal muscle weakness ,  areflexia ,  contractures and foot deformities .
hereditary hypotrichosis with recurrent skin vesicles is a very rare inherited hair loss disorder described in a family and characterized by sparse ,  fragile or absent hair on the scalp ,  eyebrows ,  eyelashes ,  axillae and rest of the body ,  associated with vesicle formation on various parts of the scalp and body which regularly burst and release watery fluid .
infantile systemic hyalinosis  ( ish )  is a very rare disorder belonging to the heterogeneous group of genetic fibromatoses and is characterized by progressive joint contractures ,  skin abnormalities ,  severe chronic pain and widespread deposition of hyaline material in many tissues such as the skin ,  skeletal muscle ,  cardiac muscle ,  gastrointestinal tract ,  lymph nodes ,  spleen ,  thyroid ,  and adrenal glands .
a a genetic form of heart disease that occurs when heart  ( cardiac )  muscle becomes thin and weakened in at least one chamber of the heart ,  causing the open area of the chamber to become enlarged  ( dilated )  .
sensorineural deafness with dilated cardiomyopathy is an extremely rare autosomal dominant syndrome described in two families to date and characterized by moderate to severe sensorineural hearing loss manifesting during childhood ,  and associated with late - onset dilated cardiomyopathy that generally progresses to heart failure .
an instance of restrictive cardiomyopathy that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
familial isolated arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia  ( arvc )  is the familial autosomal dominant form of arvc ,  a heart muscle disease characterized by life - threatening ventricular arrhythmias with left bundle branch block configuration that may manifest with palpitations ,  ventricular tachycardia ,  syncope and sudden fatal attacks ,  and that is due to dystrophy and fibro - fatty replacement of the right ventricular myocardium that may lead to right ventricular aneurysms .
a rare congenital brain disorder in which the cerebral hemispheres are absent and replaced by sacs that contain cerebrospinal fluid .
darier disease  ( dd )  is a keratinization disorder characterized by the development of keratotic papules in seborrheic areas and specific nail anomalies .
this syndrome is characterised principally by sprengel anomaly  ( upward displacement of the scapula )  and hydrocephaly .
hydrocephaly - tall stature - joint laxity syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies syndrome described in two sisters and characterized by the presence of hydrocephalus  ( onset in infancy )  ,  tall stature ,  joint laxity ,  and thoracolumbar kyphosis .
a form of l1 syndrome caused by changes in the l1cam gene characterized by severe hydrocephalus mostly with prenatal onset ,  signs of intracranial hypertension ,  adducted thumbs ,  spasticity ,  and severe intellectual deficit .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of congenital hydrocephalus ,  centripetal obesity ,  hypogonadism ,  intellectual deficit and short stature .
hydrocephalus that is present at birth .
hydrocephalus - blue sclera - nephropathy syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  renal or urinary tract malformation syndrome characterized by nephrotic syndrome with focal segmental sclerosis associated with hydrocephalus ,  thin skin and blue sclerae .
hydrolethalus  ( hls )  is a severe fetal malformation syndrome characterized by craniofacial dysmorphic features ,  central nervous system ,  cardiac ,  respiratory tract and limb abnormalities .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2f  ( lgmd2f )  is a subtype of autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by a variable age of onset of progressive weakness and wasting of the proximal skeletal muscles of the shoulder and pelvic girdles ,  frequently associated with progressive respiratory muscle impairment and cardiomyopathy .
congenital hydronephrosis is a renal urinary disease characterized by distension and dilation of the renal pelvis and calyces secondary to various congenital obstructive malformations of the kidneys and urinary tract that can evolve to renal atrophy .
dicarboxylicaminoaciduria is characterised by infantile - onset hypoglycaemia and hyperprolinaemia associated ,  in certain cases ,  with intellectual deficit .
familial primary hypomagnesemia with hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis with severe ocular involvement  ( fhhncoi )  is a form of familial primary hypomagnesemia  ( fph ,  see this term )  ,  characterized by excessive magnesium and calcium renal wasting ,  bilateral nephrocalcinosis ,  progressive renal failure and severe ocular abnormalities .
tylosis with esophageal cancer  ( toc )  is an inherited condition characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma and esophageal cancer .
a genetic skin disorder caused by mutations in the krt9 gene .
denys - drash syndrome  ( dds )  is a rare urogenital disorder characterized by the association of diffuse mesangial sclerosis  ( dms )  ,  male pseudohermaphroditism with a 46 , xy karyotype ,  and nephroblastoma .
focal palmoplantar and gingival keratoderma is a very rare form of focal palmoplantar keratoderma characterized by painful circumscribed hyperkeratotic lesions on weight - bearing areas of soles ,  moderate focal hyperkeratosis of palmar pressure - related areas and an asymptomatic leukokeratosis confined to labial -  and lingual -  attached gingiva .
palmoplantar keratoderma - deafness syndrome is a keratinization disorder characterized by focal or diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma .
xeroderma pigmentosum / cockayne syndrome complex  ( xp / cs complex )  is characterized by the cutaneous features of xeroderma pigmentosum  ( xp )  together with the systemic and neurological features of cockayne syndrome  ( cs )  .
hyperlysinaemia is a lysine metabolism disorder characterised by elevated levels of lysine in the cerebrospinal fluid and blood .
semilobar holoprosencephaly is one of the classical forms of holoprosencephaly  ( hpe )  in which the left and right frontal and parietal lobes are fused and the interhemispheric fissure is only present posteriorly .
quebec platelet syndrome  ( qps )  is a platelet granule disorder characterized by moderate to severe bleeding after trauma ,  surgery or obstetric interventions ,  frequent ecchymoses ,  mucocutaneous bleeding and muscle and joint bleeds .
macrothrombocytopenia with mitral valve insufficiency is a rare hemorrhagic disorder due to a platelet anomaly characterized by dysfunctional platelets of abnormally large size ,  moderate thrombocytopenia ,  prolonged bleeding time and mild bleeding diathesis  ( ecchymoses and epistaxis )  ,  associated with mitral valve insufficiency .
attenuated familial adenomatous polyposis  ( afap )  is a mild form of familial adenomatous polyposis characterized by the presence of fewer than 100 adenomatous colonic polyps ,  a more proximal colonic location ,  a delayed age of colorectal cancer  ( crc )  onset and a more limited expression of the extracolonic features .
this syndrome is characterized by severe growth retardation associated with immunodeficiency .
rare hereditary hemochromatosis comprises the rare forms of hereditary hemochromatosis  ( hh )  ,  a group of diseases characterized by excessive tissue iron deposition .
joubert syndrome with ocular defect is ,  along with pure js ,  the most frequent subtype of joubert syndrome and related disorders  ( jsrd )  characterized by the neurological features of js associated with retinal dystrophy .
joubert syndrome with renal defect is a rare subtype of joubert syndrome and related disorders  ( jsrd )  characterized by the neurological features of js associated with renal disease ,  in the absence of retinopathy .
an instance of primary hyperparathyroidism  ( disease )  that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
maternal phenylketonuria  ( pku )  is a rare disorder of phenylalanine metabolism ,  an inborn error of amino acid metabolism ,  characterized by the development of microcephaly ,  growth retardation ,  congenital heart disease ,  facial dysmorphism and intellectual disability in nonphenylketonuric offspring of mothers with excess phenylalanine  ( phe )  concentrations .
rothmund - thomson syndrome type 1 is a subform of rothmund - thomson syndrome  ( rts )  presenting with a characteristic facial rash  ( poikiloderma )  and frequently associated with short stature ,  sparse scalp hair ,  sparse or absent eyelashes and / or eyebrows ,  and rapidly progressive bilateral juvenile cataracts .
rothmund - thomson syndrome type 2 is a subform of rothmund - thomson syndrome  ( rts )  presenting with a characteristic facial rash  ( poikiloderma )  and frequently associated with short stature ,  sparse scalp hair ,  sparse or absent eyelashes and / or eyebrows ,  congenital bone defects and an increased risk of osteosarcoma in childhood and squamous cell carcinoma later in life .
hereditary fibrosing poikiloderma - tendon contractures - myopathy - pulmonary fibrosis syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  hereditary poikiloderma syndrome characterized by early - onset poikiloderma  ( mainly on the face )  ,  hypotrichosis ,  hypohidrosis ,  muscle and tendon contractures with varus foot deformity ,  progressive proximal and distal muscle weakness in all extremities ,  and progressive pulmonary fibrosis .
a skin disease characterized by poikiloderma ,  hyperkeratotic nails ,  generalized hyperkeratosis on palms and soles ,  neutropenia ,  short stature ,  and recurrent pulmonary infections .
acrocephalopolydactyly ,  also known as elejalde syndrome ,  is an extremely rare lethal autosomal recessive disorder characterized by massive birth weight ,  swollen globular body ,  generalized edema ,  short limbs ,  postaxial polydactyly ,  thick skin ,  facial dysmorphism  ( slanted palpebral fissures ,  hypertelorism ,  epicanthic folds ,  dysplastic ears )  ,  excessive connective tissue ,  renal dysplasia ,  and in some patients ,  organomegaly ,  craniosynostosis with acrocephaly ,  omphalocele ,  cleft palate ,  and cryptorchidism .
familial cerebral cavernous malformation  ( fccm )  is a rare evolutive vascular malformation disorder characterized by closely clustered irregular dilated capillaries that can be asymptomatic or that can cause variable neurological manifestations such as seizures ,  non - specific headaches ,  progressive or transient focal neurologic deficits ,  and / or cerebral hemorrhages .
hypertelorism - hypospadias - polysyndactyly syndrome is a very rare syndrome associating an acro - fronto - facio - nasal dysostosis with genitourinary anomalies .
pseudoaminopterin syndrome is a developmental anomalies syndrome that resembles the aminopterin embryopathy without history of fetal exposure to aminopterin .
combined immunodeficiency with faciooculoskeletal anomalies is an extremely rare combined immunodeficiency disorder characterized by primary immunodeficiency manifesting with repeated bacterial ,  viral and fungal infections ,  in association with neurological manifestations  ( hypotonia ,  cerebellar ataxia ,  myoclonic seizures )  ,  developmental delay ,  optic atrophy ,  facial dysmorphism  ( high forehead ,  hypoplastic supraorbital ridges ,  palpebral edema ,  hypertelorism ,  flat nasal bridge ,  broad nasal root and tip ,  anteverted nares ,  thin lower lip overlapped by upper lip ,  square chin )  and skeletal anomalies  ( short metacarpals / metatarsals with cone - shaped epiphyses ,  osteopenia )  .
a autosomal recessive cutis laxa type i that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the ltbp4 gene on chromosome 19q13
pitt - hopkins - like syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  syndromic intellectual disability disorder characterized by severe intellectual disability ,  lack of speech with normal ,  or mildly delayed ,  motor development ,  episodic breathing abnormalities ,  early - onset seizures and facial dysmorphism which only includes a wide mouth .
hypertelorism - microtia - facial clefting syndrome ,  or hmc syndrome ,  is a very rare syndrome characterized by the combination of hypertelorism ,  cleft lip and palate and microtia .
cervical hypertrichosis peripheral neuropathy is a rare syndrome characterized by the association of congenital hypertrichosis in the anterior cervical region with peripheral sensory and motor neuropathy .
hypertrichosis cubiti is a rare hair anomaly characterized by symmetrical ,  congenital or early - onset ,  bilateral hypertrychosis localized on the externsor surfaces of the upper extremities  ( especially the elbows )  .
hypertrichosis lanuginosa congenita is a rare congenital skin disease characterized by the presence of 3 to 5cm long lanugo - type hair on the entire body ,  with the exception of palms ,  soles ,  and mucous membranes .
familial hypertryptophanemia is characterized by intellectual deficit associated with behavioral problems: periodic mood swings ,  exaggerated affective responses and abnormal sexual behavior .
hypodontia - nail dysplasia syndrome is a form of ectodermal dysplasia .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of dilated cardiomyopathy and hypergonadotropic hypogonadism  ( dcm - hh )  .
nephrogenic diabetes insipidus  ( ndi )  is characterized by polyuria with polydipsia ,  recurrent bouts of fever ,  constipation ,  and acute hypernatremic dehydration after birth that may cause neurological sequelae .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and frontoparietal alopecia .
this syndrome is characterized by primary hypergonadotropic hypogonadism and partial alopecia .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of hypogonadism due to primary gonadal failure ,  mitral valve prolapse ,  mild intellectual deficit and short stature .
this syndrome is characterized by hypergonadotropic hypogonadism ,  intellectual deficit ,  congenital skeletal anomalies involving the cervical spine and superior ribs ,  and diabetes mellitus .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism  ( with primary amenorrhea and lack of secondary sexual development )  and retinitis pigmentosa .
the hdr syndrome is an inherited condition consisting of hypoparathyroidism ,  sensorineural deafness and renal disease .
familial isolated hypoparathyroidism  ( fih )  is a rare heterogeneous group of metabolic disorders characterized by abnormal calcium metabolism due to deficient secretion of parathormone  ( pth )  ,  without other endocrine disorders or developmental defects .
hypoparathyroidism in which the inheritance is recessive and linked to the q26 - q27 region of the x chromosome .
neonatal diabetes mellitus presents as hyperglycemia ,  failure to thrive and ,  in some cases ,  dehydration and ketoacidosis which may be severe with coma ,  in a child within the first months of life .
megacystis microcolon intestinal hypoperistalsis syndrome  ( mmihs )  is a rare congenital disease characterized by massive abdominal distension caused by a largely dilated non - obstructed urinary bladder  ( megacystis )  ,  microcolon and decreased or absent intestinal peristalsis .
ulna hypoplasia  -  intellectual deficit is a very rare syndrome characterized by mesomelic shortness of the forearms ,  bilateral clubfeet ,  aplasia or hypoplasia of all nails and severe psychomotor retardation .
maternally inherited diabetes and deafness  ( midd )  is a mitochondrial disorder characterized by maternally transmitted diabetes and sensorineural deafness .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of severe nasal hypoplasia ,  hypoplasia of the eyes ,  hyposmia ,  hypogeusia and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism .
thumb deformity - alopecia - pigmentation anomaly syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  congenital limb malformation syndrome characterized by short stature ,  sparse scalp hair ,  hypoplastic ,  proximally - placed thumbs ,  and skin hyperpigmentation with areas of 'raindrop' depigmentation .
type 3 hemochromatosis is a form of rare hereditary hemochromatosis  ( hh )  ,  a group of diseases characterized by excessive tissue iron deposition of genetic origin .
sporadic infantile bilateral necrosis is the sporadic form of infantile bilateral striatal necrosis  ( ibsn )  ,  a syndrome of bilateral symmetric spongy degeneration of the caudate nucleaus ,  putamen and globus pallidus characterized by developmental regression ,  choreoathetosis and dystonia progressing to spastic quadriparesis .
familial infantile bilateral striatal necrosis is the familial form of infantile bilateral striatal necrosis  ( ibsn )  ,  a syndrome of bilateral symmetric spongy degeneration of the caudate nucleus ,  putamen and globus pallidus characterized by developmental regression ,  choreoathetosis and dystonia progressing to spastic quadriparesis .
radial hypoplasia - triphalangeal thumbs - hypospadias - maxillary diastema syndrome is characterised by symmetric ,  nonopposable triphalangeal thumbs and radial hypoplasia .
pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 1  ( pch1 )  ,  also known as norman's disease ,  is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of autosomal recessive disorders with a prenatal onset characterized by diffuse muscular atrophy secondary to pontocerebellar hypoplasia and spinal cord anterior horn cell degeneration resulting in early death .
pancreatic hypoplasia - diabetes - congenital heart disease syndrome is characterized by partial pancreatic agenesis ,  diabetes mellitus ,  and heart anomalies  ( including transposition of the great vessels ,  ventricular or atrial septal defects ,  pulmonary stenosis ,  or patent ductus arteriosis )  .
fibulo - ulnar hypoplasia - renal anomalies syndrome is characterized by fibuloulnar dysostosis with renal anomalies .
primary pulmonary hypoplasia is a rare ,  isolated ,  genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by congential malformation of pulmonary parenchyma with absence of other anomalies .
dihydropteridine reductase  ( dhpr )  deficiency is a severe form of hyperphenylalaninemia  ( hpa )  due to impaired regeneration of tetrahydrobiopterin  ( bh4 )  ,  leading to decreased levels of neurotransmitters  ( dopamine ,  serotonin )  and folate in cerebrospinal fluid ,  and causing neurological symptoms such as psychomotor delay ,  hypotonia ,  seizures ,  abnormal movements ,  hypersalivation ,  and swallowing difficulties .
hypospasdias b intellectual deficit ,  goldblatt type is a very rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome described in three brothers of one south - african family ,  and characterized by hypospadias and intellectual deficit ,  in association with mirocephaly ,  craniofacial dysmorphism ,  joint laxity and beaked nails .
permanent congenital hypothyroidism is a type of congenital hypothyroidism  ( ch )  ,  a thyroid hormone deficiency present from birth .
primary congenital hypothyroidism is a type of permanent congenital hypothyroidism ,  a permanent thyroid hormone deficiency that is present from birth .
central or secondary congenital hypothyroidism is a type of permanent congenital hypothyroidism characterized by permanent thyroid hormone deficiency that is present from birth and secondary to a disorder in the thyroid - stimulating hormone  ( tsh )   -  thyrotropin - releasing hormone  ( trh )  system .
hypothyroidism due to mutations in transcription factors involved in pituitary development or function is a type of central congenital hypothyroidism ,  a permanent thyroid deficiency that is present from birth ,  characterized by low levels of thyroid hormones caused by disorders in the development or function of the pituitary .
peripheral hypothyroidism is a type of permanent congenital hypothyroidism ,  a permanent thyroid hormone deficiency that is present from birth ,  that results from peripheral defects in thyroid hormone metabolism .
an instance of transient congenital hypothyroidism that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
hypotrichosis - intellectual disability ,  lopes type is characterised by hypotrichosis ,  syndactyly ,  intellectual deficit and early eruption of teeth .
ichthyosis - cheek - eyebrow syndrome is characterised by ichthyosis ,  prominent full cheeks and sparse lateral eyebrows .
the immunodeficiency ,  centromeric region instability ,  facial anomalies syndrome  ( icf )  is a rare autosomal recessive disease characterized by immunodeficiency ,  although b cells are present ,  and by characteristic rearrangements in the vicinity of the centromeres  ( the juxtacentromeric heterochromatin )  of chromosomes 1 and 16 and sometimes 9 .
ichthyosis - alopecia - eclabion - ectropion - intellectual disability syndrome is an ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by severe generalized lamellar icthyosis at birth with alopecia ,  eclabium ,  ectropion and intellectual disability .
ichthyosis - oral and digital anomalies syndrome is characterised by ichthyosis ,  unusual facies  ( small mouth with a thin upper lip and lower lip with a midline groove )  and digital anomalies  ( tapered fingers with a lack of distal flexion creases and wide spacing between the second and third fingers )  .
ichthyosis follicularis  -  alopecia  -  photophobia  ( ifap )  is a rare genetic disorder characterized by the triad of ichthyosis follicularis ,  alopecia ,  and photophobia from birth .
ichthyosis - hepatosplenomegaly - cerebellar degeneration syndrome is characterised by ichthyosis ,  hepatosplenomegaly and late - onset cerebellar ataxia .
breast carcinoma that has developed in relatives of patients with history of breast carcinoma .
fundus albipunctatus is a rare ,  genetic retinal dystrophy characterized by the presence of numerous small ,  round ,  yellowish - white retinal lesions that are distributed throughout the retina but spare the fovea .
ichthyosis - intellectual disability - dwarfism - renal impairment syndrome is characterised by nonbullous congenital ichthyosis ,  intellectual deficit ,  dwarfism and renal impairment .
idiopathic cd4 lymphocytopenia  ( icl )  is a rare primary immunodeficiency disorder characterized by persistent cd4 t - cell lymphopenia  ( less than 300 cells / b5l on multiple occasions )  not associated with any other underlying primary or secondary immune deficiency .
progressive sensorineural hearing loss  -  hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is an extremely rare disorder described in one family to date that is characterized by progressive ,  late onset ,  autosomal dominant sensorineural hearing loss ,  qt interval prolongation ,  and mild cardiac hypertrophy .
autosomal dominant striatal degeneration is a neurologic disorder characterized by variable movement abnormalities due to dysfunction in the striatal part of the basal ganglia .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2n  ( cmt2n )  is a mild form of axonal charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy ,  characterized by distal legs sensory loss and weakness that can be asymmetric .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2m  ( cmt2m )  is a form of axonal charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a peripheral motor and sensory neuropathy .
heart - hand syndrome refers to a group of congenital disorders characterized by malformations of the upper limbs and heart .
patent ductus arteriosus  -  bicuspid aortic valve  -  hand anomalies syndrome is a very rare heart - hand syndrome that is characterized by a variety of cardiovascular anomalies including patent arterial duct ,  bicuspid aortic valve and pseudocoarctation of the aorta in conjunction with hand anomalies such as brachydactyly and ulnar ray derivative i .e .
dysmorphism - short stature - deafness - disorder of sex development syndrome is characterized by dysmorphism  ( including facial asymmetry ,  arched eyebrows ,  hypertelorism ,  broad and flat nasal bridge ,  microtia ,  small nose with anteverted nostrils ,  micrognathia )  ,  deafness ,  cleft palate ,  male pseudohermaphroditism ,  and growth and psychomotor retardation .
familial anetoderma is an extremely rare genetic skin disease characterized by loss of elastin tissue leading to localized areas of flaccid skin and a family history of the disorder .
the myopathic form of carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii  ( cpt ii )  deficiency ,  an inherited metabolic disorder that affects mitochondrial oxidation of long chain fatty acids  ( lcfa )  ,  is the most common and the least severe form of cpt ii deficiency .
the severe infantile form of carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii  ( cpt ii )  deficiency ,  an inherited disorder that affects mitochondrial oxidation of long chain fatty acids  ( lcfa )  ,  is the early - onset form of the disease .
the neonatal form of carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii  ( cpt ii )  deficiency ,  an inherited disorder that affects mitochondrial oxidation of long chain fatty acids  ( lcfa )  ,  is the lethal form of the disease which presents with multisystem failure .
a condition associated with mutation ( s )  in the ppt1 gene ,  encoding palmitoyl - protein thioesterase 1 .
neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 10 ( cln10 - ncl )  is arare condition that affects the nervous system .
any neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cln6 gene .
a condition associated with mutation ( s )  in the dnajc5 gene ,  encoding dnaj homolog subfamily c member 5 .
a condition associated with mutation ( s )  in the cln3 gene ,  encoding battenin .
a condition associated with mutation ( s )  in the tpp1 gene ,  encoding tripeptidyl - peptidase -  1 .
any neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cln8 gene .
neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 9  ( cln9 - ncl )  is a rare condition that affects the nervous system .
neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 5  ( cln5 - ncl )  is a rare condition that affects the nervous system .
neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 6  ( cln6 - ncl )  is a rare condition that affects the nervous system .
neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 7  ( cln7 - ncl )  is a rare condition that affects the nervous system .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2b5 is a rare axonal hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by infantile onset of slowly progressive distal motor weakness and atrophy  ( more severe in legs and moderate in arms )  with mildly delayed motor development ,  hypotonia ,  and distal sensory impairment of all sensory modalities .
the newly described 5q14 .3 microdeletion syndrome includes severe intellectual deficit with no speech ,  stereotypic movements and epilepsy .
frontonasal dysplasia with alopecia and genital anomaly is a new phenotype of frontonasal dysplasia associated with total alopecia and hypogonadism .
ptosis  -  upper ocular movement limitation  -  absence of lacrimal punctum is a recently described association of absence of the lower lid lacrimal punctum ,  bilateral ptosis ,  elevation deficiency of both eyes and mild facial dysmorphism .
the newly described 8q12 microduplication syndrome is associated with unusual and characteristic multi - organ clinical features ,  which include hearing loss ,  congenital heart defects ,  intellectual disability ,  hypotonia in infancy ,  and duane anomaly .
the newly described 2q23 .1 microdeletion syndrome includes severe intellectual deficit with pronounced speech delay ,  behavioral abnormalities including hyperactivity and inappropriate laughter ,  short stature and seizures .
polyvalvular heart disease syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by the combination of polyvalvular heart disease ,  short stature ,  facial anomalies and intellectual deficit .
the newly described 5q35 microduplication syndrome is associated with microcephaly ,  short stature ,  developmental delay and delayed bone maturation .
microcephaly  -  seizures  -  developmental delay  ( mcsz )  is a recently described syndrome characterized by microcephaly ,  early - onset and intractable seizures ,  developmental delay and variable behavioral problems ,  especially hyperactivity .
any congenital generalized lipodystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cavin1 gene .
primary basilar impression  ( pbi )  is a very rare skeletal developmental defect characterized by congenital upward translocation of the upper cervical spine and clivus into the foramen magnum .
a hereditary autosomal dominant condition characterized primarily by single  ( unpaired )  deciduous and permanent maxillary central incisors and short stature .
fused manidbular incisors is an extremely rare dental anomaly that is characterized by the union of two ,  normally separated ,  incisor tooth germs of the primary dentition .
neuronal intranuclear inclusion disease  ( niid )  is a very rare multisystem neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the presence of eosinophilic intranuclear inclusions in neuronal and glial cells ,  and neuronal loss .
microvillus inclusion disease  ( mvid )  is a very rare ,  severe ,  malabsorbative syndrome characterized clinically by protracted or intractable neonatal secretory diarrhea and histologically by inclusion bodies on the intestinal epithelium .
long bone bowing is a congenital condition described by the presence of symmetric or asymmetric angular deformity and shortening of the long bones ,  particularly the femurs ,  tibiae and ulnae .
ehlers - danlos syndrome ,  type 11 ,  is characterised by generalized joint hypermobility often complicated by dislocation of major joints ,  particularly the shoulder but in some cases the kneecap .
type a insulin - resistance syndrome belongs to the group of extreme insulin - resistance syndromes  ( which includes leprechaunism ,  the lipodystrophies ,  rabson - mendenhall syndrome and type b insulin resistance syndrome )  and is characterized by the triad of hyperinsulinemia ,  acanthosis nigricans  ( skin lesions associated with insulin resistance )  ,  and signs of hyperandrogenism in females without lipodystrophy and who are not overweight .
isolated agammaglobulinemia  ( ia )  is the non - syndromic form of agammaglobulinemia ,  a primary immunodeficiency disease ,  and is characterized by deficient gamma globulins and associated predisposition to frequent and recurrent infections from infancy .
a agammaglobulinemia that is part of a larger syndrome .
type b insulin - resistance syndrome belongs to the group of extreme insulin - resistance syndromes  ( which includes leprechaunism ,  the lipodystrophies ,  rabson - mendenhall syndrome ,  and type a insulin resistance syndrome )  and occurs in the context of immune dysfunction .
argininosuccinic aciduria  ( asa )  is a disorder of urea cycle metabolism most commonly characterized by either a severe ,  neonatal - onset form that manifests with hyperammonemia accompanied with vomiting ,  hypothermia ,  lethargy and poor feeding in the first few days of life ,  or late - onset forms  ( any age outside the newborn period )  that manifest with stress or infection - induced episodic hyperammonemia or ,  in some ,  behavioral abnormalities and / or learning disabilities .
dopamine beta - hydroxylase deficiency is an extremely rare genetic metabolic disorder characterized by autonomic dysregulation leading mainly to orthostatic hypotension .
multiple intestinal atresia is a rare form of intestinal atresia characterized by the presence of numerous atresic segments in the small bowel  ( duodenum )  or large bowel and leading to symptoms of intestinal obstruction: vomiting ,  abdominal bloating and inability to pass meconium in newborns .
congenital short bowel syndrome is a rare intestinal disorder of neonates of unknown etiology .
isotretinoin - like syndrome is a phenocopy of the isotretinoin embryopathy .
ivic syndrome is a very rare genetic malformation syndrome characterized by upper limb anomalies  ( radial ray defects ,  carpal bone fusion )  ,  extraocular motor disturbances ,  and congenital bilateral non - progressive mixed hearing loss .
jacobsen syndrome is a multiple congenital anomaly / mental retardation  ( mca / mr )  contiguous gene syndrome caused by partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 11 .
ehlers - danlos ,  vascular - like type is an adult - onset form of ehlers - danlos syndrome characterized by spontaneous dissection of medium - sized arteries during young adulthood ,  including mainly the iliac ,  femoral ,  and renal arteries .
ehlers - danlos syndrome ,  cardiac valvular type is a form of ehlers - danlos syndrome characterized by soft skin ,  skin hyperextensibility ,  easy bruisability ,  atrophic scar formation ,  joint hypermobility and cardiac valvular defects comprising mitral and / or aortic valve insufficiency .
ehlers - danlos / osteogenesis imperfecta syndrome is an association of the features of ehlers - danlos syndrome and osteogenesis imperfecta ,  characterized by generalized joint hypermobility and dislocations ,  skin hyperextensibility and / or translucency ,  and easy bruising as the predominant clinical features ,  while being invariably associated with mild signs of osteogenesis imperfecta ,  including short stature ,  blue sclera ,  and osteopenia or fractures .
pachyonychia congenita  ( pc )  is a rare genodermatosis predominantly featuring painful palmoplantar keratoderma ,  thickened nails ,  cysts and whitish oral mucosa .
absence deformity of leg b cataract is a very rare syndromic limb malformation described in two distantly related boys .
congenital trigeminal anesthesia is a rare neuro - ophtalmological disorder characterized by a congenital sensory deficit involving all or some of the sensory components of the trigeminal nerve .
erythema palmare hereditarium is a rare ,  benign ,  congenital genetic skin disorder characterized by permanent and asymptomatic erythema of the palmar and ,  less frequently ,  the solar surfaces .
familial generalized lentiginosis is a rare ,  inherited ,  skin hyperpigmentation disorder characterized by widespread lentigines without associated noncutaneous abnormalities .
autosomal recessive spondylocostal dysostosis  ( arsd )  is a rare condition of variable severity associated with vertebral and rib segmentation defects and characterised by a short neck with limited mobility ,  winged scapulae ,  a short trunk ,  and short stature with multiple vertebral anomalies at all levels of the spine .
a neoplastic syndrome most often caused by mutations in the hsnf5 / ini1 tumor suppressor gene .
combined immunodeficiency due to partial rag1 deficiency is a form of combined t and b cell immunodeficiency  ( cid )  characterized by severe and persistent cytomegalovirus  ( cmv )  infection and autoimmune cytopenia .
an intracranial aneurysm with a characteristic rounded shape ;  the most common form of cerebral aneurysm .
a syndrome characterized by congenital ,  bilateral ,  severe sensorineural hearing loss ,  abnormalities in the vestibular system ,  and adolescent - onset retinitis pigmentosa .
a syndrome characterized by congenital ,  bilateral sensorineural hearing loss that is mild to moderate in the low frequencies and severe to profound in the higher frequencies ,  no abnormalities in the vestibular system ,  and retinitis pigmentosa .
a syndrome characterized by postlingual progressive hearing loss ,  abnormalities in the vestibular system ,  and onset of retinitis pigmentosa symptoms usually by the second decade of life .
beta - thalassemia  ( bt )  major is a severe early - onset form of bt characterized by severe anemia requiring regular red blood cell transfusions .
beta - thalassemia  ( bt )  intermedia is a form of bt characterized by mild to moderate anemia which does not or only occasionally requires transfusion .
dominant beta - thalassemia is a form of beta - thalassemia resulting in moderate to severe anemia .
beta - thalassemias associated with hemoglobin  ( hb )  anomalies result in a variable clinical spectrum ,  ranging from asymptomatic to severe ,  depending on the severity of the thalassemia mutation and on the type of the hb anomaly  [ hereditary persistence of fetal hb ,  delta - beta - thalassemia ,  hb c  -  beta - thalassemia ,  hb e  -  beta - thalassemia and hb s  -  beta - thalassemia  ]  .
delta - beta - thalassemia is a form of beta - thalassemia characterized by decreased or absent synthesis of the delta -  and beta - globin chains with a compensatory increase in expression of fetal gamma - chain synthesis .
hemoglobin c  -  beta - thalassemia  ( hbc  -  bt )  is a form of beta - thalassemia resulting in moderate hemolytic anemia .
hemoglobin e  -  beta - thalassemia  ( hbe  -  bt )  is a form of beta - thalassemia that results in a mild to severe clinical presentation ranging from a condition indistinguishable from beta - thalassemia major to a mild form of beta - thalassemia intermedia .
beta - thalassemias with other manifestations are a group of beta - thalassemias associated with another disorder .
beta - thalassemia  -  x - linked thrombocytopenia is a form of beta - thalassemia characterized by splenomegaly and petechiae ,  moderate thrombocytopenia ,  prolonged bleeding time due to platelet dysfunction ,  reticulocytosis and mild beta - thalassemia .
a condition of decreased or absent presence or activity of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 protein .
alpha - thalassemia - myelodysplastic syndrome  ( atmds )  is an acquired form of alpha - thalassemia characterized by a myelodysplastic syndrome  ( mds )  or more rarely a myeloproliferative disease  ( mpd )  associated with hemoglobin h disease  ( hbh )  .
johanson - blizzard syndrome  ( jbs )  is a multiple congenital anomaly characterized by exocrine pancreatic insufficiency ,  hypoplasia / aplasia of the nasal alae ,  hypodontia ,  sensorineural hearing loss ,  growth retardation ,  anal and urogenital malformations ,  and variable intellectual disability .
hermansky - pudlak syndrome with pulmonary fibrosis as a complication includes two types  ( hps - 1 and hps - 4 )  of hermansky - pudlak syndrome  ( hps )  ,  a multi - system disorder characterized by oculocutaneous albinism ,  bleeding diathesis and ,  in some cases ,  pulmonary fibrosis or granulomatous colitis .
hermansky - pudlak syndrome without pulmonary fibrosis as a complication includes three relatively mild types  ( hps - 3 ,  hps - 5 and hps - 6 )  of hermansky - pudlak syndrome  ( hps )  ,  a multi - system disorder characterized by ocular or oculocutaneous albinism ,  bleeding diathesis and ,  in some cases ,  granulomatous colitis .
any hermansky - pudlak syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dtnbp1 gene .
any hermansky - pudlak syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bloc1s3 gene .
generalized dominant dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( ddeb - gen )  is a subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( deb )  ,  formerly known as ddeb ,  pasini and cockayne - touraine types ,  characterized by generalized blistering ,  milia formation ,  atrophic scarring ,  and dystrophic nails .
johnson neuroectodermal syndrome is characterised by alopecia ,  anosmia or hyposmia ,  conductive deafness with malformed ears and microtia and / or atresia of the external auditory canal ,  and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism .
an isolated growth hormone deficiency characterized by autosomal recessive inheritance of severe dwarfism with onset by 6 months of age and variable development of antibodies to growth hormone following exogenous supplementation that has material basis in null mutations in the gh1 gene on chromosome 17q23 .3 .
an isolated growth hormone deficiency characterized by autosomal recessive inheritance of low but detectable levels of gh ,  short stature ,  significantly retarded bone age ,  and a positive response and immunologic tolerance to growth hormone therapy that has material basis in mutation in the gh1 or ghrhr genes on chromosomes 17q23 .3 and 7p14 .3 ,  respectively .
non - acquired combined pituitary hormone deficiency - sensorineural hearing loss - spine abnormalities syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - acquired ,  combined pituitary hormone deficiency disorder characterized by panhypopituitarism  ( with or without acth deficiency )  associated with spine abnormalities ,  including frequent rigid cervical spine and short neck with limited rotation ,  and variable degrees of sensorineural hearing loss .
epibulbar lipodermoid b preauricular appendages b polythelia is a branchial arch syndrome described in seven sibs of one danish family and characterized by supernumerary nipples  ( polythelia )  ,  preauricular appendages and often binocular epibulbar lipodermoids or unilateral subconjunctival lipodermoids .
joubert syndrome with oculorenal defect is a rare subtype of joubert syndrome and related disorders  ( jsrd )  characterized by the neurological features of js associated with both renal and ocular disease .
juberg - hayward syndrome is a polymalformative syndrome that associates multiple skeletal anomalies with microcephaly ,  facial dysmorphism ,  urogenital anomalies and intellectual deficit .
sickle cell anemias are chronic hemolytic diseases that may induce three types of acute accidents: severe anemia ,  severe bacterial infections ,  and ischemic vasoocclusive accidents  ( voa )  caused by sickle - shaped red blood cells obstructing small blood vessels and capillaries .
kabuki syndrome  ( ks )  is a multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by typical facial features ,  skeletal anomalies ,  mild to moderate intellectual disability and postnatal growth deficiency .
this term refers to a group of diseases characterized by alpha - thalassemia and an associated disorder .
sanjad - sakati syndrome  ( sss )  ,  also known as hypoparathyroidism  -  intellectual disability - dysmorphism ,  is a rare multiple congenital anomaly syndrome ,  mainly occurring in the middle east and the arabian gulf countries ,  characterized by intrauterine growth restriction at birth ,  microcephaly ,  congenital hypoparathyroidism  ( that can cause hypocalcemic tetany or seizures in infancy )  ,  severe growth retardation ,  typical facial features  ( long narrow face ,  deep - set eyes ,  beaked nose ,  floppy and large ears ,  long philtrum ,  thin lips and micrognathia )  ,  and mild to moderate intellectual deficiency .
kaler - garrity - stern syndrome is a rare syndrome ,  described in two sisters of mennonite descent ,  characterized by sparse hair ,  osteopenia ,  intellectual disability ,  minor facial abnormalities ,  joint laxity and hypotonia .
kallmann syndrome with cardiopathy is characterised by hypogonadotropic hypogonadism associated with gonadotropin - releasing hormone  ( gnrh )  deficiency ,  anosmia or hyposmia  ( with hypoplasia or aplasia of the olfactory bulbs )  and complex congenital cardiac malformations  ( double - outlet right ventricle ,  dilated cardiomyopathy ,  right aortic arch )  .
kapur - toriello syndrome is an extremely rare syndrome characterized by facial dysmorphism ,  severe intellectual deficiency ,  cardiac and intestinal anomalies ,  and growth retardation .
karsch - neugebauer syndrome is a rare syndrome characterized by split - hand and split - foot deformity and ocular abnormalities ,  mainly a congenital nystagmus .
duane retraction syndrome  ( drs )  is a congenital form of strabismus characterized by horizontal eye movement limitation ,  globe retraction and palpebral fissure narrowing in attempted adduction .
kbg syndrome is a rare condition characterised by a typical facial dysmorphism ,  macrodontia of the upper central incisors ,  skeletal  ( mainly costovertebral )  anomalies and developmental delay .
a genetic condition characterized by long bone sclerosis and thickening ,  short stature ,  and head and eye anomalies .
hereditary keratitis is characterised by opacification and vascularisation of the cornea ,  often associated with macula hypoplasia .
non - epidermolytic palmoplantar keratoderma is characterised by a diffuse non - epidermolytic palmoplantar keratoderma with frequent fungal infections .
a punctate palmoplantar keratoderma that is not part of a larger syndrome .
keratosis follicularis - dwarfism - cerebral atrophy syndrome is characterized by generalized keratosis follicularis ,  severe proportionate dwarfism and cerebral atrophy .
dubin - johnson syndrome  ( djs )  is a benign ,  inherited liver disorder characterized clinically by chronic ,  predominantly conjugated ,  hyperbilirubinemia and histopathologically by black - brown pigment deposition in parenchymal liver cells .
keratosis follicularis spinulosa decalvans is a rare genodermatosis occurring during infancy or childhood ,  predominantly affecting males ,  and characterized by diffuse follicular hyperkeratosis associated with progressive cicatricial alopecia of the scalp ,  eyebrows and eyelashes .
haim - munk syndrome  ( hms )  is characterized by palmoplantar hyperkeratosis ,  severe early - onset periodontitis ,  onychogryposis ,  pes planus ,  arachnodactyly and acroosteolysis .
isolated cloverleaf skull syndrome is a form of craniosynostosis involving multiple sutures  ( coronal ,  lambdoidal ,  sagittal and metopic )  characterized by a trilobular skull of varying severity  ( frontal towering and bossing ,  temporal bulging and a flat posterior skull )  ,  dysmorphic features  ( downslanting palpebral fissures ,  midface hypoplasia ,  and extreme proptosis )  and that is complicated by hydrocephalus ,  cerebral venous hypertension ,  developmental delay / intellectual disability and hind brain herniation .
klippel - feil syndrome is characterised by improper segmentation of cervical segments resulting in congenitally fused cervical vertebrae .
angio - osteohypertrophic  ( aoh )  syndrome is a congenital vascular bone syndrome  ( cvbs )  characterized by the presence of a vascular malformation in a limb ,  mainly of the arteriovenous type ,  which results in overgrowth of the affected limb .
lethal kniest - like dysplasia is a severe lethal skeletal dysplasia .
familial partial lipodystrophy ,  dunnigan type  ( fpld2 )  is a rare form of genetic lipodystrophy characterized by a loss of subcutaneous adipose tissue from the trunk ,  buttocks and limbs ;  fat accumulation in the neck ,  face ,  axillary and pelvic regions ;  muscular hypertrophy ;  and usually associated with metabolic complications such as insulin resistance ,  diabetes mellitus ,  dyslipidemia and liver steatosis .
muscular pseudohypertropy  -  hypothyroidism ,  also known as kocher - debre - semelaigne syndrome is a rare disorder characterized by pseudohypertrophy of muscles due to longstanding hypothyroidism .
dubowitz syndrome  ( ds )  is a rare multiple congenital syndrome characterized primarly by growth retardation ,  microcephaly ,  distinctive facial dysmorphism ,  cutaneous eczema ,  a mild to severe intellectual deficit and genital abnormalities .
schilbach - rott syndrome  ( srs )  is an autosomal dominant dysmorphic disorder that is characterized by dysmorphic facies with hypotelorism ,  blepharophimosis ,  and cleft palate ,  and the frequent occurrence of hypospadias in males .
intracranial or spinal cavities containing a cerebrospinal - like fluid ,  the wall of which is composed of arachnoidal cells .
an alteration in limb growth caused by congenital vascular malformations in childhood
familial hyperaldosteronism  ( fh )  is the heritable form of primary aldosteronism  ( pa )  which comprises three identified subtypes to date: fh type i  ( fh - i )  characterized by early - onset hypertension ,  glucocorticoid remediable adrenocorticotropic hormone  ( acth )  - dependent hyperaldosteronism ,  variable hypokalemia ,  and overproduction of 18 - oxocortisol and 18 - hydroxycortisol ;  fh type ii  ( fh - ii )  characterized by hypertension of varying severity and hyperaldosteronism not suppressible by dexamethasone ;  and fh type iii  ( fh - iii )  characterized by profound hypokalemia ,  early - onset severe hypertension ,  non glucocorticoid - remediable hyperaldosteronism ,  and overproduction of 18 - oxocortisol and 18 - hydroxycortisol .
trisomy 9p is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from a partial or complete trisomy of the short arm of chromosome 9 ,  with a wide phenotypic variablility ,  typically characterized by intellectual disability ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( e .g .
lacrimoauriculodentodigital  ( ladd )  syndrome is a multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by hypoplasia ,  aplasia or atresia of the lacrimal system ;  anomalies of the ears and hearing loss ;  hypoplasias ,  apalsias or atresias of the salivary glands ;  dental anomalies and digital malformations .
duplication of the urethra is a rare congenital genitourinary anomaly ,  encompassing a wide spectrum of anatomic variants in which the urethra is partially or totally duplicated ,  which may be asymptomatic or cause symptoms such as incontinence ,  recurrent urinary infections and difficulty urinating .
larsen - like osseous dysplasia - short stature syndrome is a rare primary bone dysplasia characterized by a larsen - like phenotype including multiple ,  congenital ,  large joint dislocations ,  craniofacial abnormalities  ( i .e .
larsen - like syndrome ,  lethal type ,  is characterised by multiple joint dislocation and respiratory insufficiency due to tracheomalacia and / or lung hypoplasia .
increased collapsibility of the larynx .
congenital laryngeal web is a rare malformation consisting of a membrane - like structure that extends across the laryngeal lumen close to the level of the vocal cords .
laryngeal abductor paralysis - intellectual disability syndrome is characterised by congenital and permanent laryngeal abductor paralysis ,  associated ,  in the majority of cases ,  with intellectual deficit .
laurence - moon syndrome  ( lms )  is a very rare genetic multisystemic disorder characterized by pituitary dysfunction ,  ataxia ,  peripheral neuropathy ,  spastic paraplegia ,  and chorioretinal dystrophy .
laurin - sandrow syndrome  ( lss )  is characterised by complete polysyndactyly of the hands ,  mirror feet and nose anomalies  ( hypoplasia of the nasal alae and short columella )  ,  often associated with ulnar and / or fibular duplication  ( and sometimes tibial agenesis )  .
early - onset parkinsonism with intellectual deficit is a basal ganglia disorder characterised by parkinsonian - type symptoms  ( postural changes ,  tremor ,  rigidity )  ,  megalencephaly and variable intellectual deficit .
legg - calve - perthes disease  ( lcpd )  is the term used to describe uni -  or bilateral avascular necrosis  ( avn )  of the femoral head in children .
lennox - gastaut syndrome  ( lgs )  belongs to the group of severe childhood epileptic encephalopathies .
severe x - linked mitochondrial encephalomyopathy is an extremely rare mitochondrial respiratory chain disease resulting in a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by psychomotor delay ,  hypotonia ,  areflexia ,  muscle weakness and wasting in the two patients reported to date .
the 15q11 - q13 microduplication  ( dup15q11 - q13 )  syndrome is characterized by neurobehavioral disorders ,  hypotonia ,  cognitive deficit ,  language delay and seizures .
infantile dystonia - parkinsonism  ( ipd )  is an extremely rare inherited neurological syndrome that presents in early infancy with hypokinetic parkinsonism and dystonia and that can be fatal .
slc35a1 - cdg is an extremely rare form of cdg syndrome characterized clinically in the single reported case by repeated hemorrhagic incidents ,  including severe pulmonary hemorrhage .
hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia  ( hed )  is a genetic disorder of ectoderm development characterized by malformation of ectodermal structures such as skin ,  hair ,  teeth and sweat glands .
familial hypercholanemia is a very rare genetic disorder characterized clinically by elevated serum bile acid concentrations ,  itching ,  and fat malabsorption reported in patients of old order amish descent .
autosomal recessive lymphoproliferative disease is a rare combined t and b cell immunodeficiency with a predisposition to lymphoproliferative syndrome .
a disorder characterized by proliferation of lymphocytes at various stages of differentiation .
atypical hypotonia - cystinuria syndrome is a form of hypotonia - cystinuria type 1 syndrome characterized by mild to moderate intellectual disability in addition to classic hypotonia - cystinuria syndrome phenotype  ( cystinuria type 1 ,  generalised hypotonia ,  poor feeding ,  growth retardation ,  and minor facial dysmorphism )  .
chuvash erythrocytosis is a rare ,  genetic ,  congenital secondary polycythemia disorder characterized by increased hemoglobin ,  hematocrit and erythropoietin serum levels and normal oxygen affinity ,  which usually manifests with headache ,  dizziness ,  dyspnea and / or plethora .
any inflammatory bowel disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the il10rb gene .
17q23 .1 - q23 .2 microduplication is a newly described cause of familial isolated clubfoot .
hyperphenylalaninemia  ( hpa )  due to tetrahydrobiopterin  ( bh4 )  deficiency ,  also known as malignant hpa is an amino acid disorder with neonatal onset that is clinically characterized by the classic manifestations of phenylketonuria  ( pka )  and that later on is clinically differentiated by neurologic symptoms such as microcephaly ,  intellectual disability ,  central hypotonia ,  delayed motor development ,  peripheral spasticity and seizures ,  that develop and persist despite an established metabolic control of plasma phenylalanine .
leukoencephalopathy - palmoplantar keratoderma syndrome is a rare ,  genetic epidermal disease characterized by early childhood - onset of punctate palmoplantar keratoderma in association with adult - onset leukoencephalopathy manifested by progressive tetrapyramidal syndrome and cognitive deterioration .
a congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism that is not part of a larger syndrome .
hypothyroidism due to dysfunction of the hypothalamus ,  assumed to result in reduced secretion of thyrotropin -  releasing hormone .
leukonychia totalis is a rare nail anomaly disorder characterized by complete white discoloration of the nails .
congenital mirror movement disorder is a condition in which intentional movements of one side of the body are mirrored by involuntary movements of the other side .
mammary - digital - nail syndrome is a syndromic limb malformation characterized by congenital onychodystrophy / anonychia ,  brachydactyly of the fifth finger ,  digitalization of the thumbs ,  with absence or hypoplasia of the distal phalanges of the hands and feet in association with juvenile hypertrophy of the breast with gigantomastia in peripubertal females .
the 4q21 microdeletion syndrome is a newly described syndrome associated with facial dysmorphism ,  progressive growth restriction ,  severe intellectual deficit and absent or severely delayed speech .
autosomal dominant limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 1h  ( lgmd1h )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by slowly progressive proximal muscular weakness initially affecting the lower limbs  ( and later involving the upper limbs )  ,  hypotrophy of upper and lower limb - girdle muscles ,  hyporeflexia ,  calf hypertrophy ,  and increased serum creatine kinase .
glaucoma secondary to spherophakia / ectopia lentis and megalocornea is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic developmental defect of the eye disorder characterized by congenital megalocornea associated with spherophakia and / or ectopia lentis leading to pupillary block and secondary glaucoma .
1q44 microdeletion syndrome is a newly described syndrome associated with facial dysmorphism ,  developmental delay ,  in particular of expressive speech ,  seizures and hypotonia .
chorea - acanthocytosis  ( chac )  is a form of neuroacanthocytosis and is characterized clinically by a huntington disease - like phenotype with progressive neurological symptoms including movement disorders ,  psychiatric manifestations and cognitive disturbances .
dyggve - melchior - clausen disease  ( dmc )  is a rare skeletal disorder belonging to the group of spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasias .
lichstenstein syndrome is characterised by frequent infections associated with osteoporosis ,  a tendency for fractures and osseous anomalies .
pyruvate dehydrogenase e3 deficiency is a very rare subtype of pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency  ( pdhd )  characterized by either early - onset lactic acidosis and delayed development ,  later - onset neurological dysfunction or liver disease .
a rare neoplastic syndrome characterized by the presence of unilateral lipomas of the cranium ,  face and neck ,  and ipsilateral cerebral malformations .
fumaric aciduria  ( fa )  ,  an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder ,  is most often characterized by early onset but non - specific clinical signs: hypotonia ,  severe psychomotor impairment ,  convulsions ,  respiratory distress ,  feeding difficulties and frequent cerebral malformations ,  along with a distinctive facies .
lc ) ri - weill dyschondrosteosis  ( lwd )  is a skeletal dysplasia marked by disproportionate short stature and the characteristic madelung wrist deformity .
classical progressive supranuclear palsy ,  also known as richardson's syndrome ,  is the most common clinical variant of progressive supranuclear palsy  ( psp )  ,  a rare late - onset neurodegenerative disease characterized by postural instability ,  progressive rigidity ,  supranuclear gaze palsy and mild dementia .
psp - parkinsonism  ( psp - p )  is an atypical variant of progressive supranuclear palsy  ( psp )  ,  a rare late - onset neurodegenerative disease .
psp - pure akinesia with gait freezing  ( psp - pagf )  is an atypical variant of progressive supranuclear palsy  ( psp )  ,  a rare late - onset neurodegenerative disease .
psp - corticobasal syndrome  ( psp - cbs )  is an atypical variant of progressive supranuclear palsy  ( psp )  ,  a rare late - onset neurodegenerative disease .
psp - progressive non fluent aphasia  ( psp - pnfa )  is an atypical variant of progressive supranuclear palsy  ( psp )  ,  a rare late - onset neurodegenerative disease .
thickened earlobes - conductive deafness syndrome is characterized by microtia with thickened ear lobes ,  micrognathia and conductive hearing loss due to congenital ossicular anomalies .
loc syndrome is a subtype of junctional epidermolysis bullosa  ( jeb )  characterized by an altered cry in the neonatal period and by aberrant production of granulation tissue in particular affecting the upper airway tract ,  conjunctiva and periungual / subungual sites .
nijmegen breakage syndrome - like disorder is a rare ,  genetic multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by growth retardation ,  short stature ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( i .e .
lowe - kohn - cohen syndrome is an extremely rare anorectal malformation syndrome characterized by imperforate anus ,  closed ano - perineal fistula ,  preauricular skin tag and absent renal abnormalities and pre - axial limb deformities .
lowry - maclean syndrome is a very rare syndrome characterized by microcephaly ,  craniosynostosis ,  glaucoma ,  growth failure and visceral malformations .
a pigmentation disease characterized by reticulate hyper -  and hypo - pigmentated macules in a generalized distribution .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of hypergonadotropic hypogonadism and cataracts with onset during adolescence .
dislocation of the hip - dysmorphism syndrome is a rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by bilateral congenital dislocation of the hip ,  characteristic facial features  ( flat mid - face ,  hypertelorism ,  epicanthus ,  puffiness around the eyes ,  broad nasal bridge ,  carp - shaped mouth )  ,  and joint hyperextensibility .
congenital pulmonary lymphangiectasia  ( pl )  is a rare developmental disorder involving the lung and characterized by pulmonary subpleural ,  interlobar ,  perivascular ,  and peribronchial lymphatic dilatation .
46 , xy complete gonadal dysgenesis  ( 46 , xy cgd )  is a disorder of sex development  ( dsd )  associated with anomalies in gonadal development that result in the presence of female external and internal genitalia despite the 46 , xy karyotype .
macrocephaly - short stature - paraplegia syndrome is characterized by macrocephaly and midface hypoplasia ,  intellectual deficit ,  short stature ,  spastic paraplegia and severe central nervous system anomalies  ( hydrocephalus and dandy - walker malformation )  .
macrocephaly - spastic paraplegia - dysmorphism syndrome is a rare syndrome of multiple congenital anomalies characterized by macrocephaly  ( of post - natal onset )  with large anterior fontanelle ,  progressive complex spastic paraplegia ,  dysmorphic facial features  ( broad and high forehead ,  deeply set eyes ,  short philtrum with thin upper lip ,  large mouth and prominent incisors )  ,  seizures ,  and intellectual deficit of varying severity .
46 , xx gonadal dysgenesis  ( 46 , xx gd )  is a primary ovarian defect leading to premature ovarian failure  ( pof )  in otherwise normal 46 , xx females as a result of failure of the gonads to develop or due to resistance to gonadotrophin stimulation .
central bilateral macrogyria is a neuronal migration disorder characterised by pseudobulbar palsy ,  developmental delay ,  mild mental retardation and epilepsy .
macrosomia - microphthalmia - cleft palate syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by early macrosomia ,  bilateral severe microphthalmia and a protuberant abdomen with hepatomegaly .
dimethylglycine dehydrogenase deficiency is an extremely rare autosomal recessive glycine metabolism disorder characterized clinically in the single reported case to date by muscle fatigue and a fish - like odor .
hypo -  and hypermelanotic cutaneous macules - retarded growth - intellectual disability syndrome is a neurocutaneous syndrome characterised by congenital hypomelanotic and hypermelanotic cutaneous macules .
czeizel - losonci syndrome  ( cls )  is an exceedingly rare ,  severe ,  congenital genetic malformation disorder characterized by split hand / split foot ,  hydronephrosis ,  and spina bifida .
hand - foot - genital syndrome  ( hfgs )  is a very rare multiple congenital abnormality syndrome characterized by distal limb malformations and urogenital defects .
patterson - stevenson - fontaine syndrome is a very rare variant of acrofacial dysostosis characterized by mandibulofacial dysostosis and limb anomalies .
primary ciliary dyskinesia  ( pcd )  is a rare ,  genetically heterogeneous ,  primarily respiratory disorder characterized by chronic upper and lower respiratory tract disease .
split hand - split foot malformation  ( shfm )  refers to a spectrum of genetically and clinically heterogenous terminal limb defect characterized by hypoplasia /  absence of central rays of the hands and feet  ( that can occur in one to all four digits )  ,  median clefts of the hands and /  or feet ,  aplasia and syndactyly ,  with a wide range of severity ranging from malformed central finger /  toe to a lobster claw - like appearance of the hands and feet .
x - linked lymphoproliferative disease is a hereditary immunodeficiency characterized ,  in the majority of cases ,  by an inadequate immune response to infection with the epstein - barr virus  ( ebv )  .
mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation disorder due to nuclear dna anomalies is a group of clinically heterogeneous diseases ,  commonly defined by lack of cellular energy due to defects of oxidative phosphorylation  ( oxphos )  ,  resulting from pathogenic mutations in the nuclear dna .
 ( 3p21 .1 )  .
conotruncal heart malformations are a group of congenital cardiac outflow tract anomalies that include such defects as tetralogy of fallot ,  pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect ,  double - outlet right ventricle  ( dorv )  ,  double - outlet left ventricle ,  truncus arteriosus and transposition of the great arteries  ( tga )  ,  among others .
nager syndrome ,  also called nager acrofacial dysostosis  ( nafd )  is a congenital malformation syndrome characterized by mandibulofacial dystosis  ( malar hypoplasia ,  micrognathia ,  external ear malformations )  and variable preaxial limb defects .
mucocutaneous venous malformations  ( vmcms )  are hereditary vascular malformations characterized by the presence of small ,  multifocal ,  bluish - purple venous lesions involving the skin and mucosa .
mandibuloacral dysplasia  ( mad )  is a rare genetic bone disorder characterized by growth delay ,  postnatal development of craniofacial anomalies including mandibular hypoplasia ,  progressive acral osteolysis ,  mottled or patchy pigmentation ,  skin atrophy ,  and partial or generalized lipodystrophy .
postaxial acrofacial dysostosis  ( poads )  is a type of acrofacial dysostosis characterised by mandibular and malar hypoplasia ,  small and cup - shaped ears ,  lower lid ectropion ,  and symmetrical postaxial limb deficiencies with absence of the fifth digital ray and ulnar hypoplasia .
van den ende - gupta syndrome is a very rare syndrome characterized by blepharophimosis ,  arachnodactyly ,  joint contractures ,  and characteristic dysmorphic features .
marden - walker syndrome  ( mws )  is a malformation syndrome characterized by multiple joint contractures  ( arthrogryposis )  ,  a mask - like face with blepharophimosis ,  micrognathia ,  high - arched or cleft palate ,  low - set ears ,  decreased muscular bulk ,  kyphoscoliosis and arachnodactyly .
shprintzen - goldberg syndrome  ( sgs )  is a very rare genetic disorder characterized by craniosynostosis ,  craniofacial and skeletal abnormalities ,  marfanoid habitus ,  cardiac anomalies ,  neurological abnormalities ,  and intellectual disability .
marfanoid habitus b intellectual deficit ,  autosomal recessive is a very rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome described in four sibs and characterized by intellectual deficit ,  flat face and some skeletelal features of marfan syndrome such as tall stature ,  dolichostenomelia ,  arm span larger than height ,  arachnodactyly of hands and feet ,  little subcutaneous fat ,  muscle hypotonia and intellectual deficit .
marfanoid syndrome ,  da silva type is characterized by the association of marfanoid habitus with visceral diverticula .
masa syndrome  ( mental retardation ,  aphasia ,  spastic paraplegia ,  adducted thumbs )  is a historical term used to describe a phenotype now considered to be part of the x - linked l1 clinical spectrum  ( l1 syndrome )  .
arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy  ( arvc )  is a heart muscle disease that consists in progressive dystrophy of primarily the right ventricular myocardium with fibro - fatty replacement and ventricular dilation ,  and that is clinically characterized by ventricular arrhythmias and a risk of sudden cardiac death .
matthew - wood syndrome is a rare clinical entity including as main characteristics anophthalmia or severe microphthalmia ,  and pulmonary hypoplasia or aplasia .
a rare ,  multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by facial dysmorphsim  ( prominent superciliary arcs ,  synophrys ,  strabismus ,  large ,  anteverted ears ,  large nose ,  malocclusion of teeth )  ,  delayed psychomotor development ,  intellectual disability and congenital heart defects  ( e .g .
mckusick - kaufman syndrome is a very rare ,  genetic developmental disorder presenting in the neonatal period characterized by genitourinary malformations ,  polydactyly ,  and more rarely ,  congenital heart disease or gastrointestinal malformations .
generalized pustular psoriasis is a severe inflammatory skin disease that can be life - threatening and that is characterized by recurrent episodes of high fever ,  fatigue ,  episodic erythematous cutaneous eruptions with sterile cutaneous pustules formation on various parts of the body ,  and neutrophil leukocytosis .
white forelock with malformations is a multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by poliosis ,  distinct facial features  ( epicanthal folds ,  hypertelorism ,  posterior rotation of ears ,  prominent philtrum ,  high - arched palate )  and congenital anomalies / malformations of the eye  ( blue sclera )  ,  cardiopulmonary  ( atrial septal defect ,  prominent thoracic and abdominal veins )  ,  and skeletal  ( clinodactyly ,  syndactyly of the fingers and 2nd and 3rd toes )  systems .
autosomal dominant form of secondary polycythemia .
primary ciliary dyskinesia  -  retinitis pigmentosa is an x - linked ciliary dysfunction of both respiratory epithelium and photoreceptors of the retina leading to ocular disorders  ( mild night blindness ,  constriction of the visual field ,  and scotopic and photopic erg responses reduced to 30 - 60% )  associated with primary ciliary dyskinesia manifestations  ( chronic bronchorrhea with bronchoectasis and chronic sinusitis )  and sensorineural hearing loss .
citrullinemia type i is a rare autosomal recessive urea cycle defect characterized biologically by hyperammonemia and clinically by progressive lethargy ,  poor feeding and vomiting in the neonatal form  ( acute neonatal citrullinemia type i )  and by variable hyperammonemia in the later - onset form  ( adult - onset citrullinemia type i )  .
acute neonatal citrullinemia type i is a severe form of citrullinemia type 1 characterized biologically by hyperammonemia and clinically by progressive lethargy ,  poor feeding and vomiting ,  seizures and possible loss of consciousness ,  within one to a few days of birth ,  with variable signs of increased intracranial pressure .
adult - onset citrullinemia type i is a form of citrullinemia type i characterized clinically by adult onset of symptoms including variable hyperammonemia and less striking neurological findings which may include intense headache ,  scotomas ,  migraine - like episodes ,  ataxia ,  slurred speech ,  lethargy and drowsiness .
citrin deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive urea cycle defect characterized clinically by recurring episodes of hyperammonemia and associated neuropsychiatric symptoms in the adult - onset form  ( citrullinemia type ii )  ,  and by transient cholestasis and variable hepatic dysfunction in the neonatal form  ( neonatal intrahepatic cholestasis due to citrin deficiency )  .
citrullinemia type ii is a severe subtype of citrin deficiency characterized clinically by adult onset  ( 20 and 50 years of age )  ,  recurrent episodes of hyperammonemia and associated neuropsychiatric symptoms such as nocturnal delirium ,  confusion ,  restlessness ,  disorientation ,  drowsiness ,  memory loss ,  abnormal behavior  ( aggression ,  irritability ,  and hyperactivity )  ,  seizures ,  and coma .
neonatal intrahepatic cholestasis due to citrin deficiency is a mild subtype of citrin deficiency characterized clinically by low birth weight ,  failure to thrive ,  transient intrahepatic cholestasis ,  multiple aminoacidemia ,  galactosemia ,  hypoproteinemia ,  hepatomegaly ,  decreased coagulation factors ,  hemolytic anemia ,  variable but mostly mild liver dysfunction ,  and hypoglycemia .
juvenile primary lateral sclerosis  ( jpls )  is a very rare motor neuron disease characterized by progressive upper motor neuron dysfunction leading to loss of the ability to walk with wheelchair dependence ,  and subsequently ,  loss of motor speech production .
a rare ,  genetic form of hypophosphatasia  ( hpp )  characterized by markedly impaired bone mineralization in utero due to reduced activity of serum alkaline phosphatase  ( alp )  and causing stillbirth or respiratory failure within days of birth .
prenatal benign hypophosphatasia  ( pb - hpp )  is a very rare form of hypophosphatasia characterized by prenatal skeletal manifestations  ( limb shortening and bowing )  that slowly resolve spontaneously and later develop into the milder infantile ,  childhood or adult forms of the disease .
infantile hypophosphatasia  ( i - hpp )  is a very rare ,  severe form of hypophosphatasia characterized by infantile rickets without elevated serum alkaline phosphatase  ( alp )  activity and a wide range of clinical manifestations due to hypomineralization .
childhood - onset hypophosphatasia is a rare ,  mildform of hypophosphatasia characterized by onset after six months of age and widely variable clinical features from low bone mineral density for age ,  to unexplained fractures , skeletal deformities , and rickets with short stature and waddling gait .
adult hypophosphatasia  ( a - hpp )  is a mildform of hypophosphatasia characterized by osteomalacia ,  chondrocalcinosis ,  osteoarthropathy ,  stress fractures duringmiddle age ,  and dental anomalies .
odontohypophosphatasia  ( odonto - hpp )  is the least severe form of hypophosphatasia characterized by premature exfoliation of primary and / or permanent teeth and / or severe dental caries ,  in the absence of skeletal system abnormalities .
retinal vasculopathy and cerebral leukodystrophy  ( rvcl )  is an inherited group of small vessel diseases comprised of cerebroretinal vasculopathy  ( crv )  ,  hereditary vascular retinopathy  ( hrv )  and hereditary endotheliopathy with retinopathy ,  nephropathy and stroke  ( herns )  ;  all exhibiting progressive visual impairment as well as variable cerebral dysfunction .
multiple endocrine neoplasia 2a  ( men2a )  syndrome is a form of men2 characterized by medullary thyroid carcinoma  ( mtc )  in combination with pheochromocytoma and primary mild hyperparathyroidism resulting from hyperplasia or adenoma of the parathyroid cells .
multiple endocrine neoplasia 2b  ( men2b )  syndrome is a rare aggressive form of men2 characterized by medullary thyroid carcinoma  ( mtc )  ,  pheochromocytoma ,  mucosal ganglioneuroma ,  and marfanoid habitus .
x - linked form of cerebellar ataxia .
mayer - rokitansky - kster - hauser  ( mrkh )  syndrome type 1 is the classic type of mrkh syndrome  ( see this term )  characterized by an isolated form of congenital aplasia of the uterus and upper two thirds of the vagina in otherwise phenotypically normal females .
any hereditary hemochromatosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fth1 gene .
juvenile cataract  -  microcornea  -  renal glucosuria is an extremely rare autosomal dominant association reported in a single swiss family and characterized clinically by juvenile cataract associated with bilateral microcornea ,  and renal glucosuria without other renal tubular defects .
an autosomal recessive hereditary neoplastic syndrome caused by mutations in the mutyh gene on chromosome 1p34 .1 .
megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts  ( mlc )  is a form of leukodystrophy that is characterized by infantile - onset macrocephaly ,  often with mild neurologic signs at presentation  ( such as mild motor delay )  ,  which worsen with time ,  leading to poor ambulation ,  falls ,  ataxia ,  spasticity ,  increasing seizures and cognitive decline .
ectodermal dysplasia - syndactyly syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by sparse to absent scalp hair ,  eyebrows ,  and eyelashes  ( with pili torti when present )  ,  widely spaced ,  conical - shaped teeth with peg - shaped ,  conical crowns and enamel hypoplasia and palmoplantar hyperkeratosis ,  associated with partial cutaneous syndactyly in hands and feet .
occult macular dystrophy is a rare ,  genetic retinal dystrophy disease characterized by bilateral progressive decline of visual acuity ,  due to retinal dysfunction confined only to the macula ,  associated with normal fundus and fluorescein angiograms and severly attenuated focal macular and multifocal electroretinograms .
an autoinflammatory disease caused by mutations in the nlrp12 gene .
megalocornea - intellectual disability syndrome is a rare intellectual disability syndrome most commonly characterized by megalocornea ,  congenital hypotonia ,  varying degrees of intellectual disability ,  psychomotor / developmental delay ,  seizures ,  and mild facial dysmorphism  ( including round face ,  frontal bossing ,  antimongoloid slant of the eyes ,  epicanthal folds ,  large low set ears ,  broad nasal base ,  anteverted nostrils ,  and long upper lip )  .
a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by developmental abnormalities of the skin ,  sweat glands ,  hair and nails .
primary hypertrophic osteoarthropathy  ( pho )  is a genetically and clinically heterogeneous inherited disorder characterized by digital clubbing and osteoarthropathy ,  with variable features of pachydermia ,  delayed closure of the fontanels ,  and congenital heart disease .
juvenile huntington disease  ( jhd )  is a form of huntington disease  ( hd )  ,  characterized by onset of signs and symptoms before 20 years of age .
melhem - fahl syndrome was described in two siblings born to consanguineous parents in 1985 and was characterized by the presence of 15 dorsal vertebrae and rib pairs .
isolated delta - storage pool disease is a rare ,  isolated ,  constitutional thrombocytopenia disorder characterized by defective formation and / or malfunction of platelet dense granules ,  as well as melanosomes in skin cells ,  resulting in variable manifestations ranging from mild bleeding and easy bruising to moderate mucous / cutaneous hemorrhagic diathesis and bleeding complications after surgery .
melnick - needles syndrome  ( mns )  belongs to the otopalatodigital syndrome spectrum disorder and is associated with a short stature ,  facial dysmorphism ,  osseous abnormalities involving the majority of the axial and appendicular skeleton resulting in impaired speech and masticatory problems .
melorheostosis is a rare connective tissue disorder characterized by a sclerosing bone dysplasia ,  usually limited to one side of the body  ( rarely bilateral )  ,  that manifests with pain ,  stiffness ,  joint contractures and deformities .
lower limb malformation - hypospadias syndrome is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by severe ,  uni -  or bilateral lower limb malformations  ( incl .
upper limb defect  -  eye and ear abnormalities syndrome associates upper limb defects  ( hypoplastic thumb with hypoplasia of the metacarpal bone and phalanges and delayed bone maturation )  ,  developmental delay ,  central hearing loss ,  unilateral poorly developed antihelix ,  bilateral choroid coloboma and growth retardation .
mullerian duct anomalies - limb anomalies syndrome is characterised by the association of mullerian duct and distal limb anomalies .
a generally slow growing tumor attached to the dura mater .
mesomelia - synostoses syndrome  ( mss )  is a syndromal osteochondrodysplasia due to a contiguous gene deletion syndrome ,  characterized by progressive bowing of forearms and forelegs leading to mesomelia ,  progressive intracarpal or intratarsal bone fusion and fusion of metacarpal bones with proximal phalanges ,  ptosis ,  hypertelorism ,  abnormal soft palate ,  congenital heart defect ,  and ureteral anomalies .
this syndrome is an isolated upper limb mesomelic dysplasia .
syndactyly type 8 is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic ,  congenital limb malformation characterized by unilateral or bilateral fusion of the fourth and fifth metacarpals with no other associated abnomalities .
metachondromatosis  ( mc )  is a rare disorder characterized by the presence of both multiple enchondromas and osteochondroma - like lesions .
glutaryl - coa dehydrogenase  ( gcdh )  deficiency  ( gdd )  is an autosomal recessive neurometabolic disorder clinically characterized by encephalopathic crises resulting in striatal injury and a severe dystonic dyskinetic movement disorder .
frontonasal dysplasia caused by mutations in the alx3 gene ,  encoding homeobox protein aristaless - like 3 .
a congenital skin condition characterized by premature aging ,  more especially in the form of unusually fragile ,  thin skin on the hands and feet .
polycythemia that occurs in groups of related individuals .
metaphyseal dysostosis - intellectual disability - conductive deafness syndrome is characterised by metaphyseal dysplasia ,  short - limb dwarfism ,  mild intellectual deficit and conductive hearing loss ,  associated with repeated episodes of otitis media in childhood .
metaphyseal dysplasia - maxillary hypoplasia - brachydacty syndrome is characterized by metaphyseal dysplasia associated with short stature and facial dysmorphism  ( a beaked nose ,  short philtrum ,  thin lips ,  maxillary hypoplasia ,  dystrophic yellowish teeth )  and acral anomalies  ( short fifth metacarpals and / or short middle phalanges of fingers two and five )  .
isolated aniridia is a congenital bilateral ocular malformation characterized by the complete or partial absence of the iris .
autosomal dominant optic atrophy and peripheral neuropathy  ( adoapn )  is a form of autosomal dominant optic atrophy  ( adoa )  ,  characterized by progressive and isolated visual loss in the first decade of life ,  decreased reflexes in the lower limbs and a mild cerebellar stance .
polymicrogyria with optic nerve hypoplasia is a rare genetic syndrome with central nervous system malformations characterized by severe developmental delay ,  neonatal hypotonia ,  seizures ,  optic nerve hypoplasia and distinct central nervous system malformations including extensive bilateral polymicrogyria ,  dysplastic or absent corpus callosum and malformed brainstem with loss of demarcation of the pontomedullary junction .
aica - ribosiduria is an extremely severe inborn error of purine biosynthesis characterized clinically in the single reported case to date by profound intellectual deficit ,  epilepsy ,  dysmorphic features of the knees ,  elbows ,  and shoulders and congenital blindness .
a rare type of stickler syndrome characterized by moderate to severe sensorineural hearing loss ,  high myopia ,  retinal degeneration ,  vitreous anomalies ,  and epiphyseal dysplasia .
1q21 .1 microdeletion syndrome is a newly described recurrent deletion syndrome with variable clinical manifestations but without the clinical picture of thrombocytopenia  -  absent radius  ( tar )  syndrome .
chromosome 1q21 .1 duplication syndrome is a rare condition caused by the presence of an extra copy of a small piece of chromosome 1 in the cells of the body .
1q41q42 microdeletion syndrome is a chromosomal anomaly characterized by a severe developmental delay and / or intellectual disability ,  typical facial dysmorphic features ,  brain anomalies ,  seizures ,  cleft palate ,  clubfeet ,  nail hypoplasia and congenital heart disease .
multiple epiphyseal dysplasias  ( med / edms )  are characterized by epiphyseal anomalies causing joint pain early in life ,  recurrent osteochondritis and early arthrosis .
micro syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder caracterised by ocular and neurodevelopmental defects and by microgenitalia .
paternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 1 is an uniparental disomy of paternal origin that most likely does not have any phenotypic expression except from cases of homozygosity for a recessive disease mutation for which only father is a carrier .
maternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 1 is an uniparental disomy of maternal origin that most likely does not have any phenotypic expression except from cases of homozygosity for a recessive disease mutation for which only mother is a carrier .
2q31 .1 microdeletion syndrome is a well - defined and clinically recognisable syndrome characterized by moderate to severe developmental delay ,  short stature ,  facial dysmorphism and variable limb defects .
2q32q33 microdeletion syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by a variable phenotype involving moderate to severe intellectual deficit ,  significant speech delay ,  persistent feeding difficulties ,  growth retardation and dysmorphic features .
2q33 .1 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 2 ,  with a highly variable phenotype typically characterized by severe intellectual disability ,  moderate to severe developmental delay  ( particularly speech )  ,  feeding difficulties ,  failure to thrive ,  hypotonia ,  thin ,  sparse hair ,  various dental abnormalities and cleft / high - arched palate .
3q29 microduplications are recently described chromosomal abnormalities with unclear clinical significance .
ring chromosome 5 syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  with high phenotypic variability ,  principally characterized by a neonatal mewing cry ,  severe developmental delay and intellectual disability ,  short stature ,  hypotonia ,  dysmorphic features  ( incl .
6p22 microdeletion syndrome is a newly described syndrome associated with a variable clinical phenotype including developmental delay ,  facial dysmorphism ,  short neck and diverse malformations .
6q25 microdeletion syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by developmental delay ,  facial dysmorphism and hearing loss .
8p11 .2 deletion syndrome is a contiguous gene syndrome characterized by the association of congenital spherocytosis ,  dysmorphic features ,  growth delay and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism .
8p23 .1 deletion involves a partial deletion of the short arm of chromosome 8 characterized by low birth weight ,  postnatal growth deficiency ,  mild intellectual deficit ,  hyperactivity ,  craniofacial abnormalities ,  and congenital heart defects .
8p23 .1 duplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 8 ,  with a highly variable phenotype ,  principally characterized by mild to moderate developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  mild facial dysmorphism  ( incl .
microbrachycephaly - ptosis - cleft lip syndrome is characterised by the association of intellectual deficit ,  microbrachycephaly ,  hypotelorism ,  palpebral ptosis ,  a thin / long face ,  cleft lip ,  and anomalies of the lumbar vertebra ,  sacrum and pelvis .
autosomal recessive primary microcephaly  ( mcph )  is a rare genetically heterogeneous disorder of neurogenic brain development characterized by reduced head circumference at birth with no gross anomalies of brain architecture and variable degrees of intellectual impairment .
osteochondritis dissecans  ( ocd )  is a rare bone disease characterized by an acquired idiopathic necrotic lesion of subchondral bone with the formation of a sequestrum ,  which may detach to form loose bodies in joints .
familial hyperaldosteronism type iii  ( fh - iii )  is a rare heritable form of primary aldosteronism  ( pa )  that is characterized by early - onset severe hypertension ,  non glucocorticoid - remediable hyperaldosteronism ,  overproduction of 18 - oxocortisol and 18 - hydroxycortisol ,  and profound hypokalemia .
any isolated microphthalmia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mfrp gene .
benign concentric annular macular dystrophy  ( bcamd )  is a progressive autosomal dominant macular dystrophy characterized by parafoveal hypopigmentation followed by a retinitis pigmentosa - like phenotype  ( nyctalopia and peripheral vision loss )  with a bullbs eye configuration .
parietal foramina with clavicular hypoplasia is a rare genetic bone development disorder characterized by parietal foramina in association with hypoplasia of the clavicles  ( short abnormal clavicles with tapering lateral ends ,  with or without loss of the acromion )  .
pigmented paravenous retinochoroidal atrophy  ( pprca )  is a rare ,  commonly bilateral and symmetric retinal disease characterized by non - progressive or slowly progressive chorioretinal atrophy ,  peripapillary pigmentary changes and accumulation of ''bone - corpuscle'' pigmentation along the retinal veins and which is usually asymptomatic or can present with mild blurred vision .
microcephaly  -  albinism  -  digital anomalies syndrome is a very rare syndrome associating microcephaly ,  micrognathia ,  oculocutaneous albinism ,  hypoplasia of the distal phalanx of fingers and agenesia of the distal end of the right big toe .
an autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the mre11a gene ,  encoding double - strand break repair protein mre11 .
sickle beta thalassemia is an inherited condition that affects hemoglobin ,  the protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen to different parts of the body .it is a type of sickle cell disease .
junctional epidermolysis bullosa ,  localized non - herlitz - type is a form of non - herlitz junctional epidermolysis bullosa  ( jeb - nh )  characterized by localized blistering ,  and dystrophic or absent nails .
autosomal dominant form of microcephaly  ( disease )  .
microcephaly - cardiomyopathy syndrome is characterised by severe intellectual deficit ,  microcephaly and dilated cardiomyopathy .
46 , xy partial gonadal dysgenesis  ( 46 , xy pgd )  is a disorder of sex development  ( dsd )  associated with anomalies in gonadal development that results in genital ambiguity of variable degree ranging from almost female phenotype to almost male phenotype in a patient carrying a male 46 , xy karyotype .
hyperzincemia and hypercalprotectinemia is a rare inborn error of zinc metabolism characterized by recurrent infections ,  hepatosplenomegaly ,  anemia  ( unresponsive to iron supplementation )  and chronic systemic inflammation in the presence of high plasma concentrations of zinc and calprotectin .
microcephaly  -  cardiac defect  -  lung malsegmentation syndrome is a very rare syndrome characterized by the combination of microcephaly ,  heart defects ,  renal hypoplasia ,  lung segmentation defects and cleft palate .
microcephaly - seizures - intellectual disability - heart disease syndrome is characterised by intellectual deficit ,  a cardiac anomaly ,  micropenis ,  hypothyroidism ,  epileptic seizures ,  and skeletal anomalies .
microcephaly - cleft palate - abnormal retinal pigmentation syndrome is a rare orofacial clefting syndrome characterized by microcephaly ,  cleft of the secondary palate and other variable abnormalities ,  including abnormal retinal pigmentation ,  facial dysmorphism with hypotelorism and maxillary hypoplasia .
microcephaly - cervical spine fusion anomalies syndrome is characterized by microcephaly ,  facial dysmorphism  ( beaked nose ,  low - set ears ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  micrognathia )  ,  mild intellectual deficit ,  short stature ,  and cervical spine fusion anomalies producing spinal cord compression .
a rare childhood cancer predisposition syndrome caused by biallelic inheritance of mutations in mlh1 ,  msh2 ,  msh6 ,  or pms2 genes .
microcephaly - brain defect - spasticity - hypernatremia syndrome is a rare congenital genetic syndrome with a central nervous system malformation as a major feature characterized by microcephaly ,  hypertonia ,  developmental delay and cognitive impairment ,  swallowing difficulty ,  hypernatremia ,  and hypoplasia of the frontal parts and fusion of the lateral ventricles on brain mri .
pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 2  ( pch2 )  is the most common subtype of pontocerebellar hypoplasia characterized by neonatal onset and a lack of voluntary motor development and later progressive microencephaly ,  generalized clonus ,  development of chorea and spasticity .
microcephaly with or without chorioretinopathy ,  lymphedema or intellectual disability  ( mclid )  is a rare autosomal dominant condition characterized by variable expression of microcephaly ,  ocular disorders including chorioretinopathy ,  congenital lymphedema of the lower limbs ,  and mild to moderate intellectual disability .
microcephaly - microcornea syndrome ,  seemanova type is characterised by microcephaly and brachycephaly ,  eye anomalies  ( microphthalmia ,  microcornea ,  congenital cataract )  ,  hypogenitalism ,  severe intellectual deficit ,  growth retardation and progressive spasticity .
an osteochondrodysplasia that results in abnormalities of bone growth located in vertebral column ,  located in epiphysis ,  located in metaphysis .
microcephaly - deafness - intellectual disability syndrome is characterised by microcephaly ,  deafness ,  intellectual deficit and facial dysmorphism  ( facial asymmetry ,  prominent glabella ,  low - set and cup - shaped ears ,  protruding lower lip ,  micrognathia )  .
microcornea - corectopia - macular hypoplasia syndrome is characterised by microcornea ,  which may also be accompanied by corectopia and macular hypoplasia .
microcornea - glaucoma - absent frontal sinuses syndrome is characterised by microcornea ,  glaucoma and absent frontal sinuses .
spondylometaphyseal dysplasias are a heterogeneous group of disorders associated with walking and growth disturbances that become evident during the second year of life .
anophthalmia and microphthalmia describe ,  respectively ,  the absence of an eye and the presence of a small eye within the orbit .
autosomal recessive intermediate charcot - marie - tooth disease type b is an extremely rare subtype of autosomal recessive intermediate charcot - marie - tooth  ( cmt )  disease characterized by a cmt neuropathy associated with developmental delay ,  self - abusive behavior ,  dysmorphic features and vestibular schwannoma .
any autosomal recessive spastic ataxia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mtpap gene .
19p13 .12 microdeletion syndrome is a newly described syndrome characterized by moderate to severe developmental delay ,  language delay ,  bilateral sensorineural and / or conductive hearing loss and facial dysmorphism .
distal 7q11 .23 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly characterized by epilepsy ,  neurodevelopmental disorder variably including developmental delays and intellectual disabilities of variable severity ,  learning disability and neurobehavioral abnormalities  ( autism spectrum disorder ,  hyperactivity ,  impulsivity ,  aggression ,  self - abusive behaviors ,  depression )  .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2q  ( lgmd2q )  is a form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by proximal muscle weakness presenting in early childhood  ( with occasional falls and difficulties in climbing stairs )  and a progressive course resulting in loss of ambulation in early adulthood .
a cause of obesity that results from inheritance of two copies of chromosome 14 from the mother ,  and no copy of chromosome 14 from the father .
kagami - ogata syndrome is a rare genetic disease characterized by polyhydramnios  ( mostly due to placentomegaly )  ,  fetal macrosomia ,  abdominal wall defects ,  skeletal abnormalities  ( including bell - shaped thorax ,  coat - hanger appearance of the ribs and decreased mid to wide thorax diameter ratio in infancy )  ,  feeding difficulties and impaired swallowing ,  dysmorphic features  ( hairy forehead ,  full cheeks ,  protruding philtrum ,  micrognathia )  ,  developmental delay and intellectual disability .
genetic hyperferritinemia without iron overload is a rare biological anomaly defined as high serum ferritin levels without elevations of transferrin saturation ,  tissue or serum iron and characterized by an apparently asymptomatic clinical phenotype .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of pyruvate metabolic process .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of tricarboxylic acid cycle .
mitochondrial dna depletion syndrome ,  encephalomyopathic form is a group of mitochondrial dna maintenance syndrome diseases characterized by predominantly neuromuscular manifestations with typically infantile onset of hypotonia ,  lactic acidosis ,  psychomotor delay ,  progressive hyperkinetic - dystonic movement disorders ,  external ophtalmoplegia ,  sensosineural hearing loss ,  generalized seizures and variable renal tubular dysfunction .
maternally - inherited mitochondrial dystonia is a rare neurological mitochondrial dna - related disorder characterized clinically by progressive pediatric - onset dystonia with variable degrees of severity .
pure mitochondrial myopathy is a rare mitochondrial disease characterized by exclusive skeletal muscle involvement ,  without clinical evidence of other organ involvement ,  manifesting with progressive limb weakness ,  proximal limb muscle atrophy ,  and eye muscle anomalies  ( e .g .
lethal infantile mitochondrial myopathy is a rare mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation disorder characterized by progressive generalized hypotonia ,  progressive external ophthalmoplegia and severe lactic acidosis ,  which results in early fatality  ( days to months after birth )  .
myopathic mitochondrial dna  ( mtdna )  depletion syndrome is one of the main forms of mtdna depletion syndrome that displays a broad phenotypic spectrum but that is most often characterized by hypotonia ,  proximal muscle weakness ,  facial and bulbar weakness and failure to thrive .
autosomal recessive form of progressive external ophthalmoplegia .
autosomal dominant form of progressive external ophthalmoplegia .
deafness - encephaloneuropathy - obesity - valvulopathy syndrome is a rare mitochondrial disease with marked clinical variability typically characterized by encephalomyopathy ,  kidney disease  ( nephrotic syndrome )  ,  optic atrophy ,  early - onset deafness ,  pancytopenia ,  obesity ,  and cardiac disease  ( valvulopathy )  .
oculoauriculovertebral spectrum  ( oavs )  with radial defects is a rare branchial arches and limb primordia development disorder characterized by variable degrees of uni -  or bilateral craniofacial malformation and radial defects that result in extremely variable phenotypic manifestations .
renal tubulopathy  -  encephalopathy  -  liver failure describes a spectrum of phenotypes with manifestations similar but milder than those seen in gracile syndrome and that can be associated with encephalopathy and psychiatric disorders .
a very rare inherited metabolic disorder characterized by deficiency of the enzyme cytochrome - c oxidase .
a rare ,  genetic ,  mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation disorder that may present with a wide range of symptoms  ( including muscular hypotonia ,  hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ,  psychomotor delay ,  encephalopathy ,  peripheral neuropathy ,  lactic acidosis ,  3 - methylglutaconic aciduria )  and clinical syndromes  ( including narp and mils )  .
combined oxidative phosphorylation defect type 2 is a rare mitochondrial disorder due to a defect in mitochondrial protein synthesis characterized by severe intrauterine growth retardation ,  neonatal limb edema and redundant skin on the neck  ( hydrops )  ,  developmental brain defects  ( corpus callosum agenesis ,  ventriculomegaly )  ,  brachydactyly ,  dysmorphic facial features with low set ears ,  severe intractable neonatal lactic acidosis with lethargy ,  hypotonia ,  absent spontaneous movements and fatal outcome .
combined oxidative phosphorylation defect type 4 is a rare mitochondrial disorder due to a defect in mitochondrial protein synthesis characterized by a neonatal onset of severe metabolic acidosis and respiratory distress ,  persistent lactic acidosis with episodes of metabolic crises ,  developmental regression ,  microcephaly ,  abnormal gaze fixation and pursuit ,  axial hypotonia with limb spasticity and reduced spontaneous movements .
combined oxidative phosphorylation defect type 7 is a rare mitochondrial disease due to a defect in mitochondrial protein synthesis characterized by a variable phenotype that includes onset in infancy or early childhood of failure to thrive and psychomotor regression  ( after initial normal development )  ,  as well as ocular manifestations  ( such as ptosis ,  nystagmus ,  optic atrophy ,  ophthalmoplegia and reduced vision )  .
dopa - responsive dystonia  ( drd )  describes a group of neurometabolic disorders characterized by dystonia that typically shows diurnal fluctuations ,  that responds excellently to levodopa  ( l - dopa )  and that is comprised of autosomal dominant dopa - responsive dystonia  ( dyt5a )  ,  autosomal recessive dopa - responsive dystonia  ( dyt5b )  and dopa responsive dystonia due to sepiapterin reductase  ( sr )  deficiency .
microspherophakia  -  metaphyseal dysplasia is a very rare syndrome associating bone dysplasia with micromelic dwarfism and eye defects .
 )  described in a single patient with adult onset microcytic hypochromic anemia with liver iron overload and type 2 diabetes .
pyruvate dehydrogenase e1 - beta deficiency is an extremely rare form of pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency  ( pdhd )  characterized by severe lactic acidosis ,  developmental delay and hypotonia .
pyruvate dehydrogenase e3 - binding protein deficiency is a rare mild form of pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency  ( pdhd )  characterized by variable lactic acidosis and neurological dysfunction .
maternally inherited leigh syndrome is a rare subtype of leigh syndrome characterized clinically by encephalopathy ,  lactic acidosis ,  seizures ,  cardiomyopathy ,  respiratory disorders and developmental delay ,  with onset in infancy or early childhood ,  and resulting from maternally - inherited mutations in mitochondrial dna .
any mitochondrial dna depletion syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rrm2b gene .
ear - patella - short stature syndrome is an association of malformations including bilateral microtia  ( severe hypoplasia of ear pinnae )  ,  absent patellae ,  short stature ,  poor weight gain ,  and characteristic facial features such as high forehead ,  micrognathism with full lips and small mouth ,  and accentuated nasolabial folds  ( smile wrinkles linking the nostrils to the labial commissure )  .
microphthalmia with linear skin defects syndrome  ( mls syndrome )  is a genetic condition that affects the eyes and skin .
mietens syndrome is a very rare syndrome consisting of corneal opacity ,  nystagmus ,  strabismus ,  flexion contracture of the elbows with dislocation of the head of the radius and abnormally short ulnae and radii .
mikati - najjar - sahli syndrome is characterized by microcephaly ,  hypergonadotropic hypogonadism ,  short stature and facial dysmorphism  ( a narrow forehead ,  hypertrophy and fusion of the eyebrows ,  micrognathia and pinnae abnormalities )  .
a rare movement disorder characterized by involuntary ,  repetitive ,  sustained muscle contractions or postures involving one or more sites of the body .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of mc6bius syndrome  ( congenital facial palsy with impaired ocular abduction )  with peripheral axonal neuropathy and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism .
ackerman syndrome is characterized by pyramidal molar roots and taurodontism ,  associated with variable anomalies .
momo syndrome is a very rare genetic overgrowth / obesity syndrome characterized by macrocephaly ,  obesity ,  mental  ( intellectual )  disability and ocular abnormalities .
tetramelic monodactyly is a rare ,  genetic ,  congenital limb malformation disorder characterized by the presence of a single digit on all four extremities .
mononen - karnes - senac syndrome is characterized by skeletal dysplasia associated with finger malformations  ( brachydactyly with short and abducted thumbs ,  short index fingers ,  and markedly short and abducted great toes )  ,  variable mild short stature ,  and mild bowleg with overgrowth of the fibula .
epidermolysis bullosa simplex with muscular dystrophy  ( ebs - md )  is a basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs )  characterized by generalized blistering associated with muscular dystrophy .
x - linked immunoneurologic disorder is characterized by immune deficiency and neurological disorders in females ,  and by neonatal death in males .
mousa - aldin - alnassar syndrome is characterised by the presence of spastic ataxia in association with bilateral congenital cataract ,  corneal dystrophy ,  and nonaxial myopia .
moyamoya disease  ( mmd )  is a rare intracranial arteriopathy involving progressive stenosis of the cerebral vasculature located at the base of the brain causing transient ischemic attacks or strokes .
a rare genetic disease reported in two siblings of consanguineous arab parents and is characterized by cystic fibrosis ,  gastritis associated with helicobacter pylori ,  folate deficiency megaloblastic anemia ,  and intellectual disability .
mulibrey nanism  ( mul )  is a prenatal onset growth disorder with multiorgan manifestations .
mayer - rokitansky - kster - hauser  ( mrkh )  syndrome type 2 ,  a form of mrkh syndrome ,  is characterized by congenital aplasia of the uterus and upper 2 / 3 of the vagina that is associated with at least one other malformation such as renal ,  vertebral ,  or ,  less commonly ,  auditory and cardiac defects .
this disorder is characterized by muscular atrophy ,  ataxia ,  retinitis pigmentosa ,  and diabetes mellitus .
congenital muscular dystrophy type 1a  ( mcd1a )  belongs to a group of neuromuscular disorders with onset at birth or infancy characterized by hypotonia ,  muscle weakness and muscle wasting .
ataxia - pancytopenia syndrome is a rare genetic disease characterized by cerebellar ataxia ,  cytopenias and predisposition to bone marrow failure and myeloid leukaemia .
myhre syndrome is characterised by striking muscular build ,  short stature ,  reduced joint mobility ,  brachydactyly ,  mixed hearing loss and mental retardation of variable severity .
this syndrome is characterised by the association of myoclonus ,  cerebellar ataxia and sensorineural hearing loss .
spinal muscular atrophy - progressive myoclonic epilepsy syndrome is characterized by hereditary myoclonus and progressive distal muscular atrophy .
a benign ,  multifocal ,  nodular and well - circumscribed neoplasm usually seen as a congenital neoplasm or in the first year of life .
tubular aggregate myopathy is a disorder that affects the skeletal muscles .
benign occipital epilepsy is a rare ,  genetic neurological disorder characterized by visual seizures and occipital epileptiform paroxysms reactive to ocular opening which present in infancy to mid - adolescence .
mitochondrial myopathy - lactic acidosis - deafness is a type of metabolic myopathy described only in two sisters to date ,  presenting during childhood ,  and characterized clinically by growth failure ,  severe muscle weakness ,  and moderate sensorineural deafness and biochemically by metabolic acidosis ,  elevated serum pyruvate concentration ,  hyperalaninemia and hyperalaninuria .
mitochondrial myopathy and sideroblastic anemia belongs to the heterogeneous family of metabolic myopathies .
x - linked myopathy with excessive autophagy is a childhood - onset x - linked myopathy characterised by slow progression of muscle weakness and unique histopathological findings .
methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria is an inborn error of vitamin b12  ( cobalamin )  metabolism characterized by megaloblastic anemia ,  lethargy ,  failure to thrive ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual deficit and seizures .
congenital autosomal recessive sideroblastic anemia  ( arsa )  is a non - syndromic ,  microcytic / hypochromic sideroblastic anemia ,  present from early infancy and characterized by severe microcytic anemia ,  which is not pyridoxine responsive ,  and increased serum ferritin .
familial visceral myopathy is a rare hereditary myopathic degeneration of both gastrointestinal and urinary tracts that causes chronic intestinal pseudo - obstruction .
n syndrome is characterised by intellectual deficit ,  deafness ,  ocular anomalies ,  t - cell leukaemia ,  cryptorchidism ,  hypospadias and spasticity .
emery - dreifuss muscular dystrophy  ( edmd )  is characterized by muscular weakness and atrophy ,  with early joint contractures and cardiomyopathy .
distal 7q11 .23 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly characterized by a predominantly neuropsychiatric phenotype with a few dysmorphic characteristics .
monosomy 9p is a rare chromosomal anomaly characterized by psychomotor developmental delay ,  facial dysmorphism  ( trigonocephaly ,  midface hypoplasia ,  upslanting palpebral fissures ,  dysplastic small ears ,  flat nasal bridge with anteverted nostrils and long philtrum ,  micrognathia ,  choanal atresia ,  short neck )  ,  single umbilical artery ,  omphalocele ,  inguinal or umbilical hernia ,  genital abnormalities  ( hypospadia ,  cryptorchidism )  ,  muscular hypotonia and scoliosis .
14q11 .2 microdeletion syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by developmental delay ,  hypotonia and facial dysmorphism .
14q12 microdeletion syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by severe intellectual deficit ,  with a normal neonatal period ,  followed by a phase of regression at the age of 3 - 6 months .
15q11 .2 microdeletion syndrome is a rare partial autosomal monosomy with a variable phenotypic expression and reduced penetrance associated with an increased susceptibility to neuropsychiatric or neurodevelopmental disorders including delayed psychomotor development ,  speech delay ,  autism spectrum disorder ,  attention deficit - hyperactivity disorder ,  obsessive - compulsive disorder ,  epilepsy or seizures .
15q14 microdeletion syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by developmental delay ,  short stature and facial dysmorphism .
the proximal 16p11 .2 microdeletion syndrome is a chromosomal anomaly characterized by developmental and language delays ,  mild intellectual disability ,  social impairments  ( autism spectrum disorders )  ,  mild variable dysmorphism and predisposition to obesity .
linear nevus sebaceous syndrome  ( lnss )  is characterized by the association of a large sebaceous nevus ,  usually appearing on the face or on the scalp ,  with a broad spectrum of abnormalities that may affect every organ system ,  including the central nervous system  ( brain neoplasms ,  hemimegalencephaly and lateral ventricle enlargement )  .
16p11 .2p12 .2 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from the partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 16 with a highly variable phenotype typically characterized by developmental / psychomotor delay  ( particularly of speech )  ,  intellectual disability ,  autism spectrum disorder and / or obsessive and repetitive behaviour ,  behavioural problems  ( such as aggression and outbursts )  ,  dysmorphic facial features  ( triangular face ,  deep set eyes ,  broad and prominent nasal bridge ,  upslanting or narrow palpebral features ,  hypertelorism )  .
16p11 .2 - p12 .2 microdeletion syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by developmental delay and facial dysmorphism .
distal 16p11 .2 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from the partial deletion of the short arm of chromosome 16 with a highly variable phenotype typically characterized by developmental delay ,  mild intellectual disability and autism spectrum disorder .
14q11 .2 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly characterized by developmental delay ,  mild to severe intellectual disability with speech impairment and epilepsy .
16p13 .11 microdeletion syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by developmental delay ,  microcephaly ,  epilepsy ,  short stature ,  facial dysmorphism and behavioral problems .
16p13 .11 microduplication syndrome is a recently described syndrome associated with variable clinical features including behavioral abnormalities ,  developmental delay ,  congenital heart defects and skeletal anomalies .
16q24 .3 microdeletion syndrome is a recently described syndrome associated with variable developmental delay ,  facial dysmorphism ,  seizures and autistic spectrum disorder .
distal 17p13 .3 microdeletion syndrome is a rare partial monosomy of the short arm of chromosome 17 with a variable phenotype characterized by prenatal and postnatal growth retardation ,  developmental delay ,  mild intellectual disability ,  macrocephaly ,  mild facial dysmorphisms including prominent forehead ,  hypertelorism ,  thick upper and / or lower lip vermillion ,  and structural abnormalities of the brain variably including white matter abnormalities ,  prominent virchow - robin spaces ,  chiari i malformation ,  corpus callosum hypoplasia ,  but no lissencephaly .
17q12 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from the partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 17 characterized by renal cystic disease ,  maturity onset diabetes of the young type 5 ,  and neurodevelopmental disorders ,  such as cognitive impairment ,  developmental delay  ( particularly of speech )  ,  autistic traits and autism spectrum disorder .
17q12 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly with variable phenotypic expression and reduced penetrance associated with developmental delay ,  mild to severe intellectual disability ,  speech delay ,  seizures ,  microcephaly ,  behavioral abnormalities ,  autism spectrum disorder ,  eye or vision defects  ( such as strabismus ,  astigmatism ,  amblyopia ,  cataract ,  coloboma ,  and microphthalmia )  ,  non - specific dysmorphic features ,  hypotonia ,  cardiac and renal anomalies ,  schizophrenia .
17q23 .1q23 .2 microdeletion syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by developmental delay ,  microcephaly ,  short stature ,  heart defects and limb abnormalities .
trisomy 17p is a rare chromosomal abnormality resulting from the duplication of the short arm of chromosome 17 and characterized by pre -  and post - natal growth retardation ,  developmental delay ,  hypotonia ,  digital abnormalities ,  congenital heart defects ,  and distinctive facial features .
20p12 .3 microdeletion syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by wolff - parkinson - white syndrome ,  variable developmental delay and facial dysmorphism .
nail - patella - like renal disease is a severe nephropathy characterised by renal dysfunction ,  proteinuria ,  oedema and microscopic haematuria .
paternal 20q13 .2q13 .3 microdeletion syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by severe pre -  and post - natal growth retardation ,  microcephaly ,  intractable feeding difficulties ,  mild psychomotor retardation ,  hypotonia and facial dysmorphism .
20q13 .33 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from the partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 20 with a highly variable phenotype typically characterized by hypotonia ,  intellectual disability ,  cognitive and language deficits  ( including decreased or absent speech )  ,  pre and post - natal growth retardation ,  feeding difficulties ,  microcephaly ,  and malformed hands and feet .
trisomy 20p is a chromosomal disorder resulting from duplication of all or part of the short arm of chromosome 20 .
distal 22q11 .2 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from the partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 22 with a highly variable phenotype characterized by prematurity ,  pre -  and post - natal growth retardation ,  developmental delay  ( particularly speech )  ,  mild intellectual disability ,  variable cardiac defects ,  and minor skeletal anomalies  ( such as clinodactyly )  .
distal 22q11 .2 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 22 ,  with a highly variable phenotype principally characterized by developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  hypotonia ,  growth retardation ,  velopharyngeal insufficiency ,  mild craniofacial dysmorphism  ( microcephaly ,  tall / broad forehead ,  small downslating palpebral fissures ,  hooded eyelids ,  flat nasal bridge ,  low posterior hairline )  and digital anomalies .
trisomy 1q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 1 ,  with a highly variable phenotype principally characterized by intellectual disability ,  short stature ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
2p15p16 .1 microdeletion syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by developmental delay and facial dysmorphism .
nail - patella syndrome  ( nps )  is a rare hereditary patellar dysostosis characterized by nail hypoplasia or aplasia ,  aplastic or hypoplastic patellae ,  elbow dysplasia ,  and the presence of iliac horns as well as renal and ocular anomalies .
xq27 .3q28 duplication syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by short stature ,  hypogonadism ,  developmental delay and facial dysmorphism .
kleefstra syndrome  ( ks )  is a genetic disorder characterized by intellectual disability ,  childhood hypotonia ,  severe expressive speech delay and a distinctive facial appearance with a spectrum of additional clinical features .
nakajo - nishimura syndrome  ( nns )  is a rare autoinflammatory disorder belonging to the proteasome disability syndrome  ( see this term )  group ,  and characterized by pernio - like lesions appearing in infancy followed by recurrent fever ,  nodular skin eruption ,  partial lipodystrophy  ( mainly in upper extremities and face )  and joint contractures .
atypical norrie disease due to monosomy xp11 .3 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial deletion of the short arm of chromosome x ,  principally characterized by classical norrie disease  ( bilateral ,  severe retinal malformations and opacity of the lens leading to congenital blindness ,  on occasion associated with progressive sensorineural deafness and intellectual disability )  ,  microcephaly ,  hypotonia ,  psychomotor and growth delay ,  moderate to severe mental handicap and disruptive behaviour .
ring chromosome y is a rare chromosome y structural anomaly ,  with a highly variable phenotype ,  mostly characterized by short stature ,  partial to total gonadal failure ,  sexual infantilism ,  genital anomalies  ( e .g .
49 ,  xxxyy syndrome is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when a male inherits two extra copies of the x chromosome and one extra copy of the y chromosome .
blepharophimosis  -  epicanthus inversus  -  ptosis  ( bpes )  due to 3q23 microdeletion is a form of bpes  ( see this term )  ,  which in addition to the classical eyelids features of bpes ,  present genitourinary anomalies ,  spastic diplegia and speech delay .
blepharophimosis - epicanthus inversus - ptosis  ( bpes )  due to a point mutation is a form of bpes ,  characterized by the classical eyelid malformation  ( blepharophimosis ,  ptosis ,  epicanthus inversus ,  and telecanthus )  which may be accompanied by growth retardation and primary ovary failure .
blepharophimosis  -  epicanthus inversus  -  ptosis  ( bpes )  due to polya expansion is a form of bpes  ( see this term )  ,  characterized by the classical eyelid malformation  ( blepharophimosis ,  ptosis ,  epicanthus inversus ,  and telecanthus )  which may be associated with a mild ovarian involvement .
3m syndrome is a primordial growth disorder characterized by low birth weight ,  reduced birth length ,  severe postnatal growth restriction ,  a spectrum of minor anomalies  ( including facial dysmorphism )  and normal intelligence .
microcephalic primordial dwarfism ,  montreal type is a rare ,  genetic multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by severe short stature and craniofacial dysmorphism  ( microcephaly ,  narrow face with flat cheeks ,  ptosis ,  prominent nose with a convex ridge ,  low - set ears with small or absent lobes ,  high - arched / cleft palate ,  micrognathia )  ,  associated with premature graying and loss of scalp hair ,  redundant ,  dry and wrinkled skin of the palms ,  premature senility and varying degrees of intellectual disability .
chromosome 1p deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing copy of the genetic material located on the short arm  ( p )  of chromosome 1 .
mseleni joint disease  ( mjd )  is a rare and crippling chondrodysplasia ,  reported mainly in the maputaland region in northern kwazulu natal ,  south africa ,  characterized by a bilateral and uniform arthropathy of the joints that primarily and most severely affects the hip but that can also affect many other joints  ( i .e .
chromosome 7p deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing copy of the genetic material located on the short arm  ( p )  of chromosome 7 .
chromosome 8p deletion is a chromosome abnormality that affects many different parts of the body .
duchenne and becker muscular dystrophies  ( dmd and bmd )  are neuromuscular diseases characterized by progressive muscle wasting and weakness due to degeneration of skeletal ,  smooth and cardiac muscle .
chromosome 2q deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing copy of the genetic material located on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 2 .
chromosome 4q deletion is a chromosome abnormality that affects many different parts of the body .
chromosome 6q deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing copy of the genetic material located on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 6 .
chromosome 7q deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing copy of the genetic material located on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 7 .
chromosome 8q deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing copy of the genetic material located on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 8 .
a cytogenetic abnormality that refers to the allelic loss of all or part of the long arm of chromosome 11 .
a cytogenetic abnormality that refers to the allelic loss of all or part of the long arm of chromosome 13 .
chromosome 14q deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing  ( deleted )  copy of genetic material on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 14 .
geleophysic dysplasia is a rare skeletal dysplasia characterized by short stature ,  prominent abnormalities in hands and feet ,  and a characteristic facial appearance  ( described as "happy'' )  .
chromosome 2p duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on the short arm  ( p )  of chromosome 2 .
chromosome 3p duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on the short arm  ( p )  of chromosome 3 .
chromosome 6p duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on the short arm  ( p )  of chromosome 6 .
chromosome 7p duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on the short arm  ( p )  of chromosome 7 .
chromosome 8p duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on the short arm  ( p )  of chromosome 8 .
chromosome 9p duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on the short arm  ( p )  of chromosome 9 .
chromosome 16p duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on the short arm  ( p )  of chromosome 16 .
chromosome 2q duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 2 .
chromosome 3q duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on thelong arm  ( q )  of chromosome 3 .
chromosome 4q duplication is a chromosome abnormality characterized by an extra copy  ( duplication )  of genetic material on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 4 .
chromosome 5q duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 5 .
chromosome 6q duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 6 .
chromosome 7q duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 7 .
chromosome 13q duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra ( duplicated )  copy of genetic material on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 13 .
chromosome 15q duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when an extra  ( duplicate )  copy of the genetic material located on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 15 is present in each cell .
limb - girdle muscular dystrophy  ( lgmd )  is a heterogeneous group of muscular dystrophies characterized by proximal weakness affecting the pelvic and shoulder girdles .
mesomelic dwarfism - cleft palate - camptodactyly syndrome is characterised by mesomelic shortening and bowing of the limbs ,  camptodactyly ,  skin dimpling and cleft palate with retrognathia and mandibular hypoplasia .
langer mesomelic dysplasia  ( lmd )  is characterized by severe disproportionate short stature with mesomelic and rhizomelic shortening of the upper and lower limbs .
glycogen storage disease type 15 is an extremely rare genetic glycogen storage disease reported in one patient to date .
mrcs syndrome is a rare ,  genetic retinal dystrophy disorder characterized by bilateral microcornea ,  rod - cone dystrophy ,  cataracts and posterior staphyloma ,  in the absence of other systemic features .
mesomelic dwarfism ,  reinhardt - pfeiffer type is characterized by disproportionate short stature from birth with dysplasia of the ulna and fibula .
bartter syndrome with hypocalcemia is a type of bartter syndrome characterized by hypocalcemia ,  hypomagnesemia and hypoparathyroidism along with features of henle's loop dysfunction  ( polyuria ,  hypokalemic alkalosis ,  increased levels of plasma renin and aldosterone ,  low blood pressure and vascular resistance to angiotensin ii )  .
neuroacanthocytosis  ( na )  syndromes are a group of genetic diseases characterized by the association of red blood cell acanthocytosis  ( deformed erythrocytes with spike - like protrusions )  and progressive degeneration of the basal ganglia .
hyperinsulinism due to hnf4a deficiency is a form of diazoxide - sensitive diffuse hyperinsulinism  ( dhi )  ,  characterized by macrosomia ,  transient or persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia  ( hh )  ,  responsiveness to diazoxide and a propensity to develop maturity - onset diabetes of the young subtype 1  ( mody - 1 )  .
hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia due to insr deficiency is a very rare autosomal dominant form of familial hyperinsulinism characterized clinically in the single reported family by postprandial hypoglycemia ,  fasting hyperinsulinemia ,  and an elevated serum insulin - to - c peptide ratio ,  and a variable age of onset .
chst3 - related skeletal dysplasia is a very rare bone disorder characterized clinically by short stature of prenatal onset ;  dislocation of the knees ,  hips or elbows ;  club feet ;  limitation of range of motion of large joints ;  progressive kyphosis ;  and occasional scoliosis .
a very rare type of spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia described in fewer than 10 patients to date and characterized clinically by dysplastic epiphyses ,  short stature appearing in infancy ,  short neck ,  short and stubby hands and feet ,  scoliosis ,  genu valgum ,  abnormal pelvis ,  osteoporosis and osteoarthritis .
cog5 - cdg is an extremely rare form of cdg syndrome characterized clinically in the single reported case to date by moderate mental retardation with slow and inarticulate speech ,  truncal ataxia ,  and mild hypotonia .
dpm3 - cdg is an extremely rare form of cdg syndrome characterized clinically in the single reported case by muscle weakness ,  waddling gait and dilated cardiomyopathy .
metatropic dysplasia  ( mtd )  is a rare spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia characterized by a long trunk and short limbs in infancy followed by severe and progressive kyphoscoliosis causing a reversal in proportions during childhood  ( short trunk and long limbs )  and a final short stature in adulthood .
cog4 - cdg is an extremely rare form of cdg syndrome characterized clinically in the single reported case to date by seizures ,  some dysmorphic features ,  axial hyponia ,  slight peripheral hypertonia and hyperreflexia .
cog1 - cdg is an extremely rare form of cdg syndrome characterized clinically in the few cases reported to date by variable signs including microcephaly ,  growth retardation ,  psychomotor retardation and facial dysmorphism .
any progressive myoclonic epilepsy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kctd7 gene .
acral peeling skin syndrome  ( pss )  is a form of pss characterized by superficial peeling of the skin predominantly affecting the dorsa of the hands and feet .
generalized peeling skin syndrome  ( pss )  is a form of pss presenting with a generalized distribution .
peeling skin syndrome  ( pss )  type a is a non inflammatory form of generalized pss ,  a type of ichthyosis ,  characterized by generalized white scaling and superficial painless peeling of the skin .
peeling skin syndrome  ( pss )  type b ,  also known as peeling skin disease  ( psd )  ,  is a rare inflammatory form of ichthyosis  ( see this term )  characterized by superficial patchy peeling of the entire skin with underlying erythroderma ,  pruritus ,  and atopy .
microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism  ( mopd )  types 1 and 3 are characterized by intrauterine and postnatal growth retardation ,  microcephaly ,  facial dysmorphism ,  skeletal dysplasia ,  low - birth weight and brain anomalies .
'microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type ii  ( mopdii )  is a form of microcephalic primordial dwarfism  ( mpd )  characterized by severe pre -  and postnatal growth retardation ,  with marked microcephaly in proportion to body size ,  skeletal dysplasia ,  abnormal dentition ,  insulin resistance ,  and increased risk for cerebrovascular disease .'
chromosome xq duplication is a chromosome abnormality that affects many different parts of the body .
emery - dreifuss muscular dystrophy inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern and caused by mutations in the lmna gene .
a rare partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 14 characterized by ocular anomalies  ( anopthalmia / microphthalmia ,  ptosis ,  hypertelorism ,  exophthalmos )  ,  pituitary anomalies  ( pituitary hypoplasia / aplasia with growth hormone deficiency and growth retardation )  and hand / foot anomalies  ( polydactyly ,  short digits ,  pes cavus )  .
microcephalic primordial dwarfism ,  toriello type is characterised by growth retardation with prenatal onset ,  cataracts ,  microcephaly ,  intellectual deficit ,  immune deficiency ,  delayed ossification and enamel hypoplasia .
trisomy 8p is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 8 ,  with highly variable phenotype ranging from no dysmorphic features and only mild intellectual disability to patients with severe developmental delay ,  neonatal hypotonia ,  short stature ,  profound intellectual disability ,  mild dysmorphic features  ( e .g .
osteoglophonic dwarfism  ( ogd )  is characterized by dwarfism ,  severe craniofacial abnormalities and multiple unerupted teeth .
a benign form of phosphorylase kinase deficiency caused by variants in phka2 or phkg2 and characterized by hepatomegaly ,  growth retardation ,  and mild delay in motor development during childhood .
parastremmatic dwarfism is a very rare chondrodysplasia characterized by severe dwarfism ,  kyphoscoliosis ,  stiffness of large joints and distortion of lower limbs .
congenital pulmonary alveolar proteinosis is a very rare primary interstitial lung disease due to pulmonary surfactant accumulation within the alveolar macrophages and alveoli ,  characterized by a variable clinical course ranging from an asymptomatic clinical presentation and spontaneous remission ,  to symptoms such as dyspnea and cough ,  or to severe respiratory failure .
an autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the cav3 gene ,  encoding caveolin - 3 .
osteochondrodysplatic nanism - deafness - retinitis pigmentosa syndrome is characterized by severe dwarfism ,  progressive scoliosis and bilateral dislocation of the hip ,  associated with sensorineural deafness and retinitis pigmentosa .
thanatophoric dysplasia  ( td )  is a severe and generally lethal skeletal dysplasia presenting in the prenatal period and characterized by micromelia ,  macrocephaly ,  narrow thorax ,  and distinctive facial features .
lenz - majewski hyperostotic dwarfism is an extremely rare syndrome associating dwarfism ,  characteristic facial appearance ,  cutis laxa and progressive bone sclerosis .
autosomal dominant limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 1a  ( lgmd1a )  is a limb girdle muscular dystrophy  ( lmgd ;  see this term )  a myotilinopathy ,  characterized by limb - girdle weakness in combination with dysarthria .
keipert syndrome is a rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by facial dysmorphism  ( hypertelorism ,  broad and high nasal bridge ,  depressed nasal ridge ,  short columella ,  underdeveloped maxilla ,  and prominent cupid - bow upper lip vermillion )  ,  mild to severe congenital sensorineural hearing loss ,  and skeletal abnormalities consisting of brachytelephalangy and broad thumbs and halluces with large ,  rounded epiphyses .
nathalie syndrome is characterised by deafness ,  cataract ,  muscular atrophy ,  skeletal abnormalities ,  growth retardation ,  underdeveloped secondary sexual characteristics ,  and electrocardiographic abnormalities .
this syndrome ,  associating familial adult medullary cystic disease with spastic quadriparesis has been described in two cases so far .
nephropathy - deafness - hyperparathyroidism syndrome is characterised by renal failure without haematuria ,  parathyroid hyperplasia and sensorineural deafness .
nephrosis - deafness - urinary tract - digital malformations syndrome is characterised by anomalies of the urinary tract ,  thumbs and big toes ,  deafness and nephrosis .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2a  ( lgmd2a )  is a subtype of autosomal recessive limb girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by a variable age of onset of progressive ,  typically symmetrical and selective weakness and atrophy of proximal shoulder -  and pelvic - girdle muscles  ( gluteus maximus ,  thigh adductors ,  and muscles of the posterior compartment of the limbs are most commonly affected )  without cardiac or facial involvement .
pierson syndrome is characterised by the association of congenital nephrotic syndrome and ocular anomalies with microcoria .
neu - laxova syndrome  ( nls )  is a rare ,  multiple malformation syndrome characterised by severe intrauterine growth retardation  ( iugr )  ,  severe microcephaly with a sloping forehead ,  severe ichthyosis  ( collodion baby type )  ,  and facial dysmorphism .
neurofaciodigitorenal syndrome is a rare ,  multiple developmental anomalies syndrome characterized by neurological abnormalities  ( including megalencephaly ,  hypotonia ,  intellectual disability ,  abnormal eeg )  ,  dysmorphic facial features  ( high prominent forehead ,  grooved nasal tip ,  ptosis ,  ear anomalies )  and acrorenal defects  ( such as triphalangism ,  broad halluces ,  unilateral renal agenesis )  .
cyprus facial - neuromusculoskeletal syndrome is an exceedingly rare ,  genetic malformation syndrome characterized by a striking facial appearance ,  variable skeletal deformities ,  and neurological defects .
neuroectodermal - endocrine syndrome is characterised by a combination of endocrine and neuroectodermal abnormalities ,  including low growth hormone levels ,  delayed puberty ,  type ii diabetes mellitus ,  mild intellectual deficit ,  sensorineural deafness ,  characteristic facial appearance and alopecia .
neurofibromatosis type 6  ( nf6 )  ,  also referred as cafe - au - lait spots syndrome ,  is a cutaneous disorder characterized by the presence of several cafe - au - lait  ( cal )  macules without any other manifestations of neurofibromatosis or any other systemic disorder .
a disorder of fatty acid and amino acid oxidation ,  caused by mutations in etfdh ,  etfa ,  or etfb ,  and is a clinically heterogeneous disorder ranging from a severe neonatal presentation with metabolic acidosis ,  cardiomyopathy and liver disease ,  to a mild childhood / adult disease with episodic metabolic decompensation ,  muscle weakness ,  and respiratory failure .
short - chain acyl - coa dehydrogenase  ( scad )  deficiency is a very rare inborn error of mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation characterized by variable manifestations ranging from asymptomatic individuals  ( in most cases )  to those with failure to thrive ,  hypotonia ,  seizures ,  developmental delay and progressive myopathy .
very long - chain acyl - coa dehydrogenase  ( vlcad )  deficiency  ( vlcadd )  is an inherited disorder of mitochondrial long - chain fatty acid oxidation with a variable presentation including: cardiomyopathy ,  hypoketotic hypoglycemia ,  liver disease ,  exercise intolerance and rhabdomyolysis .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2b  ( lgmd2b )  is a subtype of autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by an onset in late adolescence or early adulthood of slowly progressive ,  proximal weakness and atrophy of shoulder and pelvic girdle muscles .
10 m / s )  are frequently associated .
ras - associated autoimmune leukoproliferative disease  ( rald )  is a rare genetic disorder characterized by monocytosis ,  autoimmune cytopenias ,  lymphoproliferation ,  hepatosplenomegaly ,  and hypergammaglobulinemia .
spheroid body myopathy is a rare form of myofibrillar myopathy characterized by predominantly proximal muscle weakness  ( that could be either non -  or slowly progressive )  ,  associated with spheroid body inclusions  ( composed of myofilamentous material within individual muscle fibers )  in skeletal muscle biopsy .
classic maple syrup urine disease  ( classic msud )  is the most severe and probably common form of msud characterized by a maple syrup odor in the cerumen at birth ,  poor feeding ,  lethargy and focal dystonia ,  followed by progressive encephalopathy and central respiratory failure if untreated .
intermediate maple syrup urine disease  ( intermediate msud )  is a milder form of msud characterized by persistently raised branched - chain amino acids  ( bcaas )  and ketoacids ,  but fewer or no acute episodes of decompensation .
intermittent maple syrup urine disease  ( intermittent msud )  is a mild form of msud where patients  ( when well )  are asymptomatic with normal levels of branched - chain amino acids  ( bcaas )  but with catabolic stress are at risk of acute decompensation with ketoacidosis ,  which can lead to cerebral edema and coma if untreated .
thiamine - responsive maple syrup urine disease  ( thiamine - responsive msud )  is a less severe variant of msud that manifests with a phenotype similar to intermediate msud but that responds positively to treatment with thiamine .
autosomal recessive form of intermediate charcot - marie - tooth disease .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of neural tube closure .
a hematologic disorder caused by a mutation in the elane  ( ela2 )  gene ;  clinical manifestations include recurrent neutropenia with resultant susceptibility to infection leading to fever .
a congenital abnormality in which the spinal cord and meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column .
posterior meningocele is a rare neural tube closure defect characterized by the herniation of a cerebrospinal fluid - filled sac ,  that is lined by dura and arachnoid mater ,  through a posterior spina bifida and covered by a layer of skin of variable thickness ,  which may be dysplastic or ulcerated .
a congenital neural tube closure defect resulting in the protrusion of the brain through a skull opening .
a congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the cranium .
lipomyelomeningocele is a rare neural tube closure defect characterized by a subcutaneous lipoma that extends through a defect in the lumbodorsal fascia ,  vertebral neural arch ,  and dura .
leptomyelolipoma is a rare neural tube closure defect characterized by an abnormally low lying conus which is tethered by a lumbosacral lipomatous mass  ( containing fatty tissue ,  nerve fibers ,  meningeal strands and fibrous bands )  which engulfs the filum terminale and varying numbers of dorsal and ventral nerve root components ,  typically producing sensory ,  motor ,  bowel and / or bladder dysfunction .
primary tethered cord syndrome is a genetic ,  non - syndromic congenital malformation of the neurenteric canal ,  spinal cord and column characterized by progressive neurologic deterioration  ( pain ,  sensorimotor deficits ,  abnormal gait ,  decreased tone or abnormal reflexes )  ,  musculoskeletal changes  ( foot deformities and asymmetry ,  muscle atrophy ,  limb weakness and numbness ,  gait disturbances ,  scoliosis )  and / or genitourinary manifestations  ( bladder and bowel dysfunction )  .
arnold - chiari malformation type i is a central nervous system malformation characterized by caudal displacement of the cerebellar tonsils exceeding 5mm below the foramen magnum with or without syringomyelia .
bilateral polymicrogyria is a rare cerebral malformation due to abnormal neuronal migration defined as a cerebral cortex with many excessively small convolutions .
unilateral polymicrogyria is a cerebral cortical malformation characterized by unilateral excessive cortical folding and abnormal cortical layering .
unilateral focal polymicrogyria  ( bfpp )  is the mildest sub - type of polymicrogyria  ( pmg )  ,  a cerebral cortical malformation characterized by excessive cortical folding and abnormal cortical layering ,  that affects only one small region of the brain and that may show no neurologic involvement .
abnormalities in the development of the cerebral cortex .
an autosomal dominant disorder affecting the skeletal muscles of the face ,  scapula ,  and upper arm .
neutropenia - monocytopenia - deafness syndrome is characterised by neutropenia with myeloid marrow hypoplasia ,  monocytopenia ,  and congenital deafness .
a central nervous system malformation that is not part of a larger syndrome .
arthrogryposis - renal dysfunction - cholestasis  ( arc )  syndrome is a multisystem disorder ,  characterized by neurogenic arthrogryposis multiplex congenita ,  renal tubular dysfunction and neonatal cholestasis with low serum gamma - glutamyl transferase activity .
median nodule of the upper lip is a minor trait of the lip transmitted in an autosomal dominant fashion .
  ( see these terms )  .
oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy  ( opmd )  is an adult - onset progressive myopathy characterized by progressive eyelid ptosis ,  dysphagia ,  dysarthria and proximal limb weakness .
noonan - like syndrome with loose anagen hair  ( ns / lah )  is a noonan - related syndrome ,  characterized by facial anomalies suggestive of noonan syndrome  ;  a distinctive hair anomaly described as loose anagen hair syndrome  ;  frequent congenital heart defects ;  distinctive skin features with darkly pigmented skin ,  keratosis pilaris ,  eczema or occasional neonatal ichtyosis  ;  and short stature ,  often associated with a gh deficiency and psychomotor delays .
ochoa syndrome is characterized by the association of severe voiding dysfunction and a characteristic facial expression .
oculodental syndrome ,  rutherfurd type is a rare genetic disorder that is primarily characterized by the classical triad of gingival fibromatosis ,  non - eruption of tooth and corneal dystrophy  ( bilateral corneal vascularization and opacity )  .
oculodentodigital dysplasia  ( oddd )  is characterized by craniofacial ,  neurologic ,  limb and ocular abnormalities .
oculoosteocutaneous syndrome is characterised by congenital anodontia ,  a small maxilla ,  short stature with shortened metacarpals and metatarsals ,  sparse hair ,  albinoidism and multiple ocular anomalies .
oculopalatocerebral syndrome is characterised by the association of four anomalies: intellectual deficit ,  microcephaly ,  palate anomalies and ocular abnormalities .
oculotrichodysplasia is characterised by retinitis pigmentosa ,  trichodysplasia ,  dental anomalies ,  and onychodysplasia .
an instance of mesenchymal cell neoplasm that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of heart cancer that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of systemic or rheumatic disease that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
oculocerebral hypopigmentation syndrome ,  cross type is a rare congenital syndrome characterized by cutaneous and ocular hypopigmentation ,  various ocular anomalies  ( e .g .
fukuyama type muscular dystrophy  ( fcmd )  is a congenital progressive muscular dystrophy characterized by brain malformation  ( cobblestone lissencephaly )  ,  dystrophic changes in skeletal muscle ,  severe intellectual deficit ,  epilepsy and motor impairment .
odonto - onycho - dermal dysplasia is a form of ectodermal dysplasia characterised by hyperkeratosis and hyperhidrosis of the palms and soles ,  atrophic malar patches ,  hypodontia ,  conical teeth ,  onychodysplasia ,  and dry and sparse hair .
odonto - onycho dysplasia - alopecia syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by almost total alopecia with only sparse ,  thin ,  brittle ,  slow - growing scalp hair ,  fair and sparse eyebrows and eyelashes ,  absent axillary and pubic hair ,  fragile and brittle fingernails ,  thick and brittle toenails  ( both with a subungual corneal layer )  ,  hypodontia ,  microdontia ,  widely spaced teeth with hypoplastic enamel ,  mild palmoplantar keratosis ,  cafe - au - lait spots and areolae anomalies .
odontotrichomelic syndrome is characterised by malformations of all four extremities ,  hypoplastic nails ,  ear anomalies ,  hypotrichosis ,  abnormal dentition ,  hyperhidrosis and nasolacrimal duct obstruction .
odontoma - dysphagia syndrome is a malformation syndrome ,  characterized by odontomas  ( undifferentiated mass of the esophagus )  and severe dysphagia .
ohdo blepharophimosis syndrome  ( obs )  is a multiple congenital malformation syndrome characterized by blepharophimosis ,  ptosis ,  dental hypoplasia ,  hearing impairment and intellectual disability .
okamoto syndrome is characterised by congenital hydronephrosis ,  intellectual deficit ,  growth retardation ,  cleft palate ,  generalised hypotonia and a characteristic face .
steinert disease ,  also known as myotonic dystrophy type 1 ,  is a muscle disease characterized by myotonia and by multiorgan damage that combines various degrees of muscle weakness ,  arrhythmia and / or cardiac conduction disorders ,  cataract ,  endocrine damage ,  sleep disorders and baldness .
postaxial tetramelic oligodactyly is a rare ,  genetic ,  congenital limb malformation disorder characterized by isolated ,  postaxial oligodactyly in all four extremities .
this syndrome is characterised by congenital absence of the teeth ,  and sparse or absent hair .
olivopontocerebellar atrophy - deafness syndrome is characterised by infancy - onset olivopontocerebellar atrophy ,  sensorineural deafness and speech impairment .
omodysplasia is a rare skeletal dysplasia characterized by severe limb shortening and facial dysmorphism .
lethal omphalocele - cleft palate syndrome is characterized by the association of omphalocele and cleft palate .
bernard soulier syndrome  ( bss )  is an inherited platelet disorder characterized by mild to severe bleeding tendency ,  macrothrombocytopenia and absent ristocetin - induced platelet agglutination .
ophthalmomandibulomelic dysplasia is characterized by complete blindness due to corneal opacities ,  difficult mastication due to temporomandibular fusion and anomalies of the arms .
horizontal gaze palsy with progressive scoliosis  ( hgpps )  is a rare congenital autosomal recessive disease ,  presenting in children and adolescents ,  and characterized by progressive scoliosis along with the absence of conjugate horizontal eye movements and associated with failure of the somatosensory and corticospinal neuronal tracts to decussate in the medulla .
opitz g / bbb syndrome  ( os )  is a multiple congenital anomalies disorder characterized by malformations of the midline including hypertelorism ,  laryngo - tracheo - esophalgeal defects and hypospadias .
opsismodysplasia is a skeletal dysplasia characterized by congenital dwarfism and facial dysmorphism .
oromandibular - limb hypogenesis syndromes  ( olhs )  are a group of dysmorphic complexes  ( including charlie m syndrome ,  hanhart syndrome and glossopalatine ankylosis )  characterized by the association of severe asymmetric limb defects  ( primarily involving distal segments )  and abnormalities of the oral cavity and mandible  ( hypoglossia ,  aglossia ,  micrognathia ,  glossopalatine ankylosis ,  cleft palate ,  and gingival anomalies )  .
severe combined immunodeficiency  ( scid )  due to dclre1c deficiency is a type of scid characterized by severe and recurrent infections ,  diarrhea ,  failure to thrive ,  and cell sensitivity to ionizing radiation .
oral - facial - digital syndrome type 1  ( ofd1 )  is a rare neurodevelopmental disorder in the ciliopathy group that is lethal in males and characterized by variable anomalies including external malformations  ( craniofacial and digital )  ,  and possible involvement of the central nervous system  ( cns )  and of viscera  ( kidneys ,  pancreas and ovaries )  in females .
oral - facial - digital  ( ofd )  type 2 is characterized by hand and feet deformities ,  facial deformities ,  midline cleft of the upper lip and tongue hamartomas .
oral - facial - digital syndrome ,  type 3 is characterized by anomalies of the mouth ,  eyes and digits ,  associated with severe intellectual deficit .
oral - facial - digital syndrome ,  type 4 is characterized by lingual hamartoma ,  postaxial polysyndactyly of hands and feet ,  and mesomelic shortening of the legs with supinate equinovarus feet .
joubert syndrome with orofaciodigital defect  ( or oral - facial - digital syndrome type 6 ,  ofd6 )  is a very rare subtype of joubert syndrome and related disorders  ( jsrd )  characterized by the neurological features of js associated with orofacial anomalies and often polydactyly .
oral - facial - digital syndrome ,  type 8 is characterized by tongue lobulation ,  hypoplasia of the epiglottis ,  median cleft upper lip ,  broad or bifid nasal tip ,  hypertelorism or telecanthus ,  bilateral preaxial and postaxial polydactyly ,  abnormal tibiae and / or radii ,  duplication of the halluces ,  short stature ,  and mild intellectual deficit .
autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome  ( alps )  with recurrent viral infections is a rare genetic disorder characterized by lymphadenopathy and / or splenomegaly and recurrent infections due to herpes viruses .
dianzani autoimmune lymphoproliferative disease  ( dald )  is a very rare disorder characterized by autoimmunity ,  lymphadenopathy and / or splenomegaly .
myostatin - related muscle hypertrophy is a rare condition characterized by reduced body fat and increased muscle size .
l1 syndrome is a mild to severe congenital x - linked developmental disorder characterized by hydrocephalus of varying degrees of severity ,  intellectual deficit ,  spasticity of the legs ,  and adducted thumbs .
oral - facial - digital syndrome ,  type 10 is characterized by facial  ( telecanthus ,  flat nasal bridge ,  retrognathia )  ,  oral  ( cleft palate ,  vestibular frenula )  and digital  ( oligodactyly ,  preaxial polydactyly )  features ,  associated with remarkable radial shortening ,  fibular agenesis and coalescence of tarsal bones .
genetic infertility .
lysosomal acid lipase deficiency is a lipid storage disease that can result in 1 )  an early - onset severe form ,  wolman disease ,  or 2 )  a less severe form ,  cholesteryl ester storage disease ,  of cholesteryl ester accumulation in the body  ( liver ,  spleen ,  macrophages )  .
idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( ipah )  is a sporadic form of pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  characterized by elevated pulmonary arterial resistance leading to right heart failure .
heritable pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( hpah )  is a form of pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  ,  occurring due to mutations in pah predisposing genes or in a familial context .
behavioral variant of frontotemporal dementia  ( bv - ftd )  is a form of frontotemporal dementia  ( ftd )  ,  characterized by progressive behavioral impairment and a decline in executive function with frontal lobe - predominant atrophy .
frontotemporal dementia with motor neuron disease  ( ftd - mnd )  is a type of frontotemporal lobar degeneration characterized by the insidious onset  ( between the ages of 38 - 78 years )  of dementia - associated psychiatric symptoms  ( e .g .
imperforate oropharynx - costovertebral anomalies syndrome is a dysostosis with predominant vertebral and costal involvement characterized by oropharyngeal atresia ,  mild mandibulofacial dysostosis ,  auricular malformations ,  and costovertebral anomalies  ( hemivertebrae ,  block vertebra ,  partial fusion of the ribs ,  absent ribs )  .
severe combined immunodeficiency  ( scid )  due to gamma chain deficiency ,  also called scid - x1 ,  is a form of scid  ( see this term )  characterized by severe and recurrent infections ,  associated with diarrhea and failure to thrive .
oslam syndrome is characterised by the association of osteosarcoma ,  limb anomalies  ( clinodactyly with brachymesophalangy ,  bilateral radioulnar synostosis and absence of one digital ray of the foot )  and red cell macrocytosis without anaemia .
bile acid coa ligase deficiency and defective amidation is an anomaly of bile acid synthesis characterized by fat malabsorption ,  neonatal cholestasis and growth failure .
multiple endocrine neoplasia type 4  ( men4 )  is a very rare form of men ,  an inherited cancer syndrome ,  characterized by parathyroid and anterior pituitary tumors ,  possibly associated with adrenal ,  renal ,  and reproductive organ tumors .
multiple endocrine neoplasia  ( men )  is a group of rare inherited cancer syndromes characterized by the development of two or more endocrine gland tumors ,  sometimes with tumor development in other tissues or organs .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 32  ( sca32 )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type 1  ( adca type 1 )  characterized by ataxia ,  cognitive impairment and azoospermia in males .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 35  ( sca35 )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type 1  ( adca type 1 )  characterized by the adult - onset of progressive gait and limb ataxia ,  dysarthria ,  ocular dysmetria ,  intention tremor ,  hyperreflexia and spasmodic torticollis .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 36  ( sca36 )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type 1  ( adca type 1 )  characterized by gait and limb ataxia ,  lower limb spasticity ,  dysarthria ,  muscle fasiculations ,  tongue atrophy and hyperreflexia .
a rare genetic bone disorder characterized clinically by progressive extraskeletal bone formation presenting in early life with cutaneous ossification ,  that progressively involves subcutaneous and then subsequently deep connective tissues ,  including muscle and fascia .
non - syndromic male infertility due to sperm motility disorder is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic male infertility disorder characterized by infertility due to sperm with defects in their cilia / flagella structure ,  leading to absent motility or reduced forward motility in fresh ejaculate .
machado - joseph disease type 1 is a rare ,  usually severe subtype of machado - joseph disease  ( sca3 / mjd )  characterized by the presence of marked pyramidal and extrapyramidal signs .
machado - joseph disease type 2 is a subtype of machado - joseph disease  ( sca3 / mjd )  with intermediate severity characterized by an intermediate age of onset ,  cerebellar ataxia and external progressive ophthalmoplegia ,  with variable pyramidal and extrapyramidal signs .
machado - joseph disease type 3 is a subtype of machado - joseph disease  ( sca3 / mjd )  of milder severity characterized by late onset ,  slower progression ,  and peripheral amyotrophy .
any xeroderma pigmentosum in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the xpa gene .
any xeroderma pigmentosum in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ercc3 gene .
an autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the xpc gene .
any xeroderma pigmentosum in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ercc2 gene .
an autosomal recessive genetic disorder caused by mutations in the ddb2 gene .
any xeroderma pigmentosum in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ercc4 gene .
any xeroderma pigmentosum in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ercc5 gene .
hemihyperplasia - multiple lipomatosis syndrome is a rare ,  genetic overgrowth syndrome characterized by non -  progressive ,  asymmetrical ,  moderate hemihyperplasia  ( frequently affecting the limbs )  associated with slow growing ,  painless ,  multiple ,  recurrent ,  subcutaneous lipomatous masses distributed throughout entire body  ( in particular back ,  torso ,  extremities ,  fingers ,  axillae )  .
osteocraniostenosis is a lethal skeletal dysplasia characterized by a cloverleaf skull anomaly ,  facial dysmorphism ,  limb shortness ,  splenic hypo / aplasia and radiological anomalies including thin tubular bones with flared metaphyses and deficient calvarial mineralization .
any multinodular goiter in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dicer1 gene .
hyperbiliverdinemia is a rare ,  genetic hepatic disease characterized by the presence of green coloration of the skin ,  urine ,  plasma and other body fluids  ( ascites ,  breastmilk )  or parts  ( sclerae )  due to increased serum levels of biliverdin in association with biliary obstruction and / or liver failure .
ogden syndrome is a rare ,  genetic progeroid syndrome characterized by a variable phenotype including postnatal growth delay ,  severe global developmental delay ,  hypotonia ,  non - specific dysmorphic facies with aged appearance and cryptorchidism ,  as well as cardiac arrthymias and skeletal anomalies .
an instance of hyperinsulinism  ( disease )  that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
hyhyperinsulism due to ucp2 deficiency  ( hiucp2 )  is a form of diazoxide - sensitive diffuse hyperinsulinism  ( dhi )  characterized by hypoglycemic episodes from the neonatal period ,  a good clinical response to diazoxide and a probable transient nature of the disease with spontaneous resolution .
autosomal dominant hyperinsulinism due to sur1 deficiency is a form of diazoxide - sensitive diffuse hyperinsulinism  ( dhi )  ,  characterized by hypoglycemic epiosodes that are usually mild ,  escaping detection during infancy and usually a good clinical response to diazoxide .
autosomal dominant hyperinsulinism due to kir6 .2 deficiency is a form of diazoxide - sensitive diffuse hyperinsulinism  ( dhi )  characterized by hypoglycemic epiosodes that are usually mild ,  escaping detection during infancy ,  and usually a good clinical response to diazoxide ,   ( but some are diazoxide resistant )  .
diazoxide - resistant hyperinsulism  ( drh )  is form of congenital isolated hyperinsulism caused by an abnormal insulin production by b - cells in the pancreas that can be diffuse or focal and is characterized by an excessive /  uncontrolled insulin secretion  ( inappropriate for the level of glycemia )  ,  recurrent episodes of profound hypoglycemia and resistance to medical management with diazoxide .
diazoxide - resistant hyperinsulism  ( drh )  is form of congenital isolated hyperinsulinism caused by an abnormal insulin production by b - cells in the pancreas that can be diffuse or focal and is characterized by an excessive /  uncontrolled insulin secretion  ( inappropriate for the level of glycemia )  ,  recurrent episodes of profound hypoglycemia and resistance to medical management with diazoxide
carpotarsal osteochondromatosis is a very rare primary bone dysplasia disorder characterized by abnormal bone proliferation and osteochondromas in the upper and lower limbs .
blount disease is characterized by disturbed growth of the inner portion of the upper tibial extremity ,  progressively leading to bowlegged deformity with bone angulation just below the knee  ( tibia varus )  .
familial osteodysplasia ,  anderson type is a rare ,  genetic dysostosis disorder characterized by craniofacial bone abnormalities  ( i .e .
severe combined immunodeficiency  ( scid )  due to adenosine deaminase  ( ada )  deficiency is a form of scid characterized by profound lymphopenia and very low immunoglobulin levels of all isotypes resulting in severe and recurrent opportunistic infections .
nasu - hakola disease  ( nhd )  ,  also referred to as polycystic lipomembranous osteodysplasia with sclerosing leukoencephalopathy  ( plosl )  ,  is a rare inherited leukodystrophy characterized by progressive presenile dementia associated with recurrent bone fractures due to polycystic osseous lesions of the lower and upper extremities .
bruck syndrome is characterised by the association of osteogenesis imperfecta and congenital joint contractures .
congenital osteogenesis imperfecta - microcephaly - cataracts syndrome is characterised by multiple fractures in the prenatal period ,  microcephaly and bilateral cataracts .
osteogenesis imperfecta - retinopathy - seizures - intellectual disability syndrome is characterized by osteogenesis imperfecta ,  wormian bones ,  optic atrophy ,  retinopathy ,  seizures and severe developmental delay .
idiopathic multicentric osteolysis is a very rare syndrome characterized by progressive loss of bone ,  usually the capsal and tarsal bones ,  resulting in deformity and disability ,  as well as chronic renal failure in many cases .
autosomal recessive distal osteolysis syndrome is an early - onset distal osteolysis characterised by severe resorption of the hands and feet and absence of the distal and middle phalanges .
osteomesopyknosis is a very rare benign bone disorder characterized by bone dysplasia manifested by patchy sclerosis of the axial skeleton and increased bone mineral content .
osteopathia striata - pigmentary dermopathy - white forelock syndrome is characterised by the association of osteopathia striata  ( longitudinal striations through most of the long bones )  with a macular ,  hyperpigmented dermopathy and a white forelock .
osteopathia striata with cranial sclerosis  ( os - cs )  is a bone dysplasia characterized by longitudinal striations of the metaphyses of the long bones ,  sclerosis of the craniofacial bones ,  macrocephaly ,  cleft palate and hearing loss .
osteopetrosis ,  also known as marble bone disease ,  is a descriptive term that refers to a group of rare ,  heritable disorders of the skeleton characterized by increased bone density on radiographs .
autosomal dominant osteopetrosis type i  ( ado i )  is a sclerosing bone disorder characterized by skeletal densification that predominantly involves the cranial vault .
osteopetrosis with renal tubular acidosis is a rare disorder characterized by osteopetrosis ,  renal tubular acidosis  ( rta )  ,  and neurological disorders related to cerebral calcifications .
osteoporosis - oculocutaneous hypopigmentation syndrome is characterised by osteoporosis and congenital oculocutaneous hypopigmentation .
osteoporosis - macrocephaly - blindness - joint hyperlaxity syndrome is characterised by osteoporosis ,  macrocephalus ,  brachytelephalangy ,  and hyperextensibility of the joints .
osteoporosis pseudoglioma syndrome is a very rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by congenital or infancy - onset blindness and severe juvenile - onset osteoporosis and spontaneous fractures .
worth type autosomal dominant osteosclerosis is a sclerozing bone disorder characterized by generalized skeletal densification ,  particularly of the cranial vault and tubular long bones ,  which is not associated to an increased risk of fracture .
otodental syndrome is a very rare inherited condition characterized by grossly enlarged canine and molar teeth  ( globodontia )  associated with sensorineural hearing loss .
otofaciocervical syndrome is a rare ,  genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by distinct facial features  ( long triangular face ,  broad forehead ,  narrow nose and mandible ,  high arched palate )  ,  prominent ,  dysmorphic ears  ( low - set and cup - shaped with large conchae and hypoplastic tragus ,  antitragus and lobe )  ,  long neck ,  preauricular and / or branchial fistulas and / or cysts ,  hypoplastic cervical muscles with sloping shoulders and clavicles ,  winged ,  low ,  and laterally - set scapulae ,  hearing impairment and mild intellectual deficit .
 with prominent pachydermia and minimal - to - absent skeletal changes .
pachygyria - intellectual disability - epilepsy syndrome is a rare ,  genetic neurological disorder characterized by the presence of diffuse pachygyria and arachnoid cysts ,  psychomotor developmental delay and intellectual disability .
any mitochondrial dna depletion syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dguok gene .
a leukocyte disease characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance of lifelong ,  persistent elevated neutrophil counts primarily consisting of segmented neutrophils that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the csf3r gene on chromosome 1p34 .
vitamin b12 - responsive methylmalonic acidemia  ( ma )  is an inborn error of vitamin b12  ( cobalamin )  metabolism characterized by recurrent ketoacidotic comas or transient vomiting ,  dehydration ,  hypotonia and intellectual deficit ,  which responds to vitamin b12 .
wolf - hirschhorn syndrome  ( whs )  is a developmental disorder characterized by typical craniofacial features ,  prenatal and postnatal growth impairment ,  intellectual disability ,  severe delayed psychomotor development ,  seizures ,  and hypotonia .
 ( 13q14 .3 )  .
juvenile paget disease is a very rare form of paget disease of the bone characterized by a general increase in bone turnover with increased bone resorption and deposition ,  resulting in cortical and trabecular thickening ,  and clinically presenting as progressive skeletal deformities ,  growth impairment ,  fractures ,  vertebral collapse ,  skull enlargement and sensorineural hearing loss .
a rare genetic disorder with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance .
methylmalonic aciduria due to transcobalamin receptor defect is a rare metabolite absorption and transport disorder characterized by a moderate increase of methylmalonic acid  ( mma )  in the blood and urine due to decreased cellular uptake of cobalamin resulting from decreased transcobalamin receptor function .
septopreoptic holoprosencephaly  ( hpe )  is a very rare subtype of lobar hpe characterized by midline fusion limited to the septal and / or preoptic regions of the telencephalon without a significant frontal neocortical fusion .
x - linked sideroblastic anemia and ataxia  ( xlsa - a )  is a rare syndromic ,  inherited form of sideroblastic anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the abcb7 gene and is characterized by mild to moderate anemia  ( with hypochromia and microcytosis )  and early - onset ,  non -  or slowly progressive spinocerebellar ataxia .
microform holoprosencephaly is a benign form of holoprosencephaly  ( hpe )  characterized by midline defects without the typical hpe defect in brain cleavage .
the connatal form of pelizaeus - merzbacher disease  ( pmd )  is the most severe form of pmd .
the classic form of pelizaeus - merzbacher disease  ( pmd )  is the infantile form of pmd .
the transitional form of pelizaeus - merzbacher disease  ( pmd )  is the intermediate form of pmd .
pelizaeus - merzbacher disease  ( pmd )  in female carriers is the presentation of pmd in some women carrying mutations in the plp1 gene  ( xq22 )  .
the null syndrome is part of the pelizaeus - merzbacher disease  ( pmd )  spectrum and is characterized by mild pmd features associated with demyelinating peripheral neuropathy .
pelizaeus - merzbacher like disease  ( pmld )  is an autosomal recessive leukodystrophy sharing identical clinical and radiological features as x - linked pelizaeus - merzbacher disease  ( pmd )  .
any leukodystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gjc2 gene .
any leukodystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hspd1 gene .
any leukodystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the aimp1 gene .
distal monosomy 12p is a rare partial autosomal monosomy characterized by language development delay with childhood apraxia of speech ,  mild intellectual disability ,  behavourial abnormalities  ( autistic spectrum disorder ,  attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ,  anxiety )  and mildly dysmorphic nonspecific features .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2p  ( lgmd2p )  is a form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by slowly - progressive mainly proximal muscle weakness presenting in early childhood  ( with difficulties walking and climbing stairs )  and mild to severe intellectual disability .
recessive intellectual disability - motor dysfunction - multiple joint contractures syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  syndromic intellectual disabilty disorder characterized by severe intellectual disability ,  progressive ,  postnatal ,  multiple joint contractures and severe motor dysfunction .
w syndrome is characterised by intellectual deficit ,  epileptic seizures and facial dysmorphism .
familial omphalocele syndrome with facial dysmorphism is a rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by omphalocele associated with facial dysmorphism including flat face ,  short ,  upturned nose ,  long and wide philtrum and flattened maxillary arch and abnormalities of hands .
partial agenesis of the pancreas is characterized by the congenital absence of a critical mass of pancreatic tissue .
a syndrome mainly characterized by severe growth retardation and microcephaly .
inflammation of the glomeruli that is characterized by a rapid loss in renal function with glomerular crescent formation observed on biopsy ;  it is often seen in patients with concomitant autoimmune disease ,  like goodpasture's syndrome or systemic lupus erythematosus .
any progressive myoclonic epilepsy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gosr2 gene .
familial progressive hyper -  and hypopigmentation is a rare ,  genetic ,  skin pigmentation anomaly disorder characterized by progressive ,  diffuse ,  partly blotchy ,  hyperpigmented lesions that are intermixed with multiple caf - au - lait spots ,  hypopigmented maculae and lentigines and are located on the face ,  neck ,  trunk and limbs ,  as well as ,  frequently ,  the palms ,  soles and oral mucosa .
any multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome - intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pign gene .
any hermansky - pudlak syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bloc1s6 gene .
moyamoya angiopathy  -  short stature  -  facial dysmorphism  -  hypergonadotropic hypogonadism is a very rare ,  hereditary ,  neurological ,  dysmorphic syndrome characterized by moyamoya disease ,  short stature of postnatal onset ,  and stereotyped facial dysmorphism .
a disorder that presents with spastic paraplegia and intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ap4b1 gene .
monosomy 5p ,  also known as cri du chat syndrome ,  is a rare autosomal deletion syndrome characterized by a mewing cry  ( cri du chat )  in infancy ,  multiple congenital anomalies ,  intellectual disability ,  microcephaly ,  and facial dysmorphism .
a inherited ichthyosis that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a inherited ichthyosis that is part of a larger syndrome .
syndromic recessive x - linked ichthyosis  ( rxli )  refers to the cases of rxli  ( see this term )  that are associated with extracutaneous manifestations as part of a syndrome .
autosomal recessive form of inherited ichthyosis .
self - healing collodion baby  ( shcb )  is a minor variant of autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis  ( arci )  characterized by the presence of a collodion membrane at birth that heals within the first weeks of life .
acral self - healing collodion baby  ( shcb )  is a variant of shcb characterized by the presence at birth of a collodion membrane only at the extremities .
annular epidermolytic ichthyosis  ( aei )  is a rare clinical variant of epidermolytic ichthyosis  ( ei )  characterized by the presence of a blistering phenotype at birth and the development from early infancy of annular polycyclic erythematous scales on the trunk and extremities .
a rare disorder characterized by rigid ,  thick skin that covers the entire body and affects movements .
keratosis linearis - ichthyosis congenita - sclerosing keratoderma  ( klick )  syndrome is an inherited epidermal disorder characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma ,  linear hyperkeratotic papules on the flexural side of large joints  ( cord - like distribution around wrists ,  in antecubital and popliteal folds )  ,  hyperkeratotic plaques  ( on neck ,  axillae ,  elbows ,  wrists ,  and knees )  ,  mild ichthyosiform scaling ,  and sclerotic constrictions around fingers that present flexural deformities .
x - linked form of inherited ichthyosis syndromic form .
spastic paraparesis - deafness syndrome is a chronic neurodegenerative disorder characterised by spastic paraparesis  ( beginning at about 10 years of age )  and hearing deficits .
spastic paraplegia - glaucoma - intellectual disability syndrome is characterized by progressive spastic paraplegia ,  glaucoma and intellectual deficit .
spastic paraplegia - facial - cutaneous lesions syndrome is a complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by delays in motor development followed by a slowly progressive spastic paraplegia  ( affecting mainly lower extremities )  associated with a desquamating facial rash with butterfly distribution  ( presenting at around two months of age )  and dysarthria .
frontotemporal dementia  ( ftd )  comprises a group of neurodegenerative disorders ,  characterized by progressive changes in behavior ,  executive dysfunction and language impairment ,  as a result of degeneration of the medial prefrontal and frontoinsular cortices .
this syndrome is characterised by variable spastic paraplegia ,  bilateral sensorineural deafness ,  intellectual deficit and progressive nephropathy .
spastic paraplegia - neuropathy - poikiloderma syndrome is a complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by spastic paraplegia ,  demyelinating peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy ,  poikiloderma  ( manifesting with loss of eyebrows and eyelashes in childhood in addition to delicate ,  smooth ,  and wasted skin )  and distal amyotrophy  ( presenting after puberty )  .
inherited or familial creutzfeldt - jakob disease  ( fcjd )  is a very rare form of genetic prion disease characterized by typical cjd features  ( rapidly progressive dementia ,  personality / behavioral changes ,  psychiatric disorders ,  myoclonus ,  and ataxia )  with a genetic cause and sometimes a family history of dementia .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the spg11 gene .
paraplegia - intellectual disability - hyperkeratosis syndrome is characterized by intellectual deficit ,  spasticity in the lower limbs  ( spastic paraplegia )  ,  pes cavus deformity of both feet ,  an abnormal gait ,  and palmar and plantar hyperkeratosis .
parc syndrome is a rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome characterized by the association of congenital poikiloderma  ( p )  ,  generalized alopecia  ( a )  ,  retrognathism  ( r )  and cleft palate  ( c )  .
spastic paraplegia - precocious puberty syndrome is characterized by precocious puberty  ( due to leydig cell hyperplasia )  ,  progressive spastic paraplegia and intellectual deficit .
young - onset parkinson disease  ( yopd )  is a form of parkinson disease  ( pd )  ,  characterized by an age of onset between 21 - 45 years ,  rigidity ,  painful cramps followed by tremor ,  bradykinesia ,  dystonia ,  gait complaints and falls ,  and other non - motor symptoms .
rhizomelic dysplasia ,  patterson - lowry type is a rare primary bone dysplasia characterized by short stature ,  severe rhizomelic shortening of the upper limbs associated with specific malformations of humeri  ( including marked widening and flattening of proximal metaphyses ,  medial flattening of the proximal epiphyses ,  and lateral bowing with medial cortical thickening of the proximal diaphyses )  ,  marked coxa vara with dysplastic femoral heads and brachimetacarpalia .
short tarsus  -  absence of lower eyelashes is a very rare syndrome characterized by the association of thin and short upper and lower tarsus and absence of the lower eyelashes .
stiff skin syndrome  ( sss )  is a rare syndrome characterized by hard ,  thick skin ,  usually on the entire body .
wrinkly skin syndrome  ( wss )  is characterized by wrinkling of the skin of the dorsum of the hands and feet ,  an increased number of palmar and plantar creases ,  wrinkled abdominal skin ,  multiple skeletal abnormalities  ( joint laxity and congenital hip dislocation )  ,  late closing of the anterior fontanel ,  microcephaly ,  pre -  and postnatal growth retardation ,  developmental delay and facial dysmorphism  ( a broad nasal bridge ,  downslanting palpebral fissures and hypertelorism )  .
peho  ( progressive encephalopathy with edema ,  hypsarrhythmia and optic atrophy )  syndrome is a rare neurodegenerative disorder belonging to the group of infantile progressive encephalopathies .
tyrosinemia type 2 is an inborn error of tyrosine metabolism characterized by hypertyrosinemia with oculocutaneous manifestations and ,  in some cases ,  intellectual deficit .
pelvis - shoulder dysplasia is a rare focal skeletal dysostosis characterized by symmetrical hypoplasia of the scapulae and the iliac wings of the pelvis .
benign chronic familial pemphigus of hailey - hailey is characterized by rhagades mostly located in the armpits ,  inguinal and perineal folds  ( scrotum ,  vulva )  .
larsen - like syndrome ,  b3gat3 type is a rare ,  genetic ,  primary bone dysplasia characterized by laxity ,  dislocations and contractures of the joints ,  short stature ,  foot deformities  ( e .g .
8q21 .11 microdeletion syndrome encompasses heterozygous overlapping microdeletions on chromosome 8q21 .11 resulting in intellectual disability ,  facial dysmorphism comprising a round face ,  ptosis ,  short philtrum ,  cupid's bow and prominent low - set ears ,  nasal speech and mild finger and toe anomalies .
any charcot - marie - tooth disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dync1h1 gene .
any autosomal recessive syndromic cerebellar ataxia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the syt14 gene .
any autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ano10 gene .
pentosuria is an inborn error of metabolism which is characterized by the excretion of 1 to 4 g of the pentose l - xylulose in the urine per day .
spinocerebellar ataxia autosomal recessive 7 ,  also called scar7 ,  is a slowly progressive hereditary form of spinocerebellar ataxia .
pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 7  ( pch7 )  is a novel very rare form of pontocerebellar hypoplasia with unknown etiology and poor prognosis reported in four patients and is characterized clinically during the neonatal period by hypotonia ,  no palpable gonads ,  micropenis and from infancy by progressive microcephaly ,  apneic episodes ,  poor feeding ,  seizures and regression of penis .
an instance of intrahepatic cholestasis that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
infantile glycerol kinase deficiency  ( gkd )  is a severe form of gkd characterized clinically by poor feeding ,  failure to thrive ,  salt - wasting dehydration ,  vomiting ,  addisonian pigmentation ,  hypotonia ,  and disorders of consciousness .
juvenile glycerol kinase deficiency  ( gkd )  is an uncommon form of gkd characterized by reye - like clinical manifestations including episodic vomiting ,  acidemia ,  and disorders of consciousness .
adult glycerol kinase deficiency  ( gkd )  is an uncommon form of gkd diagnosed fortuitously and characterized by pseudohypertriglyceridemia in otherwise healthy adults .
phosphoserine aminotransferase deficiency is an extremely rare form of serine deficiency syndrome characterized clinically in the two reported cases to date by acquired microcephaly ,  psychomotor retardation ,  intractable seizures and hypertonia .
a condition that affects how the body breaks down sugar to use as energy in muscle cells .
a condition that affects how the body breaks down sugar to use as energy in muscle cells .
pericardial and diaphragmatic defect is a rare combination of absent pericardium with congenital diaphragmatic defect .
albinism affecting the eye in which pigment of the hair and skin is normal or only slightly diluted .
a oculocutaneous albinism that is part of a larger syndrome .
perlman syndrome is characterized principally by polyhydramnios ,  neonatal macrosomia ,  bilateral renal tumours  ( hamartomas with or without nephroblastomatosis )  ,  hypertrophy of the islets of langerhans and facial dysmorphism .
neonatal marfan syndrome is a rare ,  severe and life - threatening genetic disease ,  occuring during the neonatal period ,  characterized by classical marfan syndrome manifestations in addition to facial dysmorphism  ( megalocornea ,  iridodonesis ,  ectopia lentis ,  crumpled ears ,  loose redundant skin giving a 'senile' facial appearance )  ,  flexion joint contractures ,  pulmonary emphysema ,  and a severe ,  rapidly progressive cardiovascular disease  ( including ascending aortic dilatation and severe mitral and / or tricuspid valve insufficiency )  .
ehlers - danlos syndrome ,  hypermobility type  ( ht - eds )  is the most frequent form of eds ,  a group of hereditary connective tissue diseases ,  and is characterized by joint hyperlaxity ,  mild skin hyperextensibility ,  tissue fragility and extra - musculoskeletal manifestations .
alopecia - intellectual deficit syndrome is an extremely rare syndrome described in less than 20 families to date and characterized by total or partial alopecia associated with intellectual deficit .
fuhrmann syndrome is mainly characterized by bowing of the femora ,  aplasia or hypoplasia of the fibulae and poly -  ,  oligo -  ,  and syndactyly .
perrault syndrome  ( ps )  is characterized by the association of ovarian dysgenesis in females with sensorineural hearing impairment .
persistent mullerian duct syndrome  ( pmds )  is a rare disorder of sex development  ( dsd )  characterized by the persistence of mllerian derivatives ,  the uterus and / or fallopian tubes ,  in otherwise normally virilized boys .
ehlers - danlos syndrome type iv ,  also known as the vascular type of ehlers - danlos syndrome  ( eds )  ,  is an inherited connective tissue disorder defined by characteristic facial features  ( acrogeria )  in most patients ,  translucent skin with highly visible subcutaneous vessels on the trunk and lower back ,  easy bruising ,  and severe arterial ,  digestive and uterine complications ,  which are rarely ,  if at all ,  observed in the other forms of eds .
short stature - wormian bones - dextrocardia syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by wormian bones ,  dextrocardia and short stature due to a growth hormone deficiency .
short stature - webbed neck - heart disease syndrome is characterized by short stature ,  intellectual deficit ,  facial dysmorphism ,  short webbed neck ,  skin changes and congenital heart defects .
short stature - deafness - neutrophil dysfunction - dysmorphism syndrome is characterised by short stature ,  sensorineural deafness ,  mutism ,  facial dysmorphism and abnormal neutrophil chemotaxis  ( leading to recurrent infections )  .
this syndrome is characterised by short stature presenting in the neonatal period associated with osteochondrodysplastic lesions and facial dysmorphism .
short stature - valvular heart disease - characteristic facies syndrome is characterised by severe short stature with disproportionately short legs ,  small hands ,  clinodactyly ,  valvular heart disease and dysmorphism  ( ptosis ,  high - arched palate ,  abnormal dentition )  .
peutz - jeghers syndrome  ( pjs )  is an inherited gastrointestinal disorder characterized by development of characteristic hamartomatous polyps throughout the gastrointestinal  ( gi )  tract ,  and by mucocutaneous pigmentation .
ehlers - danlos syndrome ,  classic type  ( ceds )  is a form of ehlers - danlos syndrome that affects the connective tissue and is characterized by skin hyperextensibility ,  widened atrophic scars and joint hypermobility .
pfeiffer - palm - teller syndrome is a very rare dysmorphic syndrome described in two sibs and characterized by a short stature ,  unique facies ,  enamel hypoplasia ,  progressive joint stiffness ,  high - pitched voice ,  cup - shaped ears ,  and narrow palpebral fissures with epicanthal folds ,  and intellectual deficit .
pfeiffer - type cardiocranial syndrome is an extremely rare disorder recognized in less than ten patients worldwide and characterized by a congenital heart defect ,  sagittal craniosynostosis and severe developmental delay  ( growth retardation and intellectual deficit )  .
phakomatosis pigmentokeratotica  ( ppk )  is a very rare epidermal nevus disorder characterized by the association of speckled lentiginous nevi with epidermal sebaceous nevi ,  and extracutaneous anomalies .
phaver syndrome is a very rare syndrome characterized by the association of limb pterygia ,  heart anomalies ,  autosomal recessive inheritance ,  vertebral defects ,  ear anomalies and radial defects .
phocomelia - ectrodactyly - deafness - sinus arrhythmia syndrome is characterised by phocomelia  ( involving arms more severely )  ,  ectrodactyly ,  ear anomalies  ( bilateral anomalies of the pinnae )  ,  conductive deafness ,  dysmorphism  ( long and prominent philtrum ,  mild maxillary hypoplasia )  and sinus arrhythmia .
schinzel phocomelia syndrome ,  also called limb / pelvis hypoplasia / aplasia syndrome ,  is characterized by skeletal malformations affecting the ulnae ,  pelvic bones ,  fibulae and femora .
hereditary elliptocytosis  ( he )  is a rare clinically and genetically heterogeneous disorder of the red cell membrane characterized by manifestations ranging from mild to severe transfusion - dependent hemolytic anemia but with the majority of patients being asymptomatic .
phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase  ( pepck )  deficiency is a gluconeogenesis disorder that results from impairment in the enzyme pepck ,  and comprising cytosolic  ( pepck1 )  and mitochondrial  ( pepck2 )  forms of enzyme deficiency .
 ( 2p21 )  genes .
piebaldism is a rare congenital pigmentation skin disorder characterized by the presence of hypopigmented and depigmented skin areas  ( leukoderma )  on various parts of the body ,  preferentially on the forehead ,  chest ,  abdomen ,  upper arms ,  and lower extremities ,  that are associated with a white forelock  ( poliosis )  ,  and in some cases with hypopigmented and depigmented eyebrows and eyelashes .
piebald trait - neurologic defects syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  pigmentation anomaly of the skin syndrome characterized by ventral as well as dorsal leukoderma of the trunk and a congenital white forelock ,  in association with cerebellar ataxia ,  impaired motor coordination ,  intellectual disability of variable severity and progressive ,  mild to profound ,  uni -  or bilateral sensorineural hearing loss .
tarp syndrome is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome characterized by robin sequence  ( micrognathia ,  glossoptosis ,  and cleft palate )  ,  atrial septal defect ,  persistence of the left superior vena cava ,  and talipes equinovarus .
this syndrome is characterised by the association of pierre robin sequence  ( retrognathia ,  cleft palate and glossoptosis )  with facial dysmorphism  ( high forehead with frontal bossing )  and digital anomalies  ( tapering fingers ,  hyperconvex nails ,  clinodactyly of the fifth fingers and short distal phalanges ,  finger - like thumbs and easily subluxated first metacarpophalangeal joints )  .growth and mental development were normal .
pili torti is a hair shaft abnormality characterized by flat hair that is twisted at irregular intervals .
ellis - van creveld syndrome  ( evc )  is a skeletal and ectoderlam dysplasia characterized by a tetrad of short stature ,  postaxial polydactyly ,  ectodermal dysplasia ,  and congenital heart defects .
pili torti - onychodysplasia is a form of ectodermal dysplasia characterised by dystrophy of the distal part of the nails and trichodysplasia .
pili torti - developmental delay - neurological abnormalities syndrome is characterized by growth and developmental delay ,  mild to moderate neurologic abnormalities ,  and pili torti .
hypocalcemic rickets is a group of genetic diseases characterized by hypocalcemia and rickets .
hypocalcemic vitamin d - dependent rickets  ( vddr - i )  is an early - onset hereditary vitamin d metabolism disorder characterized by severe hypocalcemia leading to osteomalacia and rachitic bone deformations ,  and moderate hypophosphatemia .
autosomal recessive hypophosphatemic rickets  ( arhr )  is a hereditary renal phosphate - wasting disorder characterized by hypophosphatemia ,  rickets and / or osteomalacia and slow growth .
pilodental dysplasia - refractive errors syndrome is a rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by dysplastic abnormalities of the hair and teeth  ( including hypodontia ,  abnormally shaped teeth ,  scalp hypotrichosis and pili annulati )  ,  follicular hyperkeratosis on the trunk and limbs ,  and hyperopia .
early - onset epileptic encephalopathy and intellectual disability due to grin2a mutation is a rare intellectual disability and epilepsy syndrome characterized by global developmental delay and mild to profound intellectual disability ,  multiple types of usually intractable focal and generalized seizures with variable abnormal eeg findings ,  and bilateral progressive parenchymal volume loss and thin corpus callosum on brain mri .
familial vesicoureteral reflux is a rare ,  non - syndromic urogenital tract malformation characterized by the familial occurrence of retrograde flow of urine from the bladder into the ureter and sometimes the kidneys .
myosclerosis is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - dystrophic myopathy characterized by early ,  diffuse ,  progressive muscle and joint contractures that result in severe limitation of movement of axial ,  proximal ,  and distal joints ,  walking difficulties in early childhood and toe walking .
pilotto syndrome is a rare genetic multiple developmental anomalies syndrome ,  that is characterized by craniofacial anomalies  ( microcephaly ,  brachycephaly ,  craniosynostosis ,  facial asymmetry ,  cleft lip ,  cleft palate ,  dysmorphic facial features ,  ear lobe malformations ,  low hair line )  ,  congenital heart defects ,  hypogenitalism and / or hypogonadism ,  intellectual disability ,  scoliosis or kyphoscoliosis ,  short hypoplastic ribs ,  failure to thrive ,  growth delay ,  short stature and / or micromelia .
isolated congenital adermatoglyphia is a rare ,  genetic develomental defect during embryogenesis disorder characterized by the lack of epidermal ridges on the palms and soles ,  resulting in the absence of fingerprints ,  with no other associated manifestations .
intellectual disability - alacrima - achalasia syndrome is a rare ,  genetic intellectual disability syndrome characterized by delayed motor and cognitive development ,  absence or severe delay in speech development ,  intellectual disability ,  and alacrima .
any anterior segment dysgenesis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pxdn gene .
combined malonic and methylmalonic acidemia is a rare inborn error of metabolism characterized by elevation of malonic acid  ( ma )  and methylmalonic acid  ( mma )  in body fluids ,  with higher levels of mma than ma .
12q15q21 .1 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from a partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 12 ,  with a highly variable phenotype ,  typically characterized by developmental delay ,  learning disability ,  intra - uterine and postnatal growth retardation ,  and mild facial dysmorphism that changes with age .
microtriplication 11q24 .1 is an extremely rare partial autosomal tetrasomy ,  resulting from a partial triplication of the long arm of chromosome 11 ,  characterized by intellectual disability  ( with severe verbal impairment )  ,  short stature with small extremities ,  keratoconus and distinctive facial features  ( round ,  course face ,  upward slanting palpebral fissures ,  mild synophris ,  large nose with thick ala nasi and triangular tip ,  large mouth with broad lips ,  short and smooth philtrum ,  large protruded chin ,  ears with adherent lobules )  .
bap1 - related tumor predisposition syndrome  ( tpds )  is an inherited cancer - predisposing syndrome ,  associated with germline mutations in bap1 tumor suppressor gene .
#64258 ; at nares ,  cupid's bow upper lip vermilion ,  and small ,  low - set ,  posteriorly rotated ears )  ,  in addition to cleft palate ,  conductive hearing loss ,  heart defects  ( atrial or ventricular septal defect )  and mild developmental delay / intellectual disability .
mitochondrial membrane protein - associated neurodegeneration  ( mpan )  ,  also known as neurogeneration with brain iron accumulation  ( nbia )  due to c19orf12 mutations ,  is an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by iron accumulation in specific regions of the brain ,  usually the basal ganglia ,  associated with slowly progressive pyramidal  ( spasticity )  and extrapyramidal  ( dystonia )  signs ,  motor axonal neuropathy ,  optic atrophy ,  cognitive decline ,  and neuropsychiatric abnormalities .
multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome describes a group of rare inborn errors of energy metabolism due to defects in mitochondrial  [ 4fe - 4s ]  protein assembly .
exfoliative ichthyosis is an inherited ,  non - syndromic ,  congenital ichthyosis characterized by the infancy - onset of palmoplantar peeling of the skin  ( aggravated by exposure to water and by occlusion )  associated with dry ,  scaly skin over most of the body .
pitt - hopkins syndrome  ( phs )  is characterized by the association of intellectual deficit ,  characteristic facial dysmorphism and problems of abnormal and irregular breathing .
hereditary arterial and articular multiple calcification syndrome is a very rare genetic vascular disease of autosomal recessive inheritance ,  described in less than 20 patients to date ,  characterized by adult - onset  ( as early as the second decade of life )  isolated calcification of the arteries of the lower extremities  ( including the iliac ,  femoral ,  and tibial arteries )  as well as the capsule joints of the fingers ,  wrists ,  ankles and feet ,  and that usually manifests with mild paresthesias of the lower extremities ,  intense joint pain and swelling ,  and early onset arthritis of affected joints .
pityriasis rubra pilaris is a rare chronic papulosquamous disorder of unknown etiology characterized by small follicular papules ,  scaly red - orange patches ,  and palmoplantar hyperkeratosis ,  which may progress to plaques or erythroderma .
x - linked intellectual disability - plagiocephaly syndrome is characterised by severe intellectual deficit ,  brachycephaly ,  plagiocephaly ,  prominent forehead and coarse facial features .
late - onset primary lymphedema is a rare form of primary lymphedema  ( see this term )  characterized by onset of edema after one year of age .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of tryptophan metabolic process .
neonatal glycine encephalopathy is a frequent ,  usually severe form of glycine encephalopathy  ( ge )  characterized by coma ,  apnea ,  hypotonia ,  seizure and myoclonic jerks in the neonatal period ,  and subsequent developmental delay .
infantile glycine encephalopathy is a mild to severe form of glycine encephalopathy  ( ge )  ,  characterized by early hypotonia ,  developmental delay and seizures .
atypical glycine encephalopathy is a rare form of glycine encephalopathy  ( ge )  presenting disease onset or clinical manifestations that differ from neonatal or infantile ge .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of proline metabolic process .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of ornithine metabolic process .
an inherited disorder that affects the metabolism of any acidic compound containing carbon in a covalent linkage .
autosomal recessive brachyolmia - amelogenesis imperfecta syndrome is an exceedingly rare form of brachyolmia ,  characterized by mild platyspondyly ,  broad ilia ,  elongated femoral necks with coxa valga ,  scoliosis ,  and short trunked short stature associated with amelogenesis imperfecta of both primary and permanent dentition .
a group of five inherited disorders caused by mutations in the auh ,  dnajc19 ,  opa3 ,  and taz genes .
vitamin b12 - unresponsive methylmalonic acidemia type mut0 is an inborn error of metabolism characterized by recurrent ketoacidotic comas or transient vomiting ,  dehydration ,  hypotonia and intellectual deficit ,  which does not respond to administration of vitamin b12 .
mevalonic aciduria  ( mva )  is a rare ,  very severe form of mevalonate kinase deficiency  ( mkd )  characterized by dysmorphic features ,  failure to thrive ,  psychomotor delay ,  ocular involvement ,  hypotonia ,  progressive ataxia ,  myopathy ,  and recurrent inflammatory episodes .
leri pleonosteosis is characterized by broadening and deformity of the thumbs and great toes in a valgus position  ( a 'spade - shaped' appearance )  ,  flexion contracture of the interphalangeal joints ,  generalized limitation of joint mobility ,  short stature ,  and often mongoloid facies .
familial spontaneous pneumothorax is a rare ,  genetic pulmonary disease characterized by the uni -  or bilateral accumulation of air in the pleural cavity in persons with a positive family history and no underlying lung disease or previous chest trauma .
hereditary paraganglioma - pheochromocytomas  ( pgl / pcc )  are rare neuroendocrine tumors represented by paragangliomas  ( occurring in any paraganglia from the skull base to the pelvic floor )  and pheochromocytomas  ( adrenal medullary paragangliomas )  .
kindler syndrome  ( ks )  is the fourth major type of epidermolysis bullosa  ( eb )  ,  besides simplex ,  junctional and dystrophic forms ,  and is characterized by skin fragility and blistering at birth followed by development of photosensitivity and progressive poikilodermatous skin changes .
rothmund - thomson syndrome  ( rts )  is a genodermatosis presenting with a characteristic facial rash  ( poikiloderma )  associated with short stature due to pre -  and postnatal growth delay ,  sparse scalp hair ,  sparse or absent eyelashes and / or eyebrows ,  juvenile cataracts ,  skeletal abnormalities ,  radial ray defects ,  premature aging and a predisposition to certain cancers .
poland syndrome is marked by a unilateral absence or hypoplasia of the pectoralis major muscle  ( most frequently involving the sternocostal portion )  ,  and a variable degree of ipsilateral hand anomalies ,  including symbrachydactyly .
a congenital anomaly of the hand or foot ,  marked by the presence of supernumerary digits .
postaxial polydactyly - dental and vertebral anomalies syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome characterized by postaxial polydactyly and other abnormalities of the hands and feet  ( e .g .
polydactyly - myopia syndrome is an exceedingly rare autosomal dominant developmental anomaly reported in 1986 in nine individuals among four generations of the same family .
oral - facial - digital syndrome ,  type 5 is characterized by median cleft of the upper lip ,  postaxial polydactyly of hands and feet ,  and oral manifestations  ( duplicated frenulum )  .
oliver syndrome is a very rare syndrome characterized by intellectual deficit ,  postaxial polydactyly ,  and epilepsy .
preaxial polydactyly - colobomata - intellectual disability syndrome is characterised by growth retardation ,  intellectual deficit ,  preaxial polydactyly and colobomatous anomalies .
a polycystic liver disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prkcsh gene ,  and is characterized by the appearance of numerous cysts spread throughout the liver .
digital extensor muscle aplasia - polyneuropathy is a rare ,  hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by flexion deformities of the thumb and fingers ,  sensory deficit in the hand and polyneuropathic electrophysiologic findings in the limbs .
polyneuropathy - intellectual disability - acromicria - premature menopause syndrome is a rare genetic syndromic intellectual disability characterized by intellectual disability ,  polyneuropathy ,  short stature and short limbs ,  brachydactyly ,  and premature ovarian insufficiency .
juvenile gastrointestinal polyposis  ( jip )  is a rare condition characterized by the presence of juvenile hamartomatous polyps in the gastrointestinal  ( gi )  tract .
cronkhite - canada syndrome  ( ccs )  is a rare gastrointestinal  ( gi )  polyposis syndrome characterized by the association of non - hereditary gi polyposis with the cutaneous triad of alopecia ,  nail changes and hyperpigmentation .
infantile - onset ascending hereditary spastic paralysis  ( iahsp )  is a very rare motor neuron disease characterized by severe spasticity of the lower limbs in early life ,  progression of spasticity to the upper limbs in late childhood ,  and dysarthria .
a very rare severe form of epilepsy with poor prognosis that usually begins within a few weeks of birth .
tetrahydrobiopterin - responsive hyperphenylalaninemia /  phenylketonuria  ( bh4 - responsive hyperphenylalaninemia /  phenylketonuria )  is a form of phenylketonuria  ( pku )  ,  an inborn error of amino acid metabolism ,  characterized by mild to moderate symptoms of pku including impaired cognitive function ,  seizures ,  and behavioral and developmental disorders ,  and a marked reduction and normalization of elevated phenylalanine concentrations after oral loading with tetrahydrobiopterin  ( bh4 ;  sapropterin dihydrochloride )  ,  an essential cofactor of phenylalanine hydroxylase .
methylmalonic acidemia is an inborn error of vitamin b12 metabolism characterized by gastrointestinal and neurometabolic manifestations resulting from decreased function of the mitochondrial enzyme methylmalonyl - coa mutase .
grayson - wilbrandt corneal dystrophy  ( gwcd )  is an extremely rare form of corneal dystrophy characterized by variable patterns of opacification in the bowman layer of the cornea which extend anteriorly into the epithelium with decreased to normal visual acuity .
epithelial recurrent erosion dystrophy  ( ered )  is a rare form of superficial corneal dystrophy characterized by recurrent episodes of epithelial erosions from childhood in the absence of associated diseases ,  with occasional impairment of vision .
polysyndactyly - cardiac malformation syndrome is characterized by polysyndactyly ,  hexadactyly  ( duplication of the first toe )  and complex cardiac malformation  ( including atrial and ventricular septal defect ,  single ventricle ,  aortic dextroposition ,  or dilation of the right heart )  .
pre - descemet corneal dystrophy  ( pdcd )  is a rare form of stromal corneal dystrophy characterized by focal ,  fine ,  gray opacities in the deep stroma immediately anterior to the descemet membrane ,  with no effect on vision .
crossed polysyndactyly is a rare ,  genetic ,  congenital limb malformation disorder characterized by unilateral or bilateral postaxial polydactyly in the hands and preaxial polydactyly in the feet ,  associated with bilateral cutaneous syndactyly of first ,  second and third toes .
congenital hereditary endothelial dystrophy ii  ( ched ii )  is a rare subtype of posterior corneal dystrophy  ( see this term )  characterized by a diffuse ground - glass appearance of the corneas and marked corneal thickening from birth with nystagmus ,  and blurred vision .
x - linked endothelial corneal dystrophy  ( xecd )  is a rare subtype of posterior corneal dystrophy characterized by congenital ground glass corneal clouding or a diffuse corneal haze ,  and blurred vision in male patients .
any de barsy syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pycr1 gene .
the maat - kievit - brunner type of ohdo syndrome is a rare condition characterized by intellectual disability and distinctive facial features .
mitf - related melanoma and renal cell carcinoma predisposition syndrome is an inherited cancer - predisposing syndrome due to a gain - of - function germline mutation in the mitf gene ,  associated with a higher incidence of amelanotic and nodular melanoma ,  multiple primary melanomas and increase in nevus number and size .
congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type iv  ( cda iv )  is a newly discovered form of cda characterized by ineffective erythropoiesis and hemolysis that leads to severe anemia at birth .
right temporal lobar atrophy  ( rtla )  is an anatomic variant of frontotemporal dementia  ( ftd )  ,  characterized by behavioral dysfunction ,  personality changes ,  episodic memory loss ,  and prosopagnosia ;  attributable to an asymmetrical predominantly right - sided ,  frontotemporal atrophy .
hypoplastic pancreas - intestinal atresia - hypoplastic gallbladder syndrome is a rare ,  potentially fatal ,  genetic ,  visceral malformation syndrome characterized by neonatal diabetes ,  hypoplastic or annular pancreas ,  duodenal and jejunal atresia ,  as well as gallbladder aplasia or hypoplasia .
lethal occipital encephalocele - skeletal dysplasia syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  bone development disorder characterized by occipital and parietal bone hypoplasia leading to occipital encephalocele ,  calvarial mineralization defects ,  craniosynostosis ,  radiohumeral fusions ,  oligodactyly and other skeletal anomalies  ( arachnodactyly ,  terminal phalangeal aplasia of the thumbs ,  bilateral absence of the great toes ,  pronounced bilateral angulation of femora ,  shortened limbs ,  advanced osseous maturation )  .
edict  ( endothelial dystrophy - iris hypoplasia - congenital cataract - stromal thinning )  syndrome is a very rare eye disorder representing a constellation of autosomal dominantly inherited ocular findings ,  including early - onset or congenital cataracts ,  corneal stromal thinning ,  early - onset keratoconus ,  corneal endothelial dystrophy ,  and iris hypoplasia .
distal xq28 microduplication syndrome is a rare ,  hereditary ,  syndromic intellectual disability characterized by cognitive impairment ,  behavioral and psychiatric problems ,  recurrent infections ,  atopic diseases ,  and distinctive facial features in males .
1p21 .3 microdeletion syndrome is an extremely rare chromosomal anomaly characterized by severe speech and language delay ,  intellectual deficiency ,  autism spectrum disorder .
a very rare disorder that appears after the first year and a half of life in previously healthy children .
porencephaly is characterized by a circumscribed intracerebral cavity of variable size that may be bordered by abnormal polymicrogyric grey matter .
neonatal inflammatory skin and bowel disease is a rare ,  life - threatening ,  autoinflammatory syndrome with immune deficiency disorder characterized by early - onset ,  life - long inflammation ,  affecting the skin and bowel ,  associated with recurrent infections .
renal - hepatic - pancreatic dysplasia is a rare ,  genetic ,  developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome characterized by the triad of pancreatic fibrosis  ( and cysts ,  with a reduction of parenchymal tissue )  ,  renal dysplasia  ( with peripheral cortical cysts ,  primitive collecting ducts ,  glomerular cysts and metaplastic cartilage )  and hepatic dysgenesis  ( enlarged portal areas containing numerous elongated binary profiles with a tendancy to perilobular fibrosis )  .
brachydactyly  -  long thumb syndrome is a very rare autosomal dominant heart - hand syndrome that is characterized by bisymmetric brachydactyly accompanied by long thumbs ,  joint anomalies  ( restriction of motion at the shoulder and metacarpophalangeal joints )  and cardiac conduction defects .
triphalangeal thumbs - brachyectrodactyly syndrome is characterised by triphalangeal thumbs and brachydactyly of the hands .
a congenital malformation characterized by the complete absence of all limbs .
preaxial polydactyly of fingers is a limb malformation syndrome characterized by the attachment of a superfluous digit on the first digit .
a rare ,  autosomal dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the irf6 gene .
a syndrome characterized by congenital nonprogressive joint contractures .
a non - syndromic amelia that involves the forelimb .
a non - syndromic amelia that involves the hindlimb .
humeral agenesis / hypoplasia is a rare ,  non - syndromic limb reduction defect characterized by the unilateral or bilateral presence of a short arm with completely absent or underdeveloped humerus ,  frequently associated with ulnar and / or radial malformations .
a congenital malformation in which the upper portion of a limb is either shortened or absent .
congenital absence of both forearm and hand is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by unilateral or bilateral arrest of proximal to distal development of the upper limb ,  leading to a transverse deficiency with absence of the forearm ,  wrist and hand .
congenital absence / hypoplasia of thumb is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by underdevelopment of the thumb ,  ranging from a slight decrease in thumb size to complete absence of the thumb .
split hand is a rare ,  non - syndromic limb reduction defect ,  clinically and genetically heterogeneous ,  characterized by bilateral or unilateral underdevelopment or absence of the central rays of the autopod ,  with absence of all or just some of the central phalanges and at least part of the associated metacarpal bones ,  yielding a cleft appearance of the hand .
a non - syndromic brachydactyly that involves the manus .
a non - syndromic brachydactyly that involves the pes .
triphalangeal thumb - polysyndactyly syndrome  ( tpt - ps )  is a hand - foot malformation characterized by triphalangeal thumbs and pre -  and postaxial polydactyly ,  isolated syndactyly or complex polysyndactyly .
constriction rings syndrome is a congenital limb malformation disorder with an extremely variable clinical presentation characterized by the presence of partial to complete ,  congenital ,  fibrous ,  circumferential ,  constriction bands / rings on any part of the body ,  although a particular predilection for the upper or lower extremities is seen .
hyperphalangy is a congenital ,  non - syndromic limb malformation characterized by the presence of an accessory phalanx between metacarpal / metatarsal and proximal phalanx ,  or between any two other phalanges of a digit ,  excluding the thumb .
syndactyly type 6 is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic ,  congenital limb malformation characterized by unilateral fusion of second to fifth fingers ,  amalgamation of distal phalanges in a knot - like structure ,  and second -  and third - toe fusion .
familial isolated clinodactyly of fingers is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic ,  congenital limb malformation characterized by angulation of a digit in the radio - ulnar  ( coronal )  plane ,  away from the axis of joint flexion - extension ,  in several members of a single family with no other associated manifestations .
camptodactyly of fingers is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic ,  congenital limb malformation characterized by a painless ,  non - traumatic ,  non - neurogenic ,  often bilateral ,  permanent flexion contracture at the proximal interphalangeal joint of a postaxial finger ,  resulting in permanent volar inclination of the affected digit .
a condition characterized by non - union of the tibia ,  which is present at birth .
tibio - fibular synostosis is a rare ,  non - syndromic limb malformation characterized by fusion of the proximal or distal tibial and fibular metaphysis and / or diaphysis ,  frequently associated with distal positioning of the proximal tibiofibular joint ,  leg length discrepancy ,  bowing of the fibula ,  and valgus deformity of the knee .
lower limb hypertrophy is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by uni -  or bilateral overgrowth of lower limbs involving bones and / or soft tissues and resulting in an abnormal increase in leg length and / or width .
congenital absence of both forearm and hand ,  unilateral is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by a unilateral ,  transverse absence of the radius and ulna  ( of varying terminal lengths )  ,  as well as all the elements composing the hand .
congenital absence of both forearm and hand ,  bilateral is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by a bilateral ,  transverse absence of the radius and ulna  ( of varying terminal lengths )  ,  as well as all the elements composing the hand .
absent thumb - short stature - immunodeficiency is an exceedingly rare ,  autosomal recessive immune disease characterized by thumb aplasia ,  short stature with skeletal abnormalities ,  and combined immunodeficiency described in three sibships from two possibly related families .
congenital absence / hypoplasia of thumb ,  unilateral is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by the unilateral underdevelopment of the thumb ,  ranging from a slight decrease in thumb size to complete absence of the thumb .
congenital absence / hypoplasia of thumb ,  bilateral is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by bilateral underdevelopment of the thumbs ,  ranging from a slight decrease in thumb size to complete absence of the thumbs .
split hand ,  unilateral is a rare ,  non - syndromic limb reduction defect ,  clinically and genetically heterogeneous ,  characterized by unilateral underdevelopment or absence of the central rays of the autopod ,  with absence of all ,  or just some ,  of the central phalanges and at least part of the associated metacarpal bones ,  yielding a cleft appearance of the hand .
split hand ,  bilateral is a rare ,  non - syndromic limb reduction defect ,  clinically and genetically heterogeneous ,  characterized by bilateral underdevelopment or absence of the central rays of the autopod ,  with absence of all ,  or just some ,  of the central phalanges and at least part of the associated metacarpal bones ,  yielding a cleft appearance of the hand .
any non - syndromic synpolydactyly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hoxd13 gene .
any non - syndromic synpolydactyly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fbln1 gene .
adducted thumbs - arthrogryposis ,  christian type is a type of arthrogryposis characterized by congenital cleft palate ,  microcephaly ,  craniostenosis and arthrogryposis  ( limitation of extension of elbows ,  flexed adducted thumbs ,  camptodactyly and clubfeet )  .
an abnormal alignment of the knee backwards that is due to a deformity in the knee joint .
ehlers - danlos syndrome ,  musculocontractural type is a congenital form of ehlers - danlos syndrome characterized by distinct craniofacial features ,  multiple contractures ,  progressive joint and skin laxity ,  adduction - flexion contractures of the thumbs ,  talipes equinovarus ,  bruisability and multisystem fragility - related manifestations .
acrodysplasia scoliosis is a rare ,  genetic dysostosis disorder characterized by brachydactyly and other finger / toe anomalies  ( short and / or wide metacarpals ,  abnormal or absent metatarsals ,  broad halluces )  ,  carpal synostosis ,  fused cervical vertebrae ,  scoliosis and spina bifida occulta .
guttmacher syndrome is an extremely rare syndrome characterized by hypoplastic thumbs and halluces ,  5th finger clinobrachydactyly ,  postaxial polydactyly of the hands ,  short or uniphalangeal 2nd toes with absent nails and hypospadias .
this syndrome is characterised by intellectual deficit associated with facial dysmorphism ,  patella luxation ,  and abnormal growth of the teeth .
progeria - short stature - pigmented nevi is a progeroid disorder characterised by low birthweight ,  short stature ,  multiple pigmented nevi and lack of facial subcutaneous fat .
enchondromatosis is a rare primary bone dysplasia disorder characterized by the development of multiple mainly unilateral or asymmetrically distributed enchondromas throughout the metaphyses of the long bones .
a rare autosomal recessive genetic disorder characterized by facial dysmorphism  ( down - slanting palpebral fissures ,  a broad flat nasal bridge and a small mouth )  with a progeroid appearance ,  large and late - closing fontanel ,  cutis laxa  ( cl )  ,  joint hyperlaxity ,  athetoid movements and hyperreflexia ,  pre -  and postnatal growth retardation ,  intellectual deficit and developmental delay ,  and corneal clouding and cataract .
progeroid syndrome ,  petty type is a rare premature aging syndrome characterized by pre - and postnatal growth retardation ,  a congenital premature - aged appearance with distinctive craniofacial dysmorphism  ( wide calvaria with large open anterior fontanel and wide metopic suture ,  broad forehead ,  small face ,  micrognathia )  ,  markedly diminished subcutaneous fat ,  cutis laxa and wrinkled skin ,  without delay in psychomotor development .
malocclusion in which the mandible is anterior to the maxilla as reflected by the first relationship of the first permanent molar  ( mesioclusion )  .
properdin deficiency is a rare ,  hereditary ,  primary immunodeficiency due to a complement cascade protein anomaly characterized by significantly increased susceptibility to neisseria species infections .
leukocyte adhesion deficiency  ( lad )  is a primary immunodeficiency characterized by defects in the leukocyte adhesion process ,  marked leukocytosis and recurrent infections .
proteus - like syndrome describes patients who do not meet the diagnostic criteria for proteus syndrome but who share a multitude of characteristic clinical features of the disease .
prune belly syndrome is a rare congenital disorder ,  belonging to the group of fetal lower urinary tract obstructions  ( luto )  ,  involving variable dilation of the lower urinary tract in association with partial or complete absence of the lateral and inferior abdominal wall musculature and in males bilateral non - palpable undescended testes .
peroxisomal acyl - coa oxidase deficiency is a rare neurodegenerative disorder that belongs to the group of inherited peroxisomal disorders and is characterized by hypotonia and seizures in the neonatal period and neurological regression in early infancy .
noneruption of teeth  -  maxillary hypoplasia  -  genu valgum is an extremely rare syndrome that is characterized by multiple unerupted permanent teeth ,  hypoplasia of the alveolar process and of the maxillo - zygomatic region ,  severe genu valgum and deformed ears .
46 , xx disorder of sex development - anorectal anomalies syndrome is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome characterized by a normal female karyotype ,  normal ovaries ,  male or ambiguous genitalia ,  urinary tract malformations  ( ranging from bilateral renal agenesis to mild unilateral hydronephrosis )  ,  mllerian duct anomalies  ( e .g .
pseudoleprechaunism syndrome ,  patterson type is a rare ,  genetic ,  adrenal disorder characterized by congenital bronzed hyperpigmentation ,  cutis laxa of the hands and feet ,  body disproportion  ( comprising large hands ,  feet ,  nose and ears )  ,  hirsutism and severe intellectual disability .
chronic intestinal pseudo - obstruction  ( cipo )  is a rare gastrointestinal motility disorder characterized by recurring episodes resembling mechanical obstruction in the absence of organic ,  systemic ,  or metabolic disorders ,  and without any physical obstruction being detected by x - ray or during surgery .
mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalomyopathy  ( mngie )  syndrome is characterized by the association of gastrointestinal dysmotility ,  peripheral neuropathy ,  chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia and leukoencephalopathy .
acro - oto - ocular syndrome is a very rare disorder associating pseudopapilledema  ( optic disc swelling not secondary to increased intracranial pressure )  ,  mixed hearing loss ,  facial dysmorphism and limb extremity anomalies .
verloes - gillerot - fryns syndrome is a rare association of malformations .
pseudoprogeria is characterised by intellectual deficit associated with progressive spastic quadriplegia ,  microcephaly ,  glaucoma ,  absence of the eyebrows and eyelashes ,  and a malformation of the nose .
pterygium colli - intellectual disability - digital anomalies syndrome is characterized by pterygium colli ,  digital anomalies  ( abnormal small thumbs ,  widened interphalangeal joints ,  and broad terminal phalanges )  ,  and craniofacial abnormalities  ( brachycephaly ,  epicanthic folds ,  angulated eyebrows ,  upward slanting of the palpebral fissures ,  ptosis ,  hypertelorism ,  and prominent low - set ,  posteriorly rotated ears )  .
familial pterygium of the conjunctiva is a rare form of pterygium ,  which develops in early adulthood ,  characterized by a wing - like bulbar thickening of the conjunctiva in the interpalpebral fissure area that can be cured by surgical excision .
a rare congenital disorder ,  this is the non - lethal variant of multiple pterygium syndrome ,  characterized by orthopedic and craniofacial abnormalities ,  pterygium and akinethesia .
short stature - craniofacial anomalies - genital hypoplasia syndrome is characterized by the association of short stature ,  craniofacial anomalies and genital hypoplasia .
baraitser - winter syndrome  ( bws )  is a malformation syndrome ,  characterized by facial dysmorphism  ( hypertelorism with ptosis ,  broad bulbous nose ,  ridged metopic suture ,  arched eyebrows ,  progressive coarsening of the face )  ,  ocular coloboma ,  pachygyria and / or band heterotopias with antero - posterior gradient ,  progressive joint stiffening ,  and intellectual deficit of variable severity ,  often with severe epilepsy .
ptosis - vocal cord paralysis syndrome is a rare ,  hereditary disorder with ptosis characterized by the combination of congenital bilateral recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis and congenital bilateral ptosis .
ptosis - strabismus - ectopic pupils syndrome is characterised by the association of ptosis ,  strabismus and ectopic pupils .
an extremely rare autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the umps gene .
ehlers - danlos syndrome ,  kyphoscoliotic and deafness type is a form of ehlers - danlos syndrome ,  characterized by severe generalized hypotonia at birth with severe early - onset kyphoscolosis along with joint hypermobility  ( without contractures )  leading to recurrent dislocations ,  and sensorineural hearing impairment .
connective tissue disorder due to lysyl hydroxylase - 3 deficiency is a rare ,  genetic disease ,  caused by lack of lysyl hydrohylase 3  ( lh3 )  activity ,  characterized by multiple tissue and organ involvement ,  including skeletal abnormalities  ( club foot ,  progressive scoliosis ,  osteopenia ,  pathologic fractures )  ,  ocular involvement  ( flat retinae ,  myopia ,  cataracts )  and hair ,  nail and skin anomalies  ( coarse ,  abnormally distributed hair ,  skin blistering ,  reduced palmar creases ,  hypoplastic nails )  .
steap3 / tsap6 - related sideroblastic anemia is a very rare severe non - syndromic hypochromic anemia ,  which is characterized by transfusion - dependent hypochromic ,  poorly regenerative anemia ,  iron overload ,  resembling non - syndromic sideroblastic anemia except for increased erythrocyte protoporphyrin levels .
pyknoachondrogenesis is a lethal skeletal osteochondrodysplasia characterized by severe generalized osteosclerosis .
11p15 .4 microduplication syndrome is a rare partial autosomal trisomy / tetrasomy characterized by obesity ,  global developmental delay and intellectual disability ,  facial dysmorphism  ( synophrys ,  high - arched eyebrows ,  large posteriorly rotated ears ,  upturned nose ,  long smooth philtrum ,  overbite and high palate )  ,  large hands and limb hypotonia .
an instance of systemic lupus erythematosus  ( disease )  that is caused by mutations in dnase1l3 .
mirror polydactyly - vertebral segmentation - limbs defects syndrome is characterised by mirror polydactyly ,  vertebral hypersegmentation and severe congenital limb deficiencies .
any multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome - intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the piga gene .
pyle disease is a bone dysplasia characterised by genu valgum ,  metaphyseal anomalies with broadening of the long bones extending into the diaphyses and giving the femora and tibiae an 'erlenmeyer flask'' appearance ,  widening of the ribs and clavicles ,  platyspondyly and cortical thinning .
any pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the klhl3 gene .
any pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cul3 gene .
 ( 1p36 .1 )  .
a condition caused by autosomal recessive loss - of - function mutation ( s )  in the cyp24a1 or slc34a1 gene ,  encoding mitochondrial 1 , 25 - dihydroxyvitamin d ( 3 )  24 - hydroxylase ,  and sodium - dependent phosphate transport protein 2a ,  respectively .
any complex cortical dysplasia with other brain malformations in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tubb3 gene .
any complex cortical dysplasia with other brain malformations in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tubb2b gene .
pyridoxine - dependent epilepsy  ( pde )  is a rare neurometabolic disease characterized by recurrent intractable seizures in the prenatal ,  neonatal and postnatal period that are resistant to anti - epileptic drugs  ( aeds )  but that are responsive to pharmacological dosages of pyridoxine  ( vitamin b6 )  .
juvenile amyotrophic lateral sclerosis  ( jals )  is a very rare severe motor neuron disease characterized by progressive upper and lower motor neuron degeneration causing facial spasticity ,  dysarthria ,  and gait disorders with onset before 25 years of age .
familial dilated cardiomyopathy with conduction defect due to lmna mutation is a rare familial dilated cardiomyopathy characterized by left ventricular enlargement and / or reduced systolic function preceded or accompanied by significant conduction system disease and / or arrhythmias including bradyarrhythmias ,  supraventricular or ventricular arrhythmias .
pyruvate carboxylase  ( pc )  deficiency is a rare neurometabolic disorder characterized by metabolic acidosis ,  failure to thrive ,  developmental delay ,  and recurrent seizures at an early age in severely affected patients .
qazi - markouizos syndrome is characterised principally by non - progressive central hypotonia ,  chronic constipation ,  severe psychomotor retardation ,  abnormal dermatoglyphics ,  dysharmonic skeletal maturation and disproportionate muscle fibres .
spastic tetraplegia - retinitis pigmentosa - intellectual disability syndrome is characterized by nonprogressive spastic paraplegia ,  retinitis pigmentosa ,  and intellectual deficit .
radio - renal syndrome is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by variable upper limb reduction defects and renal anomalies .
absent radius - anogenital anomalies syndrome is a rare ,  genetic limb reduction defects syndrome characterized by bilateral radial aplasia / hypoplasia manifesting with absent / short forearms in association with anogenital abnormalities  ( e .g .
epidermodysplasia verruciformis  ( ev )  is a rare inherited genodermatosis characterized by chronic infection with human papillomavirus  ( hpv )  leading to polymorphous cutaneous lesions and high risk of developing non melanoma skin cancer .
rapadilino syndrome is a syndrome for which the acronym indicates the principal signs: ra for radial ray defect ,  pa for both patellae hypoplasia or aplasia and cleft or highly arched palate ,  di for diarrhea and dislocated joints ,  li for little size and limb malformations ,  no for long ,  slender nose and normal intelligence .
caudal regression sequence is a rare congenital malformation of the lower spinal segments associated with aplasia or hypoplasia of the sacrum and lumbar spine .
dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( deb )  is a form of inherited epidermolysis bullosa  ( eb )  characterized by cutaneous and mucosal fragility resulting in blisters and superficial ulcerations that develop below the lamina densa of the cutaneous basement membrane and that heal with significant scarring and milia formation .
delayed membranous cranial ossification is a rare ,  genetic primary bone dysplasia characterized by absent ossification of calvarial bones at birth and characteristic facial dysmorphisms  ( frontal bossing ,  hypertelorism ,  downward - slanting palpebral fissures ,  proptosis ,  flat nasal bridge ,  low - set ears ,  midface retrusion )  .
growth delay  -  hydrocephaly  -  lung hypoplasia ,  also named game - friedman - paradice syndrome ,  is a rare developmental disorder described in 4 sibs so far and characterized by delayed fetal growth ,  hydrocephaly with patent aqueduct of sylvius ,  underdeveloped lungs and various other anomalies such as small jaw ,  intestinal malrotation ,  omphalocele ,  shortness of lower limbs ,  bowed tibias and foot deformities .
this syndrome is extremely rare and is characterized by delayed speech development ,  mild facial asymmetry ,  strabismus and transverse ear lobe creases .
a rare ,  biliary tract disease characterized by progressive obliterative cholangiopathy of the intra -  and extrahepatic bile ducts ,  occuring in the embryonic /  perinatal period ,  leading to severe and persistent neonatal jaundice and acholic stool .
epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs )  is a group of hereditary epidermolysis bullosa  ( heb )  disorders characterized by skin fragility resulting in intraepidermal blisters and erosions that occur either spontaneously or after physical trauma .
intellectual disability - balding - patella luxation - acromicria syndrome is characterised by severe intellectual deficit ,  patella luxations ,  acromicria ,  hypogonadism ,  facial dysmorphism  ( including midface hypoplasia and premature frontotemporal balding )  .
intellectual disability - cataracts - calcified pinnae - myopathy syndrome is a rare ,  genetic intellectual disability syndrome characterized by macrocephaly ,  hypotonia ,  dysmorphic facial features  ( wide forehead ,  ptosis ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  enlarged and calcified external ears ,  large jaw )  ,  sparse body hair ,  tall stature ,  and intellectual disability .
intellectual disability - dysmorphism - hypogonadism - diabetes mellitus syndrome is characterised by moderate intellectual deficit ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( including broad nose with coloboma of the alea nasi ,  deep - set eyes ,  prognathism )  ,  hypergonadotropic hypogonadism ,  eunuchoid habitus ,  type 1 diabetes mellitus ,  and epilepsy .
blepharophimosis - intellectual disability syndrome ,  sbbys type is characterised by the association of congenital hypothyroidism ,  facial dysmorphism  ( microcephaly ,  blepharophimosis ,  a bulbous nose ,  thin lip ,  low - set ears and micrognathia )  ,  postaxial polydactyly and severe intellectual deficit .
junctional epidermolysis bullosa  ( jeb )  is a form of inherited epidermolysis bullosa characterized by involvement of the skin and mucous membranes ,  and is defined by the formation of blistering lesions between the epidermis and the dermis at the lamina lucida level of the cutaneous basement membrane zone and by healing of lesions with atrophy and / or exuberant granulation tissue formation .
intellectual disability - sparse hair - brachydactyly syndrome is a very rare condition of unknown etiology consisting of short stature ,  hypotrichosis ,  brachydactyly with cone - shaped epiphyses ,  epilepsy and severe mental delay .
x - linked intellectual disability - seizures - psoriasis syndrome has been described in four male cousins .
monoamine oxidase - a deficiency is a very rare recessive x - linked biogenic amine metabolism disorder characterized clinically by mild intellectual deficit ,  impulsive aggressiveness ,  and sometimes violent behavior and presenting from childhood .
benign familial infantile epilepsy  ( bfie )  is a genetic epileptic syndrome characterized by the occurrence of afebrile repeated seizures in healthy infants ,  between the third and eighth month of life .
snyder - robinson syndrome  ( srs )  is an x - linked intellectual disability syndrome ,  including also hypotonia ,  an unsteady gait ,  osteoporosis ,  kyphoscoliosis and facial asymmetry .
a group of clinically heterogeneous disorders united by a germline pten mutation and the involvement of derivatives of all 3 germ cell layers ,  manifesting with hamartomas ,  overgrowth and neoplasia .
congenital nephrotic syndrome - interstitial lung disease - epidermolysis bullosa syndrome is a life - threatening multiorgan disorder which develops in the first months of life ,  presenting with respiratory distress and proteinuria in the nephrotic range ,  and leading to severe interstitial lung disease and renal failure .
lamb2 - related infantile - onset nephrotic syndrome is a rare primary glomerular disease due to homozygous mutations in lamb2 gene ,  characterized by prenatal or early - onset progressive steroid - resistant nephrotic syndrome leading to renal failure ,  and variable ocular defects including myopia ,  fundus abnormalities ,  strabismus or nystagmus ,  without severe visual impairment or blindness .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 48  ( spg48 )  is a form of hereditary spastic paraplegia usually characterized by a pure phenotype of a slowly progressive spastic paraplegia associated with urinary incontinence with an onset in mid -  to late - adulthood .
familial primary hypomagnesemia with hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis  ( fhhnc )  is a form of familial primary hypomagnesemia  ( fph )  ,  characterized by renal magnesium  ( mg )  and calcium  ( ca )  wasting ,  nephrocalcinosis ,  kidney failure and ,  in some cases ,  severe ocular impairment .
familial primary hypomagnesemia with normocalcuria  ( fphn )  is a form of familial primary hypomagnesemia  ( fph )  which is characterized by low magnesium values but normal calcium values in the serum .
isolated hereditary congenital facial paralysis  ( ihcfp )  is an extremely rare neurological disorder presumed to result from maldevelopment of the facial nucleus and / or cranial nerve and has been reported in fewer than 10 families to date .
congenital hereditary facial paralysis - variable hearing loss syndrome is an extremely rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by bilateral facial palsy with masked facies ,  sensorineural hearing loss ,  dysmorphic features  ( midfacial retrusion ,  low - set ears )  ,  and strabismus .
a rare genetic immunological disease reported in a single consanguineous pakistani family with several affected members presenting with severe bacterial and viral infections ,  recurrent hepatopathy  ( portal inflammation ,  fibrosis )  ,  and recurrent ,  stereotypical febrile episodes ,  sometimes lasting several days ,  with encephalopathy and difficult - to - control seizures .
autosomal dominant form of opitz g / bbb syndrome .
x - linked form of opitz g / bbb syndrome .
an x - linked form of l1 syndrome characterized by spastic paraplegia ,  mild to moderate intellectual disability ,  normal mri of the brain .
tumoral calcinosis is a phosphocalcic metabolism anomaly ,  particularly among younger age groups and characterized by the presence of calcified masses in the juxta - articular regions  ( hip ,  elbow ,  ankle and scapula )  without joint involvement .
hemiparkinsonism - hemiatrophy syndrome is a rare parkinsonian disorder characterized by unilateral body atrophy and slowly progressive ,  ipsilateral hemiparkinsonian signs  ( bradykinesia ,  rigidity ,  and tremor )  .
kufor - rakeb syndrome  ( krs )  is a rare genetic neurodegenerative disorder characterized by juvenile parkinsonism ,  pyramidal degeneration  ( dystonia )  ,  supranuclear palsy ,  and cognitive impairment .
primary dystonia ,  dyt21 type is a subtype of mixed dystonia with a late - onset form of pure torsion dystonia .
intellectual disability - myopathy - short stature - endocrine defect syndrome is a rare congenital myopathy syndrome characterized by nonprogressive myopathy  ( manifesting with mild facial and generalized weakness ,  bilateral ptosis ,  and severe lumbar lordosis )  ,  severe intellectual disability ,  short stature ,  and sexual infantilism  ( due to hypogonadotropic hypogonadism )  .
juvenile myoclonic epilepsy is the most common hereditary idiopathic generalized epilepsy syndrome and is characterized by myoclonic jerks of the upper limbs on awakening ,  generalized tonic - clonic seizures manifesting during adolescence and triggered by sleep deprivation ,  alcohol intake ,  and cognitive activities ,  and typical absence seizures  ( 30% of cases )  .
costello syndrome  ( cs )  is a rare multisystemic disorder characterized by failure to thrive ,  short stature ,  developmental delay or intellectual disability ,  joint laxity ,  soft skin ,  and distinctive facial features .
a diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma that is not part of a larger syndrome .
intellectual disability - short stature - hypertelorism syndrome is a rare genetic syndromic intellectual disability affecting males characterized by short stature ,  mild to moderate intellectual deficits ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( prominent broad 'square' forehead ,  hypertelorism ,  depressed nasal bridge ,  broad nasal tip and anteverted nares )  and early hypotonia present only until the age of 2 .
curly hair - acral keratoderma - caries syndrome is an extremely rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by premature loss of curly ,  brittle ,  dry hair ,  premature loss of teeth due to caries ,  nail dystrophy with thickening of the finger -  and toe - nails ,  acral keratoderma and hypohidrosis .
severe x - linked intellectual disability ,  gustavson type is characterised by x - linked mental retardation ,  microcephaly ,  optical atrophy with impaired vision or blindness ,  a severe hearing defect ,  facial dysmorphology ,  spasticity ,  epileptic seizures and restricted joint movement .
a focal palmoplantar keratoderma that is not part of a larger syndrome .
intellectual disability ,  buenos - aires type is a rare intellectual disability syndrome characterized by growth retardation ,  microcephaly ,  characteristic facial features  ( including narrow forehead ,  bushy eyebrows ,  hypertelorism ,  small ,  downward - slanting palpebral fissures with blepharoptosis ,  malformed and low - set ears ,  broad straight nose ,  thin upper lip ,  and a wide ,  tented mouth )  ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  speech disorder ,  and multiple organ malformations  ( e .g .
hypotrichosis - osteolysis - periodontitis - palmoplantar keratoderma syndrome is an extremely rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by hypotrichosis universalis with mild to severe scarring alopecia ,  acro - osteolysis ,  onychogryphosis ,  thin and tapered fingertips ,  periodontitis and caries leading to premature teeth loss ,  linear or reticular palmoplantar keratoderma and erythematous ,  scaling ,  psoriasis - like skin lesions on arms and legs .
a palmoplantar keratosis characterized by keratoses with a "raindrop" pattern on the palmoplantar surface ,  skin lesions which may involve the whole of the palmoplantar surface ,  or may be more restricted in their distribution .
unverricht - lundborg disease  ( uld )  is a rare progressive myoclonic epilepsy disorder characterized by action -  and stimulus - sensitive myoclonus ,  and tonic - clonic seizures with ataxia ,  but with only a mild cognitive decline over time .
intellectual disability ,  wolff type is a rare intellectual disability syndrome characterized by severe intellectual disability ,  characteristic facial features  ( low anterior hairline ,  upward slanting palpebral fissures ,  ocular hypertelorism ,  broad ,  bulbous nose ,  large ears with helix incompletely developed ,  thick lips ,  and micrognathia )  and additional anomalies including peripheral joint contractures ,  delayed skeletal maturation ,  bilateral cleft lip and palate ,  strabismus ,  terminal hypoplasia of fingers ,  hypospadias ,  and bilateral inguinal hernias .
erythrokeratoderma variabilis progressiva  ( ekvp )  is a type of erythrokeratoderma characterized by the association of hyperkeratosis and erythema in persistent ,  although sometimes variable ,  circumscribed lesions .
intellectual disability - polydactyly - uncombable hair syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by intellectual disability ,  postaxial polydactyly ,  phalangeal hypoplasia ,  2 - 3 toe syndactyly ,  uncombable hair and facial dysmorphism  ( including frontal bossing ,  hypotelorism ,  narrow palpebral fissures ,  nasal bridge and lips ,  prominent nasal root ,  large abnormal ears with prominent antihelix ,  poorly folded helix ,  underdeveloped lobule and antitragus ,  and micrognathia evolving into prognatism )  .
a molybdenum cofactor deficiency that has material basis in homozygous mutation in the gphn gene on chromosome 14q23 .
methylmalonic acidemia due to methylmalonyl - coa epimerase deficiency is a rare inborn error of metabolism disease characterized by mild to moderate ,  persistent elevation of methylmalonic acid in plasma ,  urine and cerebrospinal fluid .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of aminoacylase activity .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of neutral amino acid transport .
retinitis pigmentosa  -  intellectual disability  -  deafness  -  hypogenitalism is an extremely rare syndromic retinitis pigmentosa characterized by pigmentary retinopathy ,  diabetes mellitus with hyperinsulinism ,  acanthosis nigricans ,  secondary cataracts ,  neurogenic deafness ,  short stature mild hypogonadism in males and polycystic ovaries with oligomenorrhea in females .
glycogen storage disease due to acid maltase deficiency ,  infantile onset is the most severe form of glycogen storage disease due to acid maltase deficiency ,  characterized by cardiomegaly with respiratory distress ,  muscle weakness and feeding difficulties .
glycogen storage disease due to acid maltase deficiency ,  non - classical infantile onset  ( amdnci )  ,  is form of glycogen storage disease due to acid maltase deficiency  ( amd ,  see this term )  ,  a metabolic myopathy affecting respiratory and skeletal muscles that may fatally impede respiratory function during childhood .
autosomal dominant vitreoretinochoroidopathy  ( advirc )  is a genetic vitreous - retinal disease characterized by ocular developmental anomalies such as microcornea ,  a shallow anterior chamber ,  glaucoma and cataract .
glycogen storage disease due to acid maltase deficiency ,  late onset  ( amdl )  ,  a form of glycogen storage disease due to acid maltase deficiency  ( amd )  ,  a degenerative metabolic myopathy particularly affecting respiratory and skeletal muscles ,  is characterized by an accumulation of glycogen in lysosomes .
retinohepatoendocrinologic syndrome is characterized by total colorblindness caused by progressive cone dystrophy ,  degenerative liver disease ,  and endocrine dysfunction  ( hypothyroidism ,  diabetes ,  repeated abortions or infertility )  .
revesz syndrome is a rare severe phenotypic variant of dyskeratosis congenita  ( dc )  with an onset in early childhood ,  characterized by features of dc  ( e .g .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of glycerol kinase activity .
an instance of partial epilepsy that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
an inherited metabolic disorder caused by an enzyme deficiency ,  resulting in an inability to oxidize fatty acids for energy production .
familial lipoprotein lipase deficiency is a rare genetic disorder is which a person lacks the enzyme lipoprotein lipase ,  a protein needed to break down fat molecules .
an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutation ( s )  in the pnlip gene ,  encoding pancreatic triacylglycerol lipase .
"combined pancreatic lipase - colipase deficiency is a disorder of lipid absorption and transport characterized by steatorrhea with foul - smelling stools from birth ,  diminished serum carotene and vitamin e and a combined deficiency of the pancreatic enzymes lipase and colipase .
a group of autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorders marked by the accumulation of gangliosides .
hyperbetaalaninemia is a very rare metabolic condition .hyperbetaalaninemia refers to thebuild - upof protein building blocks ,  called beta amino acids ,  in the body .
a group of recessively inherited diseases characterized by the intralysosomal accumulation of g ( m2 )  ganglioside in the neuronal cells .
a sandhoff disease that occurs in an adult .
primary hypomagnesemia with secondary hypocalcemia  ( phsh )  is a form of familial primary hypomagnesemia  ( fph )  ,  characterized by severe hypomagnesemia and secondary hypocalcemia associated with neurological symptoms ,  including generalized seizures ,  tetany and muscle spasms .
gm2 gangliosidosis ,  ab variant is an extremely rare ,  severe genetic disorder characterized by progressive neurological decline due to ganglioside activator deficiency .
hereditary central diabetes insipidus is a rare genetic subtype of central diabetes insipidus  ( cdi )  characterized by polyuria and polydipsia due to a deficiency in vasopressin  ( avp )  synthesis .
any gaucher disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the psap gene .
metachromatic leukodystrophy is an inherited condition characterized by the accumulation of fats called sulfatides in cells ,  especially cells of the nervous system .
sialidosis is a lysosomal storage disease ,  belonging to the group of oligosaccharidoses or glycoproteinoses ,  with a wide clinical spectrum that is divided into two main clinical subtypes: sialidosis type i ,  the milder ,  non dysmorphic form of the disease characterized by gait abnormalities ,  progressive visual loss ,  bilateral macular cherry red spots and myoclonus ,  that presents in adolescence or adulthood  ( second or third decade of life )  ;  and sialidosis type ii the more severe ,  early onset form ,  characterized by a progressive and severe mucopolysaccharidosis - like phenotype with coarse facies ,  visceromegaly ,  dysostosis multiplex ,  and developmental delay .
a rare autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by deficiency of the enzyme galactosamine - 6 - sulfatase .
a rare autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by deficiency of the enzyme beta galactosidase .
salla disease is the mildest form of the free sialic acid storage disorders ,  which primarily affect the nervous system .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of protein n - linked glycosylation .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of protein o - linked glycosylation .
atypical rett syndrome  ( atypical rtt )  is a neurodevelopmental disorder that is diagnosed when a child presents with a rett - like syndrome but does not fulfill all the diagnostic criteria for typical rett syndrome  ( classic / typical rtt )  .
meacham syndrome is a multiple malformation syndrome characterized by congenital diaphragmatic abnormalities ,  genital defects and cardiac malformations .
rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata type 1  ( rcdp1 )  is a condition that impairs the normal development of many parts of the body .
any rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gnpat gene .
rhizomelic syndrome ,  urbach type is a rare primary bone dysplasia characterized by upper limbs rhizomelia and other skeletal anomalies  ( e .g .
any rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the agps gene .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of porphyrin - containing compound metabolic process .
an instance of bilirubin metabolism disease that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of cellular copper ion homeostasis .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of magnesium ion transport .
oxoglutaric aciduria is a very rare tricarboxylic acid cycle disorder ,  resulting from a deficiency in alpha - ketoglutarate dehydrogenase  ( one of the three subunits of the alpha - ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex )  ,  that most often presents in the neonatal period with hypotonia ,  severe encephalopathy ,  extrapyramidal signs ,  pyramidal tract dysfunction and seizures and that frequently results in death in early childhood .
richieri costa - pereira syndrome is characterized by short stature ,  robin sequence ,  cleft mandible ,  pre / postaxial hand anomalies  ( including hypoplastic thumbs )  ,  and clubfoot .
roberts syndrome  ( rbs )  is characterized by pre -  and postnatal growth retardation ,  severe symmetric limb reduction defects ,  craniofacial anomalies and severe intellectual deficit .
robin sequence - oligodactyly syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome characterized by robin sequence  ( i .e .
familial primary hypomagnesemia with hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis without severe ocular involvement  ( fhhn )  is a form of familial primary hypomagnesemia  ( fph ;  see this term )  ,  characterized by recurrent urinary tract infections ,  nephrolithiasis ,  bilateral nephrocalcinosis ,  renal magnesium  ( mg )  wasting ,  hypercalciuria and kidney failure .
robinow - like syndrome is characterized by the association of the clinical features present in robinow syndrome  ( short stature ,  mesomelic brachymelia ,  macrocephaly ,  and hypoplastic genitalia )  ,  with anterior chamber cleavage anomalies .
autosomal dominant robinow syndrome  ( drs )  is the more common type of robinow syndrome  ( rs )  characterized by mild to moderate limb shortening and abnormalities of the head ,  face and external genitalia .
mayer - rokitansky - kster - hauser  ( mrkh )  syndrome describes a spectrum of mullerian duct anomalies characterized by congenital aplasia of the uterus and upper 2 / 3 of the vagina in otherwise phenotypically normal females .
rombo syndrome is characterized by vermiculate atrophoderma ,  milia ,  hypotrichosis ,  trichoepitheliomas ,  peripheral vasodilation with cyanosis and basal cell carcinomas .
rotor syndrome  ( rt )  is a benign ,  inherited liver disorder characterized by chronic ,  predominantly conjugated ,  nonhemolytic hyperbilirubinemia with normal liver histology .
dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans  ( dfsp )  is a rare infiltrating soft tissue sarcoma ,  generally of low grade malignancy ,  arising from the dermis of the skin and characteristically associated with a specific chromosomal translocation t ( 17 ; 22 )  .
tangier disease  ( td )  is a rare lipoprotein metabolism disorder characterized biochemically by an almost complete absence of plasma high - density lipoproteins  ( hdl )  ,  and clinically by liver ,  spleen ,  lymph node and tonsil enlargement along with peripheral neuropathy in children and adolescents ,  and ,  occasionally ,  cardiovascular disease in adults .
a metabolic disorder characterized by deficiency of high density  ( alpha )  lipoprotein in the blood .
hypobetalipoproteinemia  ( hbl )  constitutes a group of lipoprotein metabolism disorders that are characterized by permanently low levels  ( below the 5th percentile )  of apolipoprotein b and ldl cholesterol .
epidermolytic ichthyosis  ( ei )  is a rare keratinopathic ichthyosis  ( kpi )  ,  that is characterized by a blistering phenotype at birth which progressively becomes hyperkeratotic .
ruvalcaba syndrome is an extremely rare malformation syndrome ,  described in less than 10 patients to date ,  characterized by microcephaly with characteristic facies  ( downslanting parpebral fissures ,  microstomia ,  beaked nose ,  narrow maxilla )  ,  very short stature ,  narrow thoracic cage with pectus carinatum ,  hypoplastic genitalia and skeletal anomalies  ( i .e .
saccharopinuria is a disorder of lysine metabolism associated with hyperlysinaemia and lysinuria .
an acrocephalosyndactylia characterized by abnormalities in the bones of the legs ,  congenital heart defects and craniofacial defects and craniosynostosis .
sarcosinemia is a metabolic disorder characterized by an increased concentration of sarcosine in plasma and urine due to sarcosine dehydrogenase deficiency .
lamellar ichthyosis  ( li )  is a keratinization disorder characterized by the presence of large scales all over the body without significant erythroderma .
say - barber - miller syndrome is characterised by the association of unusual facial features ,  microcephaly ,  developmental delay ,  and severe postnatal growth retardation .
say - field - coldwell syndrome is characterised by triphalangeal thumbs ,  brachydactyly ,  camptodactyly ,  recurrent dislocation of the patellas and relatively short stature .
scarf syndrome is characterised by the association of skeletal abnormalities ,  cutis laxa ,  craniostenosis ,  ambiguous genitalia ,  psychomotor retardation and facial abnormalities .
a disorder characterized by osteochondrosis of the vertebral epiphyses in childhood .
alpha - n - acetylgalactosaminidase  ( naga )  deficiency is a very rare lysosomal storage disease that is clinically and pathologically heterogeneous and is characterized by deficient naga activity .
early - onset spastic ataxia - myoclonic epilepsy - neuropathy syndrome is a rare hereditary spastic ataxia disorder characterized by childhood onset of slowly progressive lower limb spastic paraparesis and cerebellar ataxia  ( with dysarthria ,  swallowing difficulties ,  motor degeneration )  ,  associated with sensorimotor neuropathy  ( including muscle weakness and distal amyotrophy in lower extremities )  and progressive myoclonic epilepsy .
20p13 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly characterized by developmental delay ,  mild to moderate intellectual disability ,  epilepsy ,  and unspecific dysmorphic signs .
jawad syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by congenital microcephaly wih facial dysmorphism  ( sloping forehead ,  prominent nose ,  mild retrognathia )  ,  moderate to severe ,  non - progressive intellectual disability and symmetrical digital malformations of variable degree ,  including brachydactyly of the fifth fingers with single flexion crease ,  clinodactyly ,  syndactyly ,  polydactyly and hallux valgus .
ulnar - mammary syndrome  ( ums )  is a rare developmental disorder characterized by ulnar defects ,  mammary and apocrine gland hypoplasia and genital anomalies .
optic nerve edema - splenomegaly syndrome is a rare presumably genetic disorder characterized by idiopathic massive splenomegaly with pancytopenia and childhood - onset chronic optic nerve edema with slowly progressive vision loss .
hereditary diffuse leukoencephalopathy with axonal spheroids and pigmented glia is a rare autosomal dominant disease characterized by a complex phenotype including progressive dementia ,  apraxia ,  apathy ,  impaired balance ,  parkinsonism ,  spasticity and epilepsy .
coats plus syndrome is a pleiotropic multisystem disorder characterized by retinal telangiectasia and exudates ,  intracranial calcification with leukoencephalopathy and brain cysts ,  osteopenia with predisposition to fractures ,  bone marrow suppression ,  gastrointestinal bleeding and portal hypertension .
infantile cerebellar retinal degeneration  ( icrd )  is a genetic condition present from birth  ( congenital )  that involves the brain and eyes .
developmental and speech delay due to sox5 deficiency is a rare genetic syndromic intellectual disability characterized by mild to severe global developmental delay ,  intellectual disability and behavioral abnormalities ,  hypotonia ,  strabismus ,  optic nerve hypoplasia and mild facial dysmorphic features  ( down slanting palpebral fissures ,  frontal bossing ,  crowded teeth ,  auricular abnormalities and prominent philtral ridges )  .
pens syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  neurocutaneous syndrome characterized by the presence of randomly distributed ,  small ,  white to yellowish ,  multiple ,  rounded or irregular polycyclically - shaped ,  epidermal keratotic papules and plaques of ''gem - like'' appearance with a rough surface ,  typically located on the trunk and proximal limbs ,  associated with variable neurological abnormalities ,  including psychomotor delay ,  epilepsy ,  speech and language impairment and attention deficit - hyperactivity disorder .
2q23 .1 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 2 ,  primarily characterized by global developmental delay ,  hypotonia ,  autistic - like features and behavioural problems .
7p22 .1 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from a partial interstitial microduplication of the short arm of chromosome 7 ,  characterized by intellectual disability ,  psychomotor and speech delays ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( including macrocephaly ,  frontal bossing ,  hypertelorism ,  abnormally slanted palpebral fissures ,  anteverted nares ,  low - set ears ,  microretrognathia )  and cryptorchidia .
leukoencephalopathy - thalamus and brainstem anomalies - high lactate  ( ltbl )  syndrome is a rare ,  genetic neurological disorder defined by early - onset of neurologic symptoms ,  biphasic clinical course ,  unique mri features  ( incl .
any congenital diarrhea in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gucy2c gene .
any meconium ileus in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gucy2c gene .
any hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dst gene .
xq12 - q13 .3 duplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome x ,  characterized by global developmental delay ,  autistic behavior ,  microcephaly and facial dysmorphism  ( including down - slanting palpebral fissures ,  depressed nasal bridge ,  anteverted nares ,  long philtrum ,  down - slanting corners of the mouth )  .
schneckenbecken dysplasia  ( or chondrodysplasia with snail - like pelvis )  is a prenatally lethal spondylodysplastic dysplasia .
autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia ,  deafness and narcolepsy  ( adca - dn )  is a polymorphic disorder and a subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type 1  ( adca type 1 )  characterized by ataxia ,  sensorineural deafness and narcolepsy with cataplexy and dementia .
young adult - onset distal hereditary motor neuropathy is a rare autosomal recessive distal hereditary motor neuropathy characterized by slowly progressive muscular weakness ,  hypotonia and atrophy of the lower limbs ,  more pronounced distally ,  leading to paralysis ,  and loss of tendon reflexes .
this syndrome is characterised by nephrogenic diabetes insipidus ,  intracerebral calcifications ,  intellectual deficit ,  short stature and facial dysmorphism .
autosomal recessive leukoencephalopathy - ischemic stroke - retinitis pigmentosa syndrome is a rare neurologic disease characterized by global developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  multiple ischemic lesions in brain mri ,  behavioral abnormalities ,  dystonia ,  choreic movements and pyramidal syndrome ,  facial dysmorphism  ( hypertelorism ,  arched palate ,  macroglossia )  ,  retinitis pigmentosa ,  scoliosis ,  seizures .
15q overgrowth syndrome is a rare partial autosomal trisomy / tetrasomy characterized by facial dysmorphism  ( long thin face ,  prominent forehead ,  down - slanting palpebral fissures ,  prominent nose with broad nasal bridge ,  prominent chin )  ,  pre -  and postnatal overgrowth ,  renal anomalies  ( e .g .
any autosomal recessive spastic ataxia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mars2 gene .
any neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the grn gene .
mitochondrial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with lactic acidosis due to mto1 deficiency is a rare mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation disorder with complex i and iv deficiency characterized by lactic acidosis ,  hypotonia ,  hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and global developmental delay .
non - progressive cerebellar ataxia with intellectual deficit is a rare subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type 1  ( adca type 1 )  characterized by the onset in infancy of cerebellar ataxia ,  neonatal hypotonia  ( in some )  ,  mild developmental delay and ,  in later life ,  intellectual disability .
a rare form of amyloidosis characterized by accumulation and extensive visceral deposition of anamyloidogenic variant of beta 2 microglobulin leading to progressive gastrointestinal dysfunction ,  sjgren syndrome and autonomic neuropathy .
 ( 4q12 )  .
cerebrofacioarticular syndrome is a rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by mild to severe intellectual disability ,  a distinctive facial gestalt  ( blepharophimosis ,  maxillary hypoplasia ,  telecanthus ,  microtia and atresia of the external auditory meatus )  as well as skeletal and articular abnormalities  ( e .g .
combined immunodeficiency due to stk4 deficiency is a rare ,  genetic combined t and b cell immunodeficiency characterized by t -  and b - cell lymphopenia ,  hypergammaglobulinemia and intermittent neutropenia .
an instance of porencephaly that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
primary systemic amyloidosis  ( psa )  is a form of al amyloidosis caused by the aggregation and deposition of insoluble amyloid fibrils derived from misfolded monoclonal immunoglobulin light chains usually produced by a plasma cell tumor and characterized by multiple organ involvement .
primary localized amyloidosis is a form of al amyloidosis caused by the aggregation of insoluble amyloid fibrils derived from misfolded monoclonal immunoglobulin light chains usually produced by a plasma cell tumor and characterized by localized amyloid deposition with clinical manifestations restricted to the organ involved ,  most frequently urinary tract  ( bladder )  ,  eye ,  respiratory tract  ( larynx ,  lungs )  ,  and skin .
shox - related short stature is a primary bone dysplasia characterized by a height that is 2 standard deviations below the corresponding mean height for a given age ,  sex and population group ,  in the absence of obvious skeletal abnormalities and other diseases and with normal developmental milestones .
short stature due to partial ghr deficiency is a rare ,  genetic ,  endocrine disease characterized by idiopathic short stature due to diminished ghr function  ( decreased ligand binding or reduced availability of receptor )  ,  thus resulting in partial insensitivity to growth hormone .
short stature due to ghsr deficiency is a rare ,  genetic ,  endocrine growth disease ,  resulting from growth hormone secretagogue receptor  ( ghsr )  deficiency ,  characterized by postnatal growth delay that results in short stature  ( less than  - 2 sd )  .
autosomal dominant proximal renal tubular acidosis  ( ad prta )  is a form of proximal renal tubular acidosis  ( prta )  characterized by an isolated defect in the proximal tubule leading to the decreased reabsorption of bicarbonate and consequently causing urinary bicarbonate wastage .
severe canavan disease  ( cd )  is a rapidly progressing neurodegenerative disorder characterized by leukodystrophy with macrocephaly ,  severe developmental delay and hypotonia .
mild canavan disease  ( cd )  is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by mild speech delay or motor development .
x - linked non progressive cerebellar ataxia is a rare hereditary ataxia characterized by delayed early motor development ,  severe neonatal hypotonia ,  non - progressive ataxia and slow eye movements ,  presenting normal cognitive abilities and absence of pyramidal signs .
cataract - congenital heart disease - neural tube defect syndrome is a multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by sacral neural tube defects resulting in tethered cord ,  atrial and / or ventricular septal heart defects  ( that are detected in infancy )  ,  bilateral ,  symmetrical hyperopia ,  rapidly progressive early childhood cataracts ,  bilateral aphakic glaucoma ,  and abnormal facial features  ( low frontal hairline ,  small ears ,  short philtrum ,  prominent ,  widely spaced central incisors ,  and micrognathia )  .
erythrokeratoderma 'en cocardes' is a rare genodermatosis characterised by circumscribed target - like  ( or 'en cocardes' )  erythematous hyperkeratotic lesions .
multiple sclerosis - ichthyosis - factor viii deficiency syndrome is characterized by the association of multiple sclerosis with lamellar ichthyosis and hematological anomalies  ( beta thalassemia minor and a quantitative deficit of factor viii - von willebrand complex )  .
sclerosteosis is a very rare serious sclerosing hyperostosis syndrome characterized clinically by variable syndactyly and progressive skeletal overgrowth  ( particularly of the skull )  ,  resulting in distinctive facial features  ( mandibular overgrowth ,  frontal bossing ,  midfacial hypoplasia )  ,  cranial nerve entrapment causing facial palsy and deafness ,  and potentially lethal elevation of intracranial pressure .
the salt wasting form of classic congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 21 - hydroxylase deficiency  ( classical 21 ohd cah )  is characterized by virilization of the external genitalia in females ,  hypocortisolism ,  precocious pseudopuberty and renal salt loss due to aldosterone deficiency .
the simple virilizing form of classical congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 21 - hydroxylase deficiency  ( classical 21 ohd cah )  is characterized by genital ambiguity and virilization of the external genitalia in females ,  hypocortisolism and precocious pseudopuberty without salt - wasting .
senior - loken syndrome  ( slsn )  is a very rare autosomal recessive oculo - renal disease characterized by the association of nephronophthisis  ( nphp )  ,  a chronic kidney disease ,  with retinal dystrophy .
septooptic dysplasia  ( sod )  is a clinically heterogeneous disorder characterized by the classical triad of optic nerve hypoplasia ,  pituitary hormone abnormalities and midline brain defects .
autosomal dominant form of spastic ataxia .
autosomal recessive form of spastic ataxia .
short syndrome is a rare inherited condition of multiple anomalies whose name stands for short stature ,  hyperextensibility of joints ,  ocular depression ,  rieger anomaly and teething delay which ,  along with mild intrauterine growth restriction ,  partial lipodystrophy ,  delayed bone age ,  hernias and progeroid appearance ,  are manifestations of the disease .
shprintzen - goldberg omphalocele syndrome is a very rare inherited malformation syndrome characterized by omphalocele ,  scoliosis ,  mild dysmorphic features  ( downslanted palpebral fissures ,  s - shaped eyelids and thin upper lip )  ,  laryngeal and pharyngeal hypoplasia and learning disabilities .
sialuria is an extremely rare metabolic disorder described in fewer than 10 patients to date and characterized by variable signs and symptoms ,  mostly in infancy ,  including transient failure to thrive ,  slightly prolonged neonatal jaundice ,  equivocal or mild hepatomegaly ,  microcytic anemia ,  frequent upper respiratory infections ,  gastroenteritis ,  dehydration and flat and coarse facies .
siegler - brewer - carey syndrome is characterized by cataracts ,  otitis media ,  intestinal malabsorption ,  chronic respiratory infection ,  and failure to thrive .
sillence syndrome  ( brachydactyly - symphalangism syndrome )  resembles type a1 brachydactyly  ( variable shortening of the middle phalanges of all digits )  with associated symphalangism  ( producing a distal phalanx with the shape of a chess pawn )  .
sirenomelia is a rare ,  genetic ,  developmental defect during embryogenesis disorder characterized by fusion of the lower limbs and associated with some degree of lower extremity reduction and persistent vitelline artery .
a rare genetic chronic skin disorder characterized by hyperkeratosis and transient erythema .
infantile convulsions and paroxysmal choreoathetosis  ( icca )  syndrome is a neurological condition characterized by the occurrence of seizures during the first year of life  ( benign familial infantile epilepsy )  and choreoathetotic dyskinetic attacks during childhood or adolescence .
eyebrow duplication - syndactyly syndrome is characterised by partial duplication of the eyebrows and syndactyly of the fingers and toes .
infantile spasms - broad thumbs syndrome is a rare neurologic disorder characterized by profound developmental delay ,  facial dysmorphism  ( i .e .
t - b +  severe combined immunodeficiency  ( scid )  is a group of rare monogenic primary immunodeficiency disorders characterized by a lack of functional peripheral t lymphocytes with presence of b lymphocytes ,  resulting in early - onset severe respiratory viral ,  bacterial or fungal infections ,  diarrhea and failure to thrive .
t - b -  severe combined immunodeficiency  ( scid )  is a group of rare monogenic primary immunodeficiency disorders characterized by a lack of functional peripheral t and b lymphocytes ,  resulting in recurrent early - onset severe respiratory viral ,  bacterial or fungal infections ,  diarrhea and failure to thrive .
severe combined immunodeficiency  ( scid )  due to dna - pkcs deficiency is an extremely rare type of scid characterized by the classical signs of scid  ( severe and recurrent infections ,  diarrhea ,  failure to thrive )  ,  absence of t and b lymphocytes ,  and cell sensitivity to ionizing radiation .
a form of combined immunodeficiency due to calcium release activated ca2 +   ( crac )  channel dysfunction characterized by recurrent infections ,  congenital myopathy ,  ectodermal dysplasia and anhydrosis .
aform of combined immunodeficiency due to calcium release activated ca2 +  ( crac )  channel dysfunction characterized by recurrent infections ,  autoimmunity ,  congenital myopathy and ectodermal dysplasia .
any syndrome with combined immunodeficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ikzf1 gene .
x - linked immunodeficiency with magnesium defect ,  epstein - barr virus infection and neoplasia is a rare combined t and b cell immunodeficiency characterized by recurrent sinopulmonary and viral infections ,  persistent elevated epstein - barr virus  ( ebv )  viremia and increased susceptibility to ebv - associated b - cell lymphoproliferative disorders .
spina bifida - hypospadias syndrome is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by the specific association of glandular hypospadias and lumbo - sacral spina bifida .
corneal cerebellar syndrome is characterised by the unusual combination of spinocerebellar degeneration and corneal dystrophy .
spondylo - camptodactyly syndrome is characterized by camptodactyly ,  flattened cervical vertebral bodies and variable degrees of thoracic scoliosis .
a disorder characterized by pulmonary venous constriction or occlusion ,  resulting in pulmonary hypertension .
the syndrome steatocystoma multiplex and natal teeth is characterized by generalized multiple steatocystomas and natal teeth .
holoprosencephaly - radial heart renal anomalies syndrome is characterised by holoprosencephaly ,  predominantly radial limb deficiency  ( absent thumbs ,  phocomelia )  ,  heart defects ,  kidney malformations and absence of gallbladder .
congenital myopathy with internal nuclei and atypical cores is a rare genetic skeletal muscle disease characterized by neonatal hypotonia ,  distal more than proximal muscle weakness ,  progressive exercise intolerance with prominent myalgias ,  and mild - to - moderate overall motor impairment with preserved ambulation .
distal 17p13 .1 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome characterized by mild global developmental delay / intellectual disability with poor to absent speech ,  dysmorphic features  ( long midface ,  retrognathia with overbite ,  protruding ears )  ,  microcephaly ,  failure to thrive ,  wide - based gait and a body posture with knee and elbow flexion and hands held in a midline .
wiedemann - steiner syndrome is a rare genetic condition characterized by distinctive facial features ,  hairy elbows ,  short stature ,  and intellectual disability .
familial cortical myoclonus is a rare ,  genetic movement disorder characterized by autosomal dominant ,  adult - onset ,  slowly progressive ,  multifocal ,  cortical myoclonus .
diencephalic - mesencephalic junction dysplasia is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic cerebral malformation characterized by severe intellectual disability ,  progressive postnatal microcephaly ,  axial hypotonia ,  spastic quadriparesis ,  seizures and facial dysmorphism  ( bushy eyebrows ,  hairy forehead ,  broad nasal root ,  long flat philtrum ,  v - shaped upper lip )  .
chondroectodermal dysplasia with night blindness is a rare genetic bone development disorder characterized by proportionate short stature ,  nail dysplasia  ( enlarged ,  convex ,  hypertrophic nails )  ,  hypodontia and night blindness .
a very rare ,  complex type of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by early - onset spastic paraplegia  ( with spasticity in the lower extremities that progresses to the upper extremities )  associated with developmental and motor delay ,  mild to moderate cognitive and speech delay ,  skeletal dysmorphism  ( e .g .
supravalvar aortic stenosis  ( svas )  is characterized by the narrowing of the aorta lumen  ( close to its origin )  or other arteries  ( branch pulmonary arteries ,  coronary arteries )  .
autosomal recessive myogenic arthrogryposis multiplex congenita is a rare inherited neuromuscular disease characterized by prenatal presentation  ( usually in the second trimester )  of reduced fetal movements and abnormal positioning resulting in joint abnormalities that may involve both lower and upper extremities and is usually symmetric ,  severe hypotonia at birth with bilateral club foot ,  motor development delay ,  mild facial weakness without opthalmoplegia ,  absent deep tendon reflexes ,  normal motor and sensory nerve conduction velocities ,  no cerebellar or pyramidal involvement ,  and progressive disease course with loss of ambulation after the first decade of life .
carney complex - trismus - pseudocamptodactyly syndrome is a rare genetic heart - hand syndrome characterized by typical manifestations of the carney complex  ( spotty pigmentation of the skin ,  familial cardiac and cutaneous myxomas and endocrinopathy )  associated with trismus and distal arthrogryposis  ( presenting as involuntary contraction of distal and proximal interphalangeal joints of hands evident only on dorsiflexion of wrist and similar lower - limb contractures producing foot deformities )  .
stern - lubinsky - durrie syndrome is characterised by corneal epithelial changes  ( associated with photophobia and burning and watering of the eyes )  ,  diffuse palmoplantar hyperkeratosis ,  distal onycholysis ,  brachydactyly ,  short stature ,  dental problems ,  and premature birth .
an instance of acute myeloid leukemia that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
acute myeloid leukemia with cebpa somatic mutations is a subtype of acute myeloid leukemia with recurrent genetic abnormalities ,  characterized by clonal proliferation of myeloid blasts harboring somatic mutations of the cebpa gene in the bone marrow ,  blood and ,  rarely ,  other tissues .
a papillary or follicular thyroid gland carcinoma with a genetic component that develops within the same family .
familial nonmedullary thyroid carcinoma  ( fnmtc )  is a rare non - syndromic form of thyroid cancer characterized by occurrence of thyroid carcinoma  ( tc )  as the primary feature in a familial setting .
combined oxidative phosphorylation defect type 8 is a mitochondrial disease due to a defect in mitochondrial protein synthesis resulting in deficiency of respiratory chain complexes i ,  iii and iv in the cardiac and skeletal muscle and brain characterized by severe hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ,  pulmonary hypoplasia ,  generalized muscle weakness and neurological involvement .
combined oxidative phosphorylation defect type 9 is a rare mitochondrial disease due to a defect in mitochondrial protein synthesis characterized by initially normal growth and development followed by the infantile - onset of failure to thrive ,  psychomotor delay ,  poor feeding ,  dyspnea ,  severe hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and hepatomegaly .
combined oxidative phosphorylation defect type 13 is a rare mitochondrial disease due to a defect in mitochondrial protein synthesis characterized by normal early development followed by the sudden onset in infancy of poor feeding ,  dysphagia ,  truncal  ( followed by global )  hypotonia ,  motor regression ,  abnormal movements  ( i .e .
any combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fars2 gene .
combined oxidative phosphorylation defect type 15 is a rare mitochondrial disease due to a defect in mitochondrial protein synthesis characterized by onset in infancy or early childhood of muscular hypotonia ,  gait ataxia ,  mild bilateral pyramidal tract signs ,  developmental delay  ( affecting mostly speech and coordination )  and subsequent intellectual disability .
autosomal recessive  ( ar )  mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  due to a complete deficiency describes a group of genetic variants of msmd comprised of msmd due to complete interferon gamma receptor 1  ( ifn - gammar1 )  deficiency ,  complete ifn - gammar2 deficiency ,  complete interleukin - 12 subunit beta  ( il12b )  deficiency ,  complete interleukin - 12 receptor subunit beta - 1  ( il - 12rb1 )  deficiency and complete isg15 deficiency .
autosomal recessive form of mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases due to a partial deficiency .
autosomal dominant  ( ad )  mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  due to a partial deficiency describes a group of variants of msmd due to dominantly inherited partial deficiencies in interferon gamma receptor 1  ( ifn - gammar1 )  ,  ifn - gammar2 ,  signal transducer and activator of transcription 1  ( stat1 )  or interferon regulator factor 8  ( irf8 )  .
mendelian susceptibily to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  due to complete interferon gamma receptor 2  ( ifn - gammar2 )  deficiency is a genetic variant of msmd characterized by a complete deficiency in ifn - gammar2 ,  leading to an undetectable response to ifn - gamma ,  and consequently ,  to severe and often fatal infections with bacillus calmette - guc ) rin  ( bcg )  and other environmental mycobacteria  ( em )  .
any autosomal recessive mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases due to a complete deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the il12rb1 gene .
any autosomal recessive mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases due to a complete deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the il12b gene .
mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  due to complete isg15 deficiency is a genetic variant of msmd characterized by bacille calmette - guc ) rin  ( bcg )  infections .
autosomal recessive  ( ar )  mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  due to partial ifn - gammar1 deficiency is a genetic variant of msmd characterized by a partial deficiency in ifn - gammar1 ,  leading to a residual response to ifn - gamma and ,  consequently ,  to recurrent ,  moderately severe infections with bacillus calmette - guc ) rin  ( bcg )  and other environmental mycobacteria  ( em )  .
autosomal recessive mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  due to partial ifngammar2 deficiency is a genetic variant of msmd characterized by a partial deficiency in ifn - gammar2 ,  leading to a residual response to ifn - gamma and consequently to recurrent ,  moderately severe infections with bacillus calmette - guc ) rin  ( bcg )  and other environmental mycobacteria  ( em )  .
autosomal dominant  ( ad )  mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  due to partial interferon gamma receptor 1  ( ifn - gammar1 )  deficiency is a genetic variant of msmd characterized by a partial deficiency leading to impaired ifn - gamma immunity and ,  consequently ,  recurrent ,  moderately severe infections with bacillus calmette - guc ) rin  ( bcg )  and other environmental mycobacteria  ( em )  .
autosomal dominant  ( ad )  mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  due to partial interferon gamma receptor 2  ( ifn - gammar2 )  deficiency is a genetic variant of msmd characterized by a partial deficiency in ifn - gammar2 ,  leading to impaired response to ifn - gamma and ,  consequently ,  to recurrent ,  moderately severe infections with bacillus calmette - guc ) rin  ( bcg )  and other environmental mycobacteria  ( em )  .
mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  due to partial stat1  ( signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 )  deficiency is a genetic variant of msmd characterized by a partial defect in the interferon  ( ifn )  - gamma pathway ,  leading to mild mycobacterial infections .
steroid dehydrogenase deficiency - dental anomalies syndrome is an autosomal recessive liver disease which was associated with numerical dental aberrations in a consanguineous arabi saudi family .
mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  due to partial irf8  ( interferon regulatory factor 8 )  deficiency is a rare genetic variant of msmd characterized by a selective susceptibility to relatively mild infections with bacillus calmette - guc ) rin  ( bcg )  . .
x - linked  ( xr )  mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  describes a rare group of immunodeficiencies due to specific mutations in the inhibitor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in b - cells ,  kinase gamma  ( ikbkg )  or the cytochrome b - 245 ,  beta polypeptide  ( cybb )  genes .
any immunodeficiency disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ikbkg gene .
any x - linked mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cybb gene .
a primary amyloidosis characterized by localized cutaneous amyloid deposition .
retinal macular dystrophy type 2 is a rare ,  genetic macular dystrophy disorder characterized by slowly progressive ''bull's eye'' maculopathy associated ,  in most cases ,  with mild decrease in visual acuity and central scotomata .
microcephalic primordial dwarfism ,  alazami type is a rare ,  genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome characterized by severe intellectual disability ,  distinct dysmorphic facial features  ( i .e .
microcephalic primordial dwarfism ,  dauber type is a rare ,  genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by severe pre -  and postnatal growth retardation ,  severe microcephaly ,  severe developmental delay and intelletual disability ,  severe adult short stature and facial dysmorphism  ( incl .
encephalopathy - hypertrophic cardiomyopathy - renal tubular disease syndrome is a rare mitochondrial disease due to a defect in coenzyme q10 biosynthesis that manifests with a broad spectrum of signs and symptoms which may include: neonatal lactic acidosis ,  global developmental delay ,  tonus disorder ,  seizures ,  reduced spontaneous movements ,  ventricular hypertrophy ,  bradycardia ,  renal tubular dysfunction with massive lactic acid excretion in urine ,  severe biochemical defect of respiratory chain complexes ii / iii when assayed together and deficiency of coenzyme q10 in skeletal muscle .
hereditary hyperekplexia is a hereditary neurological disorder characterized by excessive startle responses .
stimmler syndrome is characterised by the association of microcephaly ,  low birth weight and severe intellectual deficit with dwarfism ,  small teeth and diabetes mellitus .
glutathione synthetase deficiency is characterised by hemolytic anemia ,  associated with metabolic acidosis and 5 - oxoprolinuria in moderate forms ,  and with progressive neurological symptoms and recurrent bacterial infections in the most severe forms .
apparent mineralocorticoid excess  ( ame )  is a rare form of pseudohyperaldosteronism characterized by very early - onset and severe hypertension ,  associated with low renin levels and hypoaldosteronism .
this syndrome is characterized by cardiac arrhythmias  ( ventricular extrasystoles manifesting as bigeminy or multifocal tachycardia with syncopal episodes )  ,  perodactyly  ( hypoplasia and / or agenesis of the distal phalanges of the toes )  and pierre - robin sequence .
dehydrated hereditary stomatocytosis  ( dhs )  is a rare hemolytic anemia characterized by a decreased red cell osmotic fragility due to a defect in cation permeability ,  resulting in red cell dehydration and mild to moderate compensated hemolysis .
overhydrated hereditary stomatocytosis  ( ohst )  is a disorder of red cell membrane permeability to monovalent cations and is characterized clinically by hemolytic anemia .
autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia type 41 is a pure form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by onset in adolescence or early adulthood of slowly progressive spastic paraplegia ,  proximal muscle weakness of the lower extremities and small hand muscles ,  hyperreflexia ,  spastic gait and mild urinary compromise .
a rare ,  genetic ,  complex hereditary spastic paraplegia disorder characterized by adulthood - onset of slowly progressive ,  bilateral ,  mainly lower limb spasticity and distal weakness associated with lower limb pain ,  hyperreflexia ,  and reduced vibration sense .
autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia type 36  ( spg36 )  is a complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia ,  characterized by an onset in childhood or adulthood of progressive spastic paraplegia  ( with spastic gait ,  spasticity ,  lower limb weakness ,  pes cavus and urinary urgency )  associated with the additional manifestation of peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 43 is a rare ,  complex hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by a childhood to adolescent onset of progressive lower limb spasticity ,  associated with mild to severe gait disturbances ,  extensor plantar responses ,  muscle weakness and severe distal atrophy ,  frequently with upper limb involvement .
a rare ,  complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by the onset in early childhood of progressive spastic paraplegia associated with cerebellar signs ,  short stature ,  delayed psychomotor development ,  intellectual disability and ,  less commonly ,  foot contractures ,  dysarthria ,  dysphagia ,  strabismus and optic hypoplasia .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tecpr2 gene .
a rare ,  complex type of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by an onset ,  in infancy or childhood ,  of the typical signs of spastic paraplegia  ( i .e .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 45 is a rare ,  pure or complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by onset in infancy of progressive lower limb spasticity ,  abnormal gait ,  increased deep tendon reflexes and extensor plantar responses ,  that may be associated with intellectual disability .
stormorken - sjaastad - langslet syndrome is characterized by thrombocytopathy ,  asplenia ,  miosis ,  muscle fatigue ,  migraine ,  dyslexia ,  and ichthyosis .
a very rare ,  complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by a late - onset ,  slowly progressive spastic paraplegia associated with mild ataxia and dysarthria ,  upper extremity involvement  ( i .e .
a rare ,  complex type of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by early - onset progressive spastic paraplegia presenting in infancy ,  associated with optic atrophy ,  fixation nystagmus ,  polyneuropathy occurring in late childhood / early adolescence leading to severe motor disability and progressive joint contractures and scoliosis .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cyp2u1 gene .
sturge - weber syndrome  ( sws )  is a rare congenital neurocutaneous disorder characterized by facial capillary malformations and / or cerebral and ocular ipsilateral vascular malformations that result in variable degrees of ocular and neurological anomalies .
stve - wiedemann syndrome  ( sws )  is a rare autosomal recessive congenital primary skeletal dysplasia ,  characterized by small stature ,  bowing of the long bones ,  camptodactyly ,  hyperthermic episodes ,  respiratory distress / apneic episodes and feeding difficulties that usually lead to early mortality .
white matter hypoplasia - corpus callosum agenesis - intellectual disability syndrome is a very rare neurological condition .
multiple osteochondromas  ( mo )  is characterised by development of two or more cartilage capped bony outgrowths  ( osteochondromas )  of the long bones .
summitt syndrome is an extremely rare disorder originally described in two brothers and characterized by mild to severe craniosynostosis and syndactyly ,  obesity ,  and normal intelligence .
yemenite deaf - blind hypopigmentation syndrome is an exceedingly rare genetic disorder characterized by cutaneous pigmentation anomalies ,  ocular disorders and hearing loss .
deafness - small bowel diverticulosis - neuropathy syndrome is characterised by progressive sensorineural deafness ,  progressive sensory neuropathy and gastrointestinal abnormalities  ( progressive loss of gastric motility ,  small bowel diverticulosis )  .
this syndrome is characterised by sensorineural deafness ,  short stature ,  femoral epiphyseal dysplasia ,  umbilical and inguinal hernias and developmental delay  ( growth retardation and mild intellectual deficit )  .
fountain syndrome is an extremely rare multi - systemic genetic disorder characterized by intellectual disability ,  deafness ,  skeletal abnormalities and coarse facial features .
exstrophy - epispadias complex  ( eec )  represents a spectrum of genitourinary malformations ranging in severity from epispadias  ( e )  and classical bladder exstrophy  ( ceb )  to exstrophy of the cloaca  ( ec )  as the most severe form .
deafness - enamel hypoplasia - nail defects syndrome is characterised by sensorineural hearing loss ,  generalised enamel hypoplasia of the permanent dentition with normal primary dentition ,  and nail defects  ( beau's lines and leukonychia )  .
a thyroid hormone resistance syndrome characterized by resistance in the pituitary gland and in most or all of the peripheral tissues .
phosphoribosylpyrophosphate  ( prpp )  synthetase superactivity is an x - linked disorder of purine metabolism associated with hyperuricemia and hyperuricosuria ,  comprised of two forms: an early - onset severe form characterized by gout ,  urolithiasis ,  and neurodevelopmental anomalies  ( severe prpp synthetase superactivity )  and a mild late - onset form with no neurologic involvement  ( mild prpp synthetase superactivity )  .
deafness - genital anomalies - metacarpal and metatarsal synostosis syndrome is characterised by sensorineural deafness ,  bilateral synostosis of the 4th and 5th metacarpals and metatarsals ,  genital anomalies  ( hypospadias in males )  ,  psychomotor delay and abnormal dermatoglyphics .
hearing loss - familial salivary gland insensitivity to aldosterone syndrome is characterised by bilateral moderate - to - severe sensorineural hearing loss and salivary gland insensitivity to aldosterone resulting in hyponatremia .
deafness  -  lymphedema  -  leukemia is a very rare ,  serious syndromic genetic disorder characterized by primary lymphedema ,  immunodeficiency ,  and hematological disorders .
deafness - oligodontia syndrome is characterised by sensorineural hearing loss and oligodontia / hypodontia .
deafness - onychodystrophy syndrome is a group of rare ,  genetic ,  developmental defect during embryogenesis disorders characterized by the association of sensorineural deafness and onychodystrophy  ( e .g .
deafness - ear malformation - facial palsy syndrome is characterized by profound conductive deafness due to stapedial abnormalities associated with variable malformations of the external ears and facial paralysis .
cochleosaccular degeneration - cataract syndrome is characterised by progressive sensorineural hearing loss due to severe cochleosaccular degeneration and cataract .
stapes fixation  ( stapedovestibular ankylosis )  is a hearing loss condition that appears as a consequence of annular ligament destruction followed by excessive connective tissue production during the healing process .
conductive deafness - ptosis - skeletal anomalies syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by conductive hearing loss due to atresia of the external auditory canal and the middle ear complicated by chronic infection ,  ptosis and skeletal anomalies  ( internal rotation of hips ,  dislocation of the radial heads and fifth finger clinodactyly )  .
multiple synostoses syndrome  ( mss )  is a rare developmental bone disorder characterized by proximal symphalangism of the fingers and / or toes often associated with fusion of carpal and tarsal ,  humeroradial ,  and cervical spine joints .
cardiospondylocarpofacial syndrome is characterized by mitral insufficiency ,  conductive deafness ,  short stature ,  and skeletal anomalies  ( bony fusion involving the cervical vertebrae ,  the ossicles ,  and the carpal and tarsal bones )  .
deafness - vitiligo - achalasia syndrome is characterized by the association of deafness ,  short stature ,  vitiligo ,  muscle wasting ,  and achalasia .
fabry disease  ( fd )  is a progressive ,  inherited ,  multisystemic lysosomal storage disease characterized by specific neurological ,  cutaneous ,  renal ,  cardiovascular ,  cochleo - vestibular and cerebrovascular manifestations .
this syndrome is characterised by progressive calcification of the brain and spinal cord ,  growth retardation ,  psychomotor anomalies ,  deafness and anaemia .
deafness - craniofacial syndrome is characterised by the association of congenital hearing loss and facial dysmorphism  ( facial asymmetry ,  a broad nasal root and small nasal alae )  .
renpenning syndrome is an x - linked intellectual disability syndrome  ( xlmr )  characterized by intellectual deficiency ,  microcephaly ,  leanness and mild short stature .
autosomal recessive congenital cerebellar ataxia due to mglur1 deficiency is a rare ,  genetic ,  slowly progressive neurodegenerative disease resulting from mglur1 deficiency characterized by global developmental delay  ( beginning in infancy )  ,  mild to severe intellectual deficit with poor or absent speech ,  moderate to severe stance and gait ataxia ,  pyramidal signs  ( e .g .
early - onset lafora body disease is an extremely rare ,  inherited form of progressive myoclonic epilepsy characterized by progressive myoclonus epilepsy and lafora bodies ,  with an early onset  ( at around 5 years )  and a prolonged disease course .
t - cell immunodeficiency with epidermodysplasia verruciformis is a rare primary immunodeficiency characterized by increased susceptibility to infection by human papillomavirus ,  presenting in childhood with disseminated flat wart - like cutaneous lesions .
severe lateral tibial bowing with short stature is a rare ,  genetic ,  primary bent bone dysplasia characterized by significant ,  uni -  / bilateral ,  lateral tibial bowing localized to the distal two - thirds of the tibia ,  with respective cortical thickening and thinning of the inner and outer tibial curve ,  loss of normal trabecular bone ,  bilateral abnormalities of the tibial epiphyses and growth plates ,  as well as foot abnormalities ,  including abnormally high arches .
9p13 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from a partial interstitial deletion of the short arm of chromosome 9 ,  characterized by mild to moderate developmental delay ,  hand tremors ,  myoclonic jerks ,  attention deficit - hyperactivity disorder and a social personality .
sinoatrial node dysfunction and deafness is a rare genetic disease characterized by congenital severe to profound deafness with no evidence of vestibular dysfunction ,  associated with sinoatrial node dysfunction with pronounced bradycardia and increased variability of heart rate at rest and episodic syncopes that may be triggered by enhanced physical activity and stress .
congenital achiasma is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic cranial nerve and nuclear aplasia malformation characterized by the congenital absence of the optic chiasm ,  resulting from the failure of the optic nerve fibers to cross over and decussate to the contralateral hemisphere ,  leading to decreased vision ,  strabismus and congenital nystagmus in infancy .
hereditary inclusion body myopathy type 4 is a rare non - dystrophic myopathy characterized by slowly progressive muscular weakness and atrophy initially involving proximal lower limbs and hip girdle and later on shoulder girdle ,  proximal upper limbs and axial muscles .
a syndromic x - linked intellectual disability characterized by intellectual disability ,  delayed psychomotor development ,  seizures ,  large joint contractures ,  cardiac abnormalities ,  and abnormal positioning of the thumbs that has material basis in mutation in the clic2 gene on chromosome xq28 .
autosomal recessive axonal neuropathy with neuromyotonia is a rare peripheral neuropathy characterized by slowly progressive axonal ,  motor greater than sensory polyneuropathy combined with neuromytonia  ( including spontaneous muscular activity at rest  ( myokymia )  ,  impaired muscle relaxation  ( pseudomyotonia )  ,  and contractures of hands and feet )  and neuromyotonic or myokymic discharges on needle emg .
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and renal tubular disease due to mitochondrial dna mutation is a mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation disorder characterized by hypertrophic and dilated cardiomyopathy ,  failure to thrive ,  myopathy with generalized hypotonia and increased creatine kinase ,  developmental delay and / or regression with cerebral atrophy on brain mri ,  renal manifestations including chronic renal failure ,  renal tubular acidosis and lactic acidosis .
any combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rmnd1 gene .
aphonia - deafness - retinal dystrophy - bifid halluces - intellectual disability syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by moderate to severe intellectual disability ,  congenital aphonia ,  hearing loss ,  optic atrophy ,  retinal dystrophy ,  broad thumbs and duplicated halluces .
a novel very rare form of pontocerebellar hypoplasia  ( see this term )  characterized clinically by progressive microencephaly ,  feeding difficulties ,  severe developmental delay ,  although walking may be achieved ,  hypotonia often associated with increased muscle tone of lower extremities and deep tendon reflexes ,  joint deformities in the lower extremities ,  and occasionally complex seizures .
hyperinsulinism due to hnf1a deficiency is a form of diazoxide - sensitive diffuse hyperinsulinism  ( dhi )  ,  characterized by transient or persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia  ( hh )  in infancy that is responsive to diazoxide ,  evolving in to maturity - onset diabetes of the young subtype 1  ( mody - 1 )  later in life .
benign samaritan congenital myopathy is a rare ,  genetic ,  skeletal muscle disease characterized by severe neonatal hypotonia with respiratory insufficiency ,  delay in motor milestones ,  and dysmorphic features including bitemporal narrowing ,  epicanthal folds and hypertelorism .
familial dyskinesia and facial myokymia  ( fdfm )  is a rare paroxysmal movement disorder ,  with childhood or adolescent onset ,  characterized by paroxysmal choreiform ,  dystonic ,  and myoclonic movements involving the limbs  ( mostly distal upper limbs )  ,  neck and / or face ,  which can progressively increase in both frequency and severity until they become nearly constant .
symphalangism with multiple anomalies of hands and feet is an exceedingly rare syndrome described in one family and characterized by proximal symphalangism and multiple hand and feet disorders  ( syndactyly ,  clinodactyly ,  hypoplasia of the thenar and hypothenar eminences ,  and a distinctive dermatoglyphic pattern )  .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2 due to kif5a mutation is a rare form of axonal peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy characterized by classical cmt2 signs and symptoms  ( progressive weakness and atrophy of distal limb muscles ,  mild sensory deficits of position ,  vibration and pain / temperature ,  pes cavus ,  and symmetrically absent or reduced muscle and sensory action potentials with relatively preserved nerve conduction velocities in neurophysiological studies )  as well as pyramidal tract involvement  ( spasticity ,  hyperreflexia )  .
hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis  ( hchwa )  ,  piedmont type is a form of hchwa characterized by an age of onset between 50 - 70 years of age ,  recurrent lobar intracerebral hemorrhages and cognitive decline .
hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis  ( hchwa )  ,  iowa type is a form of hchwa characterized by age of onset between 50 - 66 years of age ,  memory impairment ,  myoclonic jerks ,  expressive dysphagia ,  short - stepped gait ,  personality changes and lobar intracerebral hemorrhages .
hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis  ( hchwa )  ,  italian type is a form of hchwa characterized by an age of onset of 50 years of age ,  dementia and lobar intracerebral hemorrhage .
hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis  ( hchwa )  ,  flemish type is a form of hchwa characterized by an age of onset of 45 years of age ,  progressive alzheimer's disease - like dementia and lobar intracerebral hemorrhage in some patients .
hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis  ( hchwa )  ,  arctic type is a form of hchwa characterized by an age of onset of 54 - 61 years and progressive alzheimer's disease - like dementia ,  without intracerebral hemorrhages .
srd5a3 - cdg is a rare ,  non x - linked congenital disorder of gyclosylation due to steroid 5 alpha reductase type 3 deficiency characterized by a highly variable phenotype typically presenting with severe visual impairment ,  variable ocular anomalies  ( such as optic nerve hypoplasia / atrophy ,  iris and optic nerve coloboma ,  congenital cataract ,  glaucoma )  ,  intellectual disability ,  cerebellar abnormalities ,  nystagmus ,  hypotonia ,  ataxia ,  and / or ichthyosiform skin lesions .
distal symphalangism is a very rare bone disorder characterized by ankylosis of the distal interphalangeal joints of the hands and / or feet .
an instance of periodic fever syndrome that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
 gene  ( 6p21 .3 )  .
joint contractures ,  muscle atrophy ,  microcytic anemia and panniculitis - induced lipodystrophy  ( jmp )  syndrome is a rare autoinflammatory disorder belonging to the proteasome disability syndrome  ( see this term )  group and characterized by sclerodermic skin with the presence of erythematous lesions ,  joint contractures ,  generalized or partial lipodystrophy ,  muscle atrophy and short stature .
congenital factor ii deficiency is an inherited bleeding disorder due to reduced activity of factor ii  ( fii ,  prothrombin )  and characterized by mucocutaneous bleeding symptoms .
proximal symphalangism is a very rare ,  genetic bone disorder characterized by ankylosis of the proximal interphalangeal joints ,  carpal and tarsal bone fusion ,  and conductive hearing loss in some patients .
chronic atypical neutrophilic dermatosis with lipodystrophy and elevated temperature  ( candle )  syndrome is a rare autoinflammatory disorder belonging to the proteasome disability syndrome  ( see this term )  group and is characterized by early - onset recurrent fever ,  swollen violaceous eyelids ,  progressive lipodystrophy ,  arthralgia ,  purpuric skin lesions and delayed physical development .
an ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by hair ,  skin and teeth anomalies ,  facial dysmophism with cleft lip and palate ,  cutaneous syndactyly and ,  in some cases ,  intellectual disability .
46 , xy ovotesticular disorder of sex development is a rare ,  genetic disorder of sex development characterized by either the coexistence of both male and female reproductive gonads or ,  more frequently ,  by the presence of one or both gonads containing a mixture of both testicular and ovarian tissue  ( ovotestes )  in an individual with a normal male 46 ,  xy karyotype .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lhb gene .
filippi syndrome is characterised by microcephaly ,  cutaneous syndactyly of the fingers and toes ,  intellectual deficit ,  growth retardation and a characteristic facies  ( high and broad nasal bridge ,  thin alae nasi ,  micrognathia and a high frontal hairline )  .
congenital conditions of atypical sexual development associated with abnormal sex chromosome constitutions including monosomy ;  trisomy ;  and mosaicism .
a congenital disorder characterized by abnormalities in the development of the sexual characteristics .
conditions affecting individuals with 46 , xx karyotype characterized by atypical development of one or more of the following: the gonads ,  the internal reproductive structures ,  the external reproductive / genital structures .
differences of sex development in individuals with 46 , xy karyotype .
cenani - lenz syndrome  ( cls )  is a congenital malformation syndrome that associates a complex syndactyly of the hands with malformations of the forearm bones and similar manifestations in the lower limbs .
congenital factor v deficiency is an inherited bleeding disorder due to reduced plasma levels of factor v  ( fv )  and characterized by mild to severe bleeding symptoms .
autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome  ( alps )  is a rare ,  inherited disorder characterized by non - malignant lymphoproliferation ,  multilineage cytopenias ,  and a lifelong increased risk of hodgkin's and non - hodgkin's lymphoma .
humero - radial synostosis is a rare ,  genetic ,  congenital joint formation defect disorder characterized by uni -  or bilateral fusion of the humerus and radius bones at the elbow level ,  with or without associated ulnar and carpal / metacarpal deficiency ,  leading to loss of elbow motion and ,  in many cases ,  functional arm incapacity .
humero - radio - ulnar synostosis is an extremely rare ,  genetic ,  congenital joint formation defect disorder characterized by uni -  or bilateral fusion of the humerus ,  radius and ulnar bones ,  leading to loss of elbow motion and ,  in most ,  functional arm incapacity .
familial lambdoid synostosis is a rare ,  genetic cranial malformation characterized by unilateral or bilateral synostosis of the lambdoid suture in multiple members of a single family .
radioulnar synostosis - microcephaly - scoliosis syndrome ,  also known as guiffrc )  - tsukahara syndrome ,  is an extremely rare syndrome characterized by the association of radioulnar synostosis with microcephaly ,  scoliosis ,  short stature and intellectual deficit .
factor vii  ( fvii )  deficiency is a rare hereditary hemorrhagic disease caused by the diminution or absence of this coagulation factor .
radioulnar synostosis - developmental delay - hypotonia syndrome ,  also known as der kaloustian - mcintosh - silver syndrome ,  is an extremely rare syndrome with synostosis described in about 4 patients to date with clinical manifestations including congenital unilateral radioulnar synostosis ,  generalized hypotonia ,  developmental delay ,  and dysmorphic facial features  ( long face ,  prominent nose and ears )  .
spondylocarpotarsal synostosis  ( sct )  syndrome is a skeletal dysplasia clinically characterized by postnatal progressive vertebral fusions frequently manifesting as block vertebrae ,  contributing to an undersized trunk and a disproportionate short stature ,  scoliosis ,  lordosis ,  carpal and tarsal synostosis ,  with club feet and a mild facial dysmorphism .
congenital factor x deficiency is an inherited bleeding disorder with a decreased antigen and / or activity of factor x  ( fx )  and characterized by mild to severe bleeding symptoms .
his bundle tachycardia is a very rare congenital genetic tachyarrhythmia characterized by incessant tachycardia and high morbidity and mortality .
catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia  ( cpvt )  is a severe genetic arrhythmogenic disorder characterized by adrenergically induced ventricular tachycardia  ( vt )  manifesting as syncope and sudden death .
taurodontism is a dental anomaly characterized by an elongated pulp chamber ,  displaced toward the apical floor of the tooth with no constriction at the level of the cemento - enamel junction ,  and short roots .
congenital factor xi deficiency is an inherited bleeding disorder characterized by reduced levels and activity of factor xi  ( fxi )  resulting in moderate bleeding symptoms ,  usually occurring after trauma or surgery .
teebi - shaltout syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  development defect during embryogenesis malformation syndrome characterized by association of characteristic facial features  ( including abnormal head shape with narrow forehead ,  hypertelorism ,  telecanthus ,  small earlobes ,  broad nasal bridge and tip ,  underdeveloped ala nasi ,  small / wide mouth and high / cleft palate )  ,  ectodermal dysplasia  ( including oligodontia with delayed dentition ,  slow growing hair and reduced sweating )  and skeletal abnormalities including camptodactyly and caudal appendage .
tall stature - scoliosis - macrodactyly of the great toes syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  overgrowth or tall stature syndrome with skeletal involvement characterized by early and proportional overgrowth ,  osteopenia ,  lumbar scoliosis ,  arachnodactyly of the hands and feet ,  macrodactyly of the hallux ,  coxa valga with epiphyseal dysplasia of the femoral capital epiphyses and susceptibility to slipped capital femoral epiphysis .
developmental delay with autism spectrum disorder and gait instability is a rare ,  genetic ,  neurological disorder characterized by infant hypotonia and feeding difficulties ,  global development delay ,  mild to moderated intellectual disability ,  delayed independent ambulation ,  broad - based gait with arms upheld and flexed at the elbow with brisk walking or running ,  and limited language skills .
tel hashomer camptodactyly syndrome is a rare syndrome characterized by camptodactyly ,  muscle hypoplasia and weakness ,  skeletal anomalies ,  facial dysmorphism and abnormal dermatoglyphics .
autosomal dominant neovascular inflammatory vitreoretinopathy is a rare ,  genetic ,  vitreoretinal degeneration characterized by a slowly progressive vitreoretinopathy with onset during the second or third decade of life .
intellectual disability - craniofacial dysmorphism - cryptorchidism syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  syndromic intellectual disability syndrome characterized by mild to moderate intellectual disability ,  developmental delay  ( with speech and language development more severely affected )  and facial dysmorphism which typically includes full ,  arched eyebrows ,  hypertelorism ,  down - slanting palpebral fissures ,  long eyelashes ,  ptosis ,  low - set ,  simple ears ,  bulbous nasal tip ,  flat philtrum ,  wide mouth with downturned corners and thin upper lip and diastema of the teeth .
microcephalic primordial dwarfism due to znf335 deficiency is characterized by severe antenatal microencephaly ,  simplified gyration ,  agenesis of the corpus callosum ,  absence of basal ganglia  ( very rare )  ,  pontocerebellar atrophy and involvement of the white matter with secondary cerebral atrophy .
an x - linked recessive syndrome caused by loss - of - function mutation ( s )  in igsf1 ,  encoding immunoglobulin superfamily member 1 .
congenital chronic diarrhea with protein - losing enteropathy is a rare ,  genetic ,  intestinal disease characterized by early - onset ,  chronic ,  non - infectious ,  non - bloody ,  watery diarrhea associated with protein - losing enteropathy which results in hypoalbuminemia ,  hypogammaglobulinemia and elevated stool alpha - 1 - antitrypsin .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2q is a rare subtype of autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2 characterized by adolescent to adulthood - onset of symmetrical ,  slowly progressive distal muscle weakness and atrophy  ( with a predominant weakness of the distal lower limbs )  associated with reduced or absent deep tendon reflexes ,  pes cavus and mild to moderated deep sensory impairment .
telecanthus - hypertelorism - strabismus - pes cavus syndrome is characterized by telecanthus ,  hypertelorism ,  strabismus ,  pes cavus and other variable anomalies .
any neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pla2g6 gene .
fatty acid hydroxylase - associated neurodegeneration  ( fahn )  is a very rare ,  autosomal recessive form of neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation  ( nbia )  characterized by childhood - onset focal dystonia ,  progressive spastic paraplegia that progresses to tetra paresis ,  ataxia ,  dysarthria ,  intellectual decline ,  and oculomotor disturbances  ( optic atrophy )  ,  accompanied by iron deposition in the globus pallidus .
adult - onset multiple mitochondrial dna deletion syndrome due to dguok deficiency is an extremely rare multiple mitochondrial dna deletion syndrome with markedly decreased deoxyguanosine kinase  ( dguok )  activity in skeletal muscle characterized by a highly variable phenotype .
thrombocythemia with distal limb defects is a rare ,  genetic syndrome with limb reduction defects characterized by thrombocytosis ,  unilateral transverse limb defects  ( ranging from absence of phalanges to absence of hand or forearm )  and splenomegaly .
microcephaly - cerebellar hypoplasia - cardiac conduction defect syndrome is a rare ,  genetic congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by growth failure ,  global developmental delay ,  profound intellectual disability ,  autistic behaviors ,  acquired second - degree heart block with bradycardia and vasomotor instability .
adult - onset chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia with mitochondrial myopathy is a rare mitochondrial disease characterized by adult onset of progressive external ophthalmoplegia ,  exercise intolerance ,  muscle weakness ,  manifestations of spinocerebellar ataxia  ( e .g .
distal arthrogryposis type 5d is a rare subtype of distal arthrogryposis syndrome characterized by arthrogryposis multiplex congenita affecting the hands ,  feet ,  ankle ,  shoulders and / or neck ,  with camptodactyly of the fingers and limited knee and hip extension ,  associated with asymmetric ptosis and ,  less frequently ,  other ocular manifestations  ( e .g .
autosomal dominant focal dystonia ,  dty25 is a form of focal dystonia ,  characterized by cervical ,  laryngeal and hand - forearm dystonia .
spastic paraplegia - paget disease of bone syndrome is an extremely rare ,  complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by a slowly progressive spastic paraplegia  ( with increased muscle tone ,  decreased strength in the anterior tibial muscles and hyperreflexia in the lower extremities with babinski sign )  presenting in adulthood ,  associated with paget disease of the bone .
adult - onset distal myopathy due to vcp mutation is a rare ,  genetic distal myopathy disorder characterized by middle age - onset of distal leg muscle weakness ,  atrophy in the anterior compartment resulting in foot drop ,  without proximal or scapular skeletal muscle weakness .
tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 associated periodic syndrome  ( traps )  is a periodic fever syndrome ,  characterized by recurrent fever ,  arthralgia ,  myalgia and tender skin lesions lasting for 1 to 3 weeks ,  associated with skin ,  joint ,  ocular and serosal inflammation and complicated by secondary amyloidosis .
5p13 microduplication syndrome is a rare partial autosomal trisomy / tetrasomy characterized by global developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  autistic behavior ,  muscular hypotonia ,  macrocephaly and facial dysmorphism  ( frontal bossing ,  short palpebral fissures ,  low set ,  dysplastic ears ,  short or shallow philtrum ,  high arched or narrow palate ,  micrognathia )  .
glomerulonephritis characterized by mesangial proliferation ,  endocapillary proliferation ,  and glomerular capillary wall remodeling with immune complex deposits from classical complement pathway activation .
glomerulonephritis characterized by c3 accumulation with little or absent deposition of immunoglobulin ,  in the absence of ultrastructural electron - dense transformation seen in dense deposit disease .
transient neonatal multiple acyl - coa dehydrogenase deficiency describes a very rare condition where a maternal riboflavin deficiency causes an infant to present with manifestations similar to those seen in multiple acyl - coa dehydrogenase  ( mad )  deficiency such as poor suck ,  metabolic acidosis and hypoglycemia ,  but that resolves completely with oral riboflavin .
isovaleric acidemia  ( iva )  is an autosomal recessively inherited organic aciduria characterized by a deficiency in isovaleryl - coa dehydrogenase ,  that has wide clinical variability and that can present in infancy with acute manifestations of vomiting ,  failure to thrive ,  seizures ,  lethargy ,  a characteristic ''sweaty feet'' odor ,  acute pancreatitis and mild to severe developmental delay or in childhood with metabolic acidosis  ( brought on by prolonged fasting ,  an increased intake of protein - rich food or infections )  and that can be fatal if not treated immediately .
congenital factor xii deficiency is an autosomal recessive systemic dysfunction of the hemostatic pathway ,  that is due to a defect in the coagulation factor xii  ( fxii or hageman factor )  ,  and is either asymptomatic or characterized by a prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time and an increased risk for thromboembolism .
lymphedema  -  distichiasis is a rare syndromic lymphedema disorder characterized by lower - limb lymphedema and varying degrees of abnormal growth of eyelashes from the orifices of the meibomian glands  ( distichiasis )  ,  with occasional associated manifestations .
tetraamelia  -  multiple malformations is an extremely rare mostly lethal congenital disorder characterized by absence of all four limbs and frequent associated major malformations involving the head ,  face ,  eyes ,  skeleton ,  heart ,  lungs ,  anus ,  urogenital ,  and central nervous systems .
an instance of multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome without intellectual disability that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
fallot complex  -  intellectual deficit  -  growth delay is a rare disorder characterized by tetralogy of fallot ,  minor facial anomalies ,  and severe intellectual deficiency and growth delay .
the presence of four sets of chromosomes .
isodicentric chromosome 15 syndrome is a chromosome abnormality that affects many different parts of the body .
jansen's metaphyseal chondrodysplasia  ( jmc )  is a very rare autosomal dominant skeletal dysplasia characterized by short - limbed short stature  ( due to severe metaphyseal changes that are often discovered in childhood by imaging )  ,  waddling gait ,  bowed legs ,  contracture deformities of the joints ,  short hands with clubbed fingers ,  clinodactyly ,  prominent upper face and small mandible ,  as well as chronic parathyroid hormone - independent hypercalcemia ,  hypercalciuria ,  and mild hypophosphatemia .
dravet syndrome  ( ds )  is a genetic epilepsy of childhood characterized by a variety of drug - resistant seizures often induced by fever ,  presenting in previously healthy children ,  and which frequently leads to cognitive and motor impairment .
tetrasomy 18p is a very rare structural chromosomal anomaly affecting multiple body systems and characterized clinically by craniofacial abnormalities ,  delayed development ,  cognitive impairment ,  changes in muscle tone ,  distinctive facial features ,  and rarely renal malformations .
tetrasomy 5p is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with variable phenotype principally characterized by developmental delay ,  growth retardation / short stature ,  hypotonia ,  seizures ,  venriculomegaly ,  hand and foot anomalies  ( e .g .
congenital factor xiii deficiency is an inherited bleeding disorder due to reduced levels and activity of factor xiii  ( fxiii )  and characterized by hemorrhagic diathesis frequently associated with spontaneous abortions and defective wound healing .
tetrasomy 9p is a rare autosomal anomaly characterized by pre -  and postnatal growth retardation ,  psychomotor delay ,  mild to moderate intellectual disability ,  hypotonia ,  microcephaly ,  dysmorphic features  ( ocular hypertelorism ,  low - set ,  malformed ears ,  bulbous / beaked nose ,  microretrognathia ,  enophthalmos / micropthalmia ,  epicanthus ,  strabismus )  ,  cleft lip / palate ,  skeletal abnormalities  ( hypoplastic nails / distal phalanges ,  short stature ,  short neck ,  contractures )  ,  congenital heart defects ,  renal and urogenital malformations  ( renal hypoplasia ,  genital hypoplasia ,  cryptorchidism )  .
multiple pterygium syndrome lethal type is a very rare genetic condition affecting the skin ,  muscles and skeleton .
agammaglobulinemia ,  non - bruton type  ( autosomal agammaglobulinemia )  is a rare form of agammaglobulinemia ,  a primary immunodeficiency disease ,  and is characterized by variable immune dysfunction with frequent and recurrent bacterial infections and / or chronic diarrhea .
immunodeficiency due to masp - 2 deficiency is a rare ,  genetic immunodeficiency due to a complement cascade protein anomaly characterized by low serum levels of masp - 2 and a variable susceptibility to bacterial infections  ( e .g .
a condition that is characterized by elevated serum ige ,  dermatitis ,  and respiratory infections .
any autosomal recessive mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases due to a partial deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tyk2 gene .
selective igm deficiency  ( sigmd )  is a rare immune disorder that has been reported in association with serious infections ,  such as bacteria in the blood  ( bacteremia ,  also known as septicemia )  .
thiemann disease is a very rare genetic necrotic bone disorder characterized clinically by painless swelling of the proximal interphalangeal joints associated with osteonecrosis of epiphyses followed by osteoarthritic changes ,  with onset before 25 years of age and often a benign course .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of thiopurine s - methyltransferase activity .
thomas syndrome is characterised by renal anomalies ,  cardiac malformations and cleft lip or palate .
thoracolaryngopelvic dysplasia is a short - rib dysplasia characterized by thoracic dystrophy ,  laryngeal stenosis and a small pelvis .
congenital amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia  ( camt )  is a rare inherited bone marrow failure syndrome characterized by an isolated and severe decrease in the number of platelets and megakaryocytes during the first years of life that develops into bone marrow failure with pancytopenia later in childhood .
congenital intrinsic factor deficiency  ( ifd )  is a rare disorder of vitamin b12  ( cobalamin )  absorption that is characterized by megaloblastic anemia and neurological abnormalities .
thrombocytopenia - absent radius  ( tar )  syndrome is a very rare congenital malformation syndrome characterized by bilateral radial aplasia and thrombocytopenia .
hoyeraal - hreidarsson syndrome  ( hhs )  is a very rare x - linked recessive disorder considered to be a severe variant of dyskeratosis congenita characterized by intrauterine growth retardation ,  microcephaly ,  cerebellar hypoplasia ,  progressive combined immune deficiency and aplastic anemia .
this syndrome is characterised by intrauterine growth retardation ,  renal dysgenesis and a unilobed or absent thymus .
thyrocerebrorenal syndrome is characterized by renal ,  neurologic ,  thyroid disease ,  associated with thrombocytopenia .
tibia absent  -  polydactyly  -  arachnoid cyst syndrome is a very rare constellation of multiple anomalies ,  including absence or hypoplasia of the tibia .
tibial aplasia - ectrodactyly syndrome is a rare condition characterized by congenital ectrodactylous limb malformations associated with tibial aplasia or hypoplasia .
farber disease is a rare sphingolipid disorder characterized by a spectrum of clinical signs ranging from the classical triad of painful and progressively deformed joints ,  subcutaneous nodules ,  and progressive hoarseness  ( due to laryngeal involvement )  that presents in infancy ,  to varying phenotypes with respiratory and neurologic involvement .
hypoplastic tibia - polydactyly syndrome is a very rare congenital malformation syndrome characterized by bilateral hypoplasia of the tibia with polydactyly of the feet and hands .
reticular dysgenesis is the most severe form of severe combined immunodeficiency  ( scid )  and is characterized by bilateral sensorineural deafness and a lack of innate and adaptive immune functions leading to fatal septicemia within days after birth if not treated .
trichothiodystrophy or ttd is a heterogeneous group disorders characterized by short ,  brittle hair with low - sulphur content  ( due to an abnormal synthesis of the sulphur containing keratins )  .
fanconi syndrome is a condition in which the kidneys do not absorb certain substances into the body .
toriello carey syndrome is a multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by craniofacial dysmorphic features ,  cerebral anomalies ,  swallowing difficulties ,  cardiac defects and hypotonia .
oculo - ectodermal syndrome  ( oes )  is characterized by the association of epibulbar dermoids and aplasia cutis congenital .
an autosomal dominant heart condition that causes disruptions in the heart's normal rhythm .
torticollis - keloids - cryptorchidism - renal dysplasia syndrome is an extremely rare developmental defect during embryogenesis malformation syndrome characterized by congenital muscular torticollis associated with skin anomalies  ( such as multiple keloids ,  pigmented nevi ,  epithelioma )  ,  urogenital malformations  ( including cryptorchidism and hypospadias )  and renal dysplasia  ( e .g .
arterial tortuosity syndrome  ( ats )  is a rare connective tissue disorder characterized by tortuosity and elongation of the large and medium - sized arteries and a propensity towards aneurysm formation ,  vascular dissection ,  and stenosis of the pulmonary arteries .
weismann - netter syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  primary ,  bent bone dysplasia characterized by anterior diaphyseal bowing of the tibia and fibula ,  broadening of the fibula ,  posterior cortical thickening of both bones and short stature .
elejalde syndrome  ( es )  is characterized by silvery to leaden hair ,  bronze skin colour in sun - exposed areas and severe neurological impairment .
congenital deficiencies of fibrinogen are coagulation disorders characterized by bleeding symptoms ranging from mild to severe resulting from reduced quantity and / or quality of circulating fibrinogen .
trichodental syndrome is characterised by the association of fine ,  dry and short hair with dental anomalies .
tricho - dento - osseous dysplasia  ( tdo )  belongs to the ectodermal dysplasias and is characterised by curly / kinky hair at birth ,  enamel hypoplasia with discolouration and molar taurodontism ,  increased overall bone mineral density  ( bmd )  and increased thickness of the cortical bones of the skull .
trichodermodysplasia - dental alterations syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by sparse ,  thin ,  brittle scalp hair ,  as well as sparse eyebrows ,  eyelashes ,  axillary and pubic hair ,  delayed eruption of deciduous teeth and hypodontia of both dentitions .
trichoodontoonychial dysplasia is a rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by severe generalized hypotrichosis ,  parietal alopecia ,  secondary anodontia resulting from enamel hypoplasia ,  onychodystrophy ,  bone deficiency in the frontoparietal region and skin manifestations  ( incl .
5 - oxoprolinase deficiency is clinically a very heterogeneous condition characterized by 5 - oxoprolinuria .
gamma - glutamyl transpeptidase deficiency is characterized by increased glutathione concentration in the plasma and urine .
gamma - glutamylcysteine synthetase deficiency is principally characterized by hemolytic anemia ,   ( usually rather mild )  ,  however ,  the presence of neurological symptoms has also been reported .
trichodysplasia - xeroderma syndrome is an extremely rare ,  syndromic hair shaft anomaly characterized by sparse ,  coarse ,  brittle ,  excessively dry and slow - growing scalp hair ,  sparse axillary and pubic hair ,  sparse or absent eyelashes and eyebrows and dry skin .
trichomegaly - retina pigmentary degeneration - dwarfism syndrome ,  also known as oliver - mcfarlane syndrome ,  is an extremely rare genetic disorder characterized by hair abnormalities ,  severe chorioretinal atrophy ,  hypopituitarism ,  short stature ,  and intellectual disability .
trigonocephaly - broad thumbs syndrome is characterized by neonatal trigonocephaly and multiple anomalies including craniosynostosis ,  shallow orbits ,  unusual nose ,  deviation of the terminal phalanges of fingers 1 ,  2 ,  and 5 ,  and broad toes with duplication of the terminal phalanx .
isolated trigonocephaly is a nonsyndromic form of craniosynostosis characterized by the premature fusion of the metopic suture .
trigonocephaly - bifid nose - acral anomalies syndrome is characterized by trigonocephaly ,  brachycephaly ,  bulbous nose  ( bifid at the tip )  ,  micrognathia ,  macrostomia ,  hypotonia and relatively broad metatarsals and phalanges .
trigonocephaly - short stature - developmental delay syndrome is characterised by short stature ,  trigonocephaly and developmental delay .
fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva  ( fop )  is a severely disabling heritable disorder of connective tissue characterized by congenital malformations of the great toes and progressive heterotopic ossification that forms qualitatively normal bone in characteristic extraskeletal sites .
trisomy x is a sex chromosome anomaly with a variable phenotype caused by the presence of an extra x chromosome in females  ( 47 , xxx instead of 46 , xx )  .
triploidy is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra set of chromosomes present in each cell .
trisomy 13 is a chromosomal anomaly caused by the presence of an extra chromosome 13 and is characterized by brain malformations  ( holoprosencephaly )  ,  facial dysmorphism ,  ocular anomalies ,  postaxial polydactyly ,  visceral malformations  ( cardiopathy )  and severe psychomotor retardation .
distal trisomy 17q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with variable phenotype principally characterized by intellectual disability ,  developmental delay ,  short stature ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
familial multiple fibrofolliculoma is a genodermatosis characterised by the presence of multiple hamartomas of the hair follicle .
trisomy 18 is a chromosomal abnormality associated with the presence of an extra chromosome 18 and characterized by growth delay ,  dolichocephaly ,  a characteristic facies ,  limb anomalies and visceral malformations .
humerus trochlea aplasia is an extremely rare familial bone deformity described only in japanese patients to date .
anterior cervical hypertrichosis is a rare form of localised hypertrichosis characterised by hair growth near the laryngeal prominence during childhood .
a congenital defect characterized by failure of the neural tube to close completely ;  this results in the presence of openings in the brain or spinal cord .
a chronic ,  recurrent infection caused by the bacterium mycobacterium tuberculosis .
proximal tubulopathy - diabetes mellitus - cerebellar ataxia syndrome is characterised by onset of proximal tubulopathy in the first year of life ,  followed by progressive development during childhood of skin anomalies  ( erythrocyanosis and abnormal pigmentation )  ,  blindness ,  osteoporosis ,  cerebellar ataxia ,  mitochondrial myopathy ,  deafness and diabetes mellitus .
transient tyrosinemia of the newborn is a benign disorder of tyrosine metabolism detected upon newborn screening and often observed in premature infants .
ulbright - hodes syndrome is characterised by renal dysplasia ,  growth retardation ,  phocomelia or mesomelia ,  radiohumeral fusion ,  rib abnormalities ,  anomalies of the external genitalia and a potter - like facies .
umbilical cord ulceration - intestinal atresia syndrome is characterised by congenital intestinal atresia ,  umbilical cord ulceration and severe intrauterine haemorrhage .
ulerythema ophryogenesis is characterised by inflammatory keratotic papules occurring on the face ,  which may be followed by scars ,  atrophy and alopecia .
upington disease is characterised by perthes - like pelvic anomalies  ( premature closure of the capital femoral epiphyses and widened femoral necks with flattened femoral heads )  ,  enchondromata and ecchondromata .
this syndrome is characterized by intellectual deficit ,  short stature ,  obesity ,  genital abnormalities ,  and hand and / or toe contractures .
double uterus ,  hemivagina and renal agenesis is a rare congenital urogenital anomaly characterized by the presence of double uterus  ( didelphys ,  bicornuate or septum - complete or partial )  ,  unilateral cervico - vaginal obstruction  ( obstructed hemivagina - communicant ,  not communicant or septate and unilateral cervical atresia )  and ipsilateral renal anomalies  ( renal agenesis and / or other urinary tract anomalies )  .
vacterl is an acronym for vertebral anomalies ,  anal atresia ,  congenital cardiac disease ,  tracheoesophageal fistula ,  renal anomalies ,  and limb defects .
a genetic kidney disease that causes progressive loss of kidney function caused by mutations in the genes encoding uromodulin  ( umod )  ,  hepatocyte nuclear factor - 1  ( hnf1b )  ,  renin  ( ren )  ,  or mucin - 1  ( muc1 )  .
hyperostosis corticalis generalisata ,  also known as van buchem disease ,  is a rare craniotubular hyperostosis characterized by hyperostosis of the skull ,  mandible ,  clavicles ,  ribs and diaphyses of the long bones ,  as well as the tubular bones of the hands and feet .
van den bosch syndrome is characterized by intellectual deficit ,  choroideremia ,  acrokeratosis verruciformis ,  anhidrosis ,  and skeletal deformities .
familial mediterranean fever  ( fmf )  is an autoinflammatory disorder characterized by recurrent short episodes of fever and serositis resulting in pain in the abdomen ,  chest ,  joints and muscles .
cerebroretinal vasculopathy  ( crv )  is a phenotypic variant of a group of inherited small vessel disorders known as retinal vasculopathy and cerebral leukodystrophy  ( rvcl ;  see this term )  ,  characterized by strokes ,  vision loss ,  migraines ,  pseudotumours ,  dementia and occasionally renal disease .
naxos disease is a recessively inherited condition with arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia / cardiomyopathy  ( arvd / c )  and a cutaneous phenotype ,  characterised by peculiar woolly hair and palmoplantar keratoderma .
velo - facial - skeletal syndrome is a very rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by short stature ,  facial dysmorphism  ( elongated face ,  hypertelorism ,  broad and high nasal bridge ,  mild epicanthus ,  posteriorly angulated ears ,  narrow and high - arched palate )  ,  skeletal anomalies  ( mesomelic brachymelia ,  short broad hands ,  prominent finger pads ,  short stubby thumbs ,  hyperextensibility of small joints ,  small feet )  ,  hypernasality and normal intelligence .
double outlet right ventricle  ( dorv )  is a rare cono - truncal anomaly in which both the aorta and pulmonary artery originate ,  either entirely or predominantly ,  from the morphologic right ventricle .
verloove vanhorick - brubakk syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by multiple skeletal malformations  ( short femora and humeri ,  bilateral absence of metatarsal and metacarpal bone in hands and feet ,  bilateral partial syndactyly of fingers and toes or oligopolysyndactyly ,  deformed lumbosacral spine )  ,  congenital heart disease  ( truncus arteriosus )  ,  lung and urogenital malformations  ( bilateral bilobar lungs ,  horseshoe kidney ,  cryptorchidism )  ,  and facial malformations  ( bilateral cleft lip and palate ,  micrognathia ,  small ,  low - set ears without external meatus )  .
hyperimmunoglobinemia d with periodic fever  ( hids )  is a rare autoinflammatory disease characterized by periodic attacks of fever and a systemic inflammatory reaction  ( cervical lymphadenopathy ,  abdominal pain ,  vomiting ,  diarrhea ,  arthralgias and skin signs )  .
microcephaly - brachydactyly - kyphoscoliosis syndrome is characterized by profound intellectual deficit in association with microcephaly ,  short stature ,  brachydactyly type d ,  a flattened occiput ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  low - set large ears ,  a broad prominent nose and kyphoscoliosis .
a congenital syndromic form of split - hand / foot malformation  ( shfm )  .
vogt - koyanagi - harada disease is a bilateral ,  chronic ,  diffuse granulomatous panuveitis typically characterized by serous retinal detachment and frequently associated with neurological  ( meningitis )  ,  auditory ,  and dermatological alterations .
von voss - cherstvoy syndrome is a very rare disorder with phocomelia of upper limbs ,  encephalocele ,  variable brain anomalies ,  urogenital abnormalities ,  and thrombocytopenia .
waardenburg syndrome  ( ws )  is a disorder characterized by varying degrees of deafness and minor defects in structures arising from neural crest ,  including pigmentation anomalies of eyes ,  hair ,  and skin .
weaver syndrome  ( wvs )  is a rare ,  multisystem disorder characterized by tall stature ,  a typical facial appearance  ( hypertelorism ,  retrognathia )  and variable intellectual disability .
weaver - williams syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by moderate - to - severe intellectual disability ,  decreased muscle mass ,  microcephaly ,  facial dysmorphism  ( prominent ears ,  midfacial hypoplasia ,  small mouth and cleft palate )  ,  clinodactyly of the fingers ,  delayed osseous maturation and generalized bone hypoplasia .
weill - marchesani syndrome  ( wms )  is a rare condition characterized by short stature ,  brachydactyly ,  joint stiffness ,  and characteristic eye abnormalities including microspherophakia ,  ectopia of the lens ,  severe myopia ,  and glaucoma .
west syndrome  ( or infantile spasms )  is characterised by the association of clusters of axial spasms ,  psychomotor retardation and an hypsarrhythmic interictal eeg pattern .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2g  ( lgmd2g )  is a mild subtype of autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by a variable onset  ( ranging from infancy to adolescence )  of progressive proximal upper and lower limb muscle weakness and atrophy .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2i  ( lgmd2i )  is a subtype of autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy that presents a highly variable age of onset and phenotypic spectrum typically characterized by slowly progressive proximal weakness of the pelvic and shoulder girdle musculature  ( predominantly affecting the lower limbs )  ,  frequently associated with waddling gait ,  scapular winging ,  calf and tongue hypertrophy ,  exercise - induced myalgia ,  and myoglobinuria and / or elevated creatine kinase serum levels .
autosomal dominant limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 1d  ( lgmd1d )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by an adult - onset of slowly progressive ,  proximal pelvic girdle weakness ,  with none ,  or only minimal ,  shoulder girdle involvement ,  and absence of cardiac and respiratory symptoms .
autosomal dominant limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 1e  ( lgmd1e )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by an adult onset of progressive cardiac conduction defects that begin with cardiac dysrhythmia .
congenital muscular dystrophy with integrin alpha - 7 deficiency is a rare ,  genetic ,  congenital muscular dystrophy due to extracellular matrix protein anomaly characterized by early motor development delay and muscle weakness with mild elevation of serum creatine kinase ,  that may be followed by progressive disease course with predominantly proximal muscle weakness and atrophy ,  motor development regress ,  scoliosis and respiratory insufficiency .
a hereditary disorder that leads to a selective defect in renal or intestinal magnesium absorption ,  resulting in a low serum magnesium concentration .
familial primary hypomagnesemia with normocalciuria and normocalcemia  ( fphnn )  is a form of familial primary hypomagnesemia  ( fph )  ,  characterized by low serum magnesium  ( mg )  values but inappropriate normal urinary mg values  ( i .e .
autosomal dominant primary hypomagnesemia with hypocalciuria  ( adphh )  is a mild form of familial primary hypomagnesemia  ( fph )  ,  characterized by extreme weakness ,  tetany and convulsions .
autoimmune polyendocrinopathy type 1 ,  or apeced syndrome ,  is a genetic disease that manifests in childhood or early adolescence with a combination of chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis ,  hypoparathyroidism and autoimmune adrenal failure .
the term corneal dystrophy embraces a heterogeneous group of bilateral genetically determined non - inflammatory corneal diseases that are usually restricted to the cornea .
a severe x - linked recessive neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by severe contractures  ( arthrogryposis )  and intellectual disability .
wiedemann - rautenstrauch syndrome is a very rare disorder with features of premature aging recognizable at birth ,  decreased subcutaneous fat ,  hypotrichosis ,  relative macrocephaly and dysmorphism .
wildervanck syndrome is characterized by the triad of cervical vertebral fusion  ( klippel - feil anomaly )  ,  bilateral abducens palsy with retracted eyes  ( duane syndrome )  and congenital perceptive deafness .
wilson - turner syndrome  ( wts )  is a very rare x - linked multisystem genetic disease characterized by intellectual disability ,  truncal obesity ,  gynecomastia ,  hypogonadism ,  dysmorphic facial features ,  and short stature .
immunodeficiency by defective expression of hla class 1 is a very rare ,  primary ,  genetic ,  immunodeficiency disorder characterized by partial or complete absence of human leukocyte antigen class i expression resulting in a non - specific clinical picture of impaired immune response and susceptibility to infections .
wolfram syndrome  ( ws )  also known as didmoad ,  is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by type i diabetes mellitus  ( dm )  ,  diabetes insipidus  ( di )  ,  sensorineural deafness  ( d )  ,  bilateral optical atrophy  ( oa )  and neurological signs .
woodhouse - sakati syndrome is a multisystemic disorder characterized by hypogonadism ,  alopecia ,  diabetes mellitus ,  intellectual deficit and extrapyramidal signs with choreoathetoid movements and dystonia .
wt limb - blood syndrome is characterised by haematological anomalies  ( fanconi anaemia ,  leukaemia and lymphoma )  often appearing during childhood .
hereditary xanthinuria is a purine metabolism disorder due to inherited deficiency of the xanthine dehydrogenase / oxidase enzyme and is characterized by very low  ( or undetectable )  concentrations of uric acid in blood and urine and very high concentration of xanthine in urine ,  leading to urolithiasis .
frasier syndrome is characterised by the association of male pseudohermaphrodism and glomerular nephropathy .
young syndrome is characterised by the association of obstructive azoospermia with recurrent sinobronchial infections .
yunis - varon syndrome is a rare condition that affects many different parts of the body .
zimmermann - laband syndrome  ( zls )  is a rare disorder characterized by gingival fibromatosis ,  coarse facial appearance ,  and absence or hypoplasia of nails or terminal phalanges of hands and feet .
chime syndrome is a rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by ocular colobomas ,  cardiac defects ,  ichthyosiform dermatosis ,  intellectual disability ,  conductive hearing loss and epilepsy .
fructose - 1 , 6 - biphosphatase  ( fbp )  deficiency is a disorder of fructose metabolism characterized by recurrent episodes of fasting hypoglycemia with lactic acidosis ,  that may be life - threatening in neonates and infants .
fucosidosis is an extremely rare lysosomal storage disorder characterized by a highly variable phenotype with common manifestations including neurologic deterioration ,  coarse facial features ,  growth retardation ,  and recurrent sinopulmonary infections ,  as well as seizures ,  visceromegaly ,  angiokeratoma and dysostosis .
propionic acidemia  ( pa )  is an organic aciduria caused by the deficient activity of the propionyl coenzyme a carboxylase and is characterized by life threatening episodes of metabolic decompensation ,  neurological dysfunction and that may be complicated by cardiomyopathy .
infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy / atypical neuroaxonal dystrophy  ( inad / atypical nad )  is a type of neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation  ( nbia ;  see this term )  characterized by psychomotor delay and regression ,  increasing neurological involvement with symmetrical pyramidal tract signs and spastic tetraplegia .
severe combined immunodeficiency  ( scid )  t - b +  due to jak3 deficiency is a form of scid characterized by severe and recurrent infections ,  associated with diarrhea and failure to thrive .
isolated scaphocephaly is a form of nonsyndromic craniosynostosis characterized by premature fusion of the sagittal suture .
isolated synostotic plagiocephaly  ( sp )  is a form of nonsyndromic craniosynostosis characterized by premature fusion of one coronal suture leading to skull deformity and facial asymmetry .
isolated brachycephaly is a relatively frequent nonsyndromic craniosynostosis consisting of premature fusion of both coronal sutures leading to skull deformity with a broad flat forehead and palpable coronal ridges .
galactosialidosis is a lysosomal storage disease characterized by coarse facial features ,  macular ''cherry red spot'' ,  and dysostosis multiplex .
desmosterolosis is a very rare sterol biosynthesis disorder characterized by multiple congenital anomalies ,  failure to thrive ,  and intellectual disability ,  with elevated levels of desmosterol .
hemolytic anemia due to pyrimidine 5' nucleotidase deficiency is a rare ,  hereditary ,  hemolytic anemia due to an erythrocyte nucleotide metabolism disorder characterized by mild to moderate hemolytic anemia associated with basophilic stippling and the accumulation of high concentrations of pyrimidine nucleotides within the erythrocyte .
a disorder of carbohydrate absorption and transport caused by autosomal recessive mutation of the si gene ,  characterised by malabsorption of sucrose and maltose .
a syndrome characterized by lesions occurring on the face ,  scalp ,  or neck which consist of congenital hypoplastic malformations of cutaneous structures and which over time undergo verrucous hyperplasia .
x - linked form of chondrodysplasia punctata .
galactosemia is a group of rare genetic metabolic disorders characterized by impaired galactose metabolism resulting in a range of variable manifestations encompassing a severe ,  life - threatening disease  ( classic galactosemia )  ,  a rare mild form  ( galactokinase deficiency )  causing cataract ,  and a very rare form with variable severity  ( galactose epimerase deficiency )  resembling classic galactosemia in the severe form .
any 3 - methylglutaconic aciduria in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the serac1 gene .
spectrin - associated autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia is a rare ,  genetic neurological disease ,  due to sptbn2 mutations ,  characterized by global development delay in infancy ,  followed by childhood - onset gait ataxia with limb dysmetria and dysdiadochokinesia ,  mild to severe intellectual disability ,  development of cerebellar atrophy ,  and abnormal eye movements  ( including a convergent squint ,  hypometric saccades ,  jerky pursuit movements and incomplete range of movement )  .
progressive external ophthalmoplegia - myopathy - emaciation syndrome is a rare mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation disorder due to nuclear dna anomalies characterized by progressive external ophthalmoplegia without diplopia ,  cerebellar atrophy ,  proximal skeletal muscle weakness with generalized muscle wasting ,  profound emaciation ,  respiratory failure ,  spinal deformity and facial muscle weakness  ( manifesting with ptosis ,  dysphonia ,  dysphagia and nasal speech )  .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of mitochondrial genome maintenance .
any autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ispd gene .
autism spectrum disorder due to auts2 deficiency is a rare genetic syndromic intellectual disability characterized by global developmental delay and borderline to severe intellectual disability ,  autism spectrum disorder with obsessive behavior ,  stereotypies ,  hyperactivity but frequently friendly and affable personality ,  feeding difficulties ,  short stature ,  muscular hypotonia ,  microcephaly ,  characteristic dysmorphic features  ( hypertelorism ,  high arched eyebrows ,  ptosis ,  deep and / or broad nasal bridge ,  broad / prominent nasal tip ,  short and / or upturned philtrum ,  narrow mouth ,  and micrognathia )  ,  and skeletal anomalies  ( kyphosis and / or scoliosis ,  arthrogryposis ,  slender habitus and extremities )  .
intellectual disability - obesity - brain malformations - facial dysmorphism syndrome is a rare ,  syndromic intellectual disability primarily characterized by moderate to severe intellectual disability ,  true - to - relative microcephaly and brain abnormalities including a thin corpus callosum ,  cerebellar hypoplasia ,  cerebral white matter hypoplasia and multi - focal hyperintensity of cerebral white matter on mri .
infantile hypertrophic cardiomyopathy due to mrpl44 deficiency is a rare mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation disorder with complex i and iv deficiency characterized by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ,  hepatic steatosis with elevated liver transaminases ,  exercise intolerance and muscle weakness .
focal epilepsy - intellectual disability - cerebro - cerebellar malformation is a rare ,  genetic neurological disorder characterized by early infantile - onset of seizures ,  borderline to moderate intellectual disability ,  cerebellar features including dysarthria and ataxia and cerebellar atrophy and cortical thickening observed on mri imaging .
progressive myoclonic epilepsy with dystonia is a rare ,  genetic epilepsy syndrome characterized by neonatal or early infantile onset of severe ,  progressive ,  typically frequent and prolonged myoclonic seizures that are refractory to treatment ,  associated with localized and / or generalized paroxysmal dystonia  ( which later becomes persistent )  .
16q24 .1 microdeletion syndrome is a partial autosomal monosomy characterized clinically by lethal pulmonary disease that presents as severe respiratory distress and refractory pulmonary hypertension within a few hours after birth and typically results in death from respiratory failure within the first months of life .
phalangeal microgeodic syndrome is a rare primary osteolysis characterized by multiple small osteolytic areas and sclerosis in the phalanges of one or both hands associated with swelling and redness of the phalanges .
autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia with late - onset spasticity is a rare ,  genetic neurodegenerative disease characterized by childhood or adolescent - onset of cerebellar ataxia with dysarthria which slowly progresses and associates pyramidal signs ,  including lower limb spasticity ,  brisk reflexes ,  and babinski and hoffman signs .
brain dopamine - serotonin vesicular transport disease is a newly discovered infantile - onset neurometabolic disease characterized by dystonia ,  parkinsonism ,  nonambulation ,  autonomic dysfunction ,  developmental delay and mood disturbances .
early - onset progressive neurodegeneration - blindness - ataxia - spasticity syndrome is a genetic neurodegenerative disease characterized by normal early development followed by childhood onset optic atrophy with progressive vision loss and eventually blindness ,  followed by progressive neurological decline that typically includes cerebellar ataxia ,  nystagmus ,  dorsal column dysfunction  ( decreased vibration and position sense )  ,  spastic paraplegia and finally tetraparesis .
a rare genetic disorder with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance with variable penetrance .
autosomal dominant intermediate charcot - marie - tooth disease type f is a rare hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy disorder characterized by the typical cmt phenotype  ( slowly progressive distal muscle atrophy and weakness in upper and lower limbs ,  distal sensory loss in extremities ,  reduced or absent deep tendon reflexes and foot deformities )  with nerve biopsy demonstrating demyelinating and axonal changes and nerve conduction velocities varying from the demyelinating to axonal range .
x - linked charcot - marie - tooth disease type 6 is a rare ,  genetic ,  principally axonal ,  peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy characterized by an x - linked dominant inheritance pattern and the childhood - onset of slowly progressive ,  moderate to severe ,  distal muscle weakness and atrophy of the lower extremities ,  as well as distal ,  panmodal sensory abnormalities ,  bilateral foot deformities  ( pes cavus ,  clawed toes )  ,  absent ankle reflexes and gait abnormalities  ( steppage gait )  .
cobblestone lissencephaly without muscular or ocular involvement is a form of cobblestone lissencephaly characterized by a constellation of brain malformations which can either exist alone or in conjunction with minimal muscular and ocular abnormalities .
congenital muscular alpha - dystroglycanopathy with brain and eye anomalies  ( mddga )  is a cobblestone lissencephaly characterized by and considered to be pathognomonic of a continuum of recessive autosomal disorders with brain ,  ocular and muscular involvement .
any neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ctsf gene .
facial dysmorphism - immunodeficiency - livedo - short stature syndrome is a rare genetic disease characterized by facial dysmorphism with malar hypoplasia and high forehead ,  immunodeficiency resulting in recurrent infections ,  impaired growth  ( with normal growth hormone production and response )  resulting in short stature ,  and livedo affecting face and extremities .
attenuated chdiak - higashi syndrome  ( chs )  is a very rare and atypical form of chs ,  a genetic disorder characterized by partial oculocutaneous albinism  ( oca )  ,  severe immunodeficiency ,  mild bleeding ,  neurological dysfunction and lymphoproliferative disorder .
type 1 oculocutaneous albinism  ( oca1 )  describes a group of tyrosine related ocas that includes oca1a ,  oca1b ,  type 1 minimal pigment oculocutaneous albinism  ( oca1 - mp )  and type 1 temperature sensitive oculocutaneous albinism  ( oca1 - ts )  .
type 1 minimal pigment oculocutaneous albinism  ( oca1 - mp )  is an extremely rare form of oca1 with minimal pigment present ,  characterized by blond hair ,  variable iris transillumination ,  visual acuity ranging from 20 / 80 - 20 / 200 and white skin ,  with or without skin nevi .
type 1 temperature sensitive oculocutaneous albinism  ( oca1 - ts )  is an extremely rare form of oca1 characterized by the production of temperature sensitive tyrosinase proteins leading to dark hair on the legs ,  arms and chest  ( cooler body areas )  and white hair on the scalp ,  axilla and pubic area  ( warmer body areas )  .
oculocutaneous albinism type 7  ( oca7 )  ,  formerly called oca5 ,  is a form of oculocutaneous albinism  ( oca )  characterized by skin and hair hypopigmentation ,  nystagmus and iris transillumination .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2c  ( lgmd2c )  is a subtype of autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by a childhood onset of progressive shoulder and pelvic girdle muscle weakness and atrophy frequently associated with calf hypertrophy ,  diaphragmatic weakness ,  and / or variable cardiac abnormalities .
epileptic encephalopathy with global cerebral demyelination is a rare mitochondrial substrate carrier disorder characterized by severe muscular hypotonia ,  seizures  ( with or without episodic apnea )  beginning in the first year of life ,  and arrested psychomotor development  ( affecting mainly motor skills )  .
any rubinstein - taybi syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the crebbp gene .
chromosome 16p13 .3deletion syndrome is a chromosome abnormality that can affect many parts of the body .
any rubinstein - taybi syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ep300 gene .
infantile pyruvate carboxylase  ( pc )  deficiency  ( type a )  is a rare ,  severe form of pc deficiency characterized by infantile - onset ,  mild to moderate lactic acidemia ,  and a generally severe course .
severe neonatal pyruvate carboxylase  ( pc )  deficiency  ( type b )  is a rare ,  extremely severe form of pc deficiency characterized by severe ,  early - onset metabolic acidosis ,  and a generally fatal outcome in early infancy .
benign pyruvate carboxylase  ( pc )  deficiency  ( type c )  is a rare ,  very mild form of pc deficiency characterized by episodic metabolic acidosis and normal or mildly delayed neurological development .
gm1 gangliosidosis is a rare lysosomal storage disorder characterized biochemically by deficient beta - galactosidase activity and clinically by a wide range of variable neurovisceral ,  ophthalmological and dysmorphic features .
gaucher disease  ( gd )  is a lysosomal storage disorder encompassing three main forms  ( types 1 ,  2 and 3 )  ,  a fetal form and a variant with cardiac involvement  ( gaucher disease  -  ophthalmoplegia  -  cardiovascular calcification or gaucher - like disease )  .
a very rare and fatal disorder of spongiform encephalopathy usually caused by mutations of the prion protein  ( prnp )  gene .
nanophthalmia is a severe form of microphthalmia characterized by a small eye with a short axial length ,  severe hyperopia ,  an elevated lens / eye ratio ,  and a high incidence of angle - closure glaucoma .
a genetically heterogeneous condition ,  typically inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion ,  characterized by coenzyme q10 deficiency .
aldh18a1 - related de barsy syndrome combines intellectual deficit ,  bilateral cataracts ,  and skin and joint hyperlaxity .
madelung disease ,  or deformity  ( md )  is a predominantly bilateral wrist anomaly characterized by shortened and bowed radii and long ulnae leading to dorsal dislocation of the distal ulna and limited mobility of the wrist and elbow .
primary lateral sclerosis  ( pls )  is an idiopathic non - familial motor neuron disease characterized by slowly progressive upper motor neuron dysfunction leading to spasticity ,  mild weakness in voluntary muscle movement ,  hyperreflexia ,  and loss of motor speech production .
slc35a2 - cdg is a congenital disorder of glycosylation characterized by severe or profound global developmental delay ,  early epileptic encephalopathy ,  muscular hypotonia ,  dysmorphic features  ( coarse facies ,  thick eyebrows ,  broad nasal bridge ,  thick lips ,  inverted nipples )  ,  variable ocular defects and brain morphological abnormalities on brain mri  ( cerebral atrophy ,  thin corpus callosum )  .
d , l - 2 - hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare inborn error of metabolism characterized by severe neonatal epileptic encephalopathy ,  episodes of apnea and respiratory distress ,  severe global developmental delay or absent psychomotor development ,  severe muscular hypotonia or absent voluntary movements ,  feeding difficulties and failure to thrive ,  absence of visual contact ,  abnormal brain morphology  ( including cerebral atrophy ,  ventriculomegaly and hypoplasia or dysplasia of the corpus callosum )  ,  mild dysmorphic features  ( frontal bossing ,  hypertelorism ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  flat nasal bridge )  ,  elevated csf and plasma lactate and urinary krebs cycle metabolites .
the mitochondrial dna  ( mtdna )  depletion syndrome  ( mds )  is a clinically heterogeneous group of mitochondrial disorders characterized by a reduction of the mtdna copy number in affected tissues without mutations or rearrangements in the mtdna .
19p13 .13 microdeletion syndrome is a rare partial autosomal monosomy characterized by global developmental delay ,  moderate intellectual disability ,  macrocephaly ,  overgrowth ,  hypotonia ,  and facial dysmorphism  ( frontal bossing ,  down - slanting palpebral fissures )  .
3 - hydroxy - 3 - methylglutaryl - coa synthase deficiency  ( hmg - coa synthase deficiency )  is a rare autosomal recessively inherited disorder of ketone body metabolism ,  reported in less than 20 patients to date ,  characterized clinically by episodes of decompensation  ( often associated with gastroenteritis or fasting )  that present with vomiting ,  lethargy ,  hepatomegaly ,  non ketotic hypoglycemia and ,  in rare cases ,  coma .
an inherited malignant tumor that originates in the nuclear layer of the retina .
a retinoblastoma that only involves a single eye .
l - arginine:glycine amidinotransferase  ( agat )  deficiency is a very rare type of creatine deficiency sydrome characterized by global developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  and myopathy .
any amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the setx gene .
serine - deficiency syndrome is a very rare infantile - onset potentially treatable neurometabolic disorder characterized clinically by microcephaly ,  neurodevelopmental disorders and seizures .
an autosomal recessive cutis laxa type ii classic type that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in the atp6v0a2 gene on chromosome 12q24 .
glutaryl - coa oxidase deficiency is a peroxisomal disorder leading to glutaric aciduria .
autosomal recessive cutis laxa type 2b is a rare ,  hereditary ,  developmental defect with connective tissue involvement characterized by cutis laxa of variable severity ,  in utero growth restriction ,  congenital hip dislocation and joint hyperlaxity ,  wrinkling of the skin ,  in particular the dorsum of hands and feet ,  and progeroid facial features .
aromatic l - amino acid decarboxylase deficiency is a very rare ,  severe ,  genetic neurometabolic disorder associated with clinical manifestations related to underproduction of serotonin and dopamine ,  mainly hypotonia ,  hypokinesia ,  ptosis oculogyric crises ,  and signs of autonomic dysfunction .
glucose - galactose malabsorption  ( ggm )  is a very rare ,  potentially lethal ,  genetic metabolic disease characterized by impaired glucose - galactose absorption resulting in severe watery diarrhea and dehydration with onset inthe neonatal period .
severe combined immunodeficiency due to card11 deficiency is a rare combined t and b cell immunodeficiency characterized by normal numbers of t and b lymphocytes ,  increased numbers of transitional b cells and hypo -  to agammaglobulinemia ,  decreased numbers of regulatory t cells and defects in t - cell functions .
morning glory syndrome  ( mgs )  is an optic neuropathy characterized by a congenital funnel shaped excavation of the posterior fundus that incorporates the optic disc malformation  ( resembling the morning glory flower )  mgs is usually unilateral and may result in a decrease in best - corrected visual acuity  ( bcva )  .
a renal or urinary tract malformation that is not part of a larger syndrome .
gitelman syndrome  ( gs )  ,  also referred to as familial hypokalemia - hypomagnesemia ,  is characterized by hypokalemic metabolic alkalosis in combination with significant hypomagnesemia and low urinary calcium excretion .
imerslund - grasbeck syndrome  ( igs )  or selective vitamin b12  ( cobalamin )  malabsorption with proteinuria is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by vitamin b12 deficiency commonly resulting in megaloblastic anemia ,  which is responsive to parenteral vitamin b12 therapy and appears in childhood .
hyperinsulinism - hyperammonemia syndrome  ( hiha )  is a frequent form of diazoxide - sensitive diffuse hyperinsulinism ,  characterized by an excessive /  uncontrolled insulin secretion  ( inappropriate for the level of glycemia )  ,  asymptomatic hyperammonemia and recurrent episodes of profound hypoglycemia induced by fasting and protein rich meals ,  requiring rapid and intensive treatment to prevent neurological sequelae .
hereditary glaucoma is a clinically diverse group of rare eye disorders with genetic predisposition characterized by elevated intraocular pressure  ( iop )  and glaucomatous changes of the optic nerve head ,  leading to field defects ,  visual loss and blindness .
combined deficiency of factor v and factor viii is an inherited bleeding disorder due to the reduction in activity and antigen levels of both factor v  ( fv )  and factor viii  ( fviii )  and characterized by mild - to - moderate bleeding symptoms .
a developmental brain abnormality characterized by an excessive amount of small convolutions on the surface of the brain and cognitive dysfunction .
acrocallosal syndrome  ( acs )  is a polymalformative syndrome characterized by agenesis of corpus callosum  ( cc )  ,  distal anomalies of limbs ,  minor craniofacial anomalies and intellectual deficit .
familial glucocorticoid deficiency  ( fgd )  is a group of primary adrenal insufficiencies characterized clinically by neonatal hyperpigmentation ,  hypoglycemia ,  failure to thrive ,  and recurrent infections ,  and biochemically by glucocorticoid deficiency without mineralocorticoid deficiency .
any abnormality ,  anatomical or biochemical ,  evident at birth or during the neonatal period and pertaining to any of the great veins  ( i .e .
aberrant chromosomes with no ends ,  i .e . ,  circular .
intractable diarrhoea of infancy  ( idi )  is a heterogeneous syndrome that includes several diseases with different aetiologies .
high myopia - sensorineural deafness syndrome is a rare genetic disease characterized by high myopia ,  typically ranging from  - 6 .0 to  - 11 .0 diopters ,  and moderate to profound ,  bilateral ,  progressive sensorineural hearing loss with prelingual - onset .
fetal akinesia - cerebral and retinal hemorrhage syndrome is a rare ,  lethal ,  congenital myopathy syndrome characterized by decreased fetal movements and polyhydraminos in utero and the presence of akinesia ,  severe hypotonia with respiratory insufficiency ,  absent reflexes ,  joint contractures ,  skeletal abnormalities with thin ribs and bones ,  intracranial and retinal hemorrhages and decreased birth weight in the neonate .
an autosomal recessive disease that is characterized by brachydactyly ,  hyperphalangism of digits ,  facial dysmorphism ,  dental anomalies ,  sensorineural hearing loss ,  delayed motor and mental development ,  and growth retardation and has material basis in homozygous mutation in the chsy1 gene .
any fatal multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the iba57 gene .
autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia - pyramidal signs - nystagmus - oculomotor apraxia syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  slowly progressive neurodegenerative disease characterized by delayed psychomotor development beginning in infancy ,  mild to profound intellectual disability ,  gait and stance ataxia ,  pyramidal signs  ( hyperreflexia ,  extensor plantar responses )  ,  dysarthria ,  and ocular abnormalities  ( e .g .
autosomal recessive congenital cerebellar ataxia due to grid2 deficiency is a rare ,  genetic ,  slowly progressive neurodegenerative disease resulting from grid2 deficiency characterized by motor ,  speech and cognitive delay ,  hypotonia ,  truncal and appendicular ataxia ,  and eye movement abnormalities  ( tonic upgaze ,  nystagmus ,  oculomotor apraxia )  .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2r  ( lgmd2r )  is a form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by the adolescent or early adulthood - onset of progressive proximal muscle weakness and mild facial muscle weakness ,  with patients becoming wheelchair bound in their fourth to fifth decade of life .
p2y12 defect is a rare hemorrhagic disorder characterized by mild to moderate bleeding diathesis with easy bruising ,  mucosal bleedings ,  and excessive post - operative hemorrhage due to defect of the platelet p2y12 receptor resulting in selective impairment of platelet responses to adenosine diphosphate .
a rare ,  genetic ,  premature aging syndrome characterized by adulthood - onset cutaneous manifestations that result in a prematurely aged appearance  ( i .e .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2t  ( lgmd2t )  is a form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy ,  that can present from birth to early childhood ,  characterized by hypotonia ,  microcephaly ,  mild proximal muscle weakness  ( leading to delayed walking and difficulty climbing stairs )  ,  mild intellectual disability and epilepsy .
x - linked parkinsonism - spasticity syndrome is a rare genetic neurological disorder characterized by parkinsonian features  ( including resting or action tremor ,  cogwheel rigidity ,  hypomimia and bradykinesia )  associated with variably penetrant spasticity ,  hyperactive deep tendon reflexes and babinski sign .
20q11 .2 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  due to partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 20 ,  characterized by psychomotor and developmental delay ,  moderate intellectual disability ,  metopic ridging / trigonocephaly ,  short hands and / or feet and distinctive facial features  ( epicanthus ,  hypoplastic supraorbital ridges ,  horizontal / downslanting palpebral fissures ,  small nose with depressed nasal bridge and anteverted nostrils ,  prominent cheeks ,  retrognathia and small ,  thick ears )  .
1qter deletion syndrome is a chromosomal anomaly characterized by an intellectual deficiency ,  progressive microcephaly ,  seizures ,  growth delay ,  distinct facial dysmorphic features and various midline defects including cardiac ,  corpus callosum ,  gastro - oesophalgeal and urogenital anomalies .
2p13 .2 microdeletion syndrome is a rare partial autosomal monosomy characterized by global development delay ,  intellectual disability ,  behavioral abnormalities  ( hyperactivity ,  attention deficit and autistic behaviors )  ,  brachycephaly and variable facial dysmorphism .
an autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of gatad2b on chromosome 1q21 .3 .
craniofaciofrontodigital is a rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by mild intellectual disability ,  short stature ,  cardiac anomalies ,  mild dysmorphic features  ( macrocephaly ,  prominent forehead ,  hypertelorism ,  exophthalmos )  ,  cutis laxa ,  joint hyperlaxity ,  wrinkled palms and soles and skeletal anomalies  ( sella turcica ,  wide ribs and small vertebral bodies )  .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 37  ( sca37 )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type 1  ( adca type 1 )  ,  characterized by a cerebellar syndrome along with altered vertical eye movements .
alexander disease type i  ( axd type i )  is an astrogliopathy and the most severe and common form of alexander disease  ( axd )  ,  presenting before the age of 4 and characterized by seizures ,  megalencephaly and developmental delay with progressive deterioration .
alexander disease type ii  ( axd type ii )  is an astrogliopathy and a form of alexander disease  ( axd )  characterized by ataxia ,  bulbar symptoms ,  spastic paraparesis ,  palatal myoclonus ,  and autonomic symptoms .
an instance of cervical artery dissection that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
hereditary sensory neuropathy type i  ( hsn i )  is a slowly progressive neurological disorder characterised by prominent predominantly distal sensory loss ,  autonomic disturbances ,  autosomal dominant inheritance ,  and juvenile or adulthood disease onset .
generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus  ( gefs +  )  is a familial epilepsy syndrome in which family members display a seizure disorder from the gefs +  spectrum which ranges from simple febrile seizures  ( fs )  to the more severe phenotype of myoclonic - astatic epilepsy  ( mae )  or dravet syndrome  ( ds )  .
cbl - related disorder is a genetic condition caused by pathogenic variants in the cbl ubiquitin ligase gene ,   ( cbl ;  hgnc:1541 )  .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4b3  ( cmt4b3 )  is a subtype of charcot - marie - tooth type 4 characterized by a childhood onset of slowly progressing ,  demyelinating sensorimotor neuropathy ,  focally folded myelin sheaths in nerve biopsy ,  reduced nerve conduction velocities  ( less than 38 m / s )  ,  and the typical cmt phenotype  ( i .e .
familial benign flecked retina is a rare retinal dystrophy characterized by diffuse bilateral white - yellow fleck - like lessions extending to the far periphery of the retina but sparing the foveal region ,  with asymptomatic clinical phenotype and absence of electrophysiologic deficits .
glycogenosis due to glucose - 6 - phosphatase  ( g6p )  deficiency or glycogen storage disease ,   ( gsd )  ,  type 1 ,  is a group of inherited metabolic diseases ,  including types a and b ,  and characterized by poor tolerance to fasting ,  growth retardation and hepatomegaly resulting from accumulation of glycogen and fat in the liver .
severe early childhood onset retinal dystrophy  ( secord )  is an inherited retinal dystrophy ,  characterized by a severe congenital night blindness ,  progressive retinal dystrophy and nystagmus .
infantile epileptic - dyskinetic encephalopathy is a monogenic disease with epilepsy characterized by developmental delay and infantile spasms in the first months of life ,  followed by chorea and generalized dystonia and progressing to quadriplegic dyskinesia ,  recurrent status dystonicus ,  intractable focal epilepsy and severe intellectual disability .
bipartite talus is a rare ,  genetic bone disorder characterized by the presence of two non - fused talar bone fragments ,  with the posterior fragment located at the level of the posterior talar process .
frontootopalatodigital syndrome is a group of congenital anomalies that span a broad range of clinical severity .
intellectual disability - brachydactyly - pierre robin syndrome is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by mild to moderate intellectual disability and phsychomotor delay ,  robin sequence  ( incl .
glycogen storage disease due to acid maltase deficiency  ( amd )  is an autosomal recessive trait leading to metabolic myopathy that affects cardiac and respiratory muscles in addition to skeletal muscle and other tissues .
an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder due to deficient expression of amylo - 1 , 6 - glucosidase  ( one part of the glycogen debranching enzyme system )  .
glycogen branching enzyme  ( gbe )  deficiency  ( andersen's disease or amylopectinosis )  ,  or glycogen storage disease type 4  ( gsd4 )  ,  is a rare and severe form of glycogen storage disease which accounts for approximately 3% of all the glycogen storage diseases .
myoclonus - dystonia syndrome  ( mds )  is a rare movement disorder characterized by mild to moderate dystonia along with 'lightning - like' myoclonic jerks .
intellectual disability - seizures - hypotonia - ophthalmologic - skeletal anomalies syndrome is a rare congenital disorder of glycosylation characterized by neonatal hypotonia ,  global development delay ,  developmental regress and severe to profound intellectual disability ,  infantile onset seizures that are initially associated with febrile episodes with subsequent transition to unprovoked seizures ,  impaired vision with esotropia and nystagmus ,  progressive cerebral and cerebellar atrophy ,  skeletal abnormalities  ( including brachycephaly ,  scoliosis ,  slender long bones ,  delayed bone age ,  pectus excavatum and osteopenia )  ,  inverted nipples and dysmorphic features including high and narrow forehead ,  frontal bossing ,  short nose ,  depressed nasal bridge ,  anteverted nares ,  high palate and wide open mouth consistent with facial hypotonia .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2s  ( lgmd2s )  is a form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by childhood - onset of progressive proximal muscle weakness  ( leading to reduced ambulation )  with myalgia and fatigue ,  in addition to infantile hyperkinetic movements ,  truncal ataxia ,  and intellectual disability .
congenital sideroblastic anemia  - b cell immunodeficiency -  periodic fever - developmental delay syndrome is a form of constitutional sideroblastic anemia ,  characterized by severe microcytic anemia ,  b - cell lymphopenia ,  panhypogammaglobulinemia and variable neurodegeneration .
autosomal recessive intermediate charcot - marie - tooth disease type c is a rare subtype of autosomal recessive intermediate charcot - marie - tooth  ( cmt )  disease characterized by childhood to adulthood - onset of progressive ,  moderate to severe ,  predominantly distal ,  mostly lower limb muscle weakness and atrophy ,  foot deformities  ( including pes cavus and hammer toes )  ,  absent deep tendon reflexes and distal sensory loss associated with decreased motor and sensory nerve conduction velocities and features of both demyelinating and axonal neuropathy on sural nerve biopsy .
2p21 microdeletion syndrome without cystinuria is a rare partial autosomal monosomy characterized by weak fetal movements ,  severe infantile hypotonia and feeding difficulties that spontaneously improve with time ,  urogenital abnormalities  ( hypospadias or hypoplastic labia majora )  ,  global development delay ,  mild intellectual disability and facial dysmorphism  ( dolichocephaly ,  frontal bossing ,  bilateral ptosis ,  midface retrusion ,  open mouth with tented upper lip vermilion )  .
any mitochondrial dna depletion syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fbxl4 gene .
orofaciodigital syndrome type 14 is a rare subtype of orofaciodigital syndrome ,  with autosomal recessive inheritance and c2cd3 mutations ,  characterized by severe microcephaly ,  trigonocephaly ,  severe intellectual disability and micropenis ,  in addition to oral ,  facial and digital malformations  ( gingival frenulae ,  lingual hamartomas ,  cleft / lobulated tongue ,  cleft palate ,  telecanthus ,  up - slanting palpebral fissures ,  microretrognathia ,  postaxial polydactyly of hands and duplication of hallux )  .
any combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the elac2 gene .
any non - syndromic pontocerebellar hypoplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ampd2 gene .
severe motor and intellectual disabilities - sensorineural deafness - dystonia syndrome is a rare genetic neurological disorder characterized by intrauterine growth retardation ,  failure to thrive ,  infantile onset of sensorineural deafness ,  severe global developmental delay or absent psychomotor development ,  paraplegia or quadriplegia with dystonia and pyramidal signs ,  microcephaly ,  ocular abnormalities  ( strabismus ,  optic atrophy )  ,  mildly dysmorphic features  ( deep - set eyes ,  prominent nasal bridge ,  micrognathia )  ,  seizures and abnormalities of brain morphology  ( hypomyelinating white matter changes ,  cerebral atrophy )  .
intellectual disability - seizures - macrocephaly - obesity syndrome is a rare syndromic obesity due to complex chromosomal rearrangement characterized by development delay and intellectual disability ,  childhood - onset obesity ,  seizures ,  poor coordination and broad - based gait ,  macrocephaly and mild dysmorphic features  ( such as narrow palpebral fissures ,  malar hypoplasia and thin upper lips )  ,  eczema ,  ocular abnormalities and a social personality .
acrodermatitis enteropathica  ( ae )  is a rare inherited inborn error of metabolism resulting in a severe zinc deficiency and characterized by acral dermatitis ,  alopecia ,  diarrhea and growth failure .
glycogen storage disease  ( gsd )  due to phosphorylase kinase deficiency is a group of inborn errors of glycogen metabolism that is clinically and genetically heterogeneous .
ataxia - intellectual disability - oculomotor apraxia - cerebellar cysts syndrome is a rare neuro - ophthalmological disease characterized by nonprogressive cerebellar ataxia ,  delayed motor and language development ,  and intellectual disability in addition to ophthalmological abnormalities  ( e .g .
an instance of syringomyelia that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
proximal 16p11 .2 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from a partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 16 characterized by developmental delay and intellectual disability of a highly variable degree ,  autism spectrum ,  obsessive - compulsive ,  attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ,  speech articulation abnormalities ,  muscular hypotonia ,  tremor ,  hyper -  or hyporeflexia ,  seizures ,  microcephaly ,  neuroimaging abnormalities ,  decreased body mass index and schizophrenia or bipolar disorder later on in life .
any infantile liver failure in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lars gene .
oculocutaneous albinism type 5  ( oca5 )  is a type of oculocutaneous albinism found in one pakistani family to date ,  characterized by white skin ,  golden hair ,  photophobia ,  nystagmus ,  foveal hypoplasia and impaired visual acuity ,  that affects males and females equally ,  and that has been mapped to a locus on chromosome 4q24 but whose gene has not yet been discovered .
a form of oculocutaneous albinism characterized by light hair at birth that darkens with age ,  white skin ,  transparent irides ,  photophobia ,  nystagmus ,  foveal hypoplasia and reduced visual acuity .
ataxia - telangiectasia variant is a rare ,  genetic ,  persistent combined dystonia characterized by clinical signs similar to ataxia - telangiectasia but with a later  ( usually adulthood )  onset and slower progression .
medich giant platelet syndrome  ( mgps )  is a platelet granule disorder characterized by thrombocytopenia with giant platelets resulting in easy bleeding .
white platelet syndrome  ( wps )  is is a platelet granule disorder characterized by thrombocytopenia ,  increased mean platelet volumes ,  decreased platelet responsiveness to aggregating agents ,  and significant defects in platelet ultrastructural morphology leading to prolonged bleeding times and bleeding .
immunodysregulation  -  polyendocrinopathy  -  enteropathy  -  x - linked  ( ipex )  syndrome is a severe congenital systemic autoimmune disease characterized by refractory diarrhea ,  endocrinopathies ,  cutaneous involvement ,  and infections .
stt3a - cdg is a form of congenital disorders of n - linked glycosylation characterized by developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  failure to thrive ,  hypotonia and seizures .
 ( 3p24 .1 )  .
 ( xq28 )  .
 ( 1p21 )  .
muscle - eye - brain  ( meb )  disease with bilateral multicystic leucodystrophy is a form of congenital muscular alpha - dystroglycanopathy with brain and eye anomaly characterized by severe muscle - eye - brain disease - like phenotype associated with macrocephaly and extended bilateral multicystic white matter disease ,  overlapping with the cerebral findings in patients with megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts .
congenital muscular dystrophy with hyperlaxity is a rare ,  genetic neuromuscular disease characterized by congenital hypotonia ,  generalized ,  slowly progressive muscular weakness ,  and proximal joint contractures with distal joint hypermobility and hyperlaxity .
hypotonia - speech impairment - severe cognitive delay syndrome is a rare ,  genetic neurodegenerative disorder characterized by severe ,  persistent hypotonia  ( presenting at birth or in early infancy )  ,  severe global developmental delay  ( with poor or absent speech ,  difficulty or inability to roll ,  sit or walk )  ,  profound intellectual disability ,  and failure to thrive .
multicentric osteolysis - nodulosis - arthropathy  ( mona )  spectrum is a rare genetic chronic skeletal disorder characterized by peripheral osteolysis  ( especially carpal and tarsal bones )  ,  interphalangeal joint erosions ,  subcutaneous fibrocollagenous nodules ,  facial dysmorphism ,  and a wide range of associated manifestations .
a heterogenous group of inherited disorders characterized by recurring attacks of rapidly progressive flaccid paralysis or myotonia .
a esophageal malformation that is part of a larger syndrome .
simpson - golabi - behmel syndrome is a rare x - linked multiple congenital anomalies syndrome ,  characterized by pre -  and postnatal overgrowth ,  distinctive craniofacial features ,  variable congenital malformations ,  organomegaly and an increased tumor risk .
goldenhar syndrome  ( gs )  ,  also known as oculo - auriculo - vertebral dysplasia  ( oav )  ,  is a rare developmental syndrome characterized by a classic triad of mandibular hypoplasia resulting in facial asymmetry ,  ear and / or eye malformations ,  and vertebral anomalies .
andersen's syndrome  ( as )  is a rare disorder characterized by periodic muscle paralysis ,  prolongation of the qt interval with a variety of ventricular arrhythmias  ( leading to predisposition to sudden cardiac death )  and characteristic physical features: short stature ,  scoliosis ,  low - set ears ,  hypertelorism ,  broad nasal root ,  micrognathia ,  clinodactyly ,  brachydactyly and syndactyly .
gordon syndrome ,  also known as distal arthrogryposis type 3 ,  is an extremely rare multiple congenital malformation syndrome characterized by congenital contractures of hand and feet with variable degrees of severity of camptodactyly ,  clubfoot and ,  less frequently ,  cleft palate .
episodic ataxia type 1  ( ea1 )  is a frequent form of hereditary episodic ataxia  ( ea )  characterized by brief episodes of ataxia ,  neuromyotonia ,  and continuous interictal myokymia .
a rare hereditary disorder due to autosomal dominant transmission with hamartosis characterized by multiple early - onset basal cell carcinoma  ( bcc )  ,  multiple jaw keratocysts and skeletal abnormalities .
chronic granulomatous disease  ( cgd )  is a rare primary immunodeficiency ,  mainly affecting phagocytes ,  which is characterized by an increased susceptibility to severe and recurrent bacterial and fungal infections ,  along with the development of granulomas .
greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome  ( gcps )  is a pleiotropic ,  multiple congenital anomaly syndrome .
griscelli syndrome  ( gs )  is characterised by silvery gray sheen of the hair and hypopigmentation of the skin which can be associated to neurological impairment  ( type 1 )  ,  immunodeficiency  ( type 2 )  or be isolated  ( type 3 )  .
guanidinoacetate methyltransferase  ( gamt )  deficiency is a creatine deficiency syndrome characterized by global developmental delay / intellectual disability  ( dd / id )  ,  prominent speech delay ,  autistic / hyperactive behavioral disorders ,  seizures ,  and various types of pyramidal and / or extra - pyramidal manifestations .
x - linked mixed deafness with perilymphatic gusher ,  also known as x - linked deafness type 2 ,  is a rare form of non - syndromic genetic deafnesss affecting males and characterized by pathognomonic inner ear anomalies and conductive and profound sensorineural hearing loss .
neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation  ( nbia ,  formerly hallervorden - spatz syndrome )  encompasses a group of rare neurodegenerative disorders characterized by progressive extrapyramidal dysfunction  ( dystonia ,  rigidity ,  choreoathetosis )  ,  iron accumulation in the brain and the presence of axonal spheroids ,  usually limited to the central nervous system .
hirschsprung disease  ( hscr )  is a congenital intestinal motility disorder that is characterized by signs of intestinal obstruction due to the presence of an aganglionic segment of variable extent in the terminal part of the colon .
dihydropyrimidinase  ( dpd )  deficiency is a very rare pyrimidine metabolism disorder with a variable clinical presentation including gastrointestinal manifestations  ( feeding problems ,  cyclic vomiting ,  gastroesophageal reflux ,  malabsorption with villous atrophy )  ,  hypotonia ,  intellectual deficit ,  seizures ,  and less frequently growth retardation ,  failure to thrive ,  microcephaly and autism .
omenn syndrome  ( os )  is an inflammatory condition characterized by erythroderma ,  desquamation ,  alopecia ,  chronic diarrhea ,  failure to thrive ,  lymphadenopathy ,  and hepatosplenomegaly ,  associated with severe combined immunodeficiency  ( scid )  .
infantile - onset mesial temporal lobe epilepsy with severe cognitive regression is a rare monogenic disease with infantile - onset pharmacoresistant focal seizures of mesial temporal lobe onset manifesting with unresponsiveness ,  hypertonia and automatisms and cognitive regression soon after seizure onset leading to severe intellectual disability with behavioral abnormalities .
any combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sfxn4 gene .
surf1 - related charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4  ( cmt4k )  is a subtype of charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4 characterized by childhood onset of severe ,  progressive ,  demyelinating sensorimotor neuropathy manifesting with distal muscle weakness and atrophy of hands and feet ,  distal sensory impairment  ( vibration and pinprick )  of lower limbs ,  lactic acidosis ,  areflexia and severely reduced motor nerve conduction velocities  ( 25 m / s or less )  .
intellectual disability - severe speech delay - mild dysmorphism syndrome ,  also known as intellectual disability with language impairment and with or without autistic features ,  is adisorder characterized by global developmental delay with moderate to severe speech delay thataffects expressive speech .
a rare ,  autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutation in the scn11a gene .
hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type 7  ( hsan7 )  is a genetic condition that causes the inability to feel pain ,  excessive sweating ,  and gastrointestinal issues .
atypical juvenile parkinsonism  ( ajp )  is a complex form of young - onset parkinson disease  ( yopd )  that manifests with pyramidal signs ,  eye movement abnormalities ,  psychiatric manifestations  ( depression ,  anxiety ,  drug - induced psychosis ,  and impulse control disorders )  ,  intellectual disability ,  and other neurological symptoms  ( such as ataxia and epilepsy )  along with classical parkinsonian symptoms .
hsd10 disease is a rare ,  life - threatening neurometabolic disease characterized by a progressive neurodegenerative course ,  epilepsy ,  retinopathy and progressive cardiomyopathy .
hsd10 disease ,  infantile type is a clinical subtype of hsd10 disease ,  a rare neurometabolic disorder .
hsd10 disease ,  neonatal type is the most severe form of hsd10 disease ,  a rare neurometabolic disorder .
frontorhiny is a distinct syndromic type of frontonasal malformation characterized by hypertelorism ,  wide nasal bridge ,  broad columella ,  widened philtrum ,  widely separated narrow nares ,  poor development of nasal tip ,  midline notch of the upper alveolus ,  columella base swellings and a low hairline .
autoimmune enteropathy and endocrinopathy - susceptibility to chronic infections syndrome is an extremely rare ,  autosomal dominant immunological disorder characterized by variable enteropathy ,  endocrine disorders  ( e .g .
feingold syndrome type 1  ( fs1 )  is a rare inherited malformation syndrome characterized by microcephaly ,  short stature and numerous digital anomalies .
feingold syndrome type 2  ( fs2 )  is a rare inherited malformation syndrome characterized by skeletal abnormalities and mild intellectual disabilities similar to those seen in feingold syndrome type 1  ( fs1 )  but that lacks the manifestations of gastrointestinal atresia and short palpebral fissures .
an instance of dystonic disorder that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
holt - oram syndrome  ( hos )  is the most common form of heart - hand syndrome and is characterized by skeletal abnormalities of the upper limbs and mild - to - severe congenital cardiac defects .
46 , xx testicular disorder of sex development  ( 46 , xx testicular dsd )  is characterized by male external genitalia ,  ranging from normal to ambiguous with associated testosterone deficiency .
classical homocystinuria due to cystathionine beta - synthase  ( cbs )  deficiency is characterized by the multiple involvement of the eye ,  skeleton ,  central nervous system ,  and vascular system .
homocystinuria due to methylene tetrahydrofolate reductase  ( mthfr )  deficiency is a metabolic disorder characterised by neurological manifestations .
 ( 20p13 )  leading to deposition of prion protein amyloid .
macrocephaly - developmental delay syndrome is a rare ,  intellectual disability syndrome characterized by macrocephaly ,  mild dysmorphic features  ( frontal bossing ,  long face ,  hooded eye lids with small ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  broad nasal bridge ,  and prominent chin )  ,  global neurodevelopmental delay ,  behavioral abnormalities  ( e .g .
familial hyperprolactinemia is a rare ,  genetic endocrine disorder characterized by persistently high prolactin serum levels  ( not associated with gestation ,  puerperium ,  drug intake or pituitary tumor )  in multiple affected family members .
3q27 .3 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 3 ,  characterized by mild to severe intellectual disability ,  neuropsychiatric disorders of the psychotic and dysthymic spectrum ,  mild distinctive facial dysmorphism  ( incl .
any autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the snx14 gene .
joubert syndrome with jeune asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy  ( jatd )  is an extremely rare genetic bone disorder characterized by the classic features of joubert syndrome  ( i .e .
coasy protein - associated neurodegeneration  ( copan )  is a very rare ,  slowly progressive form of neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation  ( nbia )  characterized by classic nbia features .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2u  ( cmt2u )  is a subtype of autosonal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2 characterized by late adult - onset  ( 50 - 60 years of age )  of slowly progressive ,  axonal ,  peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy resulting in distal upper limb and proximal and distal lower limb muscle weakness and atrophy ,  in conjunction with distal ,  panmodal sensory impairment in upper and lower limbs .
severe combined immunodeficiency due to ikk2 deficiency is a rare ,  genetic form of primary immunodeficiency characterized by life - threatening bacterial ,  fungal and viral infections with the onset in infancy ,  and failure to thrive .
 ( 9q34 .3 )  .
microcephaly - thin corpus callosum - intellectual disability syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  syndromic intellectual disability disease characterized by progressive postnatal microcephaly and global developmental delay ,  as well as moderate to profound intellectual disability ,  difficulty or inability to walk ,  pyramidal signs  ( including spasticity ,  hyperreflexia and extensor plantar response )  and thin corpus callosum revealed by brain imaging .
combined immunodeficiency due to malt1 deficiency is a rare ,  genetic form of primary immunodeficiency characterized by growth retardation ,  early recurrent pulmonary infections leading to bronchiectasis ,  inflammatory gastrointestinal disease ,  and other symptoms ,  such as rash ,  dermatitis ,  skin infections .
any charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the trim2 gene .
prader - willi - like syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  endocrine disease characterized by manifestations of a prader - willi syndrome phenotype  ( including obesity ,  hyperphagia ,  hypotonia ,  psychomotor delay ,  intellectual disability ,  small hands / feet ,  hypogonadism ,  growth hormone deficiency and characteristic facial features )  ocurring in the absence of 15q11 - q13 genomic abnormalities .
a rare ,  hereditary ,  hemolytic anemia due to a red cell membrane anomaly characterized by fatigue ,  mild anemia and pseudohyperkalemia due to a potassium leak from the red blood cells .
focal facial dermal dysplasias  ( ffdd )  are rare ectodermal dysplasias ,  characterized by congenital bitemporal  ( resembling forceps marks )  or preauricular scar - like lesions associated with additional facial and or systematic manifestations .
focal facial dermal dysplasia type ii  ( ffdd2 )  is a focal facial dermal dysplasia  ( ffdd )  ,  characterized by congenital bitemporal scar - like depressions and other facial and organ abnormalities .
focal facial dermal dysplasia type iv  ( ffdd4 )  is a rare focal facial dysplasia  ( ffdd )  ,  characterized by congenital isolated preauricular and / or cheek blister scar - like lesions .
an invasive malignant tumor that originates from the surface epithelium of the ovary .
huntington disease  ( hd )  is a rare neurodegenerative disorder of the central nervous system characterized by unwanted choreatic movements ,  behavioral and psychiatric disturbances and dementia .
any autosomal dominant distal myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cryab gene .
klhl9 - related early - onset distal myopathy is a rare ,  genetic distal myopathy characterized by slowly progressive distal limb muscle weakness and atrophy  ( beginning with anterior tibial muscle involvement followed by the intrinsic hand muscles )  in association with reduced sensation in a stocking - glove distribution .
finnish upper limb - onset distal myopathy is a rare ,  genetic distal myopathy characterized by slowly progressive distal to proximal limb muscle weakness and atrophy ,  with characteristic early involvement of thenar and hypothenar muscles .
an instance of osteonecrosis that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of avascular necrosis that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of osteochondrosis that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
male infertility with azoospermia or oligospermia due to single gene mutation is a rare ,  genetic male infertility due to sperm disorder characterized by the absence of a measurable amount of spermatozoa in the ejaculate  ( azoospermia )  ,  or a number of sperm in the ejaculate inferior to 15 million / ml  ( oligozoospermia )  ,  resulting from a mutation in a single gene known to cause azoo -  or oligo - spermia .
male infertility with teratozoospermia due to single gene mutation is a rare ,  genetic male infertility due to sperm disorder characterized by the presence of spermatozoa with abnormal morphology ,  such as macrozoospermia or globozoospermia ,  in over 85% of sperm ,  resulting from mutation in a single gene known to cause teratozoospermia .
a rare autosomal recessive acromesomelic dysplasia characterized by severe dwarfism  ( adult height  > 120 cm )  ,  both axial and appendicular involvement  ( shortening of the middle and distal segments of limbs and vertebral shortening )  ,  and with normal facial appearance and intelligence .
proximal myopathy with extrapyramidal signs is a rare ,  hereditary non - dystrophic myopathy characterized by proximal muscle weakness ,  delayed motor development ,  learning difficulties ,  and progressive extrapyramidal motor signs including chorea ,  dystonia and tremor .
optic atrophy - intellectual disability syndrome is a rare ,  hereditary ,  syndromic intellectual disability characterized by developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  and significant visual impairment due to optic nerve atrophy ,  optic nerve hypoplasia or cerebral visual impairment .
a rare ,  complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by an onset in infancy of spastic paraplegia  ( presenting with the inability to walk unsupported and a scissors gait )  associated with a motor and sensory polyneuropathy with loss of terminal digits and acropathy .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 62 is a pure or complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by an onset in the first decade of life of spastic paraperesis  ( more prominent in lower than upper extremities )  and unsteady gait ,  as well as increased deep tendon reflexes ,  amyotrophy ,  cerebellar ataxia ,  and flexion contractures of the knees ,  in some .
an extremely rare and complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by an onset in infancy of spastic paraplegia  ( presenting with delayed walking and a scissors gait )  associated with short stature ,  and normal cognition .
an extremely rare and complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia  ( see this term )  ,  reported in only 4 patients from 2 families to date ,  characterized by spastic paraplegia  ( presenting between the ages of 1 to 4 years with abnormal gait )  associated with microcephaly ,  amyotrophy ,  cerebellar signs  ( e .g .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 67 is an extremely rare ,  complex hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by an infancy or childhood onset of global developmental delay and progressive spasticity with tremor in the distal limbs ,  increased deep tendon reflexes and extensor plantar responses ,  which may be associated with mild intellectual disability .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 70 is a very rare ,  complex subtype of hereditary spastic paraplegia that presents in infancy with delayed motor development  ( i .e .
any pure hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the reep2 gene .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of lipoate biosynthetic process .
lipoic acid synthetase deficiency is a rare condition that affects the mitochondria .
any fatal multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nfu1 gene .
any fatal multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bola3 gene .
familial median cleft of the upper and lower lips is a rare and isolated orofacial defect characterized by incomplete median clefts of both the lower lip  ( limited to the vermilion ,  with no muscle involvement )  and upper lip  ( with muscle involvement )  ,  double labial frenulum and fusion of the upper gingival and upper labial mucosa  ( resulting in a shallow upper vestibular fold )  ,  in addition to poor dental alignment ,  and increased interdental distance between the lower and upper median incisors .
moyamoya disease with early - onset achalasia is an exceedingly rare autosomal recessive neurological disorder reported only in a few families so far .
partial corpus callosum agenesis - cerebellar vermis hypoplasia with posterior fossa cysts syndrome is a rare ,  hereditary ,  cerebral malformation with epilepsy syndrome characterized by severe global developmental delay with no ability to walk and no verbal language ,  intractable epilepsy ,  partial agenesis of the corpus callosum and cerebellar vermis hypoplasia with posterior fossa cysts .
any spondylodysplastic dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pam16 gene .
any interstitial nephritis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fan1 gene .
autosomal recessive distal renal tubular acidosis  ( ar drta )  is an inherited form of distal renal tubular acidosis  ( drta )  characterized by hypokalemic hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis .
familial bicuspid aortic valve is a rare ,  genetic ,  aortic malformation defined as a presence of abnormal two - leaflet aortic valve in at least 2 first - degree relatives .
infantile cerebral and cerebellar atrophy with postnatal progressive microcephaly is a rare ,  central nervous system malformation syndrome characterized by progressive microcephaly with profound motor delay and intellectual disability ,  associated with hypertonia ,  spasticity ,  clonus ,  and seizures ,  with brain imaging revealing severe cerebral and cerebellar atrophy ,  and poor myelination .
familial hyperaldosteronism type i  ( fh - i )  is a rare heritable ,  glucocorticoid remediable form of primary aldosteronism  ( pa )  characterized by early - onset hypertension ,  hyperaldosteronism ,  variable hypokalemia ,  low plasma renin activity  ( pra )  ,  and abnormal production of 18 - oxocortisol and 18 - hydroxycortisol .
familial hyperaldosteronism type ii  ( fh - ii )  is a heritable form of primary aldosteronism  ( pa )  characterized by hypertension of varying severity ,  and non glucocticoid remediable hyperaldosteronism .
an autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of adnp on chromosome 20q13 .13 .
a rare autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the ngly1 gene .
multisystemic smooth muscle dysfunction syndrome is a disease in which the activity of smooth muscle throughout the body is impaired .
female infertility due to zona pellucida defect is a rare ,  genetic ,  female infertility disorder characterized by the presence of abnormal oocytes that lack a zona pellucida .
severe intellectual disability - progressive spastic diplegia syndrome is a rare condition that has been described in a few people with severe intellectual disability .
spinal muscular atrophy with respiratory distress type 2 is a rare ,  genetic ,  motor neuron disease characterized by progressive early respiratory failure associated with diaphragm paralysis ,  distal muscular weakness ,  joint contractures ,  and axial hypotonia with preserved antigravity limb movements .
x - linked form of distal hereditary motor neuropathy .
an instance of dysostosis that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia  ( fhh )  is a generally asymptomatic genetic disorder of phosphocalcic metabolism characterized by lifelong moderate hypercalcemia along with normo -  or hypocalciuria and elevated plasma parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  concentration .
glycine encephalopathy  ( ge )  is an inborn error of glycine metabolism characterized by accumulation of glycine in body fluids and tissues ,  including the brain ,  resulting in neurometabolic symptoms of variable severity .
isolated glycerol kinase deficiency  ( gkd )  is a very rare x - linked disorder of glycerol metabolism characterized biochemically by elevated plasma and urine glycerol levels ,  and clinically by variable neurometabolic manifestations ,  depending on the age of onset ,  and varying from a life - threatening childhood metabolic crisis to an asymptomatic adult form  ( infantile gkd ,  juvenile gkd ,  and adult gkd  )  .
acropigmentation of dohi is a genodermatosis characterised by the presence of hyperpigmented and hypopigmented macules ,  principally located on the extremities and limbs .
hereditary late - onset parkinson disease  ( lopd )  is a form of parkinson disease  ( pd )  ,  characterized by an age of onset of more than 50 years ,  tremor at rest ,  gait complaints and falls ,  bradykinesia ,  rigidity and painful cramps .
hyperlipoproteinemia  ( hlp )  type 3 is a rare combined hyperlipidemia characterized by high levels of cholesterol and triglycerides ,  transported by intermediate density lipoproteins  ( idls )  ,  and a high risk of premature atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease .
a laboratory test result indicating an autosomal dominant condition in which there is increased very low density lipoprotein production ,  which leads to increased triglyceride concentration .
gyrate atrophy of the choroid and retina  ( gacr )  is a very rare ,  inherited retinal dystrophy ,  characterized by progressive chorioretinal atrophy ,  myopia and early cataract .
hyperornithinemia - hyperammonemia - homocitrullinuria syndrome  ( triple h syndrome )  is a disorder of urea cycle metabolism characterized by either a neonatal - onset with manifestations of lethargy ,  poor feeding ,  vomiting and tachypnea or ,  more commonly ,  presentations in infancy ,  childhood or adulthood with chronic neurocognitive deficits ,  acute encephalopathy and / or chronic liver dysfunction .
a hereditary disorder characterized by excessive oxalate production ,  leading to hyperoxaluria .
3 .5 mm )  from birth and associated with major hyperparathyroidism .
bietti's crystalline dystrophy  ( bcd )  is a rare progressive autosomal recessive tapetoretinal degeneration disease ,  occurring in the third decade of life ,  characterized by small sparkling crystalline deposits in the posterior retina and corneal limbus in addition to sclerosis of the choroidal vessels and manifesting as nightblindness ,  decreased vision ,  paracentral scotoma ,  and ,  in the end stages of the disease ,  legal blindness .
congenital adrenal hyperplasia  ( cah )  is an inherited endocrine disorder caused by a steroidogenic enzyme deficiency that is characterized by adrenal insufficiency and variable degrees of hyper or hypo androgeny manifestations ,  depending of the type and the severity of the disease .
hyperprolinaemia type i is an inborn error of proline metabolism characterised by elevated levels of proline in the plasma and urine .
medium chain acyl - coa dehydrogenase  ( mcad )  deficiency  ( mcadd )  is an inborn error of mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation characterized by a rapidly progressive metabolic crisis ,  often presenting as hypoketotic hypoglycemia ,  lethargy ,  vomiting ,  seizures and coma ,  which can be fatal in the absence of emergency medical intervention .
iminoglycinuria is a metabolic disorder resulting from defective renal tube reabsorption of proline ,  hydroxyproline and glycine .
idiopathic and / or familial pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( ifpah )  is a form or pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah ,  see his term )  characterized by elevated pulmonary arterial resistance leading to right heart failure ;  it is progressive and potentially fatal .
malignant hyperthermia  ( mh )  is a pharmacogenetic disorder of skeletal muscle that presents as a hypermetabolic response to potent volatile anesthetic gases such as halothane ,  sevoflurane ,  desflurane and the depolarizing muscle relaxant succinylcholine ,  and rarely ,  to stresses such as vigorous exercise and heat .
familial non - autoimmune autosomal dominant hyperthyroidism  ( fnah )  is a rare hyperthyroidism characterized by mild to severe hyperthyroidism ,  presence of goiter ,  absence of features of autoimmunity ,  frequent relapses while on treatment and a positive family history .
pfapa  ( periodic fever  -  aphthous stomatitis -  pharyngitis  -  adenopathy )  syndrome is an auto inflammatory syndrome characterized by recurrent febrile episodes associated with aphthous stomatitis ,  pharyngitis and cervical adenitis .
tietz syndrome is a genetic hypopigmentation and deafness syndrome characterized by congenital profound bilateral sensorineural hearing loss and generalized albino - like hypopigmentation of skin ,  eyes and hair .
aldosterone synthase deficiency is a rare inherited defect of the final step of aldosterone biosynthesis  ( conversion of deoxycorticosterone to aldosterone )  .
phace is an acronym used to describe a syndrome characterised by the association of posterior fossa brain malformations ,  large facial haemangiomas ,  anatomical anomalies of the cerebral arteries ,  aortic coarctation and other cardiac anomalies ,  and eye abnormalities .
autosomal dominant hypocalcemia  ( ad hypocalcemia )  is a disorder of calcium homeostasis characterized by variable degrees of hypocalcemia with abnormally low levels of parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  and persistant normal or elevated calciuria .
hypochondroplasia is characterized by disproportionate short stature ,  mild lumbar lordosis and limited extension of the elbow joints .
x - linked adrenoleukodystrophy  ( x - ald )  is a peroxisomal disorder resulting in cerebral demyelination ,  axonal dysfunction in the spinal cord leading to spastic paraplegia ,  adrenal insufficiency and in some cases testicular insufficiency .
aconitase deficiency is characterised by myopathy with severe exercise intolerance and deficiencies of skeletal muscle succinate dehydrogenase and aconitase .
hypomelanosis of ito  ( hi )  is a multisystemic neurocutaneous condition with hypopigmented skin lesions along the blaschko lines .
hypophosphatasia  ( hpp )  is a rare heritable metabolic disorder characterized by defective mineralization of bone and / or teeth in the presence of reduced activity of unfractionated serum alkaline phosphatase  ( alp )  .
rickets due to low serum phosphate concentrations ,  the cause of which can be nutritional or genetic .
neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy  ( nald )  is the variant of intermediate severity of the pbd - zellweger syndrome spectrum  ( pbd - zss )  ,  charcterized by hypotonia ,  leukodystrophy ,  and vision and sensorineural hearing deficiencies .
congenital hypothyroidism  ( ch )  is defined as a thyroid hormone deficiency present from birth .
an autosomal dominant bone disorder characterized by endosteal hyperostosis and osteosclerosis of the calvaria and the skull base .
marie unna hereditary hypotrichosis  ( muhh )  is a rare autosomal dominant hair loss disorder characterized by the absence or scarcity of scalp hair ,  eyebrows ,  and eyelashes at birth ;  coarse and wiry hair during childhood ;  and progressive hair loss beginning around puberty .
neonatal hemochromatosis is a disease in which too much iron builds up inthe body .
an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by hypomyelination ,  leukodystrophy ,  and thin corpus callosum observed on brain imaging .
hemophilia is a genetic disorder characterized by spontaneous hemorrhage or prolonged bleeding due to factor viii or ix deficiency .
a disease characterized by abnormal nuclear shape and chromatin organization in blood granulocytes ,  short stature ,  and mild skeletal anomalies .
gastrointestinal stromal tumor  ( gist )  is the most common mesenchymal neoplasm of the gastrointestinal  ( gi )  tract ,  typically presenting in adults over the age of 40  ( mean age 63 )  ,  and only rarely in children ,  in various regions of the gi tract ,  most commonly the stomach or small intestine but also less commonly in the esophagus ,  appendix ,  rectum and colon .
adenosine monophosphate  ( amp )  deaminase deficiency is a metabolic disorder for which two forms have been described .
x - linked lissencephaly with abnormal genitalia  ( xlag )  is a severe neurological disorder that only manifests in genotypic males and includes lissencephaly with posterior - to - anterior gradient and only moderate increase in thickness of the cortex ,  absent corpus callosum ,  neonatal - onset severe epilepsy ,  hypothalamic dysfunction including defective temperature regulation ,  and ambiguous genitalia with micropenis and cryptorchidism .
miyoshi myopathy  ( mm )  is a distal myopathy ,  characterized by weakness in the distal lower extremity posterior compartment  ( gastrocnemius and soleus muscles )  and associated with difficulties in standing on tip toes .
superficial epidermolytic ichthyosis  ( sei )  is a rare keratinopathic ichthyosis  ( ki )  characterized by the presence of superficial blisters and erosions at birth .
harlequin ichthyosis  ( hi )  is the most severe variant of autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis  ( arci )  .
adenylosuccinate lyase deficiency  ( adsl deficiency )  is a disorder of purine metabolism characterized by intellectual disability ,  psychomotor delay and / or regression ,  seizures ,  and autistic features .
lathosterolosis is an extremely rare inborn error of sterol biosynthesis characterized by facial dysmorphism ,  congenital anomalies  ( including limb and kidney anomalies )  ,  failure to thrive ,  developmental delay and liver disease .
recessive x - linked ichthyosis  ( rxli )  is a genodermatosis belonging to the mendelian disorders of cornification  ( medoc )  and characterized by generalized hyperkeratosis and scaling of the skin .
paroxysmal extreme pain disorder is a rare disorder of abnormal pain sensation .
incontinentia pigmenti  ( ip )  is a rare x - linked dominant multi - systemic ectodermal dysplasia usually lethal in males and presenting neonatally in females with a bullous rash along blashko's lines  ( bl )  followed by verrucous plaques evolving over time to hyperpigmented swirling patterns .
congenital plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1  ( pai - 1 )  deficiency is a rare genetic bleeding disorder characterized by premature lysis of hemostatic clots and a moderate bleeding tendency .
hereditary persistence of fetal hemoglobin  ( hpfh )  associated with beta - thalassemia is characterized by high hemoglobin  ( hb )  f levels and an increased number of fetal - hb - containing - cells .
fatal familial insomnia  ( ffi )  is a very rare form of prion disease characterized by subacute onset of insomnia showing as a reduced overall sleep time ,  autonomic dysfunction ,  and motor disturbances .
char syndrome is characterized by the triad of patent ductus arteriosus  ( pda )  ,  facial dysmorphism and hand anomalies .
congenital hypopituitarism is characterized by multiple pituitary hormone deficiency ,  including somatotroph ,  thyrotroph ,  lactotroph ,  corticotroph or gonadotroph deficiencies ,  due to mutations of pituitary transcription factors involved in pituitary ontogenesis .
cerebral arteriovenous malformation  ( avm )  is a congenital malformative communication between the veins and the arteries in the brain in the form of a nidus ,  an anatomical structure composed of dilated and tangled supplying arterioles and drainage veins with no intervening capillary bed ,  that can be asymptomatic or cause ,  depending on the location and the size of the avm ,  headaches of varying severity ,  generalized or focal seizures ,  focalneurological defects  ( weakness ,  numbness ,  speech difficulties ,  vision loss )  or potentially fatal intracranial hemorrhage in case the avm ruptures .
hereditary fructose intolerance  ( hfi )  is an autosomal recessive disorder of fructose metabolism ,  resulting from a deficiency of hepatic fructose - 1 - phosphate aldolase activity and leading to gastrointestinal disorders and postprandial hypoglycemia following fructose ingestion .
x - linked agammaglobulinemia  ( xla )  is a clinically variable form of isolated agammaglobulinemia ,  an inherited immunodeficiency disorder ,  and is characterized in affected males by recurrent bacterial infections during infancy .
lysinuric protein intolerance  ( lpi )  is a very rare inherited multisystem condition caused by distrubance in amino acid metabolism .
familial cold urticaria  ( fcas )  is the mildest form of cryopyrin - associated periodic syndrome  ( caps )  and is characterized by recurrent episodes of urticaria - like skin rash triggered by exposure to cold associated with low - grade fever ,  general malaise ,  eye redness and arthralgia / myalgia .
proximal renal tubular acidosis  ( prta )  is a tubular kidney disease characterized by impaired ability of the proximal tubule to reabsorb bicarbonate from the glomerular filtrate leading to hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis .
jeune syndrome ,  also called asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy ,  is a short - rib dysplasia characterized by a narrow thorax ,  short limbs and radiological skeletal abnormalities including "trident" aspect of the acetabula and metaphyseal changes .
joubert syndrome  ( js )  is characterized by congenital malformation of the brainstem and agenesis or hypoplasia of the cerebellar vermis leading to an abnormal respiratory pattern ,  nystagmus ,  hypotonia ,  ataxia ,  and delay in achieving motor milestones .
keratitis  ( and hystrix - like )  ichthyosis deafness  ( kid / hid )  syndrome is a rare congenital ectodermal disorder characterized by vascularizing keratitis ,  hyperkeratotic skin lesions and hearing loss .
kallmann syndrome  ( ks )  is a developmental genetic disorder characterized by the association of congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism  ( chh )  due to gonadotropin - releasing hormone  ( gnrh )  deficiency ,  and anosmia or hyposmia  ( with hypoplasia or aplasia of the olfactory bulbs )  .
congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens  ( cbavd )  is a condition leading to male infertility .
kearns - sayre syndrome  ( kss )  is a mitochondrial disease characterized by progressive external ophthalmoplegia  ( peo )  ,  pigmentary retinitis and an onset before the age of 20 years .
kennedy's disease ,  also known as bulbospinal muscular atrophy  ( bsma )  ,  is a rare x - linked recessive motor neuron disease characterized by proximal and bulbar muscle wasting .
a rare autosomal recessive inherited disorder characterized by prolonged partial thromboplastin time and absence of bleeding diathesis .
congenital cataracts facial dysmorphism neuropathy  ( ccfdn )  syndrome is a complex developmental disorder of autosomal recessive inheritance .
the term lissencephaly covers a group of rare malformations sharing the common feature of anomalies in the appearance of brain convolutions  ( characterised by simplification or absence of folding )  associated with abnormal organisation of the cortical layers as a result of neuronal migration defects during embryogenesis .
kniest dysplasia is a severe type ii collagenopathy characterized by a short trunk and limbs ,  prominent joints and midface hypoplasia  ( round face with a flat nasal root )  .
autosomal dominant form of severe congenital neutropenia .
monosomy 22q13 syndrome  ( deletion 22q13 .3 syndrome or phelan - mcdermid syndrome )  is a chromosome microdeletion syndrome characterized by neonatal hypotonia ,  global developmental delay ,  normal to accelerated growth ,  absent to severely delayed speech ,  and minor dysmorphic features .
krabbe disease is a lysosomal disorder that affects the white matter of the central and peripheral nervous systems .
urachal cyst is a congenital urachal anomaly characterized by a failure of complete closure of the urachus ,  in which both ends are closed but the central lumen remains patent .
aceruloplasminemia is an adult - onset disorder of neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation  ( nbia )  characterized by anemia ,  retinal degeneration ,  diabetes and various neurological symptoms .
an autosomal recessive infertility disorder characterized by oocyte inability to exit metaphase ii ,  resulting in fertilization failure .
a form of mental retardation ,  a disorder characterized by significantly below average general intellectual functioning associated with impairments in adaptive behavior and manifested during the developmental period .
dentinogenesis imperfecta  ( dgi )  is a hereditary dentin defect characterized by abnormal dentin structure resulting in abnormal tooth development .
multiple familial keratoacanthoma  ( ka )  of witten and zak is a rare a rare inherited skin cancer syndrome and is characterized by the coexistence of features characteristic of both multiple ka ,  ferguson smith type and generalized eruptive keratoacanthoma ,  such as multiple small miliary - type lesions ,  larger self - healing lesions ,  and nodulo - ulcerative lesions .
achromatopsia  ( achm )  is a rare autosomal recessive retinal disorder characterized by color blindness ,  nystagmus ,  photophobia ,  and severely reduced visual acuity due to the absence or impairment of cone function .
an uncommon form of keratosis pilaris in which there are scar - like follicular depressions and loss of hair .
thiamine - responsive megaloblastic anemia  ( trma )  is characterized by a triad of megaloblastic anemia ,  non - type i diabetes mellitus ,  and sensorineural deafness .
long chain 3 - hydroxyacyl - coa dehydrogenase deficiency  ( lchadd )  is a mitochondrial disorder of long chain fatty acid oxidation characterized in most patients by onset in infancy /  early childhood with hypoketotic hypoglycemia ,  metabolic acidosis ,  liver disease ,  hypotonia and frequently cardiac involvement with arrhythmias and / or cardiomyopathy .
aicardi syndrome is a rare neurodevelopmental disorder defined by the triad of agenesis of the corpus callosum  ( total or partial )  ,  typical chorioretinal lacunae and infantile spasms that affect almost exclusively females .
lafora disease  ( ld )  is a rare ,  inherited ,  severe ,  progressive myoclonic epilepsy characterized by myoclonus and / or generalized seizures ,  visual hallucinations  ( partial occipital seizures )  ,  and progressive neurological decline .
langer - giedon syndrome ,  also known as trichorhinophalangeal syndrome type 2 ,  is a very rare ,  genetic ,  multiple congenital anomaly disorder characterized by bone abnormalities ,  distinctive facial features ,  multiple exostoses ,  and intellectual disability .
a form of leukodystrophy ,  a disorder of myelin production or maintenance affecting the central nervous system .
larsen syndrome  ( ls )  is a rare skeletal dysplasia characterized by congenital dislocation of large joints ,  foot deformities ,  cervical spine dysplasia ,  scoliosis ,  spatula - shaped distal phalanges and distinctive craniofacial abnormalities ,  including cleft palate .
graham little - piccardi - lassueur syndrome is a variant of lichen planopilaris characterized by the clinical triad of progressive cicatricial  ( scarring )  alopecia of the scalp ,  follicular keratotic papules on glabrous skin ,  and variable alopecia of the axillae and groin .
leigh syndrome or subacute necrotizing encephalomyelopathy is a progressive neurological disease defined by specific neuropathological features associating brainstem and basal ganglia lesions .
leprechaunism is a congenital form of extreme insulin resistance  ( a group of syndromes that also includes rabson - mensenhall syndrome ,  type a insulin - resistance syndrome ,  and acquired type b insulin - resistance syndrome )  characterized by intrauterine and mainly postnatal severe growth retardation .
talo - patello - scaphoid osteolysis is an extremely rare form of primary osteolysis ,  described in two sisters to date ,  characterized by bilateral osteolysis of the tali ,  scaphoids ,  and patellae  ( accompanied by periarticular swelling and pain )  and short fourth metacarpals  ( brachydactyly type e )  ,  in the absence of renal disease .
microlissencephaly - micromelia syndrome is a syndrome of abnormal cortical development ,  characterized by severe prenatal polyhydramnios ,  postnatal microcephaly ,  lissencephaly ,  upper limb micromelia ,  dysmorphic facies  ( coarse face ,  hypertrichosis ,  and short nose with long philtrum )  ,  intractable seizures ,  and early death .
lipodystrophy - intellectual disability - deafness syndrome is an extremely rare form of genetic lipodystrophy ,  reported in 3 patients from one family to date ,  characterized by generalized congenital lipodystrophy ,  low birth weight ,  progressive sensorineural deafness occurring in childhood ,  intellectual deficit ,  progressive osteopenia ,  delayed skeletal maturation ,  skeletal abnormalities described as slender ,  undermineralized tubular bones ,  and dense metaphyseal striations in the distal femur ,  ulna and radius of older patients .
zellweger - like syndrome without peroxisomal anomalies is an extremely rare mitochondrial disorder characterized by facial dysmorphism similar to that seen in zellweger syndrome ,  such as frontal bossing ,  high forehead ,  upslanting palpebral fissures ,  hypoplastic supraorbital ridges ,  and epicanthal folds ,  and in addition ,  pale skin ,  profound hypotonia ,  developmental delay ,  and minor metabolic anomalies .
craniolenticulosutural dysplasia  ( clsd )  ,  also known as boyadjiev - jabs syndrome ,  is characterized by the specific association of large and late - closing fontanels ,  hypertelorism ,  early - onset cataract and mild generalized skeletal dysplasia .
branchiogenic deafness syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies syndrome ,  described in one family to date ,  characterized by branchial cysts or fistulae ;  ear malformations ;  congenital hearing loss  ( conductive ,  sensorineural ,  and mixed )  ;  internal auditory canal hypoplasia ;  strabismus ;  trismus ;  abnormal fifth fingers ;  vitiliginous lesions ,  short stature ;  and mild learning disability .
keratolytic winter erythema is a rare epidermal disease ,  characterized by recurrent centrifugal palmoplantar peeling and erythema presenting seasonal variation  ( cold weather )  .
schc6pf - schulz - passarge syndrome  ( ssps )  is a rare autosomal recessive ectodermal dysplasia characterized by multiple eyelid apocrine hidrocystomas ,  palmoplantar keratoderma ,  hypotrichosis ,  hypodontia and nail dystrophy .
blomstrand lethal chondrodysplasia  ( blc )  is a neonatal osteosclerotic dysplasia characterized by advanced endochondral bone maturation ,  very short limbs ,  dwarfism and prenatal lethality .
aicardi - goutieres syndrome  ( ags )  is an inherited ,  subacute encephalopathy characterised by the association of basal ganglia calcification ,  leukodystrophy and cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  lymphocytosis .
lesch - nyhan syndrome  ( lns )  is the most severe form of hypoxanthine - guanine phosphoribosyltransferase  ( hprt )  deficiency ,  a hereditary disorder of purine metabolism ,  and is associated with uric acid overproduction  ( uao )  ,  neurological troubles ,  and behavioral problems .
a genetic disease of the electrical system of the heart that consists of a constellation of signs and symptoms ,  consisting of a short qt interval on an ekg  (  <  300 ms )  that does not significantly change with heart rate ,  tall and peaked t waves ,  and a structurally normal heart .
torsade - de - pointes  ( tdp )  syndrome with short coupling interval is a very rare variant of torsade de pointes ,  a polymorphic ventricular tachycardia ,  which is characterized by a short coupling interval of the first tdp beat on electrocardiogram in the absence of any structural heart disease .
an autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the bckdha ,  bckdhb ,  dbt ,  and dld genes .
ethylmalonic acid encephalopathy  ( ee )  is defined by elevated excretion of ethylmalonic acid  ( ema )  with recurrent petechiae ,  orthostatic acrocyanosis and chronic diarrhoea associated with neurodevelopmental delay ,  psychomotor regression and hypotonia with brain magnetic resonance imaging  ( mri )  abnormalities .
metachromatic leukodystrophy  ( mld )  is a rare lysosomal storage disorder characterized byintralysosomal accumulation of sulfatides in various tissues ,  leading to progressive deterioration of motor and neurocognitive function .
formiminoglutamic aciduria ,  in its moderate form and in the absence of histidine administration ,  is characterized by mild developmental delay and elevated concentrations of formiminoglutamate  ( figlu )  in the urine .
cobblestone lissencephaly is a rare central nervous system malformation which includes a group of diseases that are characterized by a bumpy  ( or pebbled )  appearance of the cerebral cortex ,  associated with a thickened cortex ,  reduction in normal sulcation ,  ventriculomegaly and reduced ,  abnormal white matter ,  as well as brainstem and cerebellum hypoplasia and corpus callosum agenesis .
idiopathic arterial calcification of infancy is a rare condition characterized by extensive calcification and stenosis of the large and medium sized arteries .
whim  ( warts ,  hypogammaglobulinemia ,  infections ,  and myelokathexis )  syndrome is a congenital autosomal dominant immune deficiency characterized by abnormal retention of mature neutrophils in the bone marrow  ( myelokathexis )  and occasional hypogammaglobulinemia ,  associated with an increased risk for bacterial infections and a susceptibility to human papillomavirus  ( hpv )  induced lesions  ( cutaneous warts ,  genital dysplasia and invasive mucosal carcinoma )  .
alagille  ( ags )  syndrome is variably characterized by chronic cholestasis due to paucity of intrahepatic bile ducts ,  peripheral pulmonary artery stenosis ,  vertebrae segmentation anomalies ,  characteristic facies ,  posterior embryotoxon / anterior segment abnormalities ,  pigmentary retinopathy ,  and dysplastic kidneys .
potocki - shaffer syndrome is characterized by multiple exostoses ,  parietal foramina ,  enlargement of the anterior fontanelle and occasionally intellectual deficit and mild cranio - facial anomalies .
braddock syndrome is a rare malformation syndrome with multiple congenital abnormalities ,  described in 2 siblings ,  that is characterized by vacterl  - like association in combination with pulmonary hypertension ,  laryngeal webs ,  blue sclerae ,  abnormal ears ,  persistent growth deficiency and normal intellect .
craniosynostosis - intracranial calcification is a form of syndromic craniosynostosis ,  characterized by pancraniosynostosis ,  head circumference below the mid - parental head circumference ,  mild facial dysmorphism  ( prominent supraorbital ridges ,  mild proptosis and maxillary hypoplasia )  and calcification of the basal ganglia .
agenesis of the corpus callosum  -  intellectual deficit  -  coloboma  -  micrognathia syndrome is a developmental anomalies syndrome characterized by coloboma of the iris and optic nerve ,  facial dysmorphism  ( high forehead ,  microretrognathia ,  low - set ears )  ,  intellectual deficit ,  agenesis of the corpus callosum  ( acc )  ,  sensorineural hearing loss ,  skeletal anomalies and short stature .
ulnar / fibula ray defect  -  brachydactyly syndrome is a very rare malformation syndrome characterized by ulnar hypoplasia associated with hypoplastic to absent fourth and / or fifth digits ,  fibular hypoplasia ,  short stature and facial dysmorphism .
hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer  ( hlrcc )  is a hereditary cancer syndrome characterized by a predisposition to cutaneous and uterine leiomyomas and ,  in some families ,  to renal cell cancer .
mohr - tranebjaerg syndrome  ( mts )  is an x - linked recessive neurodegenerative syndrome characterized by clinical manifestations commencing with early childhood onset hearing loss ,  followed by adolescent onset progressive dystonia or ataxia ,  visual impairment from early adulthood onwards and dementia from the 4th decade onwards .
li - fraumeni syndrome  ( lfs )  is a rare cancer predisposition syndrome characterized by the early - onset of multiple primary cancers such as breast cancer ,  soft tissue and bone sarcomas ,  brain tumors and adrenal cortical carcinoma  ( acc )  .
branchiootic syndrome is a rare ,  genetic multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by second branchial arch anomalies  ( branchial cysts and fistulae )  ,  malformations of the outer ,  middle and inner ear associated with sensorineural ,  mixed or conductive hearing loss ,  and the absence of renal abnormalities .
inclusion body myopathy with paget disease of bone and frontotemporal dementia  ( ibmpfd )  is a multisystem degenerative genetic disorder characterized by adult - onset proximal and distal muscle weakness  ( clinically resembling limb - girdle muscular dystrophy )  ;  early - onset paget disease of bone ,  manifesting with bone pain ,  deformity and enlargement of the long - bones ;  and premature frontotemporal dementia ,  manifesting first with dysnomia ,  dyscalculia and comprehension deficits followed by progressive aphasia ,  alexia ,  and agraphia .
x - linked creatine transporter deficiency  ( crtr - d )  is a creatine deficiency syndrome characterized clinically by global developmental delay /  intellectual disability  ( dd / id )  with prominent speech / language delay ,  autistic behavior and seizures .
platelet type von willebrand disease  ( pt - vwd )  is a bleeding disorder characterized by mild to moderate mucocutaneous bleeding ,  which becomes more pronounced during pregnancy or following ingestion of drugs that have anti - platelet activity .
liddle syndrome is a rare inherited form of hypertension characterized by severe early - onset hypertension associated with decreased plasmatic levels of potassium ,  renin and aldosterone .
berardinelli - seip congenital lipodystrophy  ( bscl )  is characterized by the association of lipoatrophy ,  hypertriglyceridemia ,  hepatomegaly and acromegaloid features .
roch - leri mesosomatous lipomatosis is a rare benign autosomal dominant disorder of fat tissue proliferation characterized by the presence of multiple small lipomas of 2 to 5 cm in diameter in the middle third of the body  ( i .e .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fshb gene .
albers - schoenberg osteopetrosis is a sclerosing disorder of the skeleton characterized by increased bone density that classically displays the radiographic sign of ''sandwich vertebrae''  ( dense bands of sclerosis parallel to the vertebral endplates )  .
lipoid proteinosis  ( lp )  is a rare genodermatosis characterized clinically by mucocutaneous lesions ,  hoarseness developing in early childhood and ,  at times ,  neurological complications .
a rare syndrome caused by deletion of genetic material in the short arm of chromosome 17 .
muenke syndrome is a syndromic craniosynostosis with significant phenotypic variability ,  usually characterized by coronal synostosis ,  midfacial retrusion ,  strabismus ,  hearing loss and developmental delay .
familial cutaneous collagenoma is a connective tissue nevus characterized by multiple ,  flesh - colored asymptomatic nodules distributed symmetrically on the trunk and upper arms  ( mainly on the upper two - thirds of the back )  ,  manifesting around adolescence .
brody myopathy is a hereditary condition that affects the skeletal muscles  ( muscles used for movement )  .
x - linked dystonia - parkinsonism  ( xdp )  is a neurodegenerative movement disorder characterized by adult - onset parkinsonism that is frequently accompanied by focal dystonia ,  which becomes generalized over time ,  and that has a highly variable clinical course .
hereditary geniospasm is a movement disorder characterized by episodes of involuntary tremor of the chin and lower lip .
oculocerebrorenal syndrome of lowe  ( ocrl )  is a multisystem disorder characterized by congenital cataracts ,  glaucoma ,  intellectual disabilities ,  postnatal growth retardation and renal tubular dysfunction with chronic renal failure .
goldmann - favre syndrome  ( gfs )  is a vitreoretinal dystrophy characterized by early onset of night blindness ,  reduced bilateral visual acuity ,  and typical fundus findings  ( progressive pigmentary degenerative changes ,  macular edema ,  retinoschisis )  .
a dystonia characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance of paroxysmal choreoathetosis and progressive spastic paraplegia ,  episodes are often precipitated by alcohol ,  fatigue ,  or emotional stress that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the slc2a1 gene on chromosome 1p34 .
any secretory diarrhea in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc26a3 gene .
congenital lactase deficiency is a rare severe gastrointestinal disorder in newborns primarily reported in finland and characterized clinically by watery diarrhea on feeding with breast - milk or lactose - containing formula .
a corneal disease in which the corneal radius of curvature is larger than normal producing high hypermetropia with astigmatism and poor acuity in most cases .
gracile syndrome is an inherited lethal mitochondrial disorder characterized by fetal growth restriction  ( gr )  ,  aminoaciduria  ( a )  ,  cholestasis  ( c )  ,  iron overload  ( i )  ,  lactacidosis  ( l )  ,  and early death  ( e )  .
gnathodiaphyseal dysplasia  ( gdd )  is a bone dysplasia characterized by bone fragility ,  frequent bone fractures at a young age ,  cemento - osseous lesions of the jaw bones ,  bowing of tubular bones  ( tibia and fibula )  and diaphyseal sclerosis of long bones associated with generalized osteopenia .
tumoral calcinosis is a phosphocalcic metabolism anomaly ,  particularly among younger age groups and characterized by the presence of calcified masses in the juxta - articular regions  ( hip ,  elbow ,  ankle and scapula )  without joint involvement .
wyburn - mason syndrome or bonnet - dechaume - blanc syndrome is characterized by the association of arteriovenous malformations of the maxilla ,  retina ,  optic nerve ,  thalamus ,  hypothalamus and cerebral cortex .
a multifocal neoplasm with perivascular epithelioid cell differentiation affecting almost exclusively females of child - bearing age .
x - linked recessive ocular albinism  ( xloa )  is a rare disorder characterized by ocular hypopigmentation ,  foveal hypoplasia ,  nystagmus ,  photodysphoria ,  and reduced visual acuity in males .
familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis  ( fhl )  is a rare primary immunodeficiency characterized by a macrophage activation syndrome with an onset usually occurring within a few months or less common several years after birth .
posterior cortical atrophy  ( pca )  is a rare progressive neurodegenerative disorder with a typical onset between 50 - 65 years of age characterized by progressive impairment of higher visual processing skills and other posterior cortical functions without any evidence of ocular abnormalities .
left ventricular noncompaction  ( lvnc )  is a rare cardiomyopathy characterized anatomically by prominent left ventricular trabeculae and deep intratrabecular recesses causing progressive systolic and diastolic dysfunction ,  conduction abnormalities ,  and occasionally thromboembolic events .
membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis  ( mpgn )  is a chronic progressive kidney disorder characterized by glomerular capillary wall structural changes and mesangial cell proliferation leading to nephrotic syndrome ,  hypocomplementemia ,  hypertension ,  proteinuria and end - stage kidney disease .
oculocutaneous albinism  ( oca )  describes a group of inherited disorders of melanin biosynthesis characterized by a generalized reduction in pigmentation of hair ,  skin and eyes and variable ocular findings including nystagmus ,  reduced visual acuity and photophobia .
melas  ( mitochondrial myopathy ,  encephalopathy ,  lactic acidosis ,  and stroke )  syndrome is a rare progressive multisystemic disorder characterized by encephalomyopathy ,  lactic acidosis ,  and stroke - like episodes .
a condition that can be caused by mutation ( s )  in more than one mitochondrial gene .
mody  ( maturity - onset diabetes of the young )  is a rare ,  familial ,  clinically and genetically heterogeneous form of diabetes characterized by young age of onset  ( generally 10 - 45 years of age )  with maintenance of endogenous insulin production ,  lack of pancreatic beta - cell autoimmunity ,  absence of obesity and insulin resistance and extra - pancreatic manifestations in some subtypes .
autosomal dominant limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 1f  ( lgmd1f )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant limb - girdle muscular dystrophy , with a variable age of onset ,  characterized by progressive ,  proximal weakness and wasting of the shoulder and pelvic musculature  ( with the pelvic girdle ,  and especially the ileopsoas muscle ,  being more affected )  and frequent association of calf hypertrophy ,  dysphagia ,  arachnodactyly with or without finger contractures and / or distal and axial muscle involvement .
autosomal dominant limb - girdle muscular dystrophy  ( lgmd1g )  is a mild subtype of autosomal dominant limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by a typically adult onset of mild ,  progressive ,  proximal weakness of pelvic and shoulder girdle muscles and progressive ,  permanent finger and toes flexion limitation without flexion contractures .
hypotrichosis simplex  ( hs )  or hereditary hypotrichosis simplex  ( hhs )  is characterized by reduced pilosity over the scalp and body  ( with sparse ,  thin ,  and short hair )  in the absence of other anomalies .
anorectal malformations  ( arm )  comprise a wide spectrum of malformations involving the distal anus and rectum as well as the urinary and genital tracts ,  which can affect boys and girls .
marfan syndrome is a disorder of the connective tissue .
a low grade malignant neoplasm arising from the long bones .
marinesco - sjogren syndrome  ( mss )  belongs to the group of autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxias .
alkaptonuria is a metabolic disease characterized by the accumulation of homogentisic acid  ( hga )  and its oxidized product ,  benzoquinone acetic acid  ( bqa )  ,  in various tissues  ( e .g .
marshall syndrome is a malformation syndrome that is characterized by facial dysmorphism ,  severe hypoplasia of the nasal bones and frontal sinuses ,  ocular involvement ,  early - onset hearing loss ,  skeletal and anhidrotic ectodermal anomalies and short stature with spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia and early - onset osteoarthritis .
marshall - smith syndrome is a rare genetic disease characterized by tall stature and advanced bone age at birth .
mccune - albright syndrome  ( mas )  is classically defined by the clinical triad of fibrous dysplasia of bone  ( fd )  ,  cafc )  - au - lait skin spots ,  and precocious puberty  ( pp )  .
atelosteogenesis ii is a lethal perinatal bone dysplasia characterized by limb shortening ,  normal sized skull with cleft palate ,  hitchhiker thumbs ,  distinctive facial dysmorphism and radiographic skeletal features ,  caused by mutations in the diastrophic dysplasia sulfate transporter gene .
atelosteogenesis iii  ( aoiii )  is a skeletal dysplasia characterized by short limbs dysmorphic facies and diagnostic radiographic findings .
meckel syndrome  ( mks )  is a rare ,  lethal ,  genetic ,  multiple congenital anomaly disorder characterized by the triad of brain malformation mainly occipital encephalocele ,  large polycystic kidneys ,  and polydactyly as well as associated abnormalities that may include cleft lip / palate ,  cardiac and genital anomalies ,  central nervous system  ( cns )  malformations ,  liver fibrosis ,  and bone dysplasia .
menkes disease  ( md )  is a usually severe multisystemic disorder of copper metabolism ,  characterized by progressive neurodegeneration and marked connective tissue anomalies as well as typical sparse abnormal steely hair .
2 mm in diameter )  from birth ,  peripheral iris hypopigmentation and transillumination defects leading to errors of refraction  ( myopia ,  astigmatism )  and sometimes juvenile open angle glaucoma .
22q11 .2 deletion syndrome  ( ds )  is a chromosomal anomaly which causes a congenital malformation disorder whose common features include cardiac defects ,  palatal anomalies ,  facial dysmorphism ,  developmental delay and immune deficiency .
lenz microphthalmia syndrome is a very rare x - linked inherited form of syndromic microphthalmia characterized by unilateral or bilateral microphthalmia  ( and / or clinical anophthalmia )  with or without coloboma in addition to a range of extraocular manifestations such as microcephaly ,  malformed ears ,  dental abnormalities  ( i .e .
hemiplegic migraine  ( hm )  is a rare variety of migraine with aura characterized by the presence of a motor weakness during the aura .
glycogen storage disease due to aldolase a deficiency is an extremely rare glycogen storage disease characterized by hemolytic anemia with or without myopathy or intellectual deficit .
moebius syndrome is a very rare congenital cranial dysinnervation disorder characterized by complete or incomplete facial paralysis in association with bilateral palsy of the abducens nerve causing impairment of ocular abduction .
immunodeficiency by defective expression of hla class 2 is a rare primary genetic immunodeficiency disorder characterized by partial or complete absence of human leukocyte antigen class 2 expression resulting in severe defect in both cellular and humoral immune response to antigens .
monilethrix is a rare genodermatosis characterized by a hair shaft dysplasia resulting in hypotrichosis .
monosomy 21 is a chromosomal anomaly characterized by the loss of variable portions of a segment of the long arm of chromosome 21 that leads to an increased risk of birth defects ,  developmental delay and intellectual deficit .
muckle - wells syndrome  ( mws )  is an intermediate form of cryopyrin - associated periodic syndrome  ( caps )  and is characterized by recurrent fever  ( with malaise and chills )  ,  recurrent urticaria - like skin rash ,  sensorineural deafness ,  general signs of inflammation  ( eye redness ,  headaches ,  arthralgia / myalgia )  and potentially life - threatening secondary amyloidosis  ( aa type )  .
mucolipidosis ii  ( mlii )  is a slowly progressive lysosomal disorder characterized by growth retardation ,  skeletal abnormalities ,  facial dysmorphism ,  stiff skin ,  developmental delay and cardiomegaly .
mucolipidosis iii alpha / beta  ( mliii alpha / beta )  is a lysosomal disorder characterized by progressive slowing of the growth rate from early childhood ,  stiffness and pain in joints ,  gradual coarsening of facial features ,  moderate developmental delay and mild intellectual disability in most patients .
mazabraud syndrome is a rare primary bone dysplasia characterized by the association of fibrous dysplasia with intramuscular myxomas .
mucolipidosis type iv  ( ml iv )  is a lysosomal storage disease characterised clinically by psychomotor retardation and visual abnormalities including corneal clouding ,  retinal degeneration ,  or strabismus .
the most common type of mucopolysaccharidosis .
alexander disease  ( axd )  is a rare neurodegenerative disorder of the astrocytes comprised of two clinical forms: axd type i and type ii manifesting with various degrees of macrocephaly ,  spasticity ,  ataxia and seizures and leading to psychomotor regression and death .
mucopolysaccharidosis type 2  ( mps2 )  is a lysosomal storage disease leading to a massive accumulation of glycosaminoglycans and a wide variety of symptoms including distinctive coarse facial features ,  short stature ,  cardio - respiratory involvement and skeletal abnormalities .
mucopolysaccharidosis type iii  ( mps iii )  is a lysosomal storage disease belonging to the group of mucopolysaccharidoses and characterised by severe and rapid intellectual deterioration .
mucopolysaccharidosis type iv  ( mps iv )  is a lysosomal storage disease belonging to the group of mucopolysaccharidoses ,  and characterised by spondylo - epiphyso - metaphyseal dysplasia .
mucopolysaccharidosis type 6  ( mps 6 )  is a lysosomal storage disease with progressive multisystem involvement ,  associated with a deficiency of arylsulfatase b  ( asb )  leading to the accumulation of dermatan sulfate .
mucopolysaccharidosis type vii  ( mps vii )  is a very rare lysosomal storage disease belonging to the group of mucopolysaccharidoses .
multiple sulfatase deficiency  ( msd )  is a very rare and fatal lysosomal storage disease characterized by a clinical phenotype that combines the features of different sulfatase deficiencies  ( whether lysosomal or not )  that can have neonatal  ( most severe )  ,  infantile  ( most common )  and juvenile  ( rare )  presentations with manifestations including hypotonia ,  coarse facial features ,  mild deafness ,  skeletal anomalies ,  ichthyosis ,  hepatomegaly ,  developmental delay ,  progressive neurologic deterioration and hydrocephalus .
cystic fibrosis  ( cf )  is a genetic disorder characterized by the production of sweat with a high salt content and mucus secretions with an abnormal viscosity .
muir - torre syndrome  ( mts )  is a form of hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer  ( hnpcc )  characterized by cutaneous sebaceous tumors ,  keratoacanthomas and at least one visceral malignancy ,  most frequently gastrointestinal carcinoma .
muscle eye brain disease  ( meb )  belongs to a group of genetic ,  degenerative muscular disorders that are present from birth  ( congenital muscular dystrophy )  .
allan - herndon - dudley syndrome  ( ahds )  is an x - linked intellectual disability syndrome with neuromuscular involvement characterized by infantile hypotonia ,  muscular hypoplasia ,  spastic paraparesis with dystonic / athetoic movements ,  and severe cognitive deficiency .
congenital myasthenic syndrome  ( cms )  is a group of genetic disorders of impaired neuromuscular transmission at the motor endplate characterized by fatigable muscle weakness .
laing distal myopathy ,  also called myopathy distal ,  type 1  ( mpd1 )  ,  is characterized by early - onset selective weakness of the great toe and ankle dorsiflexors ,  and a very slowly progressive course .
sorsby's fundus dystrophy is a rare progressive autosomal dominant macular dystrophy ,  presenting between the third and sixth decades of life ,  characterized by retinal atrophy and retinal detachment and leading to loss of central vision ,  then peripheral vision ,  and eventually blindness .
myofibrillar myopathy  ( mfm )  describes a group of skeletal and cardiac muscle disorders ,  defined by the disintegration of myofibrils and aggregation of degradation products into intracellular inclusions ,  and is typically clinically characterized by slowly - progressive muscle weakness ,  which initially involves the distal muscles ,  but is highly variable and that can affect the proximal muscles as well as the cardiac and respiratory muscles in some patients .
a diverse group of pregnancy - related tumors characterized by excessive proliferation of trophoblasts .
mcleod neuroacanthocytosis syndrome  ( mls )  is a form of neuroacanthocytosis and is characterized clinically by a huntington's disease - like phenotype with an involuntary hyperkinetic movement disorder ,  psychiatric manifestations and cognitive alterations ,  and biochemically by absence of the kx antigen and by weak expression of the kell antigens .
centronuclear myopathy  ( cnm )  is an inherited neuromuscular disorder characterized by clinical features of a congenital myopathy and centrally placed nuclei on muscle biopsy .
x - linked myotubular myopathy  ( xlmtm )  is an inherited neuromuscular disorder defined by numerous centrally placed nuclei on muscle biopsy and clinical features of a congenital myopathy .
an autosomal dominant congenital disorder affecting the skeletal muscles .
multi - minicore disease  ( mmd )  is a hereditary neuromuscular disorder characterized by multiple cores on muscle biopsy and clinical features of a congenital myopathy .
distal myopathy refers to a group of muscle diseases which share the clinical pattern of predominant weakness and atrophy beginning in the feet and / or hands .
3 - methylcrotonyl - coa carboxylase deficiency  ( 3 - mccd )  is an inherited disorder of leucine metabolism characterized by a highly variable clinical picture ranging from metabolic crisis in infancy to asymptomatic adults .
alpha - 1 - antitrypsin deficiency is a hereditary disease that develops in adulthood and is characterized by chronic liver disorders  ( cirrhosis )  ,  respiratory disorders  ( emphysema )  ,  and rarely panniculitis .
distal myopathy with vocal cord and pharyngeal weakness is an adult - onset ,  autosomal dominant muscular disease which is characterized by muscle weakness in the feet and hands ,  combined with vocal or swallowing dysfunction .
enlarged parietal foramina  ( epf )  is a developmental defect ,  characterized by variable intramembranous ossification defects of the parietal bones ,  which is either asymptomatic ,  symptomatic  ( headaches ,  nausea ,  vomiting ,  intellectual disability )  or associated with other pathologies .
pulmonary alveolar microlithiasis is a disorder in which tiny fragments  ( microliths )  of calcium phosphate gradually accumulate in the small air sacs  ( alveoli )  of the lungs .
loeys - dietz syndrome is a rare genetic connective tissue disorder characterized by a broad spectrum of craniofacial ,  vascular and skeletal manifestations with four genetic subtypes described forming a clinical continuum .
megalencephaly - capillary malformation - polymicrogyria syndrome  ( mcap )  is a polymalfomative syndrome characterized by cutaneous capillary malformations ,  megalencephaly ,  cortical brain malformations  ( most distinctively polymicrogyria )  ,  abnormalities of somatic growth with body and brain asymmetry ,  developmental delay ,  and characteristic facial dysmorphism .
heart block that occurs on or before 28 days of life .
nonaka distal myopathy  ( described in japan )  and the quadriceps - sparing autosomal recessive inclusion body myopathy type 2  ( ibm2 ;  independently described in iranian jews and later in other jewish and non - jewish populations )  constitute the same pathological entity ,  distinguished by the sparing of quadriceps .
welander distal myopathy  ( wdm )  is a distal myopathy ,  characterized by weakness in the distal upper extremities ,  usually finger and wrist extensors which later progresses to all hand muscles and distal lower extremity ,  primarily in toe and ankle extensors .
myotonic dystrophy type 2  ( md2 )  ,  also known as proximal myotonic myopathy ,  is a very rare genetic multi - system disorder of late childhood or adult - onset characterized by mild myotonia ,  muscle weakness ,  and rarely cardiac conduction disorders .
nemaline myopathy  ( nm )  encompasses a large spectrum of myopathies characterized by hypotonia ,  weakness and depressed or absent deep tendon reflexes ,  with pathologic evidence of nemaline bodies  ( rods )  on muscle biopsy .
tibial muscular dystrophy  ( tmd )  is a distal myopathy characterized by weakness of the muscles of the anterior compartment of lower limbs ,  appearing in the fourth to seventh decade of life .
alpha - mannosidosis is an inherited lysosomal storage disorder characterized by immune deficiency ,  facial and skeletal abnormalities ,  hearing impairment ,  and intellectual deficit .
a usually autosomal dominant inherited movement disorder caused by mutations in the col6a1 ,  col6a2 ,  and col6a3 genes .
potassium - aggravated myotonia  ( pam )  is a muscular channelopathy presenting with a pure myotonia dramatically aggravated by potassium ingestion ,  with variable cold sensitivity and no episodic weakness .
myotonia congenita is characterised by slow muscle relaxation associated with hyperexcitation of the muscle fibres .
congenital primary megaureter  ( pm )  is an idiopathic condition in which the bladder and bladder outlet are normal but the ureter is dilated to some extent .
familial melanoma  ( fm )  is a rare inherited form of melanoma characterized by development of histologically confirmed melanoma in two first degrees relatives or more relatives in an affected family .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2d  ( lgmd2d )  is a subtype of autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by childhood onset of progressive proximal weakness of the shoulder and pelvic girdle muscles ,  resulting in difficulty walking ,  scapular winging ,  calf hypertrophy and contractures of the achilles tendon ,  which lead to a tiptoe gait pattern .
methemoglobinemia inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern .
homocystinuria without methylmalonic aciduria is an inborn error of vitamin b12  ( cobalamin )  metabolism characterized by megaloblastic anemia ,  encephalopathy and ,  sometimes ,  developmental delay ,  and associated with homocystinuria and hyperhomocysteinemia .
a congenital vascular malformation in the skin  ( birthmark )  characterized by the presence of dilated capillaries .
nance - horan syndrome  ( nhs )  is characterized by the association in male patients of congenital cataracts with microcornea ,  dental anomalies and facial dysmorphism .
diastrophic dwarfism is a rare disorder marked by short stature with short extremities  ( final adult height is 120cm  +  /  -  10cm )  ,  and joint malformations leading to multiple joint contractures  ( principally involving the shoulders ,  elbows ,  interphalangeal joints and hips )  .
short stature due to growth hormone qualitative anomaly is characterised by growth retardation and short stature  ( despite the presence of normal or slightly elevated levels of immunoreactive growth hormone ,  gh )  ,  low concentrations of insulin - like growth factor - i  ( igf - i )  and a significant increase in growth rate following recombinant gh therapy .
a genetic syndrome usually inherited as an x - link trait .
iniencephaly is a rare form of neural tube defect in which a malformation of the cervico - occipital junction is associated with a malformation of the central nervous system .
craniorachischisis is the most severe form of neural tube defect in which both the brain and spinal cord remain open to varying degrees .
hereditary endotheliopathy with retinopathy and stroke  ( herns )  is a phenotypic variant of a group of inherited small vessel disorders known as retinal vasculopathy and cerebral leukodystrophy  ( rvcl ;  see this term )  and characterized by strokes ,  vision loss ,  pseudotumours ,  seizures ,  motor and sensory deficits ,  headaches and occasionally renal disease .
distal myopathy with posterior leg and anterior hand involvement ,  also named distal abd - filaminopathy ,  is a neuromuscular disease characterized by a progressive symmetric muscle weakness of anterior upper and posterior lower limbs .
laron syndrome is a congenital disorder characterized by marked short stature associated with normal or high serum growth hormone  ( gh )  and low serum insulin - like growth factor - 1  ( igf - i )  levels which fail to rise after exogenous gh administration .
netherton syndrome  ( ns )  is a skin disorder characterized by congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma  ( cie )  ,  a distinctive hair shaft defect  ( trichorrhexis invaginata ;  ti )  and atopic manifestations .
isolated oxycephaly is a late - appearing form of nonsyndromic craniosynostosis characterized by premature fusion of both the coronal and sagittal sutures ,  and ,  in some cases ,  of the lambdoid sutures .
angel - shaped phalango - epiphyseal dysplasia  ( asped )  is a form of acromelic dysplasia characterized by the distinctive radiological sign of angel - shaped middle phalanges ,  a typical metacarpophalangeal pattern profile  ( mainly affecting first metacarpals and middle phalanges of second ,  third and fifth digits ,  which all appear short )  ,  epiphyseal changes in the hips and ,  in some ,  abnormal dentition and delayed bone age .
acrocapitofemoral dysplasia is a recently delineated skeletal dysplasia ,  characterized clinically by short stature of variable degrees with short limbs ,  brachydactyly and narrow thorax .
neurofibromatosis type 1  ( nf1 )  is a clinically heterogeneous ,  neurocutaneous genetic disorder characterized by cafe - au - lait spots ,  iris lisch nodules ,  axillary and inguinal freckling ,  and multiple neurofibromas .
neurofibromatosis type 2  ( nf2 )  is a tumor - prone disorder characterized by the development of multiple schwannomas and meningiomas .
neurofibromatosis - noonan syndrome  ( nfns )  is a rasopathy and a variant of neurofibromatosis type 1  ( nf1 )  characterized by the combination of features of nf1 ,  such as cafc )  - au - lait spots ,  iris lisch nodules ,  axillary and inguinal freckling ,  optic nerve glioma and multiple neurofibromas ;  and noonan syndrome  ( ns )  ,  such as short stature ,  typical facial features  ( hypertelorism ,  ptosis ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  low - set posteriorly rotated ears with a thickened helix ,  and a broad forehead )  ,  congenital heart defects and unusual pectus deformity .
alstrm syndrome  ( as )  is a multisystemic disorder characterized by cone - rod dystrophy ,  hearing loss ,  obesity ,  insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia ,  type 2 diabetes mellitus ,  dilated cardiomyopathy  ( dcm ;  see this term )  ,  and progressive hepatic and renal dysfunction .
hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies  ( hnpp )  is an inherited peripheral nerve disorder characterized by recurrent mononeuropathy usually triggered by minor physical activities .
hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy ,  type 4  ( hsan4 )  is an inherited disorder characterized by anhidrosis ,  insensitivity to pain ,  self - mutilating behavior and episodes of fever .
childhood absence epilepsy  ( cae )  is a familial generalized pediatric epilepsy ,  characterized by very frequent  ( multiple per day )  absence seizures ,  usually occurring in children between the ages of 4 and 10 years ,  with ,  in most cases ,  a good prognosis .
a rare inherited disorder affecting the neurofilaments .
neuropathy ,  ataxia ,  and retinitis pigmentosa  ( narp )  syndrome is a clinically heterogeneous progressive condition characterized by a combination of proximal neurogenic muscle weakness ,  sensory - motor neuropathy ,  ataxia ,  and pigmentary retinopathy .
acrofacial dysostosis ,  kennedy - teebi type was reported as a new type of acrofacial dysostosis due to the presence of manifestations not usually seen in nager syndrome  ( ns )  such as microcephaly ,  blepharophimosis ,  microtia ,  a peculiar beakednose ,  cleft lip and palate ,  symmetrical involvement of the thumbs and great toes and developmental delay .
npc is a complex lipid storage disease mainly characterized by the accumulation of unesterified cholesterol in the late endosomal / lysosomal compartment .
tolosa - hunt syndrome is an ophthalmoplegic syndrome ,  affecting all age groups ,  characterized by acute attacks  ( lasting a few days to a few weeks )  of periorbital pain ,  ipsilateral ocular motor nerve palsies ,  ptosis ,  disordered eye movements and blurred vision usually caused by a non - specific inflammatory process in the cavernous sinus and superior orbital fissure .
nijmegen breakage syndrome is a rare genetic disease presenting at birth with microcephaly ,  dysmorphic facial features ,  becoming more noticeable with age ,  growth delay ,  and later - onset complications such as malignancies and infections .
iridocorneal endothelial  ( ice )  syndrome describes a group of progressive corneal proliferative endotheliopathies comprised of chandler syndrome ,  cogan - reese syndrome and essential iris atrophy ,  affecting mainly young adult females and characterized by iris holes and atrophy ,  papillary distortion ,  anterior synechiae ,  corneal edema and often with secondary glaucoma and corneal decompensation as complications
a complication of ovulation induction in infertility treatment .
a subtype of charcot - marie - tooth disease with genetic defects on the x chromosome .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4  ( cmt4 )  belongs to the genetically heterogeneous group of cmt peripheral sensorimotor polyneuropathy diseases .
hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy ,  type 5  ( hsan5 )  is characterized by loss of pain perception and impaired temperature sensitivity ,  in the absence of any other major neurological anomalies .
a rare autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia  ( arca )  ,  characterized by progressive cerebellar ataxia associated with frequent oculomotor apraxia ,  severe neuropathy and an elevated serum alpha - fetoprotein  ( afp )  level .
a rare developmental skin condition consisting of abnormal pilosebaceous follicle development .
becker nevus syndrome is characterized by the presence of a becker nevus in association withunderdevelopment  ( hypoplasia ) of the breast or other skin - related ,  muscular ,  or skeletal defects ,  all of which usually involve the same side of the bodyas the nevus  ( ipsilateral )  .
noonan syndrome  ( ns )  is characterised by short stature ,  typical facial dysmorphism and congenital heart defects .
norrie disease  ( nd )  is a rare x - linked genetic vitreoretinal condition characterized by abnormal retinal development with congenital blindness .
leber congenital amaurosis  ( lca )  is a retinal dystrophy defined by blindness and responses to electrophysiological stimulation  ( ganzfeld electroretinogram  ( erg )  )  below threshold ,  associated with severe visual impairment within the first year of life .
lcat  ( lecithin - cholesterol acyltransferase )  deficiency is a rare lipoprotein metabolism disorder characterized clinically by corneal opacities ,  and sometimes renal failure and hemolytic anemia ,  and biochemically by severely reduced hdl cholesterol .
multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1  ( men1 )  is a frequent form of men ,  a rare inherited cancer syndrome ,  characterized by the development of neuroendocrine tumors of the parathyroid ,  pancreas ,  and anterior pituitary gland ,  and less commonly the adrenal cortical gland ,  with other non - endocrine tumors in some patients .
timothy syndrome is a multi - system disorder characterized by cardiac ,  hand ,  facial and neurodevelopmental features that include qt prolongation ,  webbed fingers and toes ,  flattened nasal bridge ,  low - set ears ,  small upper jaw ,  thin upper lip ,  and characteristic features of autism or autistic spectrum disorders .
lhermitte - duclos disease  ( ldd )  is a very rare disorder characterized by abnormal development and enlargement of the cerebellum ,  and an increased intracranial pressure .
3q29 microdeletion syndrome is a recurrent subtelomeric deletion syndrome with variable clinical manifestations including intellectual deficit and dysmorphic features .
beta - ureidopropionase deficiency is a very rare pyrimidine metabolism disorder described in fewer than 10 patients to date with an extremely wide clinical picture ranging from asymptomatic cases to neurological  ( epilepsy ,  autism )  and developmental disorders  ( urogenital ,  colorectal )  .
permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus - pancreatic and cerebellar agenesis syndrome is characterized by neonatal diabetes mellitus associated with cerebellar and / or pancreatic agenesis .
multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2  ( men2 )  is a multiple endocrine neoplasia ,  a polyglandular cancer syndrome characterized by the occurrence of medullary thyroid carcinoma  ( mtc )  ,  pheochromocytoma  ( pcc )  ,  in one variant ,  primary hyperparathyroidism  ( phpt )  .
an embryonal neoplasm characterized by the presence of epithelial ,  mesenchymal ,  and blastema components .
progressive tubulointerstitial injury ,  inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern ,  caused by mutations in genes involved in ciliary function ,  which may result in an end stage renal failure .
familial idiopathic steroid - resistant nephrotic syndrome is characterized by a nephrotic syndrome with often early onset .
benign recurrent intrahepatic cholestasis  ( bric )  is a hereditary liver disorder characterized by intermittent episodes of intrahepatic cholestasis ,  generally without progression to chronic liver damage .
isolated focal cortical dysplasia is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic cerebral malformation due to abnormal neuronal migration disorder characterized by variable - sized ,  focalized malformations located in any part ( s )  of the cerebral cortex ,  which manifests with drug - resistant epilepsy  ( usually leading to intellectual disability )  and behavioral disturbances .
congenital isolated hyperinsulinism  ( chi )  ,  a rare endocrine disease is the most frequent cause of severe and persistent hypoglycemia in the neonatal period and early infancy and is characterized by an excessive or uncontrolled insulin secretion  ( inappropriate for the level of glycemia )  and recurrent episodes of profound hypoglycemia requiring rapid and intensive treatment to prevent neurological sequelae .
distal arthrogryposis type 4 is an inherited developmental defect syndrome characterized by multiple congenital contractures of limbs ,  without primary neurologic and / or muscle disease that affects limb function ,  and a mild to severe scoliosis .
multiple self - healing squamous epithelioma  ( also known as ferguson - smith disease  ( fsd )  )  is a rare inherited skin cancer syndrome characterized by the development of multiple locally invasive skin tumors resembling keratoacanthomas of the face and limbs which usually heal spontaneously after several months leaving pitted scars .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 1  ( cmt1 )  is a group of autosomal dominant demyelinating peripheral neuropathies characterized by distal weakness and atrophy ,  sensory loss ,  foot deformities ,  and slow nerve conduction velocity .
an extremely rare autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by premature closure of cranial sutures leading to cone - shaped head ,  fusion of the digits ,  and the presence of more digits than normal .
goodman syndrome is an extremely rare genetic disorder characterized by marked malformations of the head and face  ( essentially acrocephaly )  ,  abnormalities of the hands and feet  ( polydactyly ,  syndactyly ,  clinodactyly ,  camptodactyly ,  ulnar deviation )  ,  and congenital heart disease .
a rare disease due to a severely impaired central autonomic control of breathing and dysfunction of the autonomous nervous system .
an orphanet summary for this disease is currently under development .
ornithine carbamyl transferase deficiency is a disorder or urea cycle metabolism which clinical presentaton depends on the amount of residual enzyme activity ,  ranging from very severe neonatal hyperammonemic coma in males with no enzyme activity ,  to juvenile or adult hyperammonemic coma in males with residual enzyme activity .
pseudohypoparathyroidism type 1a  ( php1a )  is a type of pseudohypoparathyroidism  ( php )  characterized by renal resistance to parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  ,  resulting in hypocalcemia ,  hyperphosphatemia ,  and elevated pth ;  resistance to other hormones including thydroid stimulating hormone  ( tsh )  ,  gonadotropins and growth - hormone - releasing hormone  ( ghrh )  ;  and a constellation of clinical features known as albright hereditary osteodystrophy  ( aho )  .
short fifth metacarpals - insulin resistance syndrome is characterised by bilateral shortening of the fifth fingers and fifth metacarpals .
osteogenesis imperfecta  ( oi )  comprises a heterogeneous group of genetic disorders characterized by increased bone fragility ,  low bone mass ,  and susceptibility to bone fractures with variable severity .
cerebro - oculo - nasal syndrome is a multisystem malformation syndrome that has been reported in about 10 patients .
congenital leptin deficiency is a form of monogenic obesity characterised by severe early - onset obesity and marked hyperphagia .
goldberg - shprintzen megacolon syndrome is a multiple malformation syndrome characterized by hirschprung megacolon with microcephaly ,  hypertelorism ,  submucous cleft palate ,  short stature and learning disability .
congenital pseudoarthrosis of the clavicle is a rare benign condition ,  characterized by a painless mass or swelling over the clavicle .
cednik syndrome is a neurocutaneaous syndrome characterized by severe developmental abnormalities of the nervous system and aberrant differentiation of the epidermis .
sensorineural hearing loss - early graying - essential tremor syndrome is characterised by the combination of sensorineural hearing loss ,  early greying of scalp hair and adult onset essential tremor .
dilated cardiomyopathy with ataxia  ( dcma )  is characterized by severe early onset  ( before the age of three years )  dilated cardiomyopathy  ( dcm )  with conduction defects  ( long qt syndrome )  ,  non - progressive cerebellar ataxia ,  testicular dysgenesis ,  and 3 - methylglutaconic aciduria .
diaphanospondylodysostosis is characterized by absent ossification of the vertebral bodies and sacrum associated with variable anomalies .
an autosomal recessive form of osteopetrosis caused by mutation ( s )  in at least 8 genes related to osteoclast function .
otopalatodigital  ( opd )  syndrome is a form of frontootopalatodigital syndrome ,  characterized by deafness ,  cleft palate ,  and characteristic digital anomalies .
an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by mutation ( s )  in the hyal1 gene ,  encoding hyaluronidase - 1 .
late - onset retinal degeneration is an inherited retinal dystrophy characterized by delayed dark adaptation and nyctalopia and drusen deposits presenting in adulthood ,  followed by cone and rod degeneration that presents in the sixth decade of life ,  which leads to central vision loss .
thrombocytopenia with congenital dyserythropoietic anemia  ( cda )  is a rare hematological disorder ,  seen almost exclusively in males ,  characterized by moderate to severe thrombocytopenia with hemorrhages with or without the presence of mild to severe anemia .
3 - methylglutaconic aciduria  ( 3 - mga )  type i is an inborn error of leucine metabolism with a variable clinical phenotype ranging from mildly delayed speech to psychomotor retardation ,  coma ,  failure to thrive ,  metabolic acidosis and dystonia .
3 - methylglutaconic aciduria type iii  ( mga iii )  is an organic aciduria characterised by the association of optic atrophy and choreoathetosis with 3 - methylglutaconic aciduria .
3 - methylglutaconic aciduria  ( 3 - mga )  type iv ,  or unclassified 3 - mga ,  is a clinically heterogeneous disorder characterised by increased 3 - methylglutaconic acid excretion in individuals that cannot be classified as having one of the other forms of 3 - mga  ( 3 - mga i ,  ii or iii )  .
pallister - hall syndrome  ( phs )  ,  a pleiotropic autosomal dominant malformative disorder ,  is characterized by hypothalamic hamartoma ,  pituitary dysfunction ,  bifid epiglottis ,  polydactyly ,  and ,  more rarely ,  renal abnormalities and genitourinary malformations .
accessory pancreas is an asymptomatic embryopathy characterized by the presence of pancreatic tissue in other sites of the body such as the splenic pedicle ,  gonadic pedicles ,  intestinal mesentery ,  duodenum wall ,  upper jejunum ,  or ,  more rarely ,  the gastric wall ,  ileum ,  gallbladder or spleen .
annular pancreas is a distinct form of duodenal atresia in which the head of the pancreas forms a ring around the second portion of the duodenum .
hereditary chronic pancreatitis  ( hcp )  ,  a rare inherited form of pancreatitis is defined as recurrent acute pancreatitis and / or chronic pancreatitis in two first - degree relatives or 3 or more second - degree relatives in 2 or more generations ,  for which no predisposing factors are identified .
papillon - lefevre syndrome  ( pls )  is a rare ectodermal dysplasia characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma associated with early - onset periodontitis .
malignant atrophic papulosis  ( map )  is a rare ,  chronic ,  thrombo - obliterative vasculopathy characterized by papular skin lesions with central porcelain - white atrophy and a surrounding teleangiectatic rim .
hypokalemic periodic paralysis  ( hypopp )  is characterised by episodes of muscle paralysis lasting from a few to 24 - 48 hours and associated with a fall in blood potassium levels .
hyperkalemic periodic paralysis  ( hyperpp )  is a muscle disorder characterized by episodic attacks of muscle weakness associated with an increase in serum potassium concentration .
progressive supranuclear palsy  ( psp )  is a rare late - onset neurodegenerative disease characterized by supranuclear gaze palsy ,  postural instability ,  progressive rigidity ,  and mild dementia .
clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material  ( either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment )  .
leukodystrophies are a group of rare ,  progressive ,  metabolic ,  genetic diseases that affect the brain ,  spinal cord and often the peripheral nerves .
a metabolic disorder caused by mutations in proteins critical for lysosomal function ,  including lysosomal enzymes ,  lysosomal integral membrane proteins ,  and proteins involved in the post - translational modification and trafficking of lysosomal proteins .
rare inherited disorders resulting from an enzyme defect in biochemical and metabolic pathways affecting proteins ,  fats ,  carbohydrates metabolism or organelle function .
a group of congenital disorders of lipid metabolism ,  caused by loss of the normal peroxisomes .
paramyotonia congenita of von eulenburg is characterised by exercise -  or cold - induced myotonia and muscle weakness .
hereditary spastic paraplegias  ( hsp )  comprise a genetically and clinically heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative disorders characterized by progressive spasticity and hyperreflexia of the lower limbs .
brachydactyly  ( 'short digits' )  is a general term that refers to disproportionately short fingers and toes ,  and forms part of the group of limb malformations characterized by bone dysostosis .
familial renal glucosuria  ( frg )  is characterized by the presence of persistent isolated glucosuria in the absence of both generalized proximal tubular dysfunction and hyperglycemia .
odonto - tricho - ungual - digito - palmar syndrome is characterised by neonatal teeth ,  trichodystrophy and malformations of the hands and feet .
ectodermal dysplasia with natal teeth ,  turnpenny type is characterised by hypo -  or oligodontia and acanthosis nigricans .
pure hair and nail ectodermal dysplasia is characterised by the association of onychodystrophy and severe hypotrichosis ,  which is mainly limited to the scalp but may also affect the eyelashes and eyebrows .
limb - mammary syndrome  ( lms )  is a rare disease belonging to the group of ectodermal dysplasias .
naegeli - franceschetti - jadassohn  ( nfj )  syndrome is a rare ectodermal dysplasia that affects the skin ,  sweat glands ,  nails ,  and teeth .
this syndrome is characterized by severe immunodeficiency ,  osteopetrosis ,  lymphedema and anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia .
anonychia with flexural pigmentation is characterised by anonychia and skin abnormalities  ( hyper -  and hypopigmentation in axillae and groins ,  dry palmar and plantar skin leading to sore and cracked soles )  .
pyogenic arthritis - pyoderma gangrenosum - acne syndrome is a rare pleiotropic autoinflammatory disorder of childhood ,  primarily affecting the joints and skin .
low phospholipid associated cholelithiasis is a rare genetic hepatic disease characterized by cholesterol gallstones and intrahepatic stones developing before the age of 40 years .
tyrosinemia type 3 is an inborn error of tyrosine metabolism characterised by mild hypertyrosinemia and increased urinary excretion of 4 - hydroxyphenylpyruvate ,  4 - hydroxyphenyllactate and 4 - hydroxyphenylacetate .
hypotrichosis  -  lymphedema  -  telangiectasia is an extremely rare syndromic lymphedema disorder characterized by early - onset hypotrichosis ,  childhood - onset lymphedema ,  and variable telangiectasia ,  particularly of the palms .
bosley - salih - alorainy syndrome  ( bsas )  is characterized by variable horizontal gaze dysfunction ,  profound and bilateral sensorineural deafness associated commonly with severe inner ear maldevelopment ,  cerebrovascular anomalies  ( ranging from unilateral internal carotid artery hypoplasia to bilateral agenesis )  ,  cardiac malformation ,  developmental delay and occasionally autism .
human hoxa1 syndromes is characterised by deafness ,  central hypoventilation ,  congenital ocular paralysis and developmental retardation .
pearson syndrome is characterized by refractory sideroblastic anemia ,  vacuolization of bone marrow precursors and exocrine pancreatic dysfunction .
cranio - cerebello - cardiac  ( 3c )  syndrome is a rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by craniofacial  ( prominent occiput and forehead ,  hypertelorism ,  ocular coloboma ,  cleft palate )  ,  cerebellar  ( dandy - walker malformation ,  cerebellar vermis hypoplasia )  and cardiac  ( tetralogy of fallot ,  atrial and ventricular septal defects )  anomalies .
proximal spinal muscular atrophies are a group of neuromuscular disorders characterized by progressive muscle weakness resulting from the degeneration and loss of the lower motor neurons in the spinal cord and the brain stem nuclei .
alopecia totalis is a form of alopecia areata ,  an inflammatory disease of the hair follicle ,  characterized by a complete loss of hair of the entire scalp which becomes glabrous .
alopecia universalis is the most severe form of alopecia areata ,  an inflammatory disease of the hair follicle ,  which is characterized by a complete loss of hair of the scalp and all the hair - bearing areas of the body .
pelizaeus - merzbacher disease  ( pmd )  is an x - linked leukodystrophy characterized by developmental delay ,  nystagmus ,  hypotonia ,  spasticity ,  and variable intellectual deficit .
a severe type of hyperlipidemia ,  sometimes familial ,  that is characterized by the elevation of both plasma chylomicrons and triglycerides contained in very - low - density lipoproteins .
saguenay - lac - st . jean  ( slsj )  type congenital lactic acidosis ,  a french canadian form of leigh syndrome ,  is a mitochondrial disease characterized by chronic metabolic acidosis ,  hypotonia ,  facial dysmorphism and delayed development .
pendred syndrome  ( pds )  is a clinically variable genetic disorder characterized by bilateral sensorineural hearing loss and euthyroid goiter .
bronchopulmonary dysplasia is a chronic respiratory disease that results from complications related to lung injury during the treatment of infant acute respiratory distress syndrome in low - birth - weight premature infants or from abnormal lung development in older infants .
an immunodeficiency associated with increased susceptibility to invasive infections caused by pyogenic bacteria .
immunodeficiency due to selective anti - polysaccharide antibody deficiency is characterized by normal immunoglobulin levels  ( including igg sub - classes )  but impaired polysaccharide responsiveness  ( ipr )  .
dopa responsive dystonia  ( drd )  due to sepiapterin reductase deficiency  ( srd )  is a very rare neurometabolic disorder characterized by dystonia with diurnal fluctuations ,  axial hypotonia ,  oculogyric crises ,  and delays in motor and cognitive development .
sensory ataxic neuropathy - dysarthria - ophthalmoparesis syndrome is characterised by adult - onset severe sensory ataxic neuropathy ,  dysarthria and chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia .
peters anomaly  ( pa )  is a congenital corneal opacity disorder characterized by a central corneal leukoma that obstructs the pupil leading to visual loss as well as absence of the posterior corneal stroma and descemet membrane .
peters plus syndrome is an autosomal recessively inherited syndromic developmental defect of the eye characterized by a variable phenotype including peters anomaly and other anterior chamber eye anomalies ,  short limbs ,  limb abnormalities  ( i .e .
chylomicron retention disease  ( crd )  is a type of familial hypocholesterolemia characterized by malnutrition ,  failure to thrive ,  growth failure ,  vitamin e deficiency and hepatic ,  neurologic and ophthalmologic complications .
pfeiffer syndrome  ( ps )  is a common form of acrocephalosyndactyly ,  a group of inherited congenital malformation disorders ,  characterized by variable degrees of bicoronal craniosynostosis ,  variable hand and foot malformations and various other associated manifestations .
glycogen storage disease type xiv  ( gsdxiv )  is a rare metabolic disorder caused by a deficiency in phosphoglucomutase  ( pgm )  enzymatic activity and characterized by recurrent cramps during exercise .
glucosephosphate isomerase  ( gpi )  deficiency is an erythroenzymopathy characterized by chronic nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia .
hyperinsulinism due to short chain 3 hydroxylacyl - coa dehydrogenase  ( schad )  deficiency is a recently described mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation disorder characterized by hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia with seizures ,  and in one case fulminant hepatic failure .
retinal cavernous hemangioma is a rare ,  benign ,  usually unilateral retinal vascular hamartoma that in most cases is asymptomatic but in some patients may present with blurred vision or floaters and that is characterized by the presence of grape - like vacuoles .
dentinogenesis imperfecta - short stature - hearing loss - intellectual disability syndrome is characterised by the association of dentinogenesis imperfecta ,  delayed tooth eruption ,  facial dysmorphology ,  small stature ,  sensorineural hearing loss and mild intellectual deficit .
split hand  -  split foot  -  deafness is an extremely rare genetic syndrome reported in a few families to date and characterized clinically by split hand / split foot malformation  ( shfm )  and mild to moderate sensorineural hearing loss ,  sometimes associated with cleft palate and intellectual deficit .
the rh deficiency syndrome ,  also known as rh - null syndrome ,  is a blood disorder where people have red blood cells  ( rbcs )  lacking all rh antigens .
glucose transporter type 1  ( glut1 )  deficiency syndrome is characterized by an encephalopathy marked by childhood epilepsy that is refractory to treatment ,  deceleration of cranial growth leading to microcephaly ,  psychomotor retardation ,  spasticity ,  ataxia ,  dysarthria and other paroxysmal neurological phenomena often occurring before meals .
radio - ulnar synostosis - amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia syndrome is characterised by the association of proximal fusion of the radius and ulna with congenital amegakaryocytic thrombocytopaenia .
hereditary vascular retinopathy  ( hvr )  is a phenotypic variant of a group of inherited small vessel disorders known as retinal vasculopathy and cerebral leukodystrophy  ( rvcl ;  see this term )  and characterized by progressive visual impairment ,  strokes and often associated with raynaud phenomenon and migraine - like symptoms .
phosphoglycerate kinase  ( pgk )  deficiency is a metabolic disorder characterized by variable combinations of nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia ,  myopathy ,  and various central nervous system abnormalities .
a rare ,  autosomal recessive ,  inherited disorder caused by mutation of the bpgm gene .
familial thrombocytosis is a type of thrombocytosis ,  a sustained elevation of platelet numbers ,  which affects the platelet / megakaryocyte lineage and may create a tendency for thrombosis and hemorrhage but does not cause myeloproliferation .
glycogen storage disease due to muscle phosphorylase kinase  ( phk )  deficiency is a benign inborn error of glycogen metabolism characterized by exercise intolerance .
rapid - onset dystonia - parkinsonism  ( rdp )  is a very rare movement disorder ,  characterized by the abrupt onset of parkinsonism and dystonia ,  often triggered by physical or psychological stress .
benign paroxysmal torticollis of infancy  ( bpti )  is a rare functional disorder characterised by recurrent episodes of torticollic posturing of the head  ( inclination or tilting of the head to one side )  in healthy children .
pro - opiomelanocortin  ( pomc )  deficiency is a form of monogenic obesity resulting in severe early - onset obesity ,  adrenal insufficiency ,  red hair and pale skin .
prohormone convertase - i deficiency is the rarest form of monogenic obesity .
melanocortin 4 receptor  ( mc4r )  deficiency is the commonest form of monogenic obesity identified so far .
phenylketonuria  ( pku )  is the most common inborn error of amino acid metabolism and is characterized by mild to severe mental disability in untreated patients .
an instance of nervous system disease that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of retinal degeneration that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
angelman syndrome  ( as )  is a neurogenetic disorder characterized by severe intellectual deficit and distinct facial dysmorphic features .
pili bifurcati is an uncommon transitory hair shaft dysplasia characterized by segmental duplication of the hair shaft: a ramification generates two parallel branches which fuse to form a single shaft again .
gray platelet syndrome  ( gps )  is a rare inherited bleeding disorder characterized by macrothrombocytopenia ,  myelofibrosis ,  splenomegaly and typical gray appearance of platelets on wright stained peripheral blood smear .
severe hypoplasminogenemia  ( hpg )  or type 1 plasminogen  ( plg )  deficiency is a systemic disease characterised by markedly impaired extracellular fibrinolysis leading to the formation of ligneous  ( fibrin - rich )  pseudomembranes on mucosae during wound healing .
continuous spikes and waves during sleep  ( csws )  is a rare epileptic encephalopathy of childhood characterized by seizures ,  an electroencephalographic  ( eeg )  pattern of electrical status epilepticus in sleep  ( eses )  and neurocognitive regression in at least 2 domains of development .
alpers huttenlocher syndrome  ( ahs )  is a cerebrohepatopathy and a rare and severe form of mitochondrial dna  ( mtdna )  depletion syndrome characterized by the triad of progressive developmental regression ,  intractable seizures ,  and hepatic failure .
gorham - stout disease  ( gsd )  is a rare disease of massive osteolysis associated with proliferation and dilation of lymphatic vessels .
autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease  ( arpkd )  is an inherited disorder characterised by the development of cysts affecting the collecting ducts .
mental retardation - hypotonic facies covers a group of x - linked syndromes characterized by severe intellectual deficit and facial dysmorphism ,  with variable other features .
this syndrome is characterised by the association of global developmental delay ,  osteopenia and skin anomalies .
tubular renal disease - cardiomyopathy syndrome is characterised by hypokalaemic metabolic alkalosis secondary to a tubulopathy ,  hypomagnesaemia with hypermagnesuria ,  severe hypercalciuria and dilated cardiomyopathy .
autosomal dominant familial hematuria - retinal arteriolar tortuosity - contractures syndrome is characterised by the association of hematuria  ( without proteinuria )  with extrarenal manifestations: retinal arterial tortuosities responsible for retinal haemorrhages ,  cardiac arrhythmia ,  raynaud phenomena and congenital muscular contractures .
ossification anomalies - psychomotor developmental delay syndrome is characterised by hypomineralisation of the cranial bones ,  thoracic dystrophy ,  hypotonia ,  and abnormal and slender long bones due to an alteration in remodelling during ossification .
visceral neuropathy - brain anomalies - facial dysmorphism - developmental delay syndrome is characterised by facial dysmorphology ,  neuropathic visceral dysmotility ,  neurogenic megacystis ,  intracerebral calcifications and developmental delay .
growth delay due to insulin - like growth factor i deficiency is characterised by the association of intrauterine and postnatal growth retardation with sensorineural deafness and intellectual deficit .
growth delay due to igf - i resistance is characterised by variable intrauterine and postnatal growth retardation and elevated serum igf - i levels .
familial adenomatous polyposis  ( fap )  is characterized by the development of hundreds to thousands of adenomas in the rectum and colon during the second decade of life .
porokeratosis of mibelli  ( pm )  is a form of porokeratosis that is characterized by the presence of brown single or multiple annular plaques of varying size ,  that are sometimes confluent ,  with a distinctive sharply - defined keratotic border .
porokeratosis plantaris palmaris et disseminata  ( pppd )  is a rare form of porokeratosis occurring mainly in adolescence and characterized by small pruritic or painful keratotic papules that first appear on the palms and soles ,  and may gradually become generalized .
porphyria is a group of diseases in which substances called porphyrins build up ,  negatively affecting the skin or nervous system .
prader - willi syndrome is a rare genetic disorder characterized by hypothalamic - pituitary abnormalities with severe hypotonia during the neonatal period and first two years of life and the onset of hyperphagia with a risk of morbid obesity during infancy and adulthood ,  learning difficulties and behavioral problems or severe psychiatric problems .
hutchinson - gilford progeria syndrome is a rare ,  fatal ,  autosomal dominant and premature aging disease ,  beginning in childhood and characterized by growth reduction ,  failure to thrive ,  a typical facial appearance  ( prominent forehead ,  protuberant eyes ,  thin nose with a beaked tip ,  thin lips ,  micrognathia and protruding ears )  and distinct dermatologic features  ( generalized alopecia ,  aged - looking skin ,  sclerotic and dimpled skin over the abdomen and extremities ,  prominent cutaneous vasculature ,  dyspigmentation ,  nail hypoplasia and loss of subcutaneous fat )  .
prolidase deficiency is an inherited disorder of peptide metabolism characterized by severe skin lesions ,  recurrent infections  ( involving mainly the skin and respiratory system )  ,  dysmorphic facial features ,  variable cognitive impairment ,  and splenomegaly .
congenital protein s deficiency is an inherited coagulation disorder characterized by recurrent venous thrombosis symptoms due to reduced synthesis and / or activity levels of protein s .
proteus syndrome  ( ps )  is a very rare and complex hamartomatous overgrowth disorder characterized by progressive overgrowth of the skeleton ,  skin ,  adipose ,  and central nervous systems .
congenital protein c deficiency is an inherited coagulation disorder characterized by deep venous thrombosis symptoms due to reduced synthesis and / or activity levels of protein c .
mitochondrial trifunctional protein  ( tfp )  deficiency  ( tfpd )  is a disorder of fatty acid oxidation characterized by a wide clinical spectrum ranging from severe neonatal manifestations including cardiomyopathy ,  hypoglycemia ,  metabolic acidosis ,  skeletal myopathy and neuropathy ,  liver disease and death to a mild phenotype with peripheral polyneuropathy ,  episodic rhabdomyolysis and pigmentary retinopathy . .
mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  is a rare immunodeficiency syndrome ,  characterized by a narrow vulnerability to poorly virulent mycobacteria ,  such as bacillus calmette - guerin  ( bcg )  vaccines and environmental mycobacteria  ( em )  ,  and defined by severe ,  recurrent infections ,  either disseminated or localized .
an instance of prekallikrein deficiency that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
pseudoachondroplasia is characterized by severe growth deficiency and deformations such as bow legs and hyperlordosis .
decreased activity of the steroidogenic enzyme ,  17 - beta - hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase ,  associated with mutation ( s )  in the hsd17b3 gene ,  leading to reduced testosterone production .
wolman disease represents the most severe manifestation of lysosomal acid lipase deficiency .
cholesteryl ester storage disease  ( cesd )  is a very rare ,  late - onset ,  genetic endocrine disease characterized by deficient or inactive lysosomal acid lipase  ( lal )  causing lipid build - up ,  which leads to atherosclerosis ,  hepatomegaly ,  splenomegaly ,  progressive liver disease ,  and malabsorption .
familial restrictive cardiomyopathy is a genetic form of heart disease ,  in which the heart muscle is stiff and cannot fully relax after each contraction .
a rare disorder of sex development  ( dsd )  due to a defect in metabolizing testosterone to dihydrotestosterone and characterized by incomplete intrauterine masculinization which ranges from a female genitalia with a blind vaginal pouch to a fully male phenotype with pseudovaginal posterior hypospadias and micropenis .
this syndrome is characterised by sclerosing bone dysplasia ,  ichthyosis vulgaris and premature ovarian failure .
north carolina macular dystrophy  ( ncmd )  is a non - progressive autosomal dominant macular disorder of congenital or infantile onset characterized by loss of central vision ,  the accumulation of drusen in the macula and atrophy of photoreceptor cells with a variable phenotype at macular examination .
progressive bifocal chorioretinal atrophy  ( pbcra )  is an early - onset chorioretinal dystrophy characterized by large atrophic macular and nasal retinal lesions ,  nystagmus ,  myopia ,  poor vision ,  and slow disease progression .
bradyopsia is characterised by prolonged electroretinal response suppression leading to difficulties adjusting to changes in luminance ,  normal to subnormal acuity and photophobia .
doyne honeycomb retinal dystrophy  ( dhrd )  is a condition that affects the eyes and causes vision loss .
central areolar choroidal dystrophy  ( cacd )  is a hereditary macular disorder ,  usually presenting between the ages of 30 - 60 ,  characterized by a large area of atrophy in the centre of the macula and the loss or absence of photoreceptors ,  retinal pigment epithelium and choriocapillaris in this area ,  resulting in a progressive decrease in visual acuity .
oligocone trichromacy is a rare non - progressive form of cone photoreceptor dysfunction characterised by reduced visual acuity ,  normal retinal appearance ,  absent or reduced cone responses on electroretinography but normal colour vision .
cystoid macular dystrophy is an autosomal dominantly inherited cystoid macular edema manifesting with macular atrophy ,  strabismus and ,  sometimes ,  pericentral retinitis pigmentosa .
oguchi disease is an autosomal recessive retinal disorder characterized by congenital stationary night blindness and the mizuo - nakamura phenomenon .
goossens - devriendt syndrome is characterised by intrauterine growth retardation ,  a congenital heart defect ,  postaxial polydactyly ,  a brain malformation ,  abnormal hair with temporal balding ,  and marked facial dysmorphism .
the primary immunodeficiency with natural - killer cell deficiency and adrenal insufficiency is characterised by a specific natural - killer  ( nk )  cell deficiency and susceptibility to viral diseases .
ehlers - danlos syndromes  ( eds )  form a heterogeneous group of hereditary connective tissue diseases characterized by joint hyperlaxity ,  cutaneous hyperelasticity and tissue fragility .
androgen insensitivity syndrome  ( ais )  is a disorder of sex development  ( dsd )  characterized by the presence of female external genitalia ,  ambiguous genitalia or variable defects in virilization in a 46 , xy individual with absent or partial responsiveness to age - appropriate levels of androgens .
ehlers - danlos syndrome ,  progeroid type  ( eds - pf )  is a form of ehlers - danlos syndrome characterized by a premature aging with sparse hair ,  macrocephaly ,  loose elastic skin ,  failure to thrive ,  joint laxity ,  psychomotor retardation ,  hypotonia ,  and defective wound healing with atrophic scars .
ehlers - danlos syndromes  ( eds )  form a heterogeneous group of hereditary connective tissue diseases characterized by joint hyperlaxity ,  cutaneous hyperelasticity and tissue fragility .
leydig cell hypoplasia  ( lch )  is a condition in males that affects sexual development .
ehlers - danlos syndromes  ( eds )  form a heterogeneous group of inherited connective tissue disorders characterized by variable joint hypermobility and cutaneous hyperextensibility .
angioosteohypotrophic syndrome is a rare ,  congenital ,  vascular anomaly syndrome characterized by venous or ,  on occasion ,  arterial malformations which lead to soft tissue hypertrophy and bone hypoplasia .
x - linked sideroblastic anemia is a constitutional microcytic ,  hypochromic anemia of varying severity that is clinically characterized by manifestations of anemia and iron overload and that may respond to treatment with pyridoxine and folic acid .
pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1  ( pha1 )  is a primary form of mineralocorticoid resistance presenting in the newborn with renal salt wasting ,  failure to thrive and dehydration .
pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2  ( pha2 )  is a rare inherited form of hypertension characterized by hyperkalemia ,  hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis ,  normal or elevated aldosterone ,  low renin ,  and normal renal function .
an autosomal recessive form of pxe .
ullrich congenital muscular dystrophy  ( ucmd )  is characterized by early - onset ,  generalized and slowly progressive muscle weakness ,  multiple proximal joint contractures ,  marked hypermobility of the distal joints and normal intelligence .
6q terminal deletion syndrome is marked by a characteristic facial dysmorphism ,  short neck and psychomotor retardation ,  generally associated with a range of non - specific malformations .
morm syndrome is characterised by the association of intellectual deficit ,  truncal obesity ,  retinal dystrophy and micropenis .
purine nucleoside phosphorylase  ( pnp )  deficiency is a disorder of purine metabolism characterized by progressive immunodeficiency leading to recurrent and opportunistic infections ,  autoimmunity and malignancy as well as neurologic manifestations .
pycnodysostosis is a genetic lysosomal disease characterized by short stature ,  increased density of the bones  ( osteosclerosis / osteopetrosis )  ,  and brittle bones .
pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency  ( pdhd )  is a rare neurometabolic disorder characterized by a wide range of clinical signs with metabolic and neurological components of varying severity .
hemolytic anemia due to red cell pyruvate kinase  ( pk )  deficiency is a metabolic disorder characterized by a variable degree of chronic nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia .
a hereditary cardiac disease characterized by a prolongation of the qt interval at basal ecg and by a high risk of life - threatening arrhythmias .
rabson - mendenhall syndrome belongs to the group of extreme insulin - resistance syndromes  ( which also includes leprechaunism ,  the lipodystrophies ,  and the type a and b insulin resistance syndromes )  .
aniridia is a congenital ocular malformation characterized by the complete or partial absence of the iris .
infantile refsum disease  ( ird )  is the mildest variant of the peroxisome biogenesis disorders ,  zellweger syndrome spectrum  ( pbd -  zss )  ,  characterized by hypotonia ,  retinitis pigmentosa ,  developmental delay ,  sensorineural hearing loss and liver dysfunction .
a congenital condition that results in swelling in the arms or legs ,  and can occur during adolescence or adulthood .
disorder of adipose tissue characterized by symmetric and bilateral enlargement of the lower extremities due to abnormal deposition of subcutaneous fat often in obese women .
trichorhinophalangeal syndromes  ( trps )  type 1 and 3 are malformation syndromes characterized by short stature ,  sparse hair ,  a bulbous nasal tip and cone - shaped epiphyses ,  as well as severe generalized shortening of all phalanges ,  metacarpals and metatarsal bones .
gaucher disease type 1 is the chronic non - neurological form of gaucher disease  ( gd )  characterized by organomegaly ,  bone involvement and cytopenia .
gaucher disease type 2 is the acute neurological form of gaucher disease  ( gd )  .
gaucher disease type 3 is the subacute neurological form of gaucher disease  ( gd )  characterized by progressive encephalopathy and associated with the systemic manifestations  ( organomegaly ,  bone involvement ,  cytopenia )  of gd type 1 .
niemann - pick disease type a is a very severe subtype of niemann - pick disease ,  an autosomal recessive lysosomal disease ,  and is characterized clinically by onset in infancy or early childhood with failure to thrive ,  hepatosplenomegaly ,  and rapidly progressive neurodegenerative disorders .
niemann - pick disease type b is a mild subtype of niemann - pick disease ,  an autosomal recessive lysosomal disease ,  and is characterized clinically by onset in childhood with hepatosplenomegaly ,  growth retardation ,  and lung disorders such as infections and dyspnea
leukodystrophy with oligodontia is characterised by progressive ataxia beginning during infancy ,  a pyramidal syndrome and dental agenesis .
morgagni - stewart - morel syndrome is characterised by thickening of the inner table of the frontal bone ,  sometimes associated with obesity and hypertrichosis .
majeed syndrome is a rare genetic multisystemic disorder characterized by the triad of chronic recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis ,  congenital dyserythropoietic anemia ,  and variable transient inflammatory dermatosis .
anophthalmia - esophageal atresia syndrome belongs to the group of syndromic microphthalmias and is characterized by the association of uni -  or bilateral anophthalmia or microphthalmia ,  and esophageal atresia with or without trachoesophageal fistula .
microphthalmia - brain atrophy  ( moba )  syndrome is a rare genetic neurodegenerative disorder characterized by congenital microphthalmia ,  sunken eyes ,  blindness ,  microcephaly ,  severe intellectual disability ,  progressive spasticity ,  and seizures .
a very rare ,  clinically variable ,  multisystemic metabolic disease ,  characterized by anosmia ,  early - onset retinitis pigmentosa and possible neurological manifestations ,  including neuropathy ,  and cerebellar ataxia ,  deafness ,  ichthyosis ,  skeletal abnormalities ,  and cardiac arrhythmia .
the association of auricular abnormalities and cleft lip with or without cleft palate has been described in two siblings .
interstitial 9q22 .3 microdeletion is associated with a phenotype including macrocephaly ,  overgrowth and trigonocephaly .
rendu - osler - weber disease ,  also called hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia  ( hht )  ,  is a disorder of angiogenesis leading to arteriovenous dilatations: cutaneo - mucosal hemorrhagic telangiectasias and visceral shunting .
the lujan - fryns syndrome or x - linked mental retardation  ( xlmr )  with marfanoid habitus syndrome is a syndromic x - linked form of intellectual disability ,  associated with tall ,  marfanoid stature ,  distinct facial dysmorphism and behavioral problems .
nonspecific x - linked intellectual deficiencies  ( mrx )  belong to the family of sex - linked intellectual deficiencies  ( xlmr )  .
rett syndrome  ( rtt )  is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder affecting the central nervous system .
axenfeld - rieger syndrome  ( ars )  is a generic term used to designate overlapping genetic disorders ,  in which the major physical condition is anterior segment dysgenesis of the eye .
rubinstein - taybi syndrome is a rare malformation syndrome characterized by congenital anomalies  ( microcephaly ,  specific facial characteristics ,  broad thumbs and halluces and postnatal growth retardation )  ,  short stature ,  intellectual disability and behavioural characteristics .
an orphanet summary for this disease is currently under development .
congenital alpha2 antiplasmin deficiency is a rare hemorrhagic disorder caused by congenital deficiency of alpha2 antiplasmin ,  leading to dysregulated fibrinolysis and is characterized by a hemorrhagic tendency presenting from childhood with prolonged bleeding and ecchymoses following minor trauma and spontaneous bleeding episodes  ( often in unusual locations like diaphysis of long bones )  .
a malignant tumor that originates in the nuclear layer of the retina .
simpson - golabi - behmel syndrome  ( sgbs )  type 2 is an extremely rare and severe ,  early - lethal form of sgbs ,  an overgrowth - multiple anomalies syndrome ,  characterized by hydrops fetalis ,  macrocephaly ,  facial dysmorphism  ( hypertelorism ,  low - set ,  posteriorly angulated ears ,  short and broad nose with anteverted nares ,  prominent philtrum ,  large mouth with thin upper vermilion border ,  high - arched and cleft palate )  ,  short neck ,  redundant skin ,  skeletal defects  ( involving upper and lower limbs )  ,  hypoplastic nails ,  gastrointestinal and genitourinary anomalies ,  hypotonia and neurologic impairment .
juvenile polyposis of infancy  ( jpi )  is the most severe form of juvenile gastrointestinal polyposis and is characterized by pancolonic hamartomatous polyposis from stomach to rectum ,  diagnosed in the first two years of life .
familial partial lipodystrophy ,  kobberling type ,  is a very rare form of familial partial lipodystrophy  ( fpld )  of unknown etiology characterized by lipoatrophy that is confined to the limbs and a normal or increased fat distribution of the face ,  neck ,  and trunk .
hereditary inclusion body myopathy type 3 is characterised by congenital joint contractures  ( normalizing during early childhood )  ,  external ophthalmoplegia ,  and proximal muscle weakness .
grange syndrome is characterised by stenosis or occlusion of multiple arteries  ( including the renal ,  cerebral and abdominal vessels )  ,  hypertension ,  brachysyndactyly ,  syndactyly ,  increased bone fragility ,  and learning difficulties or borderline intellectual deficit .
congenital bile acid synthesis defect type 4  ( bas defect type 4 )  is an anomaly of bile acid synthesis characterized by mild cholestatic liver disease ,  fat malabsorption and / or neurological disease .
pyridoxal phosphate - responsive seizures is a very rare neonatal epileptic encephalopathy disorder characterized clinically by onset of severe seizures within hours of birth that are not responsive to anticonvulsants ,  but are responsive to treatment with pyridoxal phosphate .
folinic acid - responsive seizures is a very rare neonatal epileptic encephalopathy disorder characterized clinically by myoclonic and clonic ,  or clonic seizures associated with apnea occurring several hours to 5 days after birth and responding to folinic acid .
retinitis pigmentosa  ( rp )  is an inherited retinal dystrophy leading to progressive loss of the photoreceptors and retinal pigment epithelium and resulting in blindness usually after several decades .
hyperprolinemia type 2 is an autosomal recessive proline metabolism disorder due to pyroline - 5 - carboxylate dehydrogenase deficiency .
thyrotoxic periodic paralysis  ( tpp )  is a rare neurological disease characterized by recurrent episodes of paralysis and hypokalemia during a thyrotoxic state .
eiken syndrome is a rare familial skeletal dysplasia characterized by multiple epiphyseal dysplasia ,  with extremely retarded ossification .
developmental malformations - deafness - dystonia syndrome is characterised by the association of midline malformations ,  sensory hearing loss ,  and a delayed - onset generalised dystonia syndrome .
mandibulofacial dysostosis - microcephaly syndrome is a rare genetic multiple malformation disorder characterized by malar and mandibular hypoplasia ,  microcephaly ,  ear malformations with associated conductive hearing loss ,  distinctive facial dysmorphism ,  developmental delay ,  and intellectual disability .
hepatic veno - occlusive disease - immunodeficiency syndrome is characterized by the association of severe hypogammaglobulinemia ,  combined t and b cell immunodeficiency ,  absent lymph node germinal centers ,  absent tissue plasma cells and hepatic veno - occlusive disease .
the association of amelogenesis imperfecta and a microscopically typical hair dysplasia has been found in several members of a family in two generations .
sparse hair - short stature - skin anomalies syndrome combines short stature ,  sparse hair ,  skin hyperpigmentation and urticaria - like reactions on the hands and arms .
focal facial dermal dysplasia type i  ( ffdd1 )  ,  also known as brauer syndrome ,  is a focal facial dysplasia  ( ffdd )  characterized by congenital bitemporal cutis aplasia .
dend syndrome is a very rare ,  generally severe form of neonatal diabetes mellitus  ( ndm )  characterized by a triad of developmental delay ,  epilepsy ,  and neonatal diabetes .
episodic ataxia type 3  ( ea3 )  is a very rare form of hereditary episodic ataxia characterized by vestibular ataxia ,  vertigo ,  tinnitus ,  and interictal myokymia .
episodic ataxia type 4  ( ea4 )  is a very rare form of hereditary episodic ataxia characterized by late - onset episodic ataxia ,  recurrent attacks of vertigo ,  and diplopia .
generalized epilepsy - paroxysmal dyskinesia syndrome is characterised by the association of paroxysmal dyskinesia and generalised epilepsy  ( usually absence or generalised tonic - clonic seizures )  in the same individual or family .
hereditary painful callosities is a nummular palmoplantar keratoderma characterized by the development of painful keratotic lesions over pressure points in hands and feet .
familial dupuyren contracture is a rare ,  genetic ,  epidermal disease characterized by a ,  usually unilateral ,  progressive thickening and shortening of the palmar fascia ,  leading to permanent flexion contracture of the digits in several members of a family .
isolated congenital anonychia is characterized by nail abnormalities ranging from onychodystrophy  ( dystrophic nails )  to anonychia  ( absence of nails )  .
a pigmentation disease characterized by a reticulate pattern of abnormally dark skin coloring ,  particularly in the body's folds and creases .
familial progressive hyperpigmentation is a rare ,  genetic ,  skin pigmentation anomaly disorder characterized by irregular patches of hyperpigmented skin which present at birth or in early infancy and increase in size ,  number and confluence with age .
familial reactive perforating collagenosis is a very rare genetic skin disease characterized by transepidermal elimination of collagen fibers presenting as recurrent spontaneously involuting keratotic papules or nodules .
dermochondrocorneal dystrophy is characterised by osteochondrodystrophy of the hands and feet ,  corneal dystrophy and the presence of skin nodules clustered around the metacarpophalangeal and interphalangeal joints ,  around the nose and ears and on the posterior surface of the elbow .
linear and whorled nevoid hypermelanosis  ( lwnh )  is a rare skin condition characterized by swirling streaks of hyperpigmented  ( darkened )  skin .
disseminated superficial actinic porokeratosis  ( dsap )  is the most common form of porokeratosis characterized by the presence of several small annular plaques with a distinctive keratotic rim found most commonly on sun - exposed areas of the skin ,  particularly the extremities .
nail dysplasia is an idiopathic nail dystrophy ,  beginning in early childhood ,  and characterised by excessive longitudinal striations and loss of nail luster affecting all 20 nails .
encephalopathy due to hydroxykynureninuria is characterised by psychomotor retardation and nonprogressive encephalopathy associated with urinary excretion of large amounts of kynurenine ,  3 - hydroxykynurenine ,  and xanthurenic acid .
seizures - intellectual disability due to hydroxylysinuria syndrome is characterised by hydroxylysinuria ,  myoclonic and motor seizures and intellectual deficit .
a rare organic aciduria characterized by impaired isoleucine degradation with increased plasma or whole blood c5 acylcarnitine levels  ( typically observed in newborn screening )  and increased urinary excretion of n - methylbutyrylglycine .
a inherited organic acidemia that involves the brain .
isobutyryl - coa dehydrogenase deficiency is an inborn error of valine metabolism .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of carbohydrate metabolic process .
anomalies of bile acid synthesis are a group of sterol metabolism disorders due to enzyme deficiencies of bile acid synthesis  ( bas )  in infants ,  children and adults ,  with variable manifestations that include cholestasis ,  neurological disease ,  and fat malabsorption .
cerebral creatine deficiency syndromes  ( ccds )  are a group of disorders with inborn errors of creatine metabolism ,  which are characterized by an intellectual disability and seizures .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of sulfur amino acid metabolic process .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of gamma - aminobutyric acid metabolic process .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of gluconeogenesis .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of glucose transport .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of glycerol metabolic process .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of histidine metabolic process .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of ketone body catabolic process .
peroxisome biogenesis disorders ,  zellweger syndrome spectrum  ( pbd - zss )  is a group of autosomal recessive disorders affecting the formation of functional peroxisomes ,  characterized by sensorineural hearing loss ,  pigmentary retinal degeneration ,  multiple organ dysfunction and psychomotor impairment ,  and is comprised of the phenotypic variants zellweger syndrome  ( zs )  ,  neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy  ( nald )  and infantile refsum disease  ( ird )  .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of purine nucleobase metabolic process .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of pyridoxine metabolic process .
anpm
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of serine family amino acid metabolic process .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of sterol biosynthetic process .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of branched - chain amino acid metabolic process .
x - linked retinoschisis  ( xlrs )  is a genetic ocular disease that is characterized by reduced visual acuity in males due to juvenile macular degeneration .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of generation of precursor metabolites and energy .
an inherited metabolic disorder characterized either by defects in glycogen synthesis or defects in the breaking down of glycogen .
an inherited metabolic disorder in which harmful amounts of lipids accumulate in cells and tissues .
a group of inherited lysosomal storage diseases characterized by accumulation of lipids and carbohydrates in the tissues ,  resulting in mental disabilities and skeletal malformations .
a group of autosomal recessive or x - linked inherited lysosomal storage disorders affecting the metabolism of mucopolysaccharides ,  resulting in the accumulation of mucopolysaccharides in the body .
an inherited metabolic disorder that affects the lysosomal degradation of the spinhgolipids .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of sterol metabolic process .
hemochromatosis type 2  ( juvenile )  is the early - onset and most severe form of rare hereditary hemochromatosis  ( hh )  ,  a group of diseases characterized by excessive tissue iron deposition of genetic origin .
kelley - seegmiller syndrome  ( kss )  is the mildest form of hypoxanthine - guanine phosphoribosyltransferase  ( hprt )  deficiency ,  a hereditary disorder of purine metabolism ,  and is associated with uric acid overproduction  ( uao )  leading to urolithiasis ,  and early - onset gout .
crigler - najjar syndrome type 1  ( cns1 )  is the most severe form of cns ,  a hereditary disorder of hepatic bilirubin conjugation ,  characterized by severe neonatal unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia due to a complete absence of hepatic bilirubin glucuronosyltransferase  ( bgt )  .
type 2 crigler - najjar syndrome  ( cns2 )  is a hereditary disorder of bilirubin metabolism characterized by unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia due to reduced and inducible activity of hepatic bilirubin glucuronosyltransferase  ( gt )  .
galactokinase deficiency is a rare mild form of galactosemia characterized by early onset of cataract and an absence of the usual signs of classic galactosemia ,  i .e .
galactose epimerase deficiency is a very rare ,  moderate to severe form of galactosemia characterized by moderate to severe signs of impaired galactose metabolism .
classic galactosemia is a life - threatening metabolic disease with onset in the neonatal period .
glycogen storage disease  ( gsd )  due to liver and muscle phosphorylase kinase  ( phk )  deficiency is a benign inborn error of glycogen metabolism .
biotinidase deficiency is a late - onset form of multiple carboxylase deficiency ,  an inborn error of biotin metabolism that ,  if untreated ,  is characterized by seizures ,  breathing difficulties ,  hypotonia ,  skin rash ,  alopecia ,  hearing loss and delayed development .
holocarboxylase synthetase  ( hcs )  deficiency is a life - threatening early - onset form of multiple carboxylase deficiency ,  an inborn error of biotin metabolism ,  that ,  if untreated ,  is characterized by vomiting ,  tachypnea ,  irritability ,  lethargy ,  exfoliative dermatitis ,  and seizures that can worsen to coma .
pyruvate dehydrogenase e1 - alpha deficiency is the most frequent form of pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency  ( pdhd )  characterized by variable lactic acidosis ,  impaired psychomotor development ,  hypotonia and neurological dysfunction .
pyruvate dehydrogenase e2 deficiency is a very rare form of pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency  ( pdhd )  characterized by variable lactic acidosis and neurological dysfunction ,  mainly appearing during childhood .
pyruvate dehydrogenase phosphatase deficiency is a very rare subtype of pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency  ( pdhd )  characterized by lactic acidemia in the neonatal period .
mild phenylketonuria is a rare form of phenylketouria  ( pku )  ,  an inborn error of amino acid metabolism ,  characterized by symptoms of pku of mild to moderate severity .
classical phenylketonuria is a severe form of phenylketonuria  ( pku )  an inborn error of amino acid metabolism characterized in untreated patients by severe intellectual deficit and neuropsychiatric complications .
gm1 gangliosidosis type 1 is the severe infantile form of gm1 gangliosidosis with variable neurological and systemic manifestations .
gm1 gangliosidosis type 2 is a clinically variable ,  infancy or childhood - onset form of gm1 gangliosidosis characterized by normal early development and psychomotor regression between seven months and three years of age .
gm1 gangliosidosis type 3 is a mild ,  chronic ,  adult form of gm1 gangliosidosis characterized by onset generally during childhood or adolescence and by cerebellar dysfunction .
glycogenosis due to glucose - 6 - phosphatase deficiency  ( g6p )  type a ,  or glycogen storage disease  ( gsd )  type 1a ,  is a type of glycogenosis due to g6p deficiency .
glycogenosis due to glucose - 6 - phosphatase deficiency  ( g6p )  type b ,  or glycogen storage disease  ( gsd )  type 1b ,  is a type of glycogenosis due to g6p deficiency .
adult neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses  ( ancls )  are a genetically heterogeneous group of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses  ( ncls )  with onset during the third decade of life ,  characterized by dementia ,  seizures and loss of motor capacities ,  and sometimes associated with visual loss caused by retinal degeneration .
infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis  ( incl )  is a form of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis  ( ncl )  characterized by onset during the second half of the first year of life and rapid mental and motor deterioration leading to loss of all psychomotor abilities .
juvenile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses  ( jncls )  are a genetically heterogeneous group of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses  ( ncls )  typically characterized by onset at early school age with vision loss due to retinopathy ,  seizures and the decline of mental and motor capacities .
a rare autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by deficiency of the enzyme heparan sulfate sulfatase .
a rare autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by deficiency of the enzyme n - acetyl - alpha - d - glucosaminidase .
a rare autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by deficiency of the enzyme acetyl - coa:alpha - glucosaminide acetyltransferase .
a rare autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by deficiency of the enzyme n - acetylglucosamine - 6 - sulfatase .
hereditary coproporphyria is a form of acute hepatic porphyria characterized by the occurrence of neuro - visceral attacks and ,  more rarely ,  by the presence of cutaneous lesions .
acute intermittent porphyria is the most frequent and the most severe form of the acute hepatic porphyrias .
congenital erythropoietic porphyria ,  or gnther disease ,  is a form of erythropoietic porphyria characterized by very severe and mutilating photodermatosis .
a rare congenital metabolic disorder characterized by an inborn error of porphyrin - heme biosynthesis .
alpha - n - acetylgalactosaminidase  ( naga )  deficiency type 1 is a very rare and severe type of naga deficiency characterized by infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy .
alpha - n - acetylgalactosaminidase  ( naga )  deficiency type 2 is a very rare mild adult type of naga deficiency with the features of angiokeratoma corporis diffusum and mild sensory neuropathy .
alpha - n - acetylgalactosaminidase  ( naga )  deficiency type 3 is a rare clinically heterogeneous type of naga deficiency with developmental ,  neurologic and psychiatric manifestations presenting at an intermediate age .
a form of methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria ,  an inborn error of vitamin b12  ( cobalamin )  metabolism characterized by megaloblastic anemia ,  lethargy ,  failure to thrive ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual deficit and seizures .
a form of methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria ,  an inborn error of vitamin b12  ( cobalamin )  metabolism characterized by variable biochemical ,  neurological and hematological manifestations .
a form of methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria ,  an inborn error of vitamin b12  ( cobalamin )  metabolism characterized by megaloblastic anemia ,  lethargy ,  failure to thrive ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual deficit and seizures .
fish eye disease  ( fed )  is a form of genetic lcat  ( lecithin - cholesterol acyltransferase )  deficiency characterized clinically by corneal opacifications ,  and biochemically by significantly reduced hdl cholesterol and partial lcat enzyme deficiency .
familial lcat  ( lecithin - cholesterol acyltransferase )  deficiency  ( fld )  is a form of lecithin - cholesterol acyltransferase deficiency  ( lcat )  characterized clinically by corneal opacities ,  hemolytic anemia ,  and renal failure ,  and biochemically by severely decreased hdl cholesterol and complete deficiency of the lcat enzyme .
diazoxide - resistant focal hyperinsulism  ( drfh )  is a form of diazoxide - resistant hyperinsulinism characterized by recurrent episodes of profound hypoglycemia caused by an excessive /  uncontrolled insulin secretion  ( inappropriate for the level of glycemia )  due to a focal adenomatous hyperplasia of pancreas ,  that is unresponsive to medical treatment with diazoxide ,  necessitating complete excision of the focal lesion .
hyperinsulism due to glucokinase deficiency  ( higck )  is a form of diazoxide - sensitive diffuse hyperinsulinism ,  caused by a lowered threshold for insulin release ,  characterized by an excessive /  uncontrolled insulin secretion  ( inappropriate for the level of glycemia )  and recurrent episodes of profound hypoglycemia induced by fasting and protein rich meals ,  requiring rapid and intensive treatment to prevent neurological sequelae .
congenital bile acid synthesis defect type 1  ( bas defect type 1 )  is the most common anomaly of bile acid synthesis characterized by variable manifestations of progressive cholestatic liver disease ,  and fat malabsorption .
congenital bile acid synthesis defect type 3  ( bas defect type 3 )  is a severe anomaly of bile acid synthesis characterized by severe neonatal cholestatic liver disease .
congenital bile acid synthesis defect type 2  ( bas defect type 2 )  is an anomaly of bile acid synthesis characterized by severe and rapidly progressive cholestatic liver disease ,  and malabsorption of fat and fat - soluble vitamins .
progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis type 2  ( pfic2 )  ,  a type of progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis  ( pfic )  ,  is a severe ,  neonatal ,  hereditary disorder in bile formation that is hepatocellular in origin and not associated with extrahepatic features .
progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis type 3  ( pfic3 )  ,  a type of progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis  ( pfic )  ,  is a late - onset hereditary disorder in bile formation that is hepatocellular in origin .
pfic1 ,  a type of progressive familial intrahepathic cholestasis  ( pfic )  ,  is an infantile hereditary disorder in bile formation that is hepatocellular in origin and associated with extrahepatic features .
an autosomal recessive form of methylmalonic aciduria ,  caused by mutation ( s )  in the mmaa gene ,  encoding mmaa protein .
an autosomal recessive form of methylmalonic aciduria ,  caused by mutation ( s )  in the mmab gene ,  encoding cob ( i ) yrinic acid a , c - diamide adenosyltransferase ,  mitochondrial .
vitamin b12 - unresponsive methylmalonic acidemia type mut -  is an inborn error of metabolism characterized by recurrent ketoacidotic comas or transient vomiting ,  dehydration ,  hypotonia and intellectual deficit ,  which does not respond to administration of vitamin b12 .
l - 2 - hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a primarily neurological form of 2 - hydroxyglutaric aciduria characterized by psychomotor retardation ,  cerebellar ataxia and variable macrocephaly or epilepsy .
d - 2 - hydroxyglutaric aciduria  ( d - 2 - hga )  is a rare clinically variable neurological form of 2 - hydroxyglutaric aciduria characterized biochemically by elevated d - 2 - hydroxyglutaric acid  ( d - 2 - hg )  in the urine ,  plasma and cerebrospinal fluid .
phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1 deficiency ( pepck1 )  is a subtype of phosphoenolpyruvate carbokinase defiency  ( pepck ;  see this term )  that results from a defect in the cytosolic form of the rate - limiting enzyme of the gluconeogenic pathway ,  pepck .
phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 2 deficiency  ( pepck2 )  is an autosomal recessive subtype of phosphoenolpyruvate carbokinase defiency  ( pepck ;  see this term )  that results from a defect in the mitochondrial form of the rate - limiting enzyme of the gluconeogenic pathway ,  pepck .
pmm2 - cdg is the most frequent form of congenital disorder of n - glycosylation and is characterized by cerebellar dysfunction ,  abnormal fat distribution ,  inverted nipples ,  strabismus and hypotonia .
 ( 15q24 .1 )  .
 ( 3q27 .3 )  .
the cdg  ( congenital disorders of glycosylation )  syndromes are a group of autosomal recessive disorders affecting glycoprotein synthesis .
the cdg  ( congenital disorders of glycosylation )  syndromes are a group of autosomal recessive disorders affecting glycoprotein synthesis .
 ( 22q13 .33 )  .
 ( 11q14 .1 )  ,  resulting in a block in the initial step of protein glycosylation .
 ( 9q31 .1 )  .transmission is autosomal recessive .
 ( 16p13 .3 )  .
 ( 11q23 )  .
 ( 14q21 )  .
b4galt1 - cdg is a congenital disorder of glycosylation characterised by macrocephaly due to dandy - walker malformation ,  hydrocephaly ,  hypotonia ,  myopathy and coagulation anomalies .
cog7 - cdg is a congenital disorder of glycosylation characterised by dysmorphism ,  skeletal dysplasia ,  hypotonia ,  hepatosplenomegaly ,  jaundice ,  cardiac insufficiency ,  recurrent infections and epilepsy .
autosomal dominant form of chondrodysplasia punctata .
chondrodysplasia punctata ,  toriello type is a rare ,  non - rhizomelic ,  primary bone dysplasia syndrome characterized by calcific stippling of epiphyses in association with minor facial abnormalities ,  short stature and ocular colobomata .
3 - phosphoserine phosphatase deficiency is an extremely rare form of serine deficiency syndrome characterized clinically by congenital microcephaly and severe psychomotor retardation in the single reported case to date ,  which was associated with williams syndrome .
3 - phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase deficiency  ( 3 - pgdh deficiency )  is an autosomal recessive form of serine deficiency syndrome characterized clinically in the few reported cases by congenital microcephaly ,  psychomotor retardation and intractable seizures in the infantile form and by absence seizures ,  moderate developmental delay and behavioral disorders in the juvenile form
an instance of palmoplantar keratosis that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
inherited epidermolysis bullosa  ( eb )  encompasses a number of disorders characterized by recurrent blister formation as the result of structural fragility within the skin and selected other tissues .
hair loss usually from the scalp .
excessive hair growth anywhere on the body .
a nail anomaly that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a nail anomaly that is part of a larger syndrome .
the term ''ectodermal dysplasia'' defines a heterogeneous group of heritable disorders of the skin and its appendages characterized by the defective development of two or more ectodermal derivatives ,  including hair ,  teeth ,  nails ,  sweat glands and their modified structures  ( i .e .
excess fluid collection in tissues ,  causing swelling .
changes in the organism associated with senescence ,  occurring at an accelerated rate .
congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma  ( cie )  is a variant of autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis  ( arci )  ,  a rare epidermal disease ,  characterized by fine ,  whitish scales on a background of erythematous skin over the whole body .
keratoderma hereditarium mutilans with ichthyosis is a diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma ,  characterized by honeycomb palmoplantar hyperkeratosis associated with pseudoainhum of the fifth digit of the hand ,  ichthyosis and deafness .
epidermolysis bullosa simplex ,  dowling - meara type  ( ebs - dm )  is a basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs )  characterized by the presence of generalized vesicles and small blisters in grouped or arcuate configuration .
epidermolysis bullosa simplex with mottled pigmentation  ( ebs - mp )  is a basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs )  characterized by generalized blistering with mottled or reticulate brown pigmentation .
non - dowling - meara generalized epidermolysis bullosa simplex ,  formerly known as epidermolysis bullosa simplex ,  kobner type  ( ebs - k )  is a generalized basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs )  characterized by non - herpetiform blisters and erosions arising in particular at sites of friction .
saethre - chotzen syndrome  ( scs )  is an inherited craniosynostosis syndrome characterized by unilateral or bilateral coronal synostosis ,  facial asymmetry ,  ptosis ,  strabismus and small ears with prominent crus ,  among other less common manifestations .
localized epidermolysis bullosa simplex ,  formerly known as ebs ,  weber - cockayne ,  is a basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs )  .
epidermolysis bullosa simplex ,  ogna type  ( ebs - o )  is a basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs )  characterized by sometimes widespread ,  primarily acral blistering .
generalized non - herlitz - type junctional epidermolysis bullosa is a form of non - herlitz - type junctional epidermolysis bullosa  ( jeb - nh )  characterized by generalized skin blistering ,  atrophic scarring ,  nail dystrophy or nail absence ,  and enamel hypoplasia ,  with extracutaneous involvement .
junctional epidermolysis bullosa with pyloric atresia is a severe subtype of junctional epidermolysis bullosa  ( jeb )  characterized by generalized blistering at birth and congenital atresia of the pylorus and rarely of other portions of the gastrointestinal tract .
junctional epidermolysis bullosa ,  herlitz - type is a severe subtype of junctional epidermolysis bullosa  ( jeb )  characterized by blisters and extensive erosions ,  localized to the skin and mucous membranes .
junctional epidermolysis bullosa inversa is a rare severe subtype of junctional epidermolysis bullosa  ( jeb )  characterized by blistering and erosions confined to intertriginous skin sites ,  the esophagus ,  and vagina .
late - onset junctional epidermolysis bullosa is a subtype of junctional epidermolysis bullosa  ( jeb )  occurring in childhood or young adulthood .
severe generalized recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( rdeb - sev gen )  is the most severe subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( deb ,  see this term )  ,  formerly known as the hallopeau - siemens type ,  and is characterized by generalized cutaneous and mucosal blistering and scarring associated with severe deformities and major extracutaneous involvement .
recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa inversa  ( rdeb - i )  is rare subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( deb )  characterized by blisters and erosions which are primarily confined to intertriginous skin sites ,  the base of the neck ,  the uppermost back ,  and the lumbosacral area .
pretibial dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa is a rare subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( deb )  characterized by the development of blisters ,  erosions ,  and lichenoid lesions predominantly in the pretibial region .
transient bullous dermolysis of the newborn is a rare subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( deb )  characterized by generalized blistering at birth that usually regresses within the first 6 to 24 months of life .
woolly hair nevus  ( whn )  is a rare non - familial hair anomaly characterized by kinky ,  tightly coiled ,  and hypopigmented fine hair with an average diameter of 0 .5 cm ,  noted ,  since birth or during the first two years of life ,  in a localized circumscribed distribution on the scalp .
hermansky - pudlak syndrome  ( hsp )  is a multi - system disorder characterized by oculocutaneous albinism ,  bleeding diathesis and ,  in some cases ,  neutropenia ,  pulmonary fibrosis ,  or granulomatous colitis .
oculocutaneous albinism type 1a  ( oca1a )  is the most severe form of oca ,  where no melanin is produced ,  and is characterized by white hair and skin ,  blue ,  fully translucent irises ,  nystagmus and misrouting of the optic nerves .
oculocutaneous albinism type 2  ( oca2 )  is a type of oca and the most common form of oca seen in the african population ,  characterized by variable hypopigmentation of the skin and hair ,  numerous characteristic ocular changes and misrouting of the optic nerves at the chiasm .
type 3 oculocutaneous albinism  ( oca3 )  is a form of oculocutaneous albinism  ( oca )  characterized by rufous or brown albinism and occurring mainly in the african population .
oculocutaneous albinism type 1b  ( oca1b )  is a type of oca1 characterized by skin and hair hypopigmentation ,  nystagmus ,  reduced iris and retinal pigment and misrouting of the optic nerves .
oculocutaneous albinism type 4  ( oca4 )  is a type of oca characterized by varying degrees of skin and hair hypopigmentation ,  numerous ocular changes and misrouting of the optic nerves at the chiasm .
pseudohypoparathyroidism type 1a  ( php1a )  is a type of pseudohypoparathyroidism  ( php ;  see this term )  characterized by renal resistance to parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  ,  resulting in hypocalcemia ,  hyperphosphatemia ,  and elevated pth ;  resistance to other hormones including thydroid stimulating hormone  ( tsh )  ,  gonadotropins and growth - hormone - releasing hormone  ( ghrh )  ;  and a constellation of clinical features known as albright hereditary osteodystrophy  ( aho ;  see this term )  .
pseudohypoparathyroidism type 1c  ( php1c )  is a rare type of pseudohypoparathyroidism  ( php )  characterized by resistance to parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  and other hormones ,  which manifests with hypocalcemia ,  hyperphosphatemia and elevated pth levels ,  a constellation of clinical features collectively termed albright's hereditary osteodystrophy  ( aho )  ,  but normal activity of the stimulatory protein g  ( gs alpha )  .
pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism  ( pseudo - php )  is a disease characterized by a constellation of clinical features collectively termed albright hereditary osteodystrophy  ( aho )  but no evidence of resistance to parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  ,  which is seen in other forms of pseudohypoparathyroidism  ( php )  .
x - linked form of lethal multiple pterygium syndrome .
milroy disease is a frequent form of primary lymphedema characterized generally by painless ,  chronic lower - limb lymphedema found at birth or developing in the early neonatal period .
variegate porphyria is a form of acute hepatic porphyria characterized by the occurrence of neuro - visceral attacks with or without the presence of cutaneous lesions .
a heterogeneous group of cases that are clinically diagnosed as werner syndrome  ( ws )  but do not carry wrn gene mutations .
a griscelli syndrome characterized by silvery gray sheen of the hair ,  hypopigmentation of the skin and neurological impairment without immunodeficiency that has material basis in mutations in the myo5a gene on chromosome 15q21 .2 .
griscelli syndrome type 2  ( gs2 )  is a rare ,  inherited condition that affects the skin ,  hair ,  and immune system .
a griscelli syndrome characterized by isolated silvery gray sheen of the hair and hypopigmentation of the skin that has material basis in mutation in the mlph or myo5a genes .
pili gemini defines a situation where the papilla's tip of a hair follicle splits during the anagen phase and consequently grows two hair shafts emerging through a single pilary canal .
brooke - spiegler syndrome  ( bss )  is an inherited predisposition syndrome presenting with skin appendage tumors ,  namely cylindromas ,  spiradenomas and trichoepitheliomas .
x - linked congenital generalized hypertrichosis is an extremely rare type of hypertrichosis lanuginosa congenita ,  a congenital skin disease ,  which is characterized by hair overgrowth on the entire body in males ,  and mild and asymmetric hair overgrowth in females .
dominant deafness - onychodystrophy  ( ddod )  syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by congenital hearing impairment ,  small or absent nails on the hands and feet ,  and small terminal phalanges .
doors syndrome  ( also known as door syndrome )  is a multiple congenital anomalies - intellectual disability syndrome characterized by sensorineural hearing loss  ( deafness )  ,  onychodystrophy ,  osteodystrophy ,  mild to profound intellectual disability ,  and seizures .
punctate palmoplantar keratoderma type i  ( ppkp1 )  ,  also known as buschke - fischer - brauer syndrome ,  is a very rare hereditary skin disease characterized by irregularly distributed epidermal hyperkeratosis of the palms and soles with wide variation among patients . .
punctate palmoplantar keratoderma type 2 is a type of isolated ,  punctate ,  hereditary palmoplantar keratoderma characterized by multiple ,  asymptomatic ,  1 to 2 mm - long ,  firm ,  hyperkeratotic projections  ( "spiny keratosis" )  on the palms ,  soles and digits  ( typically confined to their volar and / or lateral aspects )  .
ichthyosis hystrix of curth - macklin  ( ihcm )  is a rare type of keratinopathic ichthyosis that is characterized by the presence of severe hyperkeratotic lesions and palmoplantar keratoderma  ( ppk )  .
leukotriene c4 synthase deficiency is an extremely rare fatal neurometabolic developmental disorder characterized clinically by muscular hypotonia ,  psychomotor retardation ,  failure to thrive ,  and microcephaly .
sandhoff disease is a lysosomal storage disorder from the gm2 gangliosidosis family and is characterised by central nervous system degeneration .
mild hyperphenylalaninemia  ( hpa )  is a rare form of phenylketonuria ,  an inborn error of amino acid metabolism ,  characterized by mild symptoms of hpa .
gardner syndrome is a severe form of familial adenomatous polyposis characterized by multiple adenomas in the colon and rectum associated with prominent extracolonic features including osteomas and multiple skin and soft tissue tumors .
sarcoidosis is a multisystemic disorder of unknown cause characterized by the formation of immune granulomas in involved organs .
schinzel - giedion syndrome  ( sgs )  is an ectodermal dysplasia syndrome chiefly characterized by a distinctive facial dysmorphism ,  hydronephrosis ,  severe developmental delay ,  typical skeletal malformations ,  and genital and cardiac anomalies .
schizencephaly is a rare congenital cerebral malformation characterized by the presence of linear clefts in one or both hemispheres of the brain ,  extending from the lateral ventricles to the pial surface of the cortex ,  and that lead to a variety of neurological symptoms such as epilepsy ,  motor deficits ,  and psychomotor retardation .
47 ,  xyy syndrome is a sex chromosome aneuploidy where males receive an additional y chromosome ,  and is characterized clinically by tall stature evident from childhood ,  macrocephaly ,  facial features  ( mild hypertelorism ,  low set ears ,  a mildly flat malar region )  ,  speech delay and an increased risk for social and emotional difficulties ,  attention deficit hyperactive disorder and autistic spectrum disorder .
schwartz - jampel syndrome  ( sjs )  is characterised by myotonia and osteoarticular abnormalities .
hereditary disease characterized by seizures ,  mental retardation ,  developmental delay ,  and skin and ocular lesions .
scott syndrome is an extremely rare congenital hemorrhagic disorder characterized by hemorrhagic episodes due to impaired platelet coagulant activity .
a rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the atr gene ,  rbbp8 gene ,  cenpj gene ,  cep152 gene ,  cep63 gene ,  nin gene ,  dna2 gene ,  or traip gene .
shwachman - diamond syndrome  ( sds )  is a rare multisystemic syndrome characterized by chronic and usually mild neutropenia ,  pancreatic exocrine insufficiency associated with steatorrhea and growth failure ,  skeletal dysplasia with short stature ,  and an increased risk of bone marrow aplasia or leukemic transformation .
sialidosis type 1  ( st - 1 )  is a very rare lysosomal storage disease ,  and is the normosomatic form of sialidosis ,  characterized by gait abnormalities ,  progressive visual loss ,  bilateral macular cherry red spots and myoclonic epilepsy and ataxia ,  that usually presents in the second to third decade of life .
silver - russell syndrome is characterized by growth retardation with antenatal onset ,  characteristic facies and limb asymmetry .
sjc6gren - larsson syndrome  ( sls )  is a neurocutaneous disorder caused by an inborn error of lipid metabolism and characterized by congenital ichthyosis ,  intellectual deficit ,  and spasticity .
peeling skin syndrome  ( pss )  refers to a group of rare autosomal recessive forms of ichthyosis that is characterized clinically by superficial ,  asymptomatic ,  spontaneous peeling of the skin and histologically by a shedding of the outer layers of the epidermis .
smith - lemli - opitz syndrome  ( slos )  is characterized by multiple congenital anomalies ,  intellectual deficit ,  and behavioral problems .
smith - magenis syndrome  ( sms )  is a complex genetic disorder characterized by variable intellectual deficit ,  sleep disturbance ,  craniofacial and skeletal anomalies ,  psychiatric disorders ,  and speech and motor delay .
sotos syndrome is a rare multisystemic genetic disorder characterized by a typical facial appearance ,  overgrowth of the body in early life with macrocephaly ,  and mild to severe intellectual disability .
hereditary spherocytosis is a congenital hemolytic anemia with a wide clinical spectrum  ( from symptom - free carriers to severe hemolysis )  characterized by anemia ,  variable jaundice ,  splenomegaly and cholelithiasis .
a spina bifida  ( disease )  that is not part of a larger syndrome .
stargardt disease ,  also known as stargardt 1  ( stgd1 )  ,  is an autosomal recessive form of retinal dystrophy that is usually characterized by a progressive loss of central vision associated with irregular macular and perimacular yellow - white fundus flecks ,  and a so - called ''beaten bronze'' atrophic central macular lesion .
stickler syndrome is an inherited vitreoretinopathy characterized by the association of ocular signs with more or less complete forms of pierre - robin sequence ,  bone disorders ,  and sensorineural deafness  ( 10% of cases )  .
antley - bixler syndrome is a very rare disorder characterised by craniosynostosis with midface hypoplasia ,  radiohumeral synostosis ,  femoral bowing and joint contractures .
succinyl - coa:3 - ketoacid coa transferase deficiency  ( scotd )  is a defect in ketone body utilization characterized by severe ,  potentially fatal intermittent episodes of ketoacidosis .
encephalopathy due to sulfite oxidase deficiency is a rare neurometabolic disorder characterized by seizures ,  progressive encephalopathy and lens dislocation .
free sialic acid storage disease  ( free sasd )  ,  is a group of lysosomal storage diseases characterized by a spectrum of clinical manifestations including neurological and developmental disorders with severity ranging from the milder phenotype ,  salla disease  ( sd )  ,  to the most severe phenotype ,  infantile free sialic acid storage disease  ( issd )  .
proximal spinal muscular atrophy type 2  ( sma2 )  is a chronic infantile form of proximal spinal muscular atrophy characterized by muscle weakness and hypotonia resulting from the degeneration and loss of the lower motor neurons in the spinal cord and the brain stem nuclei .
proximal spinal muscular atrophy type 3  ( sma3 )  is a relatively mild form of proximal spinal muscular atrophy characterized by muscle weakness and hypotonia resulting from the degeneration and loss of the lower motor neurons in the spinal cord and the brain stem nuclei .
proximal spinal muscular atrophy type 4  ( sma4 )  is the adult - onset form of proximal spinal muscular atrophy characterized by muscle weakness and hypotonia resulting from the degeneration and loss of the lower motor neurons in the spinal cord and the brain stem nuclei .
glomuvenous malformations  ( gvms )  are hereditary vascular malformations characterized by the presence of small ,  multifocal bluish - purple venous lesions involving the skin .
congenital primary aphakia  ( cpa )  is characterised by an absence of the lens .
camos syndrome is characterised by the association of a non - progressive congenital ataxia ,  severe intellectual deficit ,  optic atrophy and structural anomalies of the skin vessels .
megalencephaly - polymicrogyria - postaxial polydactyly - hydrocephalus syndrome is characterized by megalencephaly ,  polymicrogyria ,  and hydrocephalus with variable polydactyly .
agammaglobulinemia - microcephaly - craniosynostosis - severe dermatitis syndrome combines agammaglobulinemia with marked microcephaly ,  significant developmental delay ,  craniosynostosis ,  a severe dermatitis ,  cleft palate ,  narrowing of the choanae ,  and blepharophimosis .
macrostomia - preauricular tags - external ophthalmoplegia syndrome combines macrostomia or abnormal mouth contour ,  preauricular tags ,  uni -  or bilateral ptosis and external ophthalmoplegia .
congenital malabsorptive diarrhea due to paucity of enteroendocrine cells is an exceedingly rare genetic gastroenterological disease characterized by severe malabsorptive diarrhea and a lack of intestinal enteroendocrine cells .
pelvis is an acronym defining the association of perineal hemangioma ,  external genitalia malformations ,  lipomyelomeningocele ,  vesicorenal abnormalities ,  imperforate anus ,  and skin tag .
the combination of a propensity for venous thrombosis and seizures has been reported in two unrelated kindreds .
congenital hypochromic microcytic anemia with progressive liver iron overload paradoxically associated with normal to moderately elevated serum ferritin levels has been described in three unrelated patients .
congenital nephrotic syndrome ,  finnish type is characterised by protein loss beginning during foetal life .
fanconi anemia  ( fa )  is a hereditary dna repair disorder characterized by progressive pancytopenia with bone marrow failure ,  variable congenital malformations and predisposition to develop hematological or solid tumors .
syndromic diarrhea  ( sd )  ,  or tricho - hepato - enteric syndrome  ( the )  ,  is a severe congenital enteropathy manifesting as intractable diarrhea in the first month of life with failure to thrive and associated with facial dysmorphism ,  hair abnormalities ,  and ,  in some cases ,  immune disorders and intrauterine growth restriction .
boichis syndrome consists of the association of congenital nephronophthisis leading to renal failure ,  and hepatic fibrosis .
fibronectin glomerulopathy is a hereditary kidney disease characterized by proteinuria ,  type iv renal tubular acidosis ,  microscopic hematuria and hypertension that may lead to end - stage renal failure in the second to sixth decade of life .
hereditary thermosensitive neuropathy is a rare ,  demyelinating ,  hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by reversible episodes of ascending muscle weakness ,  paresthesias and areflexia triggered by a febrile episode ,  with or without pressure palsy .
sebocystomatosis is characterized by multiple  ( 100 to 2000 )  asymptomatic dermal cysts that usually occur on the sternal region ,  upper back ,  axillae and proximal parts of the extremities .
steroid - resistant ,  sporadic idiopathic nephrotic syndrome ,  is a heterogeneous entity .
lown - ganong - levine syndrome is an extremely rare conduction disorder characterized by a short pr interval  ( less than or equal to 120 ms )  with normal qrs complex on electrocardiogram associated with the occurrence of episodes of atrial tachyarrythmias  ( e .g .
gm2 gangliosidosis ,  variant b or tay - sachs disease is marked by accumulation of g2 gangliosides due to hexosaminidase a deficiency .
alpha - thalassemia is an inherited hemoglobinopathy characterized by impaired synthesis of alpha - globin chains leading to a variable clinical picture depending on the number of affected alleles .
x - linked alpha thalassaemia mental retardation  ( atr - x )  syndrome in males is associated with profound developmental delay ,  facial dysmorphism ,  genital abnormalities and alpha thalassaemia .
beta - thalassemia  ( bt )  is characterized by deficiency  ( beta +  )  or absence  ( beta0 )  of synthesis of the beta globin chains of hemoglobin  ( hb )  .
glanzmann thrombasthenia  ( gt )  is a bleeding syndrome characterized by spontaneous mucocutaneous bleeding and an exaggerated response to trauma due to a constitutional thrombocytopenia .
congenital dyserythropoietic anemia  ( cda )  is a heterogenous group of hematological disorders of late erythropoiesis and red cell abnormalities that lead to anemia .
paris - trousseau thrombocytopenia  ( tcpt )  is a contiguous gene syndrome characterized by mild bleeding tendency ,  variable thrombocytopenia  ( thc )  ,  dysmorphic facies ,  abnormal giant alpha - granules in platelets and dysmegakaryopoiesis .
palmoplantar keratoderma - xx sex reversal - predisposition to squamous cell carcinoma syndrome is characterised by sex reversal in males with a 46 ,  xx  ( sry - negative )  karyotype ,  palmoplantar hyperkeratosis and a predisposition to squamous cell carcinoma .
bothnia retinal dystrophy is a rare form of retinal dystrophy ,  seen mostly in northern sweden ,  presenting in early childhood with night blindness and progressive maculopathy with a decrease in visual acuity ,  eventually leading to blindness by adulthood .
cystic leukoencephalopathy without megalencephaly is characterised by non - progressive leukoencephalopathy ,  bilateral cysts in the anterior part of the temporal lobe ,  cerebral white matter anomalies and severe psychomotor impairment .
facial onset sensory and motor neuronopathy is characterised initially by paraesthesia and numbness in the region of the trigeminal nerve distribution ,  which later progresses to involve the scalp ,  neck ,  upper trunk and upper limbs .
hypomyelination - congenital cataract is characterized by the onset of cataract either at birth or in the first two months of life ,  delayed psychomotor development by the end of the first year of life and moderate intellectual deficit .
camptodactyly - tall stature - scoliosis - hearing loss syndrome is characterised by camptodactyly ,  tall stature ,  scoliosis ,  and hearing loss  ( catshl )  .
severe achondroplasia - developmental delay - acanthosis nigricans syndrome is characterised by the association of severe achondroplasia with developmental delay and acanthosis nigricans .
spondylometaphyseal dysplasia - cone - rod dystrophy syndrome is characterised by the association of spondylometaphyseal dysplasia  ( marked by platyspondyly ,  shortening of the tubular bones and progressive metaphyseal irregularity and cupping )  ,  with postnatal growth retardation and progressive visual impairment due to cone - rod dystrophy .
craniofacial conodysplasia is characterised by craniofacial dysplasia ,  cone - shaped physes of the hands and feet ,  and neurological manifestations resembling cerebral palsy .
familial digital arthropathy - brachydactyly is characterised by the association of arthropathy of interphalangeal ,  metacarpophalangeal and metatarsophalangeal joints with brachydactyly of the middle and distal phalanges .
mesomelic dysplasia ,  savarirayan type is characterised by severely hypoplastic and triangular - shaped tibiae ,  and absence of the fibulae .
a bone development disease characterized by early developmental delay primarily involving speech ,  distinct facial features ,  short stature ,  brachydactyly ,  clubfoot deformities ,  cataracts ,  and microcephaly that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in cog4 on chromosome 16q22 .1 .
image syndrome is characterized by the association of intrauterine growth retardation ,  metaphyseal dysplasia  ( and short limbs )  ,  adrenal hypoplasia congenita ,  and genital anomalies .
pseudodiastrophic dysplasia is characterized by rhizomelic shortening of the limbs and severe clubfoot deformity ,  in association with elbow and proximal interphalangeal joint dislocations ,  platyspondyly ,  and scoliosis .
astley - kendall dysplasia is a lethal skeletal dysplasia characterized by short limbed dwarfism ,  osteogenesis imperfecta ,  and punctate calcification within cartilage .
this syndrome is characterized by osteopetrosis ,  agenesis of the corpus callosum ,  cerebral atrophy and a small hippocampus .
diaphyseal medullary stenosis with malignant fibrous histiocytoma is a very rare autosomal dominant bone dysplasia / cancer syndrome characterized clinically by bone infarctions ,  cortical growth abnormalities ,  pathological fractures ,  and development of bone sarcoma  ( malignant fibrous histiocytoma )  .
craniometadiaphyseal dysplasia ,  wormian bone type is an extremely rare craniotubular bone dysplasia syndrome described in fewer than 10 patients to date .
endosteal sclerosis - cerebellar hypoplasia syndrome is characterized by congenital cerebellar hypoplasia ,  endosteal sclerosis ,  hypotonia ,  ataxia ,  mild to moderate developmental delay ,  short stature ,  hip dislocation ,  and tooth eruption disturbances .
metaphyseal dysplasia ,  braun - tinschert type is characterised by metapyhseal undermodeling with broadening of the long bones and femora with an 'erlenmeyer flask'' appearance ,  expansion and bowing of the radii with severe varus deformity and flat exostoses of the long bones at the metadiaphyseal junctions .
singleton - merten dysplasia is characterized by dental dysplasia ,  progressive calcification of the thoracic aorta with stenosis ,  osteoporosis and expansion of the marrow cavities in hand bones .
this syndrome is characterised by multiple doughnut - shaped hyperostotic or osteosclerotic lesions of the calvaria .
idiopathic juvenile osteoporosis  ( ijo )  is a primary condition of bone demineralization that presents with pain in the back and extremities ,  walking difficulties ,  multiple fractures ,  and radiological evidence of osteoporosis .
spondylo - ocular syndrome is a very rare association of spinal and ocular manifestations that is characterized by dense cataracts ,  and retinal detachment along with generalized osteoporosis and platyspondyly .
genochondromatosis is characterized by chondromatosis ,  typically involving the clavicles ,  upper end of the humerus ,  and lower end of the femur .
dysspondyloenchondromatosis is a rare skeletal dysplasia characterized by anisospondyly and multiple enchondromas in vertebrae and the metaphyseal and diaphyseal parts of long tubular bones ,  leading to kyphoscoliosis and lower limb asymmetry .
craniosynostosis  -  anal anomalies  -  porokeratosis ,  or cdags ,  is a very rare condition characterized by craniosynostosis and clavicular hypoplasia ,   ( c )  ,  delayed closure of the fontanel  ( d )  ,  anal anomalies  ( a )  ,  genitourinary malformations  ( g )  and skin eruption  ( s )  .
ischio - vertebral syndrome is a very rare ,  poorly - defined bone disease characterized by ischial aplasia or hypoplasia ,  vertebral anomalies  ( vertebral malsegmentation ,  kyphoscoliosis )  ,  and in some patients ,  non - distinctive facial dysmorphism .
genitopatellar syndrome is a rare congenital patellar anomaly syndrome characterized by patellar aplasia or hypoplasia associated with microcephaly ,  characteristic coarse facial features  ( microcephaly ,  bitemporal narrowing ,  large ,  broad nose with high nasal bridge ,  prominent cheeks and micro / retrognathia or prognathism )  ,  arthrogryposis of the hips and knees ,  urogenital abnormalities and intellectual deficiency .
keutel syndrome is characterised by diffuse cartilage calcification ,  brachytelephalangism ,  peripheral pulmonary artery stenoses and facial dysmorphism .
acro - pectoral syndrome is characterized by a combination of distal limb abnormalities  ( syndactyly of all fingers and toes ,  preaxial polydactyly in the feet and / or hands )  and upper sternum malformations .
fetal gaucher disease is the perinatal lethal form of gaucher disease  ( gd ;  see this term )  .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  abidi type is characterized by x - linked intellectual deficit and mild variable manifestations ,  including short stature ,  small head circumference ,  sloping forehead ,  hearing loss ,  abnormally shaped ears ,  and small testes .
syndromic x - linked intellectual disability 7 ,  also called mrxs7 ,  is characterized by x - linked intellectual deficit ,  obesity ,  hypogonadism ,  and tapering fingers .
microphthalmia - ankyloblepharon - intellectual disability syndrome is characterized by microphthalmia ,  ankyloblepharon and intellectual deficit .
x - linked mental retardation cantagrel type is characterised by marked neonatal hypotonia ,  progressive quadriparesia ,  severely delayed developmental milestones  ( walking at 3 years of age )  ,  gastroesophageal reflux ,  stereotypic movements of the hands ,  esotropia and infantile autism .
christianson syndrome is a very rare form of syndromic intellectual deficit characterized by microcephaly ,  severe developmental delay or regression ,  hypotonia ,  abnormal movements ,  and early - onset seizures .
an x - linked syndromic intellectual disability characterised by moderate intellectual deficit ,  marked cubitus valgus ,  mild microcephaly ,  a short philtrum ,  deep - set eyes ,  downslanting palpebral fissures and multiple nevi .
mehmo syndrome is characterised by severe intellectual deficit ,  epilepsy ,  microcephaly ,  hypogenitalism ,  and obesity .
x - linked mental retardation ,  reish type is characterised by brain anomalies ,  severe mental retardation ,  ectodermal dysplasia ,  skeletal deformities  ( vertebral anomalies ,  scoliosis ,  polydactyly )  ,  ear / eye anomalies  ( maldevelopment ,  small optic nerves ,  low set and large ears with hearing loss )  and kidney dysplasia / hypoplasia  ( giving the acronym bresek syndrome )  .
x - linked mental retardation ,  schimke type ,  is characterised by intellectual deficit ,  growth retardation with short stature ,  deafness and ophthalmoplegia .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  shashi type is characterised by moderate intellectual deficit ,  obesity ,  macroorchidism and a characteristic facies  ( large ears ,  a prominent lower lip and puffy eyelids )  .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  wilson type is characterised by severe intellectual deficit with mutism ,  epilepsy ,  growth retardation and recurrent infections .
spinocerebellar ataxia ,  x - linked ,  type 4 is characterised by ataxia ,  pyramidal tract signs and adult - onset dementia .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  cabezas type is characterised by intellectual deficit ,  muscle wasting ,  short stature ,  a prominent lower lip ,  small testes ,  kyphosis and joint hyperextensibility .
x - linked epilepsy - learning disabilities - behavior disorders syndrome is characterized by epilepsy ,  learning difficulties ,  macrocephaly ,  and aggressive behaviour .
x - linked spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 is a form of spinocerebellar degeneration characterized by onset in infancy of hypotonia ,  ataxia ,  sensorineural deafness ,  developmental delay ,  esotropia ,  and optic atrophy ,  and by a progressive course leading to death in childhood .
x - linked intellectual disability - hypogammaglobulinemia - progressive neurological deterioration syndrome is characterized by moderate intellectual deficit ,  bilateral single palmar creases ,  seizures ,  variable hypogammaglobulinemia and characteristic features  ( synophrys ,  prognathism ,  and hirsutism )  .
x - linked intellectual disability - precocious puberty - obesity syndrome is characterised by moderate intellectual deficit and precocious puberty .
x - linked intellectual disability - epilepsy - progressive joint contractures - dysmorphism syndrome is characterised by intellectual deficit ,  epilepsy ,  facial dysmorphism and progressive joint contractures .
x - linked intellectual disability - macrocephaly - macroorchidism syndrome is characterised by intellectual deficit affecting both sexes ,  macrocephaly ,  and macroorchidism in the majority of affected males .
deafness - intellectual disability syndrome ,  martin - probst type is characterised by severe bilateral deafness ,  intellectual deficit ,  umbilical hernia and abnormal dermatoglyphics .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  pai type is characterised by the association of dysmorphism with intellectual deficit .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  seemanova type is characterised by microcephaly ,  intellectual deficit ,  growth retardation and hypogenitalism .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  shrimpton type is characterised by the association of severe intellectual deficit with microcephaly ,  strabismus and short stature .
an x - linked syndromic intellectual disability characterised by intellectual deficit ,  hypotonia ,  absent deep tendon reflexes ,  tapered fingers and excessive fingerprint arches ,  genu valgum ,  a characteristic face and small teeth .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  stoll type is characterised by intellectual deficit ,  short stature and characteristic facies  ( hypertelorism ,  prominent forehead ,  frontal bossing ,  a broad nasal tip and anteverted nares )  .
x - linked intellectual disability - acromegaly - hyperactivity syndrome is characterised by severe intellectual deficit ,  acromegaly and hyperactivity .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  turner type is characterised by moderate to severe intellectual deficit in boys and moderate intellectual deficit in girls .
x - linked intellectual disability - hypotonia - facial dysmorphism - aggressive behavior syndrome is characterised by severe intellectual deficit ,  hypotonia ,  mild facial dysmorphism ,  and aggressive behaviour .
x - linked intellectual disability - corpus callosum agenesis - spastic quadriparesis syndrome is characterised by intellectual and motor deficit ,  spastic quadriparesis and agenesis of the corpus callosum ,  without craniofacial abnormalities or seizures .
x - linked intellectual disability - hypogonadism - ichthyosis - obesity - short stature syndrome is a rare x - linked intellectual disability syndrome characterized by intellectual disability associated with short stature ,  obesity ,  primary hypogonadism and an ichthyosiform skin condition .
x - linked intellectual disability - retinitis pigmentosa syndrome is characterized by moderate intellectual deficit and severe ,  early - onset retinitis pigmentosa .
x - linked neurodegenerative syndrome ,  bertini type is characterised by generalised hypotonia ,  psychomotor deficit ,  congenital ataxia and recurrent bronchopulmonary infections .
fried syndrome is a rare x - linked mental retardation  ( xlmr )  syndrome characterized by psychomotor delay ,  intellectual deficit ,  hydrocephalus ,  and mild facial anomalies .
x - linked neurodegenerative syndrome ,  hamel type is an x - linked neurodegenerative disorder characterised by intellectual deficit ,  blindness ,  convulsions ,  spasticity ,  mild hypomyelination and early death .
x - linked intellectual disability - ataxia - apraxia syndrome is characterised by ataxia ,  apraxia ,  intellectual deficit and / or seizures .
short stature - pituitary and cerebellar defects - small sella turcica syndrome is characterised by short stature ,  anterior pituitary hormone deficiency ,  small sella turcica ,  and a hypoplastic anterior hypophysis associated with pointed cerebellar tonsils .
al amyloidosis is a plasma cell disorder characterized by the aggregation and deposition of insoluble amyloid fibrils derived from misfolding of monoclonal immunoglobulin light chains usually produced by a plasma cell tumor .
transthyretin  ( ttr )  - related familial amyloidotic cardiomyopathy is a hereditary ttr - related systemic amyloidosis  ( attr )  with predominant cardiac involvement resulting from myocardial infiltration of abnormal amyloid protein .
x - linked reticulate pigmentary disorder is an extremely rare skin disease described in only four families to date and characterized in males by diffuse reticulate brown hyperpigmentated skin lesions developing in early childhood and a variety of systemic manifestations  ( recurrent pneumonia ,  corneal opacification ,  gastrointestinal inflammation ,  urethral stricture ,  failure to thrive ,  hypohidrosis ,  digital clubbing ,  and unruly hair and flared eyebrows )  ,  while in females ,  there is only cutaneous involvement with the development in early childhood of localized brown hyperpigmented skin lesions following the lines of blaschko .
hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis  ( hchwa )  describes a group of rare familial central nervous system disorders characterized by amyloid deposition in the cerebral blood vessels leading to hemorrhagic and non - hemorrhagic strokes ,  focal neurological deficits ,  and progressive cognitive decline eventually leading to dementia .
townes - brocks syndrome  ( tbs )  is a rare genetic disorder characterized by the triad of imperforate anus ,  dysplastic ears often associated with sensorineural and / or conductive hearing impairment ,  and thumb malformations .
transcobalamin deficiency  ( tc )  is a disorder of cobalamin transport that usually presents during the first few months of life and is characterized by megaloblastic anemia ,  failure to thrive ,  vomiting ,  weakness and pancytopenia .
an instance of abdominal aortic aneurysm that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
congenitally uncorrected transposition of the great arteries  ( congenitally uncorrected tga )  ,  also referred to as complete transposition ,  is a congenital cardiac malformation characterized by atrioventricular concordance and ventriculoarterial  ( va )  discordance .
treacher - collins syndrome is a congenital disorder of craniofacial development characterized by bilateral symmetrical oto - mandibular dysplasia without abnormalities of the extremities ,  and associated with several head and neck defects .
dpagt1 - cdg is a form of congenital disorders of n - linked glycosylation characterized by hypotonia ,  intractable seizures ,  developmental delay ,  microcephaly and severe fetal hypokinesia .
this syndrome is an immunodeficiency syndrome characterized by recurrent major bacterial infections ,  severe congenital neutropenia ,  and monocytopenia .
isolated patella aplasia - hypoplasia is an extremely rare genetic condition characterized by congenital absence or marked reduction of the patellar bone described in only a few families to date .
triosephosphate isomerase  ( tpi )  deficiency is a severe autosomal recessive inherited multisystem disorder of glycolytic metabolism characterized by hemolytic anemia and neurodegeneration .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2k  ( lgmd2k )  is a form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by the onset of slowly progressive proximal muscle weakness during childhood  ( with fatigue and difficulty running and climbing stairs )  and developmental delay .
helicoid peripapillary chorioretinal degeneration is a rare autosomal dominantly inherited chorioretinal degeneration disease ,  presenting at birth or infancy ,  characterized by progressive bilateral retinal and choroidal atrophy ,  appearing as lesions on the optic nerve and peripheral ocular fundus and leading to central vision loss .
benign adult familial myoclonic epilepsy  ( bafme )  is an inherited epileptic syndrome characterized by cortical hand tremors ,  myoclonic jerks and occasional generalized or focal seizures with a non - progressive or very slowly progressive disease course ,  and no signs of early dementia or cerebellar ataxia .
aplasia of the lacrimal and salivary glands  ( alsg )  is a rare autosomal dominant disorder characterized by aplasia ,  atresia or hypoplasia of the lacrimal and salivary glands leading to varying features since infancy such as recurrent eye infections ,  irritable eyes ,  epiphora ,  xerostomia ,  dental caries ,  dental erosion and oral inflammation .
congenital analbuminemia  ( caa )  is characterized by the absence or dramatic reduction of circulating human serum albumin  ( hsa )  .
hemolytic anemia due to adenylate kinase deficiency is a rare hemolytic anemia due to an erythrocyte nucleotide metabolism disorder characterized by moderate to severe chronic nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia that may require regular blood transfusions and / or splenectomy and may be associated with psychomotor impairment .
atrichia with papular lesions is a rare inherited form of alopecia characterized by irreversible hair loss during the neonatal period on all hear - bearing areas of the body ,  later associated with the development of papular lesions all over the body and preferentially on the face and extensor surfaces of the extremities .
avascular necrosis of femoral head  ( anfh )  is a severely disabling disease characterised by progressive groin pain ,  a limping gait ,  leg length discrepancy ,  collapse of the subchondral bone ,  limitation of hip function and eventual degeneration of the hip joint requiring total hip arthroplasty .
lissencephaly type 3 - familial fetal akinesia sequence syndrome is characterised by the association of microencephaly ,  agenesis of the corpus callosum ,  brainstem hypoplasia ,  cystic cerebellum and foetal akinesia sequence .
this syndrome is characterised by severe microcephaly ,  agyria ,  agenesis of the corpus callosum ,  cerebellar hypoplasia ,  facial dysmorphology and epiphyseal stippling of the metacarpal bones .
 - 3 sd )  .lch is characterized by cerebellar underdevelopment ranging from vermian hypoplasia to total aplasia with classical or cobblestone lissencephaly .
triple a syndrome is a very rare multisystem disease characterized by adrenal insufficiency with isolated glucocorticoid deficiency ,  achalasia ,  alacrima ,  autonomic dysfunction and neurodegeneration .
hypothalamic hamartomas with gelastic seizures is a rare cerebral malformation with epilepsy syndrome characterized by early - onset gelastic  ( i .e .
lymphedema - cerebral arteriovenous anomaly syndrome is characterised by the variable association of a cerebrovascular malformation ,  foot lymphoedema and primary pulmonary hypertension .
lymphedema - atrial septal defects - facial changes syndrome is characterised by congenital lymphoedema of the lower limbs ,  atrial septal defect and a characteristic facies  ( a round face with a prominent forehead ,  a flat nasal bridge with a broad nasal tip ,  epicanthal folds ,  a thin upper lip and a cleft chin )  .
diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma - acrocyanosis syndrome is characterised by the association of diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma and acrocyanosis .
keratosis palmaris et plantaris - clinodactyly syndrome is characterised by the association of palmoplantar keratosis with clinodactyly of the fifth finger .
hereditary palmoplantar keratoderma ,  gamborg - nielsen type is characterised by the presence of diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma without associated symptoms .
apert syndrome  ( as )  is a frequent form of acrocephalosyndactyly ,  a group of inherited congenital malformation disorders ,  characterized by craniosynostosis ,  midface hypoplasia ,  and finger and toe anomalies and / or syndactyly .
familial progressive cardiac conduction defect  ( pccd )  is a hereditary cardiac conduction disorder that may progress to complete atrioventricular  ( av )  block .
mal de melada  ( mdm )  is a diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma initially reported from of the island of meleda characterized by symmetric palmoplantar hyperkeratosis that progressively extends to the dorsal surfaces of hands and feet  ( transgradiens )  .
sialidosis type 2  ( st - 2 )  is a rare lysosomal storage disease ,  and the severe ,  early onset form of sialidosis characterized by a progressively severe mucopolysaccharidosis - like phenotype  ( coarse facies ,  dysostosis multiplex ,  hepatosplenomegaly )  ,  macular cherry - red spots as well as psychomotor and developmental delay .
a disease characterized by hearing loss that is not part of a larger syndrome .
turner syndrome is a chromosomal disorder associated with the complete or partial absence of an x chromosome .
tyrosinemia type 1  ( hti )  is an inborn error of tyrosine catabolism caused by defective activity of fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase  ( fah )  and is characterized by progressive liver disease ,  renal tubular dysfunction ,  porphyria - like crises and a dramatic improvement in prognosis following treatment with nitisinone .
pallister - killian syndrome  ( pks )  is a rare multiple congenital anomaly / intellectual deficit syndrome caused by mosaic tissue - limited tetrasomy for chromosome 12p .
usher syndrome  ( us )  is characterized by the association of sensorineural deafness  ( usually congenital )  with retinitis pigmentosa and progressive vision loss .
autosomal recessive form of non - syndromic intellectual disability .
psychomotor retardation due to s - adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase deficiency is characterised by psychomotor delay and severe myopathy  ( hypotonia ,  absent tendon reflexes and delayed myelination )  from birth ,  associated with hypermethioninaemia and elevated serum creatine kinase levels .
familial acute necrotizing encephalopathy or adane is a potentially fatal neurological disease characterised by neuropathological lesions principally involving the brainstem ,  thalamus and putamen .
ichthyosis prematurity syndrome is a rare ,  syndromic congenital ichthyosis characterized by premature birth  ( at gestational weeks 30 - 32 ,  in general )  in addition to thick ,  caseous and desquamating epidermis ,  neonatal respiratory asphyxia ,  and persistent eosinophilia .
posterior column ataxia  -  retinitis pigmentosa is characterized by the association of progressive sensory ataxia and retinitis pigmentosa .
tritanopia is an extremely rare form of colour blindness characterised by a selective deficiency of blue vision .
terminal osseous dysplasia - pigmentary defects syndrome is characterised by malformation of the hands and feet ,  pigmentary skin lesions on the face and scalp and digital fibromatosis .
a spectrum of developmental anomalies that affect the development of the anterior segment of the eyeball resulting from abnormalities of neural crest migration and differentiation during embryologic development  ( axenfeld - rieger syndrome ,  peters anomaly ,  posterior keratoconus ,  and iridoschisis )  .
myopathy due to calsequestrin and serca1 protein overload is characterised by mild myopathy or elevated levels of creatine kinase in the blood without associated symptoms .
hypomyelination - hypogonadotropic hypogonadism - hypodontia syndrome is characterised by the association of demyelinating leukodystrophy with progressive cerebellar ataxia ,  hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and hypodontia .
neurodegeneration due to 3 - hydroxyisobutyryl - coa hydrolase deficiency is characterised by delayed motor development ,  hypotonia and progressive neurodegeneration .
a syndrome characterized by indifference to pain despite the ability to distinguish noxious from non - noxious stimuli .
obesity - colitis - hypothyroidism - cardiac hypertrophy - developmental delay syndrome is characterised by precocious obesity ,  congenital hypothyroidism ,  neonatal colitis ,  cardiac hypertrophy ,  craniosynostosis and developmental delay .
a rare disorder characterised by a slowly progressive pure cerebellar ataxia associated with dysarthria .
hypertension due to gain - of - function mutations in the mineralocorticoid receptor is a rare genetic hypertension characterized by a familial severe hypertension with an onset before age 20 years ,  associated with suppressed plasma renin and low aldosterone levels in the presence of low or normal levels of the mineralocorticoid aldosterone ,  that is highly resistant to antihypertensive medication .
amelogenesis imperfecta  ( ai )  represents a group of developmental conditions affecting the structure and clinical appearance of the enamel of all or nearly all the teeth in a more or less equal manner ,  and which may be associated with morphologic or biochemical changes elsewhere in the body .
vacterl / vater is an association of congenital malformations typically characterized by the presence of at least three of the following: vertebral defects ,  anal atresia ,  cardiac defects ,  tracheo - esophageal fistula ,  renal anomalies ,  and limb abnormalities .
van der woude syndrome  ( vws )  is a rare congenital genetic dysmorphic syndrome characterized by paramedian lower - lip fistulae ,  cleft lip with or without cleft palate ,  or isolated cleft palate .
x - linked form of alport syndrome .
autosomal dominant alport syndrome isa genetic condition characterized by kidney disease ,  hearing loss ,  and eye abnormalities .
autosomal recessive alport syndrome isa genetic condition characterized by kidney disease ,  hearing loss ,  and eye abnormalities .
polycystic kidney disease with tuberous sclerosis  ( pkd - tsc )  is characterised by early - onset and severe polycystic kidney disease with various manifestations of tuberous sclerosis  ( multiple angiomyolipomas ,  lymphangioleiomyomatosis and periventricular calcifications of the central nervous system )  .
any pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the wnk4 gene .
any pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the wnk1 gene .
an inherited disorder that causes a gradual loss of kidney function that eventually leads to the need for kidney transplantation or dialysis between the ages of 30 and 70 ,  which is caused by a mutation in the umod gene ,  which leads to the build - up of the altered uromodulin protein in the tubules of the kidney ,  leading to slow loss of kidney function .
familial exudative vitreoretinopathy  ( fevr )  is a rare hereditary vitreoretinal disorder characterized by abnormal or incomplete vascularization of the peripheral retina leading to variable clinical manifestations ranging from no effects to minor anomalies ,  or even retinal detachment with blindness .
von hippel - lindau disease  ( vhl )  is a familial cancer predisposition syndrome associated with a variety of malignant and benign neoplasms ,  most frequently retinal ,  cerebellar ,  and spinal hemangioblastoma ,  renal cell carcinoma  ( rcc )  ,  and pheochromocytoma .
wagr syndrome  ( wilms tumor  -  aniridia  -  genitourinary anomalies  -  intellectual disability mental retardation )  is a rare genetic disorder characterized by an unusual complex of congenital developmental abnormalities with intellectual disability ,  and an increased risk of developing wilms tumor .
waardenburg syndrome type 1  ( ws1 )  is a subtype of waardenburg syndrome  ( ws )  ,  disorder characterized by congenital deafness ,  minor defects in structures arising from neural crest resulting in pigmentation anomalies of eyes ,  hair ,  and skin ,  in combination with dystopia canthorum .
waardenburg syndrome type 2  ( ws2 )  is an autosomal dominant subtype of waardenburg syndrome  ( ws )  ,  characterized by varying degrees of deafness and pigmentation anomalies of eyes ,  hair and skin ,  but without dystopia canthorum .
waardenburg syndrome type 3  ( ws3 )  is a very rare subtype of waardenburg syndrome  ( ws )  that is characterized by limb anomalies in association with congenital hearing loss ,  minor defects in structures arising from neural crest ,  resulting in pigmentation anomalies of eyes ,  hair ,  and skin .
waardenburg - shah syndrome  ( wss )  is a neurocristopathy characterized by the association of waardenburg syndrome  ( sensorineural hearing loss and pigmentary abnormalities )  and hirschsprung disease .
wagner disease is a rare hereditary vitreoretinopathy characterized by an anomaleous vitreous associated with myopia ,  cataract ,  chorioretinal atrophy ,  and peripheral tractional or rhegmatogenous retinal detachment .
a lymphedema that is part of a larger syndrome .
krt14 - related epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs - ar krt14 )  is a basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex ebs characterized by generalized or ,  less frequently ,  localized acral blistering .
epidermolysis bullosa simplex superficialis  ( ebss )  is a suprabasal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs )  characterized by generalized or acral superficial erosions in the absence of blisters .
junctional epidermolysis bullosa ,  non - herlitz  ( jeb - nh )  is a subtype of junctional epidermolysis bullosa  ( jeb )  characterized by the presence of skin and mucosal blistering ,  nail dystrophy or nail absence and enamel hypoplasia .
centripetalis recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( rdeb - ce )  is an extremely rare subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( deb )  ,  characterized by blistering which begins acrally and then progressively spreads toward the trunk .
recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( rdeb )  - generalized other ,  also known as rdeb non - hallopeau - siemens type ,  is a subtype of deb characterized by generalized cutaneous and mucosal blistering that is not associated with severe deformities .
dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa pruriginosa is a rare subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( deb )  characterized by generalized or localized skin lesions associated with severe ,  if not intractable ,  pruritus .
lissencephaly syndrome ,  norman - roberts type is characterised by the association of lissencephaly type i with craniofacial anomalies  ( severe microcephaly ,  a low sloping forehead ,  a broad and prominent nasal bridge and widely set eyes )  and postnatal growth retardation .
walker - warburg syndrome  ( wws )  is a rare form of congenital muscular dystrophy associated with brain and eye abnormalities .
x - linked hypophosphatemia  ( xlh )  is a hereditary renal phosphate - wasting disorder characterized by hypophosphatemia ,  rickets and / or osteomalacia ,  and diminished growth .
autosomal dominant hypophosphatemic rickets  ( adhr )  is a hereditary renal phosphate - wasting disorder characterized by hypophosphatemia ,  rickets and / or osteomalacia .
infantile bartter syndrome with deafness ,  a phenotypic variant of bartter syndrome is characterized by maternal polyhydramnios ,  premature delivery ,  polyuria and sensorineural deafness and is associated with hypokalemic alkalosis ,  increased levels of plasma renin and aldosterone ,  low blood pressure ,  and vascular resistance to angiotensin ii .
tetrasomy x is a sex chromosome anomaly caused by the presence of two extra x chromosomes in females  ( 48 , xxxx instead of 46 , xx )  .
arginase deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive amino acid metabolism disorder characterized clinically by variable degrees of hyperammonemia ,  developing from about 3 years of age ,  and leading to progressive loss of developmental milestones and spasticity in the absence of treatment .
x - linked cone dysfunction syndrome with myopia is characterised by moderate to high myopia associated with astigmatism and deuteranopia .
primary immunodeficiency syndrome due to p14 deficiency is characterised by short stature ,  hypopigmentation ,  coarse facies and frequent bronchopulmonary streptococcus pneumoniae infections .
deafness with labyrinthine aplasia ,  microtia ,  and microdontia  ( lamm )  is a genetic transmission deafness syndrome .
a congenital condition characterized by webbing between the fingers and / or toes ,  joining the digits together .
primary erythermalgia is characterized by intermittent attacks of red ,  warm ,  painful burning extremities .
haemolytic anaemia due to glutathione reductase  ( gsr )  deficiency is characterised by nearly complete absence of gsr activity in erythrocytes .
nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia due to hexokinase deficiency  ( nsha due to hk1 deficiency )  is a very rare conditionmainly characterized by severe ,  chronic hemolysis ,  beginning in infancy .
hemoglobin d disease ( hbd )  is a hemoglobinopathy characterized by production of abnormal variant hemoglobin known as hemoglobin d ,  with no or mild clinical manifestations  ( splenomegaly ,  very mild anemia )  .
primary familial polycythemia is an inherited hematological disorder resulting from mutations in the erythropoietin  ( epo )  receptor and is characterized by an elevated absolute red blood cell mass caused by uncontrolled red blood cell production in the presence of low epo levels .
an inherited ,  mild ,  non - hemolytic subtype of hereditary stomatocytosis that is associated with a temperature - dependent anomaly in red cell membrane permeability to potassium that leads to high in vitro potassium levels in samples stored below 37c .
hereditary folate malabsorption  ( hfm )  is an inherited disorder of folate transport characterized by a systemic and central nervous system  ( cns )  folate deficiency manifesting as megaloblastic anemia ,  failure to thrive ,  diarrhea and / or oral mucositis ,  immunologic dysfunction and neurological disorders .
charcot - marie - tooth disease - deafness - intellectual disability syndrome is a rare demyelinating hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by early - onset ,  slowly progressive ,  distal muscular weakness and atrophy with no sensory impairment ,  congenital sensorineural deafness and mild intellectual disability  ( with absence of normal speech development )  .
autosomal dominant form of intermediate charcot - marie - tooth disease .
hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy ,  okinawa type is a rare ,  genetic ,  axonal hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by the adult - onset of slowly progressive ,  symmetric ,  proximal dominant muscle weakness and atrophy ,  painful muscle cramps ,  fasciculations and distal sensory impairment ,  mostly  ( but not exclusively )  in individuals  ( and their descendents )  from the okinawa region in japan .
10 years )  progressive distal muscle weakness and wasting of the lower limbs and later ,  to a lesser extent the upper limbs resulting in foot and wrist drop ,  areflexia ,  skeletal deformities  ( kyphoscoliosis ,  pes cavus with flattening ,  joint contractures )  ,  mild sensory impairment with vibration sense reduced to a greater extent than pain ,  optic atrophy and hearing loss .
hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy with acrodystrophy is a rare axonal hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by progressive axonal neuropathy with limb weakness and severe distal sensory loss in all limbs and acrodystrophic changes leading to painless non - healing ulcers ,  osteomyelitis ,  contractures and mutilating lesions with loss of terminal phalanges .
a rare ,  autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the lmna gene .
non - hereditary late - onset primary lymphedema ,  also known as meige - like disease ,  is a very rare form of primary lymphedema characterized by lower limb lymphedema mostly during puberty ,  but a negative family history for meige disease  ( see this term )  .
meige disease is a frequent form of late - onset ,  primary lymphedema characterized by lower limb lymphedema typically developing during puberty .
werner syndrome  ( ws )  is a rare inherited syndrome characterized by premature aging with onset in the third decade of life and with cardinal clinical features including bilateral cataracts ,  short stature ,  graying and thinning of scalp hair ,  characteristic skin disorders and premature onset of additional age - related disorders .
a rare ,  chronic cutaneous lupus erythematosus disease characterized by red or violaceous ,  initially pruritic  ( evolving to painful )  papules and plaques located on acral areas  ( especially dorsal aspects of fingers and toes ,  while the nose and ear involvement is uncommon )  ,  exacerbated by cold and damp conditions ,  with fissuring and ulceration occasionally observed .
hereditary von willebrand disease  ( vwd )  is a hereditary bleeding disorder caused by a genetic anomaly leading to quantitative ,  structural or functional abnormalities of the willebrand factor  ( von willebrand factor ;  vwf )  .
this syndrome is characterised by the association of acanthosis nigricans ,  insulin resistance ,  severe muscle cramps and acral hypertrophy .
parkes weber syndrome  ( pws )  is a rare congenital condition characterized by a large number of abnormal blood vessels .the main signs and symptoms of pws typically include a capillary malformation on the skin ;  hypertrophy  ( excessive growth )  ofthe bone and soft tissue of the affected limb ;  and multiple arteriovenousfistulas  ( abnormal connections between arteries and veins )  which canpotentially lead to heart failure .
a rare congenital syndrome characterized by large cutaneous hemangiomata with hypertrophy of the related bones and soft tissues .
any ehlers - danlos syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col5a1 gene .
any ehlers - danlos syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col5a2 gene .
cockayne syndrome caused by mutation ( s )  in the ercc8 gene ,  encoding dna excision repair protein ercc - 8 .
cockayne syndrome caused by mutation ( s )  in the ercc6 gene ,  encoding dna excision repair protein ercc - 6 .
cockayne syndrome type iii ,  also known as the mild form of cockayne syndrome ,  is a rare genetic disorder that causes early  ( premature )  aging .
a rare congenital ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with a range of signs and symptoms including cleft lip or palate ,  mental retardation and various forms of ectodermal dysplasia .
blau syndrome  ( bs )  is a rare systemic inflammatory disease characterized by early onset granulomatous arthritis ,  uveitis and skin rash .
xeroderma pigmentosum variant is a milder subtype of xeroderma pigmentosum  ( xp )  ,  a rare genetic photodermatosis characterized by severe sun sensitivity and an increased risk of skin cancer .
autosomal dominant cutis laxa  ( adcl )  is a connective tissue disorder characterized by wrinkled ,  redundant and sagging inelastic skin associated in some cases with internal organ involvement .
autosomal recessive cutis laxa ,  type 1  ( arcl1 )  is a generalized connective tissue disorder characterized by the association of wrinkled ,  redundant and sagging inelastic skin with severe systemic manifestations  ( lung atelectesias and emphysema ,  vascular anomalies ,  and gastrointestinal and genitourinary tract diverticuli )  .
autosomal recessive cutis laxa ,  type 2  ( arcl2 )  appears to cover a spectrum of connective tissue disorders characterized by the association of wrinkled ,  redundant and sagging inelastic skin with growth and developmental delay ,  and skeletal anomalies .
brittle cornea syndrome is a form of ehlers - danlos syndrome characterized by a severe ocular manifestations due to extreme corneal thinning and fragility with rupture in the absence of significant trauma ,  and progression to blindness .
primary intestinal lymphangiectasia  ( pil )  is a rare intestinal disease characterized by dilated intestinal lacteals which cause lymph leakage into the small bowel lumen .
hypotrichosis simplex of the scalp  ( hss )  is characterized by diffuse progressive hair loss that is confined to the scalp .
williams syndrome is a rare genetic multisystemic neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by a distinct facial appearance ,  cardiac anomalies  ( most frequently supravalvular aortic stenosis )  ,  cognitive and developmental abnormalities ,  and connective tissue abnormalities  ( such as joint laxity ) 
wilson disease is a very rare inherited multisystemic disease presenting non - specific neurological ,  hepatic ,  psychiatric or osseo - muscular manifestations due to excessive copper deposition in the body .
wiskott - aldrich syndrome  ( was )  is a primary immunodeficiency disease characterized by microthrombocytopenia ,  eczema ,  infections and an increased risk for autoimmune manifestations and malignancies .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of congenital mixed hearing loss with perilymphatic gusher  ( gusher syndrome or dfn3 )  ,  hypogonadism and abnormal behavior .
jervell and lange - nielsen syndrome  ( jlns )  is an autosomal recessive variant of familial long qt syndrome characterized by congenital profound bilateral sensorineural hearing loss ,  a long qt interval on electrocardiogram and ventricular tachyarrhythmias .
otopalatodigital syndrome type 1  ( opd1 )  is the mildest form of otopalatodigital syndrome spectrum disorder ,  and is characterized by a generalized skeletal dysplasia ,  mild intellectual disability ,  conductive hearing loss ,  and typical facial anomalies .
otopalatodigital syndrome type 2  ( opd2 )  is a severe form of otopalatodigital syndrome spectrum disorder ,  and is characterized by dysmorphic facies ,  severe skeletal dysplasia affecting the axial and appendicular skeleton ,  extraskeletal anomalies  ( including malformations of the brain ,  heart ,  genitourinary system ,  and intestine )  and poor survival .
stickler syndrome is an inherited vitreoretinopathy characterized by the association of ocular signs with more or less complete forms of pierre - robin sequence ,  bone disorders ,  and sensorineural deafness  ( 10% of cases )  .
a rare subtype of cmt1 characterized by a variable clinical presentation .
hypothyroidism due to thyroid - stimulating hormone  ( tsh )  receptor mutations is a type of primary congenital hypothyroidism ,  a permanent thyroid hormone deficiency that is present from birth due to thyroid resistance to tsh .
isolated thyroid - stimulating hormone  ( tsh )  deficiency is a type of central congenital hypothyroidism ,  a permanent thyroid deficiency that is present from birth ,  characterized by low levels of thyroid hormones due to a deficiency in tsh synthesis .
insufficient production of all the anterior pituitary hormones .
congenital lipoid adrenal hyperplasia  ( clah )  is one of the most severe forms of congenital adrenal hyperplasia  ( cah )  characterized by severe adrenal insufficiency and sex reversal in males .
congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 3 - beta - hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency is a very rare form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia  ( cah )  encompassing salt - wasting and non - salt wasting forms with a wide variety of symptoms ,  including glucocorticoid deficiency and male undervirilization manifesting as a micropenis to severe perineoscrotal hypospadias .
congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 17 - alpha - hydroxylase deficiency is a very rare form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia  ( cah )  characterized by glucocorticoid deficiency ,  hypergonadotrophic hypogonadism and severe hypokalemic hypertension .
classic congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 21 - hydroxylase deficiency  ( classic 21 - ohd cah )  is the most common form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia  ( cah )  ,  characterized by simple virilizing or salt wasting forms that can manifest with genital ambiguity in females and with adrenal insufficiency  ( in both sexes )  ,  and that presents with dehydration ,  hypoglycemia in the neonatal period  ( that can be lethal if untreated )  ,  and hyperandrogenia .
congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 11 beta - hydroxylase  ( cyp11b1 )  deficiency is a rare form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia  ( cah )  characterized by glucocorticoid deficiency ,  hyperandrogenism ,  hypertension and virilization in females .
46 , xy disorder of sex development due to isolated 17 , 20 - lyase deficiency is a rare disorder of sex development due to reduced 17 , 20 - lyase activity that affects individuals with 46 , xy karyotype and is characterized by ambiguous external genitalia ,  including micropenis ,  perineal hypospadias ,  bifid scrotum ,  cryptorchidism ,  and a blind vaginal pouch .
partial androgen insensitivity syndrome  ( pais )  is a disorder of sex development  ( dsd )  distinct from complete ais  ( cais )  characterized by the presence of abnormal genital development in a 46 , xy individual with normal testis development and partial responsiveness to age - appropriate levels of androgens .
a genetic syndrome caused by mutations in the fmr1 gene which is responsible for the expression of the fragile x mental retardation 1 protein .
cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis  ( ctx )  is an anomaly of bile acid synthesis characterized by neonatal cholestasis ,  childhood - onset cataract ,  adolescent to young adult - onset tendon xanthomata ,  and brain xanthomata with adult - onset neurologic dysfunction .
primary lipodystrophies represent a heterogeneous group of very rare diseases characterized by a generalized or localized loss of body fat  ( lipoatrophy )  .
aromatase deficiency disrupts the synthesis of estradiol ,  resulting in hirsutism of mothers during gestation of an affected child ;  pseudohermaphroditism and virilization in women ;  and tall stature ,  osteoporosis and obesity in men .
xeroderma pigmentosum  ( xp )  is a rare genodermatosis characterized by extreme sensitivity to ultraviolet  ( uv )  - induced changes in the skin and eyes ,  and multiple skin cancers .
combined immunodeficiency due to zap70 deficiency is a very rare ,  severe ,  genetic ,  combined immunodeficiency disorder characterized by lymphocytosis ,  decreased peripheral cd8 +  t - cells ,  and presence of normal circulating cd4 +  t - cells ,  leading to immune dysfunction .
cardiomyopathy - hypotonia - lactic acidosis syndrome is characterised by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ,  muscular hypotonia and the presence of lactic acidosis at birth .
dk1 - cdg is characterised by muscular hypotonia and ichthyosis .
osteopenia - myopia - hearing loss - intellectual disability - facial dysmorphism syndrome is characterised by severe hypertelorism ,  brachycephaly ,  abnormal ears ,  sloping shoulders ,  enamel hypoplasia ,  osteopaenia with frequent fractures ,  severe myopia ,  mild to moderate sensorineural hearing loss and mild intellectual deficit .
body skin hyperlaxity due to vitamin k - dependent coagulation factor deficiency is a very rare genetic skin disease characterized by severe skin laxity affecting the trunk and limbs .
zellweger syndrome  ( zs )  is the most severe variant seen in the peroxisome biogenesis disorders ,  zellweger syndrome spectrum  ( pbd - zss )  ,  characterized by neuronal migration defects in the brain ,  dysmorphic craniofacial features ,  profound hypotonia ,  neonatal seizures ,  and liver dysfunction .
congenital esophageal diverticulum is a rare ,  non - syndromic malformation of the esophagus ,  present at birth ,  and characterized by a false diverticulum ,  most often located in the upper ,  posterior esophagus .
hereditary angioedema  ( hae )  is a genetic disease characterized by the occurrence of transitory and recurrent subcutaneous and / or submucosal edemas resulting in swelling and / or abdominal pain .
familial thoracic aortic aneurysm and aortic dissection is a rare genetic vascular disease characterized by the familial occurrence of thoracic aortic aneurysm ,  dissection or dilatation affecting one or more aortic segments  ( aortic root ,  ascending aorta ,  arch or descending aorta )  in the absence of any other associated disease .
isolated cryptophtalmia is a congenital abnormality in which the eyelids are absent and skin covers the ocular bulb ,  which is often microphthalmic .
isolated ankyloblepharon filiforme adnatum  ( afa )  is characterised by the presence of single or multiple thin bands of connective tissue between the upper and lower eyelids ,  preventing full opening of the eye .
congenital ptosis is characterized by superior eyelid drop present at birth .
marcus - gunn syndrome is characterised by ptosis associated with maxillopalpebral synkinesis .
congenital horner syndrome is a rare neurological disorder characterized by relative pupillary miosis and blepharoptosis ,  evident at birth ,  caused by interruption of the oculosympathetic innervation at any point along the neural pathway from the hypothalamus to the orbit .
congenital alacrima is characterised by deficient lacrimation  ( ranging from a complete absence of tears to hyposecretion of tears )  that is present from birth .
rieger's anomaly is a congenital ocular defect caused by anterior segment dysgenesis and is characterized by severe anterior chamber deformity with prominent strands and marked atrophy of the iris stroma ,  with hole or pseudo - hole formation and corectopia .
isolated congenital megalocornea is a genetic ,  non - syndromic developmental defect of the anterior eye segment characterized by bilateral enlargement of the corneal diameter  (  > 12 .5 mm )  and a deep anterior eye chamber ,  without an elevation in intraocular pressure .
a corneal disease in which the cornea blends with sclera ,  resulting in clouding of the cornea .
congenital ectropion uveae is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic developmental defect of the eye characterized by the presence of iris pigment epithelium on the anterior surface of the iris ,  anterior insertion of the iris ,  angle dysgenesis and progressive open - angle glaucoma  ( the latter may present in infancy or may develop later in life )  .
macular coloboma - cleft palate - hallux valgus syndrome is characterised by the association of bilateral macular coloboma ,  cleft palate ,  and hallux valgus .
a developmental ocular anomaly in which the primary vitreous body and its surrounding hyaloid vasculature failed to regress .
snowflake vitreoretinal degeneration  ( svd )  is characterised by the presence of small granular - like deposits resembling snowflakes in the retina ,  fibrillary vitreous degeneration and cataract .
an instance of fourth cranial nerve palsy that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
aarskog - scott syndrome  ( aas )  is a rare developmental disorder characterized by facial ,  limbs and genital features ,  and a disproportionate acromelic short stature .
aase - smith syndrome type i is a very rare genetic disorder characterised by the following congenital malformations: hydrocephalus  ( due to dandy - walker anomaly )  ,  cleft palate ,  and severe joint contractures .
ablepharon macrostomia syndrome is an extremely rare multiple congenital malformation syndrome characterized by the association of ablepharon ,  macrostomia ,  abnormal external ears ,  syndactyly of the hands and feet ,  skin findings  ( such as dry and coarse skin or redundant folds of skin )  ,  absent or sparse hair ,  genital malformations and developmental delay  ( in 2 / 3 of cases )  .
congenital tufting enteropathy is a rare congenital enteropathy presenting with early - onset severe and intractable diarrhea that leads to irreversible intestinal failure .
abruzzo - erikson syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by a cleft palate ,  ocular coloboma ,  hypospadias ,  mixed conductive - sensorineural hearing loss ,  short stature ,  and radio - ulnar synostosis .
n - acetylglutamate synthase  ( nags )  deficiency is a urea cycle disorder leading to hyperammonaemia .
achalasia - microcephaly is an extremely rare genetic syndrome ,  reported in a few families to date ,  characterized by the association of microcephaly ,  intellectual deficit and achalasia  ( with symptoms of coughing ,  dysphagia ,  vomiting ,  failure to thrive and aspiration appearing in infancy / early - childhood )  .
aspartylglycosaminuria  ( agu )  is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease belonging to the oligosaccharidosis group  ( also called glycoproteinosis )  .
acheiropodia is an extremely rare developmental disorder characterized by bilateral ,  congenital and complete amputation of the distal extremities  ( amputation of distal epiphysis of the humerus ,  distal portion of the tibial diaphysis ,  aplasia of the radius ,  ulna ,  fibula )  and aplasia of hands and feet  ( aplasia of carpal ,  metacarpal ,  tarsal ,  metatarsal and phalangeal bones )  .
unilateral renal agenesis  ( ura )  is a form of renal agenesis characterized by the complete absence of development of one kidney accompanied by an absent ureter .
renal hypoplasia is a developmental anomaly in which one or both kidneys  ( unilateral or bilateral renal hypoplasia ,  respectively )  have a deficit in the number of nephrons and may be small .
renal dysplasia is a form of renal malformation in which the kidney ( s )  are present but their development is abnormal and incomplete .
posterior urethral valve  ( puv )  is the most common anomaly of fetal lower urinary tract obstruction  ( luto ) and is characterized by an abnormal congenital obstructing membrane that is located within the posterior urethra associated with significant obstruction of the male bladder restricting normal bladder emptying .
renal cysts and diabetes syndrome  ( rcad )  is a rare form of maturity - onset diabetes of the young  ( mody )  characterized clinically by heterogeneous cystic renal disease and early - onset familial non - autoimmune diabetes .
autosomal dominant intermediate charcot - marie - tooth disease type e is characterised by the association of charcot - marie - tooth disease  ( hereditary peripheral neuropathy )  with nephropathy .
hypocalcemic vitamin d - resistant rickets  ( hvdrr )  is a hereditary disorder of vitamin d action characterized by hypocalcemia ,  severe rickets and in many cases alopecia .
unilateral renal dysplasia is a form of renal dysplasia  ( rd )  ,  a renal tract malformation in which the development of one kidney is abnormal and incomplete .
bilateral renal dysplasia is a form of renal dysplasia  ( rd )  ,  a renal tract malformation in which the development of both kidneys is abnormal and incomplete .
achondrogenesis describes a rare group of lethal skeletal dysplasias characterized by an endochondral ossification deficiency that leads to dwarfism with extreme micromelia ,  a small thorax ,  a prominent abdomen ,  anasarca and polyhydramnios .
fragile x - associated tremor / ataxia syndrome  ( fxtas )  is a rare neurodegenerative disorder characterized by adult - onset progressive intention tremor and gait ataxia .
pfeiffer syndrome type 1  ( ps1 )  is a mild to moderately severe type of pfeiffer syndrome  ( ps )  ,  characterized by bicoronal craniosynostosis ,  variable finger and toe malformations ,  and in most cases ,  normal intellectual development .
pfeiffer syndrome type 2  ( ps2 )  is a frequent and severe type of pfeiffer syndrome  ( ps )  ,  characterized by cloverleaf skull ,  severe associated functional disorders ,  and hand / foot and elbow / knee abnormalities .
pfeiffer syndrome type 3  ( ps3 )  is a severe type of pfeiffer syndrome  ( ps )  ,  characterized by bicoronal craniosynostosis ,  severe associated functional disorders ,  and hand ,  foot and elbow abnormalities .
crouzon syndrome with acanthosis nigricans  ( can )  is a very rare ,  clinically heterogeneous form of faciocraniostenosis with crouzon - like features and premature synostosis of cranial sutures  ( crouzon disease )  ,  associated with acanthosis nigricans  ( an )  .
this newly described syndrome is characterized by cloverleaf skull ,  limb anomalies ,  facial dysmorphism and multiple congenital anomalies .
short rib - polydactyly syndrome  ( srps )  ,  beemer - langer type is an extremely rare type of srps developing prenatally or immediately after birth and characterized by short and narrow thorax with horizontally oriented ribs .
short rib - polydactyly syndrome ,  verma - naumoff type is a short rib - polydactyly syndrome ,  characterized by short limb dwarfism ,  short ribs with thoracic dysplasia ,  postaxial polydactyly and protuberant abdomen .
thanatophoric dysplasia characterized by a cloverleaf - like skull and straight femurs .
fibrous dysplasia affecting more than one bone .
fibrous dysplasia of bone involving only one bone .
mild spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia due to col2a1 mutation with early - onset osteoarthritis is a type 2 collagen - related bone disorder characterized by precocious ,  generalized osteoarthritis  ( with onset as early as childhood )  and mild ,  dysplastic spinal changes  ( flattening of vertebrae ,  irregular endplates and wedge - shaped deformities )  resulting in a mildly short trunk .
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia  ( semd )  ,  pakistani type is characterized by short stature ,  short and bowed lower limbs ,  mild brachydactyly ,  kyphoscoliosis ,  abnormal gait ,  enlarged knee joints ,  precocious osteoarthropathy ,  and normal intelligence .
spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia ,  kimberley type  ( sedk )  is characterized by short stature and premature degenerative arthropathy .
spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia tarda  ( sedt )  is characterized by disproportionate short stature in adolescence or adulthood ,  associated with a short trunk and arms and barrel - shaped chest .
a syndrome of multiple congenital anomalies and is characterized by ocular manifestations  ( uni -  or bilateral duane anomaly  ( 95% of cases )  ,  congenital optic nerve hypoplasia or optic disc coloboma )  ,  bilateral deafness and radial ray malformation that can include thenar hypoplasia and / or hypoplasia or aplasia of the thumbs ;  hypoplasia or aplasia of the radii ;  shortening and radial deviation of the forearms ;  triphalangeal thumbs ;  and duplication of the thumb  ( preaxial polydactyly )  .the phenotype overlaps with other sall4 >  / i >  related disorders including acro - renal - ocular syndrome and holt - oram syndrome  ( see these terms )  .
achondrogenesis type 2  ( acg2 )  ,  a form of achondrogenesis ,  is a very rare and lethal skeletal dysplasia and part of the spectrum of type 2 collagen - related bone disorders ,  characterizedby severe micromelia ,  short neck with large head ,  small thorax ,  protuberant abdomen ,  underdeveloped lungs ,  distinctive facial features such as a prominent forehead ,  a small chin ,  a cleft palate  ( in some )  and distinctive histological features of the cartilage .
achondrogenesis type 1b  ( acg1b )  ,  a form of achondrogenesis ,  is a rare lethal skeletal dysplasia characterized by severe micromelia with very short fingers and toes ,  a flat face ,  a short neck ,  thickened soft tissue around the neck ,  hypoplasia of the thorax ,  protuberant abdomen ,  a hydropic fetal appearance and distinctive histological features of the cartilage .
achondrogenesis type 1a  ( acg1a )  ,  a form of achondrogenesis ,  is a very rare ,  lethal skeletal dysplasia characterized by dwarfism with extremely short limbs ,  narrow chest ,  short ribs that are easily fractured ,  soft skull bones and distinctive histological features of the cartilage .
brachyolmia type 1 ,  hobaek type is an autosomal recessive form of brachyolmia  ( see this term )  ,  a group of rare genetic skeletal disorders ,  and is characterized by short stature ,  short trunk ,  platyspondyly ,  horizontal acetabular roof ,  short femoral neck without corneal opacities .
autosomal recessive brachyolmia ,  maroteaux type is a relatively mild form of brachyolmia ,  a group of rare genetic skeletal disorders ,  characterized by short trunk / short stature ,  generalized platyspondyly and rounding of vertebral bodies .
brachyolmia type 1 ,  toledo type is an autosomal recessive form of brachyolmia  ( see this term )  ,  a group of rare genetic skeletal disorders ,  and is characterized by short stature ,  short trunk ,  and platyspondyly ,  as well as corneal opacities .
autosomal dominant brachyolmia is a relatively severe form of brachyolmia ,  a group of rare genetic skeletal disorders ,  characterized by short - trunked short stature ,  platyspondyly and kyphoscoliosis .
multiple epiphyseal dysplasia type 4 is a multiple epiphyseal dysplasia with a late - childhood onset ,  characterized by joint pain involving hips ,  knees ,  wrists ,  and fingers with occasional limitation of joint movements ,  deformity of hands ,  feet ,  and knees  ( club foot ,  clinodactyly ,  brachydactyly )  ,  scoliosis and slightly reduced adult height .
multiple epiphyseal dysplasia type 1  ( med 1 )  is a form of multiple epiphyseal dysplasia that is characterized by normal or mild short stature ,  pain in the hips and / or knees ,  progressive deformity of extremities and early - onset osteoarthrosis .
multiple epiphyseal dysplasia type 5 is a multiple epiphyseal dysplasia characterized by an early - onset of pain and stiffness  ( involving knee and hip )  ,  progressive deformity of the extremities and precocious osteoarthritis associated with delayed and irregular ossification of epiphyses .
spondylometaphyseal dysplasia ,  kozlowski type is characterized by short stature  ( short - trunk dwarfism )  ,  scoliosis ,  metaphyseal abnormalities in the femur  ( prominent in the femoral neck and trochanteric area )  ,  coxa vara and generalized platyspondyly .
spondylometaphyseal dysplasia ,  'corner fracture' type is a skeletal dysplasia associated with short stature ,  developmental coxa vara ,  progressive hip deformity ,  simulated 'corner fractures' of long tubular bones and vertebral body abnormalities  ( mostly oval vertebral bodies )  .
spondylometaphyseal dysplasia ,  schmidt type is characterized by short stature ,  myopia ,  small pelvis ,  progressive kypho - scoliosis ,  wrist deformity ,  severe genu valgum ,  short long bones ,  and severe metaphyseal dysplasia with moderate spinal changes and minimal changes in the hands and feet .
spondylometaphyseal dysplasia  ( semd )  ,  sedaghatian type is a neonatal lethal form of spondylometaphyseal dysplasia characterized by severe metaphyseal chondrodysplasia ,  mild rhizomelic shortness of the upper limbs ,  and mild platyspondyly .
ulnar hemimelia is a congenital ulnar deficiency of the forearm characterized by complete or partial absence of the ulna bone .
radial hemimelia is a congenital longitudinal deficiency of the radius bone of the forearm characterized by partial or total absence of the radius .
tibial hemimelia is a rare congenital anomaly characterized by deficiency of the tibia with a relatively intact fibula .
fibular hemimelia is a congenital longitudinal limb deficiency characterized by complete or partial absence of the fibula bone .
an autosomal recessive form of kenny - caffey syndrome due to mutation ( s )  in the tbce gene ,  encoding tubulin - specific chaperone e . this condition is characterized by hypoparathyroidism with hypocalcemia ,  marked growth retardation ,  craniofacial anomalies ,  absent diploic space in the skull ,  cortical thickening of long bones with medullary stenosis ,  and small hands and feet .
an autosomal dominant form of kenny - caffey syndrome due to mutation ( s )  in the fam111a gene ,  encoding protein fam111a .
autosomal dominant form of omodysplasia .
autosomal recessive form of omodysplasia .
pelviscapular dysplasia  ( cousin syndrome )  is characterized by the association of pelviscapular dysplasia with epiphyseal abnormalities ,  congenital dwarfism and facial dysmorphism .
polydactyly of a triphalangeal thumb or ppd2 is a form of preaxial polydactyly of fingers ,  a limb malformation syndrome ,  that is characterized by the presence of a usually opposable triphalangeal thumb with or without additional duplication of one or more skeletal components of the thumb .
polydactyly of an index finger or ppd3 is a form of preaxial polydactyly of fingers ,  a limb malformation syndrome ,  where the thumb is replaced by one or two triphalangeal digits with dermatoglyphic pattern specific of the index finger .
polysyndactyly or ppd4 is a form of preaxial polydactyly of fingers ,  a limb malformation syndrome ,  characterized by the presence of a thumb showing the mildest degree of duplication ,  being broad ,  bifid or with radially deviated distal phalanx .
polydactyly of a biphalangeal thumb or ppd1 is the most common form of preaxial polydactyly of fingers ,  a limb malformation syndrome ,  that is characterized by the duplication of one or more skeletal components of a biphalangeal thumb .
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia congenita ,  strudwick type is characterized by disproportionate short stature from birth  ( with a very short trunk and shortened limbs )  and skeletal abnormalities  ( lordosis ,  scoliosis ,  flattened vertebrae ,  pectus carinatum ,  coxa vara ,  clubfoot ,  and abnormal epiphyses or metaphyses )  .
a spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia that is characterized by the prenatal onset of extreme short stature ,  an adult height of less than 85 cm ,  hypodontia ,  and mild mental retardation .
x - linked form of spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia .
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia ,  irapa type is characterized by disproportionate short - trunked short stature ,  pectus carinatum ,  short arms ,  short and broad hands ,  short metatarsals ,  flat and broad feet ,  coxa vara ,  genu valgum ,  osteoarthritis ,  arthrosis and moderate - to - serious gait impairment .
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia congenita ,  shohat type is characterized by severely disproportionate short stature ,  short limbs ,  small chest ,  short neck ,  thin lips ,  severe lumbar lordosis ,  marked genu varum ,  joint laxity ,  distended abdomen ,  mild hepatomegaly and splenomegaly .
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia ,  missouri type is characterized by moderate - to - severe metaphyseal changes ,  mild epiphyseal involvement ,  rhizomelic shortening of the lower limbs with bowing of the femora and / or tibiae ,  coxa vara ,  genu varum and pear - shaped vertebrae in childhood .
a rare genetic disorder characterized by bone marrow failure ,  spinal abnormalities ,  saddle nose ,  and metaphysical striation .
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia - short limb - abnormal calcification syndrome is a rare ,  genetic primary bone dysplasia disorder characterized by disproportionate short stature with shortening of upper and lower limbs ,  short and broad fingers with short hands ,  narrowed chest with rib abnormalities and pectus excavatum ,  abnormal chondral calcifications  ( incl .
a form of skeletal dysplasia characterized by severe dwarfism ,  generalized articular hypermobility ,  and progressive spinal malalignment .
a rare disorder caused by mutation in the kif22 gene .
any familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the casr gene .
brachydactyly a6  ( bda6 )  is characterized by brachymesophalangy with mesomelic short limbs ,  and carpal and tarsal bone abnormalities .
brachydactyly type b  ( bdb )  is a very rare congenital malformation characterized by hypoplasia or aplasia of the terminal parts of fingers 2 to 5 ,  with complete absence of the fingernails .
brachydactyly type e  ( bde )  is a congenital malformation of the digits characterized by variable shortening of the metacarpals with more or less normal length phalanges ,  although the terminal phalanges are often short .
brachydactyly type a1  ( bda1 )  is a congenital malformation characterized by apparent shortness  ( or absence )  of the middle phalanges of all digits ,  and occasional fusion with the terminal phalanges .
brachydactyly type a5  ( bda5 )  is a very rare congenital malformation of the digits characterized by absence of the middle phalanges  ( usually of digits 2 to 5 )  ,  nail dysplasia and duplicated terminal phalanx of the thumb .
brachydactyly type a4  ( bda4 )  is a congenital malformation characterized by brachymesophalangy affecting mainly the 2nd and the 5th digit .
ballard syndrome is characterized by hypoplasia of the distal phalanges of the ulnar side of the hand and shortening of one or more metacarpals .
brachydactyly type a2  ( bda2 )  is a congenital malformation characterized by shortening  ( hypoplasia or aplasia )  of the middle phalanges of the index finger and ,  sometimes ,  of the little finger .
brachydactyly type a7  ( smorgasbord type )  is a form of brachydactyly that presents with the characteristic features of brachydactyly type a2  ( shortening of the middle phalanges of the index finger and ,  sometimes ,  of the little finger )  and type d  ( shortening of the distal phalanx of the thumb )  plus various additional features .
genochondromatosis type 2 is a rare genetic bone development disorder characterized by normal clavicles and symmetrical generalized metaphyseal enchondromas particularly in the distal femur ,  proximal humerus ,  and bones of the wrists ,  hands ,  and feet .
syndactyly type 1  ( sd1 )  ,  also named zygodactyly in the past ,  is a distal limb malformation characterized by complete or partial webbing between the 3th and 4th fingers and / or the 2nd and 3rd toes .
syndactyly type 2 or synpolydactyly  ( spd )  is a rare congenital distal limb malformation characterized by the combination of syndactyly and polydactyly .
syndactyly type 3  ( sd3 )  is a rare congenital distal limb malformation characterized by complete and bilateral syndactyly between the 4th and 5th fingers .
syndactyly type 4  ( sd4 )  is a very rare congenital distal limb malformation characterized by complete bilateral syndactyly  ( involving all digits 1 to 5 )  .
syndactyly type 5  ( sd5 )  is a very rare congenital limb malformation characterized by postaxial syndactyly of hands and feet ,  associated with metacarpal and metatarsal fusion of fourth and fifth digits .
brachydactyly - syndactyly ,  zhao type is a recently described syndrome associating a brachydactyly type a4  ( short middle phalanges of the 2nd and 5th fingers and absence of middle phalanges of the 2nd to 5th toes )  and a syndactyly of the 2nd and 3rd toes .
acromesomelic dysplasia describes a group of extremely rare ,  inherited ,  progressive skeletal conditions that result in a particular form of short stature ,  called short - limb dwarfism .
a rare congenital developmental disorder characterized by the presence of stippled foci of calcification in the hyaline cartilage ,  joint contractions ,  mental retardation and ichthyosis .
a group of syndromes caused by genetic birth defects that may lead to the development of malignancies .
hurler syndrome is the most severe form of mucopolysaccharidosis type 1  ( mps1 )  ,  a rare lysosomal storage disease ,  characterized by skeletal abnormalities ,  cognitive impairment ,  heart disease ,  respiratory problems ,  enlarged liver and spleen ,  characteristic facies and reduced life expectancy .
scheie syndrome is the mildest form of mucopolysaccharidosis type 1  ( mps1 )  ,  a rare lysosomal storage disease ,  characterized by skeletal deformities and a delay in motor development .
hurler - scheie syndrome is the intermediate form of mucopolysaccharidosis type 1  ( mps1 )  between the two extremes hurler syndrome and scheie syndrome  ;  it is a rare lysosomal storage disease ,  characterized by skeletal deformities and a delay in motor development .
short - limb skeletal dysplasia with severe combined immunodeficiency is an extremely rare type of scid characterized by the classical signs of t - b -  scid  ( severe and recurrent infections ,  diarrhea ,  failure to thrive ,  absence of t and b lymphocytes )  ,  associated with skeletal anomalies like short stature ,  bowing of the long bones and metaphyseal abnormalities of variable degree of severity .
a renal or urinary tract malformation that is part of a larger syndrome .
dense deposit disease ,  a histological subtype of mpgn is an idiopathic chronic progressive kidney disorder distinguished by the presence of intra - membranous dense deposits in addition to immune complex subendothelial deposits in the glomerular capillary walls .
an instance of cystic kidney disease that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
any nephronophthisis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the anks6 gene .
progressive tubulointerstitial nephritis inherited in an autosomal recessive manner .
primary hyperoxaluria type 1  ( ph1 )  is a rare disorder of glyoxylate metabolism characterized by the accumulation of oxalate due to a deficiency of the peroxisomal hepatic enzyme l - alanine: glyoxylate aminotransferase  ( agt )  .
primary hyperoxaluria  ( ph )  type 2 is a rare disorder of glyoxylate metabolism caused by the deficiency of the enzyme glyoxylate reductase / hydropyruvate reductase  ( gr / hpr )  characterized by a childhood onset with clinical manifestations that include recurrent nephrolithiasis ,  nephrocalcinosis and end - stage renal disease with subsequent systemic oxalosis .
primary hyperoxaluria type 3  ( ph3 )  is a disorder of glyoxylate metabolism that can be asymptomatic or characterized by oxalate nephrolithiasis .
type i xanthinuria ,  a type of classical xanthinuria ,  is a rare autosomal recessive disorder of purine metabolism characterized by the isolated deficiency of xanthine dehydrogenase ,  causing hyperxanthinemia with low or absent uric acid and xanthinuria ,  leading to urolithiasis ,  hematuria ,  renal colic and urinary tract infections ,  while some patients are asymptomatic and others suffer from kidney failure .
type ii xanthinuria ,  a type of classical xanthinuria ,  is a rare autosomal recessive disorder of purine metabolism characterized by the deficiency of both xanthine dehydrogenase and aldehyde oxidase ,  leading to the formation of urinary xanthine urolithiasis and leading ,  in some patients ,  to kidney failure .
antenatal bartter syndrome is a phenotypic variant of bartter syndrome presenting antenatally with maternal polyhydramnios ,  pre - term delivery and postnatally with polyuria ,  and nephrocalcinosis .
classic bartter syndrome is a type of bartter syndrome  ( see this term )  ,  characterized by a milder clinical picture than the antenatal / infantile subtype ,  and presenting with failure to thrive ,  hypokalemic alkalosis ,  increased levels of plasma renin and aldosterone ,  low blood pressure and vascular resistance to angiotensin ii .
nephrogenic syndrome of inappropriate antidiuresis  ( nsiad )  is a rare genetic disorder of water balance ,  closely resembling the far more frequent syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic secretion  ( siad )  ,  and characterized by euvolemic hypotonic hyponatremia due to impaired free water excretion and undetectable or low plasma arginine vasopressin  ( avp )  levels .
autosomal recessive proximal renal tubular acidosis  ( ar prta )  is a rare form of proximal renal tubular acidosis  ( prta )  characterized by an isolated defect in the proximal tubule leading to the decreased reabsorption of bicarbonate and consequentially to urinary bicarbonate wastage along with additional characteristic clinical features .
autosomal dominant distal renal tubular acidosis  ( ad drta )  is an inherited form of distal renal tubular acidosis  ( drta )  characterized by hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis often but not always associated with hypokalemia .
distal renal tubular acidosis  ( drta )  with anemia is a very rare form of distal renal tubular acidosis  ( drta )  characterized by a defect in renal acidification and hereditary hemolytic anemia .
hemoglobin h  ( hbh )  disease is a moderate to severe form of alpha - thalassemia characterized by pronounced microcytic hypochromic hemolytic anemia .
dent disease type 1 is a type of dent disease with predominantly renal manifestations .
dent disease type 2 is a type of dent disease in which patients have the manifestations of dent disease type 1 associated with extra - renal features .
3 hydroxyisobutyric aciduria is characterised by ketoacidotic episodes ,  cerebral anomalies and facial dysmorphism .
neurofibromatosis  ( nf )  type 3  ( nf3 )  ,  also known as schwannomatosis ,  is the least frequent form of the rare genetic disorder neurofibromatosis .
lobar holoprosencephaly is the mildest classical form of holoprosencephaly  ( hpe )  characterized by separation of the right and left cerebral hemispheres and lateral ventricules with some continuity across the frontal neocortex ,  especially rostrally and ventrally .
alobar holoprosencephaly is the most severe classical form of holoprosencephaly  ( hpe )  characterized by a single brain ventricle and no interhemispheric fissure .
midline interhemispheric variant of holoprosencephaly  ( mih )  or syntelencephaly is a form of holoprosencephaly  ( hpe )  characterized by non - separation of the posterior frontal and parietal lobes ,  normally - formed callosal genu and splenium ,  absence of the callosal body ,  normally - separated hypothalamus and lentiform nucleus ,  and frequent heterotopic gray matter .
epispadias is a congenital genitourinary malformation belonging to the spectrum of the exstrophy - epispadias complex  ( eec )  and is characterized in males by an ectopic meatus or a mucosal strip in place of the urethra on the penile dorsum and in females by bifid clitoris and a variable cleft of the urethra .
cloacal exstrophy  ( ec )  is a major birth defect representing the severe end of the spectrum of the exstrophy - epispadias complex  ( eec )  characterized by omphalocele ,  exstrophy ,  imperforate anus and spinal defects  ( also referred to as the oeis complex )  ,  often associated with other malformations .
bladder exstrophy  ( or classic bladder exstrophy ;  ceb )  is a congenital genitourinary malformation belonging to the spectrum of the exstrophy - epispadias complex  ( eec )  and is characterized by an evaginated bladder plate ,  epispadias and an anterior defect of the pelvis ,  pelvic floor and abdominal wall .
hamel cerebro - palato - cardiac syndrome is an x - linked intellectual disability syndrome  ( xlmr )  characterized by intellectual deficiency ,  microcephaly and short stature .
golabi - ito - hall syndrome is an x - linked intellectual disability syndrome  ( xlmr )  characterized by intellectual deficiency ,  microcephaly and short stature .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  hedera type is a rare x - linked intellectual disability syndrome characterized by an onset in infancy of delayed motor and speech milestones ,  generalized tonic - clonic seizures and drop attacks ,  and mild to moderate intellectual disability .
benign essential blepharospasm  ( beb )  is a cerebral focal and functional dystonia characterized by involuntary excessive blinking that can lead ,  in severe cases ,  to functional blindness due to the impossibility of re - opening the eyes at will .
truncal dystonia is a form of focal dystonia  ( see this term )  ,  characterized by involuntary back arching often associated with pain and severe motor disability .
focal limb dystonia is a form of focal dystonia  ( see this term )  ,  characterized by dystonic spasms of arm or leg muscles accompanied by repetitive ,  twisting movements or abnormal positions or postures .
oromandibular dystonia  ( omd )  is a form of focal dystonia ,  affecting the lower part of the face and jaws .
laryngeal dyskinesia  ( ld )  a form of focal dystonia  ( see this term )  that affects laryngeal motor control and is characterized by involuntary adductor or abductor vocal fold spasms during phonation which result in altered phonatory and respiratory functions .
cervical dystonia  ( cd )  is the most common type of focal dystonia  ( see this term )  and is characterized by overactive neck muscles with involuntary turning ,  tilting or twisting of the head which result in torticollis ,  laterocollis ,  retrocollis ,  and anterocollis .
focal dystonia dyt7 type is characterized by predominantly cervical and laryngeal dystonia ,  and postural tremor .
blepharospasm - oromandibular dystonia ,  also called meige dystonia or meige syndrome is a focal dystonia involving symmetrical benign essential blepharospasm  ( beb )  and oromandibular dystonia .
myelomeningocele is the most severe form of spina bifida .
holmes - gang syndrome is an x - linked mental retardation  ( xlmr )  syndrome belonging to the group of conditions characterised by the association of intellectual deficit with hypotonic facies  ( mental retardation ,  x - linked - hypotonic facies )  .
chudley - lowry syndrome is an x - linked mental retardation  ( xlmr )  syndrome belonging to the group of conditions characterised by the association of intellectual deficit with hypotonic facies  ( mental retardation - hypotonic facies )  .
juberg - marsidi syndrome is an x - linked mental retardation  ( xlmr )  syndrome belonging to the group of conditions characterised by the association of intellectual deficit with hypotonic facies  ( mental retardation ,  x - linked - hypotonic facies )  .
carpenter - waziri syndrome is an x - linked mental retardation  ( xlmr )  syndrome belonging to the group of conditions characterised by the association of intellectual deficit with hypotonic facies  ( mental retardation ,  x - linked - hypotonic facies )  .
smith - fineman - myers syndrome  ( sfms )  is an x - linked mental retardation  ( xlmr )  syndrome belonging to the group of conditions characterised by the association of intellectual deficit with hypotonic facies  ( mental retardation ,  x - linked - hypotonic facies )  .
renier - gabreels - jasper syndrome is an x - linked mental retardation  ( xlmr )  syndrome belonging to the group of conditions characterised by the association of intellectual deficit with hypotonic facies  ( mental retardation ,  x - linked - hypotonic facies )  .
anotia is a congenital malformation of the external ear and the most extreme form of microtia characterized by the complete absence of the external ear and auditory canal ,  conductive hearing loss ,  attention deficit disorders and delayed language development .
12q14 microdeletion syndrome is characterised by mild intellectual deficit ,  failure to thrive ,  short stature and osteopoikilosis .
deafness - infertility syndrome  ( dis )  is a very rare syndrome associating sensorineural deafness and male infertility .
15q24 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly characterized cytogenetically by a 1 .7 - 6 .1 mb deletion in chromosome 15q24 and clinically by pre -  and post - natal growth retardation ,  intellectual disability ,  distinct facial features ,  and genital ,  skeletal ,  and digital anomalies .
severe intellectual disability - epilepsy - anal anomalies - distal phalangeal hypoplasia is characterised by severe intellectual deficit ,  epilepsy ,  hypoplasia of the terminal phalanges ,  and an anteriorly displaced anus .
spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia congenita  ( sedc )  is a chondrodysplasia characterized by disproportionate short stature ,  abnormal epiphyses and flattened vertebral bodies .
a rare neurological condition that is primarily characterized by mild to moderate intellectual disability and dystonia of the hands .
blue diaper syndrome is a hereditary metabolic disorder characterised by hypercalcaemia with nephrocalcinosis and indicanuria .
hereditary renal hypouricemia  ( hrh )  is a rare autosomal recessively inherited renal membrane transport disorder affecting urate reabsorption in the proximal tubules leading to usually asymptomatic hypouricemia and predisposing to urolithiasis and exercise induced acute renal failure  ( eiarf )  .
pseudohypoparathyroidism type 1b  ( php - 1b )  is a type of pseudohypoparathyroidism  ( php )  characterized by localized resistance to parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  mainly in the renal tissues which manifests with hypocalcemia ,  hyperphosphatemia and elevated pth levels .
pseudohypoparathyroidism type 2  ( php2 )  is a type of pseudohypoparathyroidism  ( php )  characterized by resistance to parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  ,  which manifests with hypocalcemia ,  hyperphosphatemia and elevated pth levels ,  absence of albright's hereditary osteodystrophy  ( aho )  ,  and normal expression of the gs protein with a normal urinary camp response .
spondylocostal dysostosis - anal and genitourinary malformations syndrome is characterised by the association of spondylocostal dysostosis with anal and genitourinary malformations  ( anal atresia and agenesis of external and internal genitalia )  .
a metabolic disorder characterized by d - glyceric acid excretion .
cerebellar ataxia ,  cayman type is characterised by psychomotor retardation ,  hypotonia and cerebellar dysfunction  ( nystagmus ,  ataxic gait ,  truncal ataxia ,  dysarthric speech and intention tremor )  ,  associated with cerebellar hypoplasia .
spinocerebellar ataxia with axonal neuropathy type 1 is a rare ,  genetic neurological disorder characterized by a late childhood onset of slowly progressive cerebellar ataxia .
autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca )  type i is a group of spinocerebellar ataxias  ( scas )  characterized by ataxia with other neurological signs ,  including oculomotor disturbances ,  cognitive deficits ,  pyramidal and extrapyramidal dysfunction ,  bulbar ,  spinal and peripheral nervous system involvement .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 7  ( sca7 )  ,  currently the only known form of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type 2  ( adca2 )  ,  is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive ataxia ,  motor system abnormalities ,  dysarthria ,  dysphagia and retinal degeneration leading to progressive blindness .
autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( acda )  type iii is a group of neurodegenerative disorders characterized by mostly pure cerebellar syndromes with occasional non - cerebellar signs  ( e .g .
any isolated congenital anonychia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rspo4 gene .
malonic aciduria is a metabolic disorder caused by deficiency of malonyl - coa decarboxylase  ( mcd )  .
acrocephalosyndactyly  ( acs )  syndromes represent a group of inherited congenital malformation disorders characterized by craniosynostosis and fusion or webbing of the fingers or toes ,  often with other associated manifestations .
acrocraniofacial dysostosis is a very rare form of acrofacial dyosotosis ,  reported in two sisters to date ,  characterized by short stature ,  acrocephaly ,  ocular hypertelorism ,  ptosis of eyelids ,  ocular proptosis ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  high nasal bridge ,  anteverted nostrils ,  short philtrum ,  cleft palate ,  micrognathia ,  abnormal external ears ,  preauricular pits ,  mixed hearing loss ,  bulbous digits ,  metatarsus varus ,  pectus excavatum and various radiological abnormalities .
friedreich ataxia  ( frda )  is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder classically characterized by progressive gait and limb ataxia ,  dysarthria ,  dysphagia ,  oculomotor dysfunction ,  loss of deep tendon reflexes ,  pyramidal tract signs ,  scoliosis ,  and in some ,  cardiomyopathy ,  diabetes mellitus ,  visual loss and defective hearing .
acrodysostosis  ( acrdys )  is a rare primary bone dysplasia characterized by severe brachydactyly ,  peripheral dysostosis with facial dysostosis ,  nasal hypoplasia ,  and developmental delay .
a group of metabolic diseases due to deficiency of one of a number of liver enzymes in the biosynthetic pathway of heme .
hepatoerythropioetic porphyria  ( hep )  is a very rare form of chronic hepatic porphyria characterized by bullous photodermatitis .
chronic hepatic porphyrias represent a sub - group of porphyrias .
acrofacialdysostosis ,  weyers type  ( wad )  is a rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with bone abnormalities characterized by onychodystrophy ;  anomalies of the lower jaw ,  oral vestibule and dentition ;  post - axialpolydactyly ;  moderately restricted growth with short limbs ;  and normal intelligence .
lissencephaly due to lis1 mutation is a cerebral malformation with epilepsy characterized predominantly by posterior isolated lissencephaly with developmental delay ,  intellectual disability and epilepsy that usually evolves from west syndrome to lennox - gastaut syndrome .
the cdg  ( congenital disorders of glycosylation )  syndromes are a group of autosomal recessive disorders affecting glycoprotein synthesis .
angioma serpiginosum  ( as )  is a benign congenital skin disease characterised by progressive dilation of the subepidermal skin vessels manifesting as purple punctate lesions usually appearing on the lower limbs and buttocks and following the lines of blaschko .
congenital tracheomalacia is a rare condition where the trachea is soft and flexible causing the tracheal wall to collapse when exhaling ,  coughing or crying ,  that usually presents in infancy ,  and that is characterized by stridor and noisy breathing or upper respiratory infections .
autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia - saccadic intrusion syndrome is a rare hereditary ataxia characterized by a progressive cerebellar ataxia associated with disruption of visual fixation by saccadic intrusions  ( overshooting horizontal saccades with macrosaccadic oscillations and increased velocity of larger saccades )  .
congenital hypopituitarism is characterized by multiple pituitary hormone deficiency ,  including somatotroph ,  thyrotroph ,  lactotroph ,  corticotroph or gonadotroph deficiencies ,  due to mutations of pituitary transcription factors involved in pituitary ontogenesis .
pituitary stalk interruption syndrome  ( psis )  is a congenital abnormality of the pituitary that is responsible for pituitary deficiency and is usually characterized by the triad of a very thin or interrupted pituitary stalk ,  an ectopic  ( or absent )  posterior pituitary  ( epp )  and hypoplasia or aplasia of the anterior pituitary visible on mri .
acroosteolysis dominant type  ( aod )  is a rare genetic osteolysis syndrome characterized by acroosteolysis of distal phalanges and generalized osteoporosis ,  associated with additional ossification anomalies ,  craniofacial dysmorphism ,  dental anomalies and a wide range of other characteristics .
acro - pectoro - renal field defect is a very rare association of a poland anomaly ,  that is characterized by unilateral absence or hypoplasia of the pectoralis major muscle  ( most frequently involving the sternocostal head )  and a variable degree of ipsilateral hand anomalies  ( including symbrachydactyly ,  brachydactyly ,  absent thumb and hypoplastic fingers )  ,  combined with a genito - urinary anomaly .
congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to cytochrome p450 oxidoreductase deficiency is a unique form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia  ( cah )  characterized by glucocorticoid deficiency ,  severe sexual ambiguity in both sexes and skeletal  ( especially craniofacial )  malformations .
acropectorovertebral dysplasia is a skeletal dysplasia characterized by fusion of the carpal and tarsal bones ,  with complex anomalies of the fingers and toes  ( preaxial polydactyly of the hands and / or feet ,  syndactyly of fingers and toes ,  hypoplasia and dysgenesis of metatarsal bones )  .
a x - linked condition characterized by underdevelopment of the adrenal gland and adrenal insufficiency caused by mutation ( s )  in the nr0b1 gene ,  resulting in decreased activity of the nuclear receptor protein dax1 ,  which may be associated with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism .
an instance of primary ovarian failure that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
thyroid dysgenesis is a type of primary congenital hypothyroidism ,  a permanent thyroid hormone deficiency that is present from birth .
thyroid ectopia is a form of thyroid dysgenesis characterized by an ectopic location of the thyroid gland that results in primary congenital hypothyroidism ,  a permanent thyroid deficiency that is present from birth .
athyreosis is a form of thyroid dysgenesis characterized by complete absence of thyroid tissue that results in primary congenital hypothyroidism ,  a permanent thyroid deficiency that is present from birth .
primary congenital hypothyroidism without thyroid developmental anomaly is a type of primary congenital hypothyroidism in which the thyroid gland is anatomically normal .
familial thyroid dyshormonogenesis is a type of primary congenital hypothyroidism ,  a permanent thyroid hormone deficiency that is present from birth ,  which results from inborn errors of thyroid hormone synthesis .
thyroid hemiagenesis is a form of thyroid dysgenesis characterized by an absence of half of the thyroid gland that is usually asymptomatic but may result in primary congenital hypothyroidism ,  a permanent thyroid deficiency that is present from birth .
thyroid hypoplasia is a form of thyroid dysgenesis characterized by incomplete development of the thyroid gland that results in primary congenital hypothyroidism ,  a permanent thyroid deficiency that is present from birth .
acro - renal - mandibular syndrome is a very rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by limb deficiencies and renal anomalies that include split hand - split foot malformation ,  renal agenesis ,  polycystic kidneys ,  uterine anomalies and severe mandibular hypoplasia .
le syndrome acro - rno - oculaire se caractrise par l'association de malformations oculaires ,  rnales et des extrmits .
ataxia with vitamin e deficiency  ( aved )  is a neurodegenerative disease belonging to the inherited cerebellar ataxias .
tetrasomy 21 is an extremely rare autosomal anomaly resulting from the presence of 4 copies of chromosome 21 ,  characterized by features of trisomy 21 including developmental delay / intellectual disability ,  muscular hypotonia ,  short neck with redundant skin ,  brachycephaly ,  microcephaly ,  flat face ,  epicanthus ,  upslanted palpebral fissures ,  small ears ,  protruding tongue ,  single transverse palmar crease ,  brachydactyly ,  hypoplastic iliac wings ,  together with additional features such as prematurity ,  intrauterine growth retardation ,  high and broad forehead ,  hypertelorism .
mosaic trisomy 4 is a rare autosomal anomaly ,  due to the presence of an extra copy of chromosome 4 in a fraction of all cells ,  with a variable phenotype characterized by intrauterine growth retardation ,  low birth weight / length / ofc ,  mild intellectual deficit ,  congenital heart defects ,  hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ,  dysmorphic features  ( asymmetry of the face ,  eyebrow anomalies ,  low - set ,  posteriorally rotated ,  dysplastic ears ,  micro -  / retrognathia )  ,  characteristic thumb abnormalities  ( aplasia ,  hypoplasia )  and skin abnormalities  ( hypo / hyperpigmentation )  .
mosaic trisomy 5 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with a variable phenotype ranging from clinically normal to patients presenting intrauterine growth retardation ,  congenital heart anomalies  ( mainly ventricular septal defect )  ,  multiple dysmorphic features  ( e .g .
mosaic trisomy 8 is a chromosomal disorder defined by the presence of three copies of chromosome 8 in some cells of the organism .
mosaic trisomy 10 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  with a highly variable phenotype ,  principally characterized by growth delay ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
mosaic trisomy 22 isa chromosome disorder in which chromosome 22 is present three times ,  instead of the usual two times ,  in some cells of the body .
distal trisomy 1p36 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 1 ,  characterized by borderline to mild intellectual disability ,  mild developmental delay ,  metopic craniosynostosis and mild craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
distal trisomy 2p is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 2 ,  with a highly variable phenotype principally characterized by pre -  and post - natal growth failure ,  global developmental delay ,  facial dysmorphism  ( incl .
distal trisomy 3p is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 3 ,  with highly variable phenotype principally characterized by craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
4p16 .3 microduplication syndrome is a rare genetic syndrome that results from the partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 4 .
distal trisomy 7p is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 7 ,  with highly variable phenotype typically characterized by severe to profound psychomotor delay ,  intellectual disability ,  dysmorphic features  ( incl .
16p13 .3 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from a partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 16 and manifesting with a variable phenotype which is mostly characterized by: mild to moderate intellectual deficit and developmental delay  ( particularly speech )  ,  normal growth ,  short ,  proximally implanted thumbs and other hand and feet malformations  ( such as camptodactyly ,  syndactyly ,  club feet )  ,  mild arthrogryposis and characteristic facies  ( upslanting ,  narrow palpebral fissures ,  hypertelorism ,  mid face hypoplasia ,  bulbous nasal tip and low set ears )  .
8p inverted duplication / deletion  [ invdupdel ( 8p )  ]  syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly characterized clinically by mild to severe intellectual deficit ,  severe developmental delay  ( psychomotor and speech development )  ,  hypotonia with tendency to develop progressive hypertonia and severe orthopedic problems over time ,  minor facial anomalies and agenesis of the corpus callosum .
distal trisomy 2q is a rare chromosomal anomaly ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 2 ,  characterized by moderate psychomotor delay ,  mild intellectual disability ,  facial dysmorphism  ( high hairline ,  prominent forehead ,  hypertelorism ,  upslanting palpebral fissures ,  large ,  low - set and / or posteriorly rotated ears ,  depressed / broad nasal bridge ,  prominent nasal tip ,  thin upper lip vermillion )  ,  clino -  / camptodactyly and normal or increased body measurements .
3q26 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly characterized by prenatal and postnatal growth retardation ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual impairment ,  dysmorphic signs and variable combination of congenital anomalies ,  including cardiovascular ,  genitourinary and skeletal anomalies and spectrum of caudal malformations .
distal trisomy 4q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 4 ,  with highly variable phenotype typically characterized by psychomotor delay ,  intellectual disability ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( microcephaly ,  low - set ,  prominent ears ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  hypertelorism ,  epicanthic folds ,  broad ,  prominent nasal bridge ,  high arched and cleft palate ,  micro -  / retrognathia )  ,  seizures ,  as well as tooth and digital anomalies  ( clinodactyly ,  polydactyly )  .
distal trisomy 5q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from a partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 5 ,  characterized by short stature ,  moderate intellectual disability ,  and craniofacial dysmorphism  ( microcephaly ,  flat facies ,  large ,  low - set dysplastic ears ,  down - slanted ,  almond - shaped palpebral fissures ,  hypertelorism ,  epicanthal folds ,  small nose ,  long philtrum ,  small mouth with thin upper lip ,  and micrognathia )  .
distal trisomy 6q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 6 ,  with highly variable phenotype ,  typically characterized by growth and developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( microcephaly ,  flat facial profile ,  frontal bossing ,  hypertelorism ,  downward - slanting palpebral fissures ,  flat nasal bridge ,  anteverted nares ,  bow shaped mouth ,  micrognathia )  ,  short webbed neck and joint contractures .
distal trisomy 8q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 8 ,  with a highly variable phenotype ,  typically characterized by growth and developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  short stature ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( microcephaly ,  prominent forehead ,  hypertelorism ,  abnormal palpebral fissures ,  low - set ,  large ears ,  anteverted tip of nose ,  micro / retrognathia )  ,  congenital heart defects and skeletal and limb anomalies .
distal trisomy 9q is a rare chromosomal anomaly ,  resulting from the partial trisomy of the long arm of chromosome 9 ,  with a variable phenotype mostly characterized by psychomotor and speech delay ,  intellectual disability ,  hypotonia ,  long narrow habitus ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
distal trisomy of the long arm of chromosome 10  ( 10q )  is characterized by pre -  and postnatal growth retardation ,  a pattern of specific facial features ,  hypotonia ,  and developmental and psychomotor delay .
distal trisomy 11q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 11 ,  with high phenotypic variability principally characterized by craniofacial dysmorphism  ( brachycephaly / plagiocephaly ,  low - set ,  posteriorly rotated ears ,  short philtrum ,  micrognathia )  and intellectual disability .
distal trisomy 13q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 13 ,  with variable phenotype principally characterized by intellectual disability ,  psychomotor delay ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
distal trisomy 16q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial trisomy of the long arm of chromosome 16 ,  with variable phenotype principally characterized by developmental delay ,  severe intellectual disability ,  hypotonia ,  facial dysmorphism  ( incl .
distal trisomy 20q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial trisomy of the long arm of chromosome 20 ,  with high phenotypic variability mostly characterized by neurodevelopmental delay ,  cardiac malformations  ( e .g .
distal trisomy 22q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 22 ,  with variable phenotype principally characterized by varying degrees of intellectual disabilty and developmental delay ,  pre -  and postnatal growth deficiency ,  hypotonia ,  and craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
non - distal trisomy 9q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial trisomy of the long arm of chromosome 9 ,  with a highly variable phenotype principally characterized by developmental delay ,  short stature ,  intellectual disability ,  and craniofacial dysmorphism  ( e .g .
7q11 .23 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 7 characterized by a highly variable phenotype that typically manifests with mild - moderate intellectual delay  ( patients could be in the normal range )  ,  speech disorders  ( particularly of expressive language )  ,  and distinctive craniofacial features  ( brachycephaly ,  broad forehead ,  straight eyebows ,  broad nasal tip ,  short piltrum ,  thin upper lip and facial asymmetry )  .
distal monosomy 6p is responsible for a distinct chromosome deletion syndrome with a recognizable clinical picture including intellectual deficit ,  ocular abnormalities ,  hearing loss ,  and facial dysmorphism .
distal monosomy 19p13 .3 is a rare chromosomal anomaly associated with a wide range of phenotypic features depending on the size of the deletion .
distal monosomy 14q is a rare chromosomal anomaly associated with various phenotypic features depending on the size of the deletion .
recombinant 8  ( rec ( 8 )  )  syndrome ,  also known as san luis valley syndrome ,  is a complex chromosomal disorder that is due to a parental pericentric inversion of chromosome 8 and is characterized by major congenital heart anomalies ,  urogenital malformations ,  moderate to severe intellectual deficiency and mild craniofacial dysmorphism .
monosomy 13q34 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 13 ,  principally characterized by global developmental delay ,  mild intellectual disability ,  obesity and mild craniofacial dysmorphism  ( microcephaly ,  wide rectangular forehead ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  mild ptosis ,  prominent nose with long nasal bridge and broad tip ,  small chin )  .
monosomy 17q21 .31  ( 17q21 .31 microdeletion syndrome )  is a chromosomal anomaly characterized by developmental delay ,  childhood hypotonia ,  facial dysmorphism ,  and a friendly / amiable behavior .
emanuel syndrome is a constitutional genomic disorder due to the presence of a supernumerary derivative 22 chromosome and characterized by severe intellectual disability ,  characteristic facial dysmorphism  ( micrognathia ,  hooded eyelids ,  upslanting downslanting parebral fissures ,  deep set eyes ,  low hanging columnella and long philtrum )  ,  congenital heart defects and kidney abnormalities .
ring chromosome 2 syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with highly variable phenotype principally characterized by intrauterine growth retardation ,  failure to thrive ,  developmental delay ,  hypotonia ,  mild dysmorphic features  ( incl .
ring chromosome 3 syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with a highly variable phenotype principally characterized by pre -  and postnatal growth retardation ,  short stature ,  developmental delay ,  mild to severe intellectual disability ,  microcephaly and mild dysmorphic features  ( incl .
ring chromosome 9 syndrome is an autosomal anomaly characterized by variable clinical features ,  most commonly including developmental delay ,  some degree of intellectual disability ,  facial dysmorphism ,  microcephaly ,  congenital heart anomalies ,  and variable genital ,  limb and skeletal anomalies .
ring chromosome 11 syndrome is an autosomal anomaly characterized by variable clinical features ,  including early growth retardation and short stature ,  microcephaly ,  developmental delay ,  some degree of intellectual disability ,  facial dysmorphism and caf - au - lait spots .
ring chromosome 13 is a chromosomal anomaly of chromosome 13 characterized by a widely variable phenotype  ( ranging from mild to severe )  principally characterized by intrauterine growth retardation ,  developmental delay ,  short stature ,  moderate to severe intellectual deficit ,  microcephaly ,  facial dysmorphism  ( i .e .
ring chromosome 15 is a chromosome abnormality that affects growth ,  learning ,  and speech .
ring chromosome 16 is characterized bypostnatal growthdeficiency ,  intellectual disability ,  microcephaly ,  broad flat nasal bridge ,  down - turned mouth ,  low - set and dysmorphic  ( abnormally - shaped )  ears and speech delay .to date ,  less than 10 cases have been reported in the medical literature .
maternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 2 is an uniparental disomy of maternal origin that most likely does not have any phenotypic expression except from cases of homozygosity for a recessive disease mutation for which only mother is a carrier .
maternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 4 is an uniparental disomy of maternal origin that most likely does not have any phenotypic expression except from cases of homozygosity for a recessive disease mutation for which only mother is a carrier .
maternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 6 is an uniparental disomy of maternal origin characterized by intrauterine growth retardation .
silver - russell syndrome due to maternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 7 is a genetic malformation syndrome with short stature characterized by severe prenatal and postnatal growth retardation ,  feeding difficulties ,  body asymmetry ,  dysmorphic craniofacial features  ( triangular - shaped face ,  relative macrocephaly ,  frontal bossing ,  micrognathia ,  down - turned corners of the mouth )  and other anomalies  ( fifth finger clinodactyly ,  caf au lait macules ,  male genital anomalies ,  mild developmental delay and / or speech delay with movement disorders )  .
maternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 9 is an uniparental disomy of maternal origin that most likely does not have any phenotypic expression except from cases of homozygosity for a recessive disease mutation for which only mother is a carrier .
maternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 14 is a rare chromosomal anomaly characterized by prenatal and postnatal growth retardation ,  hypotonia ,  motor delay ,  early puberty ,  obesity ,  short adult stature ,  small hands and feet ,  mild intellectual disability ,  and mild dysmorphic facial features  ( frontal bossing ,  short nose with wide nasal tip ,  micrognathia ,  high palate ,  short philtrum )  .
maternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 20  ( upd 20 )  is a very rare chromosomal anomaly in which both copies of chromosome 20 are inherited from the mother .
paternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 5 is an uniparental disomy of paternal origin that most likely does not have any phenotypic expression except from cases of homozygosity for a recessive disease mutation for which only father is a carrier .
paternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 6 is an uniparental disomy of paternal origin characterized by intrauterine growth retardation ,  transient neonatal diabetes mellitus ,  and macroglossia .
paternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 7 is an uniparental disomy of paternal origin that most likely do not have any phenotypic expression except from cases of homozygosity for a recessive disease mutation for which only father is a carrier  ( e .g . ,  cystic fibrosis ,  congenital chloride diarrhea ,  sensorineural hearing loss )  .
paternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 20 is a very rare chromosomal anomaly in which both copies of chromosome 20 are inherited from the father .
paternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 21 is an uniparental disomy of paternal origin that most likely does not have any phenotypic expression except from cases of homozygosity for a recessive disease mutation for which only father is a carrier .
x small rings is a rare chromosome x structural anomaly ,  with highly variable phenotype ,  principally characterized by developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  short stature ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
the 48 , xxxy syndrome represents a chromosomal anomaly of the aneuploidic type characterized by the presence of two extra x chromosomes in males .
the 49 , xxxxy syndrome represents a chromosomal anomaly of the aneuploidic type characterized by the presence of three extra x chromosomes in males .
the chromosomal constitution of a cell containing multiples of the normal number of chromosomes ;  includes triploidy  ( symbol: 3n )  ,  tetraploidy  ( symbol: 4n )  ,  etc .
acromegaloid facial appearance  ( afa )  syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome with a probable autosomal dominant inheritance ,  characterized by a progressively coarse acromegaloid - like facial appearance with thickening of the lips and intraoral mucosa ,  large and doughy hands and ,  in some cases ,  developmental delay .
hypertrichosis - acromegaloid facial appearance syndrome  ( haff )  is a very rare multiple congenital abnormality syndrome manifesting from birth with progressive hypertrichosis congenita terminalis  ( thick scalp hair extending onto the forehead with generalized increased body hair )  associated with a typical acromegaloid facial appearance  ( thick eyebrows ,  prominent supraorbital ridges ,  broad nasal bridge ,  anteverted nares ,  long and large philtrum ,  and prominent mouth with full lips )  appearing during childhood .
acromesomelic dysplasia ,  hunter - thomson type is an autosomal recessively inherited form of acromesomelic dysplasia characterized by severe dwarfism  ( adult height approximately 120 cm )  with abnormalities limited to the limbs  ( affecting the lower limbs more than upper limbs ,  with middle and distal segments being the most affected )  ,  severe shortening ,  absence or fusion of tubular bones of hands and feet and large joint dislocations .
acromicric dysplasia is a rare bone dysplasia characterized by short stature ,  short hands and feet ,  mild facial dysmorphism ,  and characteristic x - ray abnormalities of the hands .
episodic ataxia type 2  ( ea2 )  is the most frequent form of hereditary episodic ataxia  ( ea )  characterized by paroxysmal episodes of ataxia lasting hours ,  with interictal nystagmus and mildly progressive ataxia .
hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy ,  type 2  ( hsan2 )  is an inherited disorder characterized by profound and universal sensory loss involving large and small fiber nerves ,  and marked hypotonia .
acrorenal syndrome comprises a wide spectrum of congenital malformative disorders characterized by the co - occurrence of distal limb anomalies  ( usually bilateral cleft feet and / or hands )  and renal defects  ( e .g .
a muscle tissue disease characterized by congenital joint contractures of hand and feet .
hereditary continuous muscle fiber activity is a rare ,  non - dystrophic myopathy characterized by generalized myokymia and increased muscle tone associated with delayed motor milestones ,  leg stiffness ,  spastic gait ,  hyperreflexia and babinski sign .
riboflavin transporter deficiency  ( rtd )  is a progressive motor neuron disorder characterized by respiratory insufficiency ,  sensorineural deafness and progressive ponto - bulbar palsy .
ligneous conjunctivitis  ( lc )  is a rare form of chronic conjunctivitis characterised by the recurrent formation of pseudomembranous lesions most commonly on the palpebral surfaces .
fingerprint body myopathy is a congenital benign muscle disorder characterised by congenital hypotonia and weakness and by the presence of numerous fingerprint bodies located at the periphery of the muscle fibers .
a rare ,  autosomal recessive ,  inherited disorder caused by mutation of the pgam2 gene .
a benign myopathy with symptoms and signs of muscular hyperexcitability .
reducing body myopathy  ( rbm )  is a rare muscle disorder marked by progressive muscle weakness and the presence of characteristic inclusion bodies in affected muscle fibres .
a muscular dystrophy that is characterized by diminished muscle tone  ( hypotonia )  ,  progressive muscle weakness and degeneration  ( atrophy )  ,  abnormally fixed joints ,  spinal rigidity ,  and delays in reaching motor milestones such as sitting or standing unassisted .
rigid spine syndrome  ( rss )  is a slowly progressive childhood - onset congenital muscular dystrophy characterized by contractures of the spinal extensor muscles associated with abnormal posture  ( limitation of neck and trunk flexure )  ,  progressive scoliosis of the spine ,  early marked cervico - axial muscle weakness with relatively preserved strength and function of the extremities and progressive respiratory insufficiency .
pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 3  ( pch3 )  ,  also known as cerebellar atrophy with progressive microcephaly  ( clam )  is a rare form of pontocerebellar hypoplasia with autosomal recessive transmission characterized neonatally by hypotonia and impaired swallowing and from infancy onward by seizures ,  optic atrophy and short stature ,  but none of the clinical findings are specific for pch3 .
carney - stratakis syndrome is a recently described familial syndrome characterized by gastrointestinal stromal tumors  ( gist )  and paragangliomas ,  often at multiple sites .
familial papillary thyroid carcinoma with renal papillary neoplasia  ( fptc / prn )  is an extremely rare inherited tumor syndrome within the familial nonmedullary thyroid cancer group  ( fnmtc )  .
bohring - opitz syndrome is characterised by intrauterine growth retardation  ( iugr )  ,  failure to thrive ,  facial dysmorphism  ( prominent metopic suture and forehead nevus flammeus ,  a low frontal and temporal hairline with hirsutism ,  puffy cheeks ,  upslanting palpebral fissures ,  exophthalmos ,  hypertelorism ,  cleft lip and palate ,  retrognathia and low set ears )  ,  flexion deformities of the elbows and wrists ,  camptodactyly ,  ulnar deviation of the fingers ,  foot anomalies and severe developmental delay .
unilateral adactylia is a terminal transverse defect of the hand characterized by the absence of the terminal portions of digits 2 to 5 with a hypoplastic thumb  ( adactylia )  .
hunter - mcalpine craniosynostosis is characterised by craniosynostosis ,  intellectual deficit ,  short stature ,  facial dysmorphism  ( oval face with almond - shaped palpebral fissures ,  droopy eyelids and a small nose )  and minor distal anomalies .
robinow syndrome  ( rs )  is a rare genetic syndrome characterized by limb shortening and abnormalities of the head ,  face and external genitalia .
unilateral renal hypoplasia is a form of renal hypoplasia ,  a renal developmental anomaly in which one kidney is small and has a deficit in the number of nephrons present .
bilateral renal hypoplasia is a form of renal hypoplasia ,  a renal developmental anomaly in which both kidneys are small and have a deficit in the number of nephrons present .
unilateral multicystic dysplastic kidney is the form of multicystic dysplastic kidney  ( mcdk )  ,  a congenital anomaly of the kidney and urinary tract  ( cakut )  ,  in which one kidney is large ,  distended by multiple cysts ,  and non - functional .
bilateral multicystic dysplastic kidney  ( mcdk )  is a lethal form of multicystic dysplastic kidney  ( mcdk )  ,  a congenital anomaly of the kidney and urinary tract  ( cakut )  ,  in which both kidneys are large ,  distended by non - communicating multiple cysts and non - functional .
an instance of renal tubular dysgenesis that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
adams - oliver syndrome  ( aos )  is a rare disorder characterized by the combination of congenital limb abnormalities and scalp defects ,  often accompanied by skull ossification defects .
a visceral heterotaxy characterized by complete atrioventricular septal defect with a common atrium and univentricular av connection ,  total anomalous pulmonary drainage ,  and transposition or malposition of the great arteries and may be associated with bilateral trilobed lungs ,  midline liver ,  asplenia and situs inversus affecting other organs that has material basis in homozygous mutation in the gdf1 gene on chromosome 19p12 .
pseudohypoparathyroidism  ( php )  is a heterogeneous group of endocrine disorders characterized by normal renal function and resistance to the action of parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  ,  manifesting with hypocalcemia ,  hyperphosphatemia and elevated pth levels and that includes the subtypes php type 1a  ( php - 1a )  ,  php type 1b  ( php - 1b )  ,  php type 1c  ( php - 1c )  ,  php type 2  ( php - 2 )  and pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism  ( pphp )  .
adenine phosphoribosyltransferase  ( aprt )  deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive  ( ar )  disorder characterized by the formation and hyperexcretion of 2 , 8 - dihydroxyadenine  ( 2 , 8 - dha )  in urine ,  causing urolithiasis and crystalline nephropathy .
maternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 13 is an uniparental disomy of maternal origin that most likely do not have any phenotypic expression except from cases of homozygosity for a recessive disease mutation for which only mother is a carrier .
17q11 microdeletion syndrome is a rare severe form of neurofibromatosis type 1  ( nf1 )  characterized by mild facial dysmorphism ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  increased risk of malignancies ,  and a large number of neurofibromas .
adrenomyodystrophy is an extremely rare genetic endocrine disease characterized by primary adrenal insufficiency ,  dystrophic myopathy ,  hepatic steatosis ,  severe psychomotor delay ,  megalocornea ,  failure to thrive ,  chronic constipation ,  and terminal bladder ectasia which can lead to death .
adult  ( acro - dermo - ungual - lacrimal - tooth )  syndrome is a rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by ectrodactyly ,  syndactyly ,  mammary hypoplasia ,  and excessive freckling as well as other typical ectodermal defects such as hypodontia ,  lacrimal duct anomalies ,  hypotrichosis ,  and onychodysplasia .
peripheral resistance to thyroid hormones may be a cause of permanent congenital hypothyroidism ,  a permanent thyroid hormone deficiency that is present from birth .
autosomal recessive spastic ataxia of charlevoix - saguenay  ( arsacs )  is a neurodegenerative disorder characterised by early - onset cerebellar ataxia with spasticity ,  a pyramidal syndrome and peripheral neuropathy .
a chromosomal anomaly that involves an autosome .
a chromosomal abnormality consisting of the presence of one chromosome in addition to the normal diploid number .
a dystonia that is combined with another movement disorder  ( e .g . ,  myoclonus ,  parkinsonism )  .
the ehlersdanlos syndromes  ( eds )  are a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of heritable connective tissue disorders  ( hctds )  characterized by joint hypermobility ,  skin hyperextensibility ,  and tissue fragility .
a epilepsy syndrome that occurs between 28 days to one year of life . .
a epilepsy syndrome that occurs during childhood .
a rare group of disorders characterized by the development of myoclonic and tonic - clonic epileptic seizures associated with progressive degeneration of the nervous system .
testicular regression syndrome  ( trs )  is a developmental anomaly characterized by the absence of one or both testicles with partial or complete absence of testicular tissue .
genetic lipodystrophy .
familial partial lipodystrophy  ( fpld )  is a group of rare genetic lipodystrophic syndromes characterized ,  in most cases ,  by fat loss from the limbs and buttocks ,  from childhood or early adulthood ,  and often associated with acanthosis nigricans ,  insulin resistance ,  diabetes ,  hypertriglyceridemia and liver steatosis .
autosomal dominant form of isolated diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma .
autosomal recessive form of isolated diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma .
a group of inherited hemolytic anemias caused by erythrocyte membrane defects .
secondary polycythemia is an elevated absolute red blood cell mass caused by enhanced stimulation of red blood cell production by an otherwise normal erythroid lineage that may be congenital or acquired  ( congenital secondary polycythemia and acquired secondary polycythemia )  .
combined vitamin k - dependent clotting factors deficiency  ( vkcfd )  is a congenital bleeding disorder resulting from variably decreased levels of coagulation factors ii ,  vii ,  ix and x ,  as well as natural anticoagulants protein c ,  protein s and protein z .
a syndromic intellectual disability with an x - linked mode of inheritance .
muscular dystrophy  ( md )  refers to a group of more than 30 genetic diseases characterized by progressive weakness and degeneration of the skeletal muscles that control movement .
a group of rare inherited disorders characterized by a deficiency of enzymes that are involved in metabolic pathways that affect muscles .
conditions characterized by impaired transmission of impulses at the neuromuscular junction .
genetic peripheral neuropathy .
an instance of motor neuron disease that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
pontocerebellar hypoplasias  ( pch )  are a rare heterogeneous group of diseases characterized by hypoplasia and atrophy and / or early neurodegeneration of the cerebellum and pons .
a aniridia that is part of a larger syndrome .
a congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of a continuous layer of skin extending over the eyeballs and the absence of eyelids and the palpebral fissure .
a precancerous condition that involves the skin of eyelid .
a cancer that involves the skin of eyelid .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the sebaceous gland of eyelid .
a lentigo that involves the skin of eyelid .
a melanocytic nevus that involves the skin of eyelid .
syndromic orbital border hypoplasia is a rare disorder observed in two families to date and characterized by agenesis of the orbital margin ,  varying defects of the lacrimal passages ,  hypoplasia of the palpebral skin and tarsal plates and atresia of the nasolacrimal duct .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the conjunctiva .
a myopia  ( disease )  that is part of a larger syndrome .
a hyperopia that is part of a larger syndrome .
a keratoconus  ( disease )  that is part of a larger syndrome .
the superficial corneal dystrophies refer to a group of rare genetically determined corneal dystrophies  ( cds )  characterized by lesions affecting the corneal epithelium and its basement membrane and the superficial corneal stroma ,  and variable effects on vision depending on the type of dystrophy .
the stromal corneal dystrophies refer to a group of rare genetically determined corneal dystrophies  ( cds )  characterized by lesions affecting the corneal stroma ,  and variable effects on vision depending on the type of dystrophy .
posterior corneal dystrophies refers to a group of rare genetically determined corneal dystrophies  ( cds )  characterized by lesions affecting the corneal endothelium and descemet membrane ,  and variable effects on vision depending on the type of dystrophy .
a corneal dystrophy  ( disease )  that is part of a larger syndrome .
a hereditary disease that is associated with congenital ocular anomalies such as conditions associated with mesodermal dysgenesis of the neural crest ,  phakomatoses characterized by hamartomas ,  metabolic disorders ,  mitotic disorders ,  and other congenital disorders and associated with acquired conditions such as tumors ,  uveitis ,  and trauma .
a cataract  ( disease )  that is part of a larger syndrome .
partial or complete displacement of the crystalline lens from its normal position in the eye .
the absence of or defect in the perception of colors .
a retinitis pigmentosa that is part of a larger syndrome .
macular dystrophy that is related to a change in a gene .
an autosomal dominant hereditary condition characterized by optic atrophy and progressive visual loss .
autosomal dominant optic atrophy  ( adoa )  is one of the most common forms of hereditary optic neuropathy characterized by progressive bilateral visual loss during the first decade of life ,  associated with optic disc pallor ,  visual field and color vision defects .
paralysis of the oculomotor nerve .
oculomotor palsy that arises from lesions in the supranuclear pathways controlling extraocular movement .
albinism that affects the eyes ,  including ocular albinism and oculocutaneous albinism .
any abnormality ,  anatomical or biochemical ,  evident at birth or during the neonatal period and pertaining to any of the great arteries  ( i .e .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 1  ( sca1 )  is a subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  characterized by dysarthria ,  writing difficulties ,  limb ataxia ,  and commonly nystagmus and saccadic abnormalities .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 2  ( sca2 )  is a subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  characterized by truncal ataxia ,  dysarthria ,  slowed saccades and less commonly ophthalmoparesis and chorea .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 3  ( sca3 )  ,  also known as machado - joseph disease ,  is the most common subtype of type 1 autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type 1 ;  see this term )  ,  a neurodegenerative disorder ,  and is characterized by ataxia ,  external progressive ophthalmoplegia ,  and other neurological manifestations .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 6  ( sca6 )  is the most common subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type iii  ( adca type iii )  characterized by late - onset and slowly progressive gait ataxia and other cerebellar signs such as impaired muscle coordination and nystagmus .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 17  ( sca17 )  is a rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 8  ( sca8 )  is a subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  characterized by cerebellar ataxia and cognitive dysfunction in almost three quarters of patients and pyramidal and sensory signs in approximately a third of patients .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 10  ( sca10 )  is a subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 12  ( sca12 )  is a very rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 14  ( sca14 )  is a rare mild subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 27  ( sca27 )  is a very rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 4  ( sca4 )  is a very rare progressive and untreatable subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  characterized by ataxia with sensory neuropathy .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 5  ( sca5 )  is a rare subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type iii  ( adca type iii )  characterized by the early - onset of cerebellar signs with eye movement abnormalities and a very slow disease progression .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 11  ( sca11 )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type iii  ( adca type iii )  characterized by the early - onset of cerebellar signs ,  eye movement abnormalities and pyramidal signs .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 13  ( sca13 )  is a very rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 15 / 16  ( sca15 / 16 )  is a rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 18  ( sca18 )  is a very rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 19  ( sca19 )  is a very rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 21  ( sca21 )  is a very rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy  ( adnfle )  is a seizure disorder characterized by intermittent dystonia and / or choreoathetoid movements that occur during sleep .
alpha - thalassemia - intellectual deficit syndrome linked to chromosome 16  ( atr - 16 )  ,  a contiguous gene deletion syndrome ,  is a form of alpha - thalassemia characterized by microcytosis ,  hypochromia ,  normal hemoglobin  ( hb )  level or mild anemia ,  associated with developmental abnormalities .
isochromosomy yp is a rare gonosome anomaly characterized by various clinical presentations including normal healthy fertile males ,  male phenotype with infertility ,  and males with ambiguous genitalia or incomplete masculinization .
isochromosomy yq is a rare gonosomy anomaly with a variable phenotype including a female phenotype with sexual development delay ,  streak gonads ,  short stature and turner syndrome features and male phenotype with infertility due to azoospermia .
tibial hemimelia - polysyndactyly - triphalangeal thumb syndrome is a rare ,  genetic dysostosis syndrome ,  with marked inter -  and intra - familial variation ,  typically characterized by triphalangeal thumbs ,  hand and / or foot polysyndactyly and / or absent / hypoplastic tibiae  ( associated with duplication of fibulae in some cases )  ,  although isolated triphalangeal thumbs have also been reported .
dyt4 type primary dystonia is characterized by predominantly laryngeal dystonia  ( manifesting as whispering dysphonia )  and cervical dystonia  ( manifesting as torticollis )  .
primary dystonia dyt6 type is characterized by focal ,  predominantly cranio - cervical dystonia with dysarthria and dysphagia ,  or limb dystonia in some cases .
dyt13 type primary dystonia is characterized by focal or segmental dystonia with cranial ,  cervical ,  or upper limb involvement .
autosomal dominant dopa - responsive dystonia  ( dyt5a )  is a rare neurometabolic disorder characterized by childhood - onset dystonia that shows a dramatic and sustained response to low doses of levodopa  ( l - dopa )  and that may be associated with parkinsonism at an older age .
paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia  ( pkd )  is a form of paroxysmal dyskinesia  ( see this term )  ,  characterized by recurrent brief involuntary hyperkinesias ,  such as choreoathetosis ,  ballism ,  athetosis or dystonia ,  triggered by sudden movements .
paroxysmal non - kinesigenic dyskinesia  ( pnkd )  is a form of paroxysmal dyskinesia ,  characterized by attacks of dystonic or choreathetotic movements precipitated by stress ,  fatigue ,  coffee or alcohol intake or menstruation .
paroxysmal exertion - induced dyskinesia  ( ped )  is a form of paroxysmal dyskinesia ,  characterized by painless attacks of dystonia of the extremities triggered by prolonged physical activities .
hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia with immunodeficiency  ( hed - id )  is a type of hed  ( see this term )  characterized by the malformation of ectodermal structures such as skin ,  hair ,  teeth and sweat glands ,  and associated with immunodeficiency .
benign childhood occipital epilepsy ,  panayiotopoulos type is a rare ,  genetic neurological disorder characterized by late infancy to early - adolescence onset of prolonged ,  nocturnal seizures which begin with autonomic features  ( e .g .
benign childhood occipital epilepsy ,  gastaut type is a rare ,  genetic neurological disorder characterized by childhood to mid - adolescence onset of frequent ,  brief ,  diurnal simple partial seizures which usually begin with visual hallucinations  ( e .g .
familial focal epilepsy with variable foci is a rare genetic epilepsy disorder characterized by autosomal dominant lesional and nonlesional focal epilepsy with variable penetrance .
autosomal dominant form of emery - dreifuss muscular dystrophy .
autosomal recessive form of emery - dreifuss muscular dystrophy .
charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  type 2b1  ( cmt2b1 ,  also referred to as cmt4c1 )  is an axonal cmt peripheral sensorimotor polyneuropathy .
x - linked form of emery - dreifuss muscular dystrophy .
southeast asian ovalocytosis  ( sao )  is a rare hereditary red cell membrane defect characterized by the presence of oval - shaped erythrocytes and with most patients being asymptomatic or occasionally manifesting with mild symptoms such as pallor ,  jaundice ,  anemia and gallstones .
congenital dyserythropoietic anemiatype i  ( cda i )  is a hematologic disorder of erythropoiesis characterized by moderate to severe macrocytic anemia occasionally associated with limb or nail deformities and scoliosis .
congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type iii  ( cda iii )  is a rare form of cda characterized by dyserythropoiesis ,  with big multinucleated erythroblasts in the bone marrow ,  and manifesting with mild to moderate anemia .
congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type ii  ( cda ii )  is the most common form of cda characterized by anemia ,  jaundice and splenomegaly and often leading to liver iron overload and gallstones .
hemophilia a is the most common form of hemophilia characterized by spontaneous or prolonged hemorrhages due to factor viii deficiency .
hemophilia b is a form of hemophilia characterized by spontaneous or prolonged hemorrhages due to factor ix deficiency .
familial afibrinogenemia is a coagulation disorder characterized by bleeding symptoms due to a complete absence of circulating fibrinogen .
familial dysfibrinogenemia is a coagulation disorder characterized by a bleeding tendency due to a functional anomaly of circulating fibrinogen .
any inherited bleeding disorder ,  platelet - type in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gp6 gene .
early - onset x - linked optic atrophy is a rare form of hereditary optic atrophy ,  seen in only 4 families to date ,  with an onset in early childhood ,  characterized by progressive loss of visual acuity ,  significant optic nerve pallor and occasionally additional neurological manifestations ,  with females being unaffected .
periventricular nodular heterotopia  ( pnh )  is a brain malformation ,  due to abnormal neuronal migration ,  in which a subset of neurons fails to migrate into the developing cerebral cortex and remains as nodules that line the ventricular surface .
congenital muscular dystrophy type 1b is a rare ,  genetic neuromuscular disorder characterized by proximal and symmetrical muscle weakness  ( particularly of neck ,  sternomastoid ,  facial and diaphragm muscles )  ,  spinal rigidity ,  joint contractures  ( achilles tendon ,  elbows ,  hands )  ,  generalized muscle hypertrophy and early respiratory failure  ( usually in the first decade of life )  .
becker muscular dystrophy  ( bmd )  is a neuromuscular disease characterized by progressive muscle wasting and weakness due to degeneration of skeletal ,  smooth and cardiac muscle .
duchenne muscular dystrophy  ( dmd )  is a neuromuscular disease characterized by rapidly progressive muscle weakness and wasting due to degeneration of skeletal ,  smooth and cardiac muscle .
hanhart syndrome is a rare condition that primarily affects the craniofacial region and the limbs  ( arms and legs )  .
amish nemaline myopathy is a type of nemaline myopathy  ( nm )  only observed in several families of the amish community .
an autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the ryr1 gene ,  encoding ryanodine receptor 1 .
desminopathy is a rare genetic skeletal muscle disease characterized by abnormal chimeric aggregates of desmin and other cytoskeletal proteins and granulofilamentous material at the ultrastructural level in muscle biopsies and variable clinical /  myopathological features ,  age of disease onset and rate of disease progression .
distal myotilinopathy is a rare ,  late adult - onset myofibrillar myopathy characterized by progressive distal muscle weakness associated with peripheral neuropathy and hyporeflexia .
late - onset distal myopathy ,  markesbery - griggs type is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - dystrophic myofibrillar myopathy disorder characterized by late - adult onset of distal and / or proximal limb muscle weakness with initial involvement of posterior lower leg muscles ,  medial gastrocnemius and soleus .
spinal muscular atrophy with respiratory distress type 1 is a rare genetic motor neuron disease characterized by severe respiratory distress / respiratory failure in association with diaphragmatic eventration and palsy ,  as well as progressive ,  symmetrical ,  distal - to - proximal muscle weakness and atrophy  ( in lower limbs especially )  .
huntington disease - like 2  ( hdl2 )  is a severe neurodegenerative disorder considered part of the neuroacanthocytosis syndromes characterized by a triad of movement ,  psychiatric ,  and cognitive abnormalities .
colobomatous microphthalmia is a developmental disorder of the eye characterized by unilateral or bilateral microphthalmia associated with ocular coloboma .
coloboma of choroid and retina is a rare ,  genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by the partial absence of retinal pigment epithelium and choroid ,  most frequently located in the inferonasal quadrant .
a congenital or acquired defect characterized by the presence of a hole in or adjacent to the iris .
coloboma of macula is a rare ,  non - syndromic developmental defect of the eye characterized by well - circumscribed ,  oval or rounded ,  usually unilateral ,  atrophic lesions of varying size presenting rudimentary or absent retina ,  choroid and sclera located at the macula leading to decreased vision and ,  on occasion ,  other symptoms  ( e .g .
a congenital abnormality in which a part of the upper or lower eyelid tissue is missing .
coloboma of optic disc is a rare ,  genetic ,  developmental defect of the eye characterized by a unilateral or bilateral ,  sharply demarcated ,  bowl - shaped ,  glistening white excavation on the optic disc  ( typically decentered inferiorly )  which usually manifests with varying degrees of reduced visual acuity .
inverse marcus - gunn phenomenon is a rare congenital synkinesis where jaw opening by the pterygoid muscle  ( during eating or yawning )  causes eyelid drooping from inhibition of the oculomotor nerve to the levator palpebrae superioris .
meesmann corneal dystrophy  ( mecd )  is a rare form of superficial corneal dystrophy characterized by distinct tiny bubble - like ,  round - to - oval punctate bilateral opacities in the central corneal epithelium ,  and to a lesser extent in the peripheral cornea ,  with little impact on vision .
lisch epithelial corneal dystrophy  ( lecd )  is a very rare form of superficial corneal dystrophy characterized by feather - shaped opacities and microcysts in the corneal epithelium arranged in a band - shaped and sometimes whorled pattern ,  occasionally with impaired vision .
gelatinous drop - like corneal dystrophy  ( gdcd )  is a form of superficial corneal dystrophy characterized by multiple prominent milky - white gelatinous nodules beneath the corneal epithelium ,  and marked visual impairment .
subepithelial mucinous corneal dystrophy  ( smcd )  is a very rare form of superficial corneal dystrophy characterized by frequent recurrent corneal erosions in the first decade of life ,  with progressive loss of vision .
thiel - behnke corneal dystrophy  ( tbcd )  is a rare form of superficial corneal dystrophy characterized by sub - epithelial honeycomb - shaped corneal opacities in the superficial cornea ,  and progressive visual impairment .
reis - bcklers corneal dystrophy  ( rbcd )  ,  also known as granular corneal dystrophy type iii ,  is a rare form of superficial corneal dystrophy characterized by bilateral symmetrical reticular opacities in the superficial central cornea ,  with progressive visual impairment .
type i granular corneal dystrophy  ( gcdi )  is a rare form of stromal corneal dystrophy characterized by multiple small deposits in the superficial central corneal stroma ,  and progressive visual impairment ,  which may sometimes be severe .
type ii granular corneal dystrophy  ( gcdii )  is a rare form of stromal corneal dystrophy characterized by irregular - shaped well - demarcated granular deposits in the superficial central corneal stroma ,  and progressive visual impairment .
type i lattice corneal dystrophy  ( lcdi )  is a frequent form of stromal corneal dystrophy characterized by a network of delicate interdigitating branching filamentous opacities within the cornea with progressive visual impairment and no systemic manifestations .
schnyder corneal dystrophy  ( scd )  is a rare form of stromal corneal dystrophy characterized by corneal clouding or crystals within the corneal stroma ,  and a progressive decrease in visual acuity .
macular corneal dystrophy  ( mcd )  is a rare ,  severe form of stromal corneal dystrophy characterized by bilateral ill - defined cloudy regions within a hazy stroma ,  and eventually severe visual impairment .
fleck corneal dystrophy  ( fcd )  is a rare generally asymptomatic form of stromal corneal dystrophy characterized by multiple asymptomatic ,  non - progressive opacities disseminated throughout the corneal stroma with no effect on visual acuity .
posterior amorphous corneal dystrophy  ( pacd )  is a very rare form of stromal corneal dystrophy characterized by irregular amorphous sheet - like opacities in the posterior corneal stroma and in descemet membrane and mildly impaired vision .
central cloudy dystrophy of franois is a very rare form of stromal corneal dystrophy characterized by polygonal or rounded stromal opacities surrounded by clear tissue ,  and generally no effect on vision .
posterior polymorphous corneal dystrophy  ( ppcd )  is a rare mild subtype of posterior corneal dystrophy characterized by small aggregates of apparent vesicles bordered by a gray haze at the level of descemet membrane ,  generally with no effect on vision .
fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy  ( fecd )  is the most frequent form of posterior corneal dystrophy and is characterized by excrescences on a thickened descemet membrane  ( corneal guttae )  ,  generalized corneal edema ,  with gradually decreased visual acuity .
congenital hereditary endothelial dystrophy i  ( ched i )  is a rare subtype of posterior corneal dystrophy characterized by a diffuse ground - glass appearance of the corneas and marked corneal thickening from birth or infancy without nystagmus ,  with blurred vision .
congenital glaucoma  ( cg )  is a developmental glaucoma that results from the abnormal development of the aqueous drainage structure ,  characterized by an elevated intra - ocular pressure ,  enlargement of globe  ( buphthalmos )  ,  corneal edema and optic nerve cupping ,  and presenting clinically with the characteristic triad of epiphora ,  photophobia and blepharospasm .
juvenile glaucoma  ( jg )  is a rare autosomal dominant open angle glaucoma ,  characterized by early onset ,  severe elevation of intra ocular pressure of rapid progression ,  leading to optic nerve excavation and ,  when untreated ,  substantial visual impairment .
axenfeld's anomaly is a rare congenital ocular defect caused by anterior segment dysgenesis and is characterized by anteriorly displaced schwalbebs line and iris bands extending into the cornea .
chandler syndrome ,  the most frequent clinical variant of iridocorneal endothelial  ( ice )  syndrome ,  is characterized by very few iris abnormalities but more severe corneal edema and less severe secondary glaucoma than seen in the other two ice syndrome variants: cogan - reese syndrome and essential iris atrophy .
cogan - reese syndrome is a clinical variant of iridocorneal endothelial  ( ice )  syndrome characterized by variable iris atrophy ,  pigmented and pedunculated nodules on the iris and corneal abonormalities .
essential iris atrophy is a clinical variant of iridocorneal endothelial  ( ice )  syndrome ,  characterized by progressive iris atrophy and holes present on the surface of the iris ,  corneal edema ,  corectopia ,  uveal ectropion and anterior synechiae .
a cataract that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the crygc gene on chromosome 2q33 .
cerulean cataract is a type of hereditary congenital cataract distinguished by bluish and white opacifications in the superficial layers of the fetal lens nucleus and adult lens nucleus and characterized by reduced visual acuity in childhood ,  eventually necessitating extraction of the lens .
autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca )  describes a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative diseases characterized by a slowly progressive ataxia of gait ,  stance and limbs ,  dysarthria and / or oculomotor disorder ,  due to cerebellar degeneration in the absence of coexisting diseases .
agnathia - holoprosencephaly - situs inversus syndrome is an extremely rare and fatal association syndrome ,  characterized by absence of the mandible ,  cerebral malformations with facial anomalies related to a defect in cleavage in the embryonic brain  ( e .g .
adult - onset foveomacular vitelliform dystrophy  ( aofvd )  is a genetic macular dystrophy characterized by blurred vision ,  metamorphopsia and mild visual impairment secondary to a slightly elevated ,  yellow ,  egg yolk - like lesion located in the foveal or parafoveal region .
butterfly - shaped pigment dystrophy is a patterned dystrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium characterized by abnormal accumulation of lipofuscin in a butterfly - shaped distribution at the retinal pigment epithelium level .
reticular dystrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium is a patterned dystrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium ,  of progressive course ,  characterized by the presence of a bilateral hyperpigmented reticular pattern resembling a fishnet with knots ,  resulting in a slowly progressive loss of vision that often only becomes apparent in old age .
multifocal pattern dystrophy simulating fundus flavimaculatus is a patterned dystrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium characterized by multiple yellowish irregular flecks scattered or interconnected around the macula ,  simulating what is observed in stargardt disease ,  and usually asymptomatic until adulthood when patients present with a slowly progressive loss of vision that often only becomes apparent in old age .
fundus pulverulentus is a rare form of patterned dystrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium characterized by a granular appearance in the macula ,  with coarse and punctiform mottling of the retinal pigment epithelium within the macular region .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 7 is a form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by an onset usually in adulthood  ( but ranging from 10 - 72 years )  of progressive bilateral lower limb weakness and spasticity ,  sphincter dysfunction ,  decreased vibratory sense at the ankles and with additional manifestations including optical neuropathy ,  nystagmus ,  strabismus ,  decreased hearing ,  scoliosis ,  pes cavus ,  motor and sensory neuropathy ,  amyotrophy ,  blepharoptosis and ophthalmoplegia .
x - linked charcot - marie - tooth disease type 5 is a rare ,  genetic ,  peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy characterized by an x - linked recessive inheritance pattern and the infancy -  to childhood - onset of: 1 )  progressive distal muscle weakness and atrophy  ( first appearing and more prominent in the lower extremities than the upper )  which usually manifests with foot drop and gait disturbance ,  2 )  bilateral ,  profound ,  prelingual sensorineural hearing loss and 3 )  progressive optic neuropathy .
spastic paraplegia type 2  ( spg2 )  is an x - linked leukodystrophy characterized primarily by spastic gait and autonomic dysfunction .
niemann - pick disease ,  type e is a poorly defined adult - onset and non - neuronopathic form of niemann - pick disease .
adult - onset autosomal dominant leukodystrophy  ( adld )  is a rare slowly progressive neurological disorder involving centralnervous systemdemyelination ,  leading to autonomic dysfunction , ataxia and mild cognitive impairment .
interventricular septum aneurysm is a rare ,  non - syndromic ,  congenital heart malformation characterized by the presence of a congenital aneurysm of the membranous portion of the interventricular septum .
laubry - pezzi syndrome is a rare ,  non - syndromic ,  congenital heart malformation characterized by the prolapse of an aortic valve cusp into a subjacent ventricular septal defect due to venturi effect ,  resulting in aortic regurgitation .
any ventricular septal defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gata4 gene .
pagod syndrome is a severe developmental syndrome characterized by multiple congenital anomalies including cardiovascular defects ,  pulmonary hypoplasia ,  diaphragmatic defects and genital anomalies .
hemolytic anemia due to erythrocyte adenosine deaminase overproduction is a rare ,  genetic ,  hematologic disease characterized by mild ,  chronic hemolytic anemia  ( due to highly elevated adenosine deaminase activity in red blood cells resulting in their premature destruction )  ,  elevated reticulocyte count ,  splenomegaly and mild hyperbilirubinemia .
tarsal kink syndrome is a rare congenital malformation of the tarsus that causes entropion characterized by blepharospasm and absence of an upper eyelid fold that may lead to corneal ulceration caused by the folded edge of the upper tarsus or the inturned eyelashes if not corrected by surgery .
a congenital ectropion that is not part of a larger syndrome .
euryblepharon is a rare congenital eyelid anomaly of unknown etiology characterized by the bilateral horizontal enlargement of the palpebral fissure with vertically shortened eyelids ,  lateral canthus malpositioning and lateral ectropion .
congenital eyelid retraction is a very rare kinetic eyelid anomaly that can affect the upper or lower eyelid ,  presents at birth ,  that in some cases can result in corneal exposure ,  and that may be associated with accessory levator muscle slips .
isolated distichiasis is a rare congenital eyelid anomaly characterized by an accessory row of eyelashes  ( that may be partial or complete )  posterior to the normal row of cilia ,  at or close to the meibomian gland orifices ,  that is not associated with any other condition ,  and that may lead to ocular irritation and corneal damage if left untreated .
kandori fleck retina is a rare ,  genetic retinal dystrophy characterized by irregular ,  sharply defined ,  yellowish - white lesions of variable size that are distributed mainly in the nasal equatorial region of the retina ,  with a tendency to confluence ,  that are not associated with any vascular or optic nerve abnormalities .
paternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 13 is an uniparental disomy of paternal origin that most likely does not have any phenotypic expression except from cases of homozygosity for a recessive disease mutation for which only father is a carrier .
48 , xyyy syndrome is a rare y chromosome number anomaly that affects only males and is characterized by mild - moderate developmental delay  ( especially speech )  ,  normal to mild intellectual disability ,  large ,  irregular teeth with poor enamel ,  tall stature and acne .
49 , xyyyy is a rare y chromosome number anomaly with a variable phenotype mainly characterized by moderate to severe intellectual disability ,  speech delay ,  hypotonia ,  and mild dysmorphic features ,  including facial asymmetry ,  hypertelorism ,  bilateral low set 'lop' ears ,  and micrognatia .
an instance of thyroid medullary carcinoma that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
fetal akinesia deformation sequence  ( fads )  is a condition characterized by decreased fetal movement  ( fetal akinesia )  as well as intra - uterine growth restriction  ( iugr )  ,  multiple joint contractures  ( arthrogryposis )  ,  facial anomalies ,  underdevelopment of the lungs  ( pulmonary hypoplasia )  and other developmental abnormalities .
complete androgen insensitivity syndrome  ( cais )  is a form of androgen insensitivity syndrome  ( ais )  ,  a disorder of sex development  ( dsd )  ,  characterized by the presence of female external genitalia in a 46 , xy individual with normal testis development but undescended testes and unresponsiveness to age - appropriate levels of androgens .
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia ,  handigodu type is a rare ,  genetic ,  primary bone dysplasia characterized by three distinct phenotypes ,  namely: 1 )  patients of average height with painful ,  osteoarthritic changes of the hip joints and no spinal abnormalities ,  2 )  short - statured patients with predominantly truncal shortening ,  arm span exceeding height ,  dyspalstic changes of hips and varying degrees of platyspondyly ,  and 3 )  patients with dwarfism ,  various associated skeletal abnormalities  ( particularly of the knees and hands )  and severe epiphyseal dysplasia  ( of hips ,  knees ,  hands ,  wrists )  associated with significant platyspondyly .
metaphyseal chondromatosis with d - 2 - hydroxyglutaric aciduria is an extremely rare genetic disorder characterized by the unique association of enchondromatosis with d - 2 hydroxyglutaric aciduria .
cheirospondyloenchondromatosis is an extremely rare type of enchondromatosis of very early onset  ( from neonatal period to infancy )  characterized by symmetrical multiple enchondromas with metacarpal and phalangeal involvement resulting in short hands and feet ,  platyspondyly ,  mild to moderate short stature and intellectual disability .
mesial temporal lobe epilepsy with hippocampal sclerosis is a rare epilepsy syndrome defined by seizures originating in limbic areas of the mesial temporal lobe ,  particularly in the hippocampus ,  amygdala ,  and in the parahippocampal gyrus and its connections ,  and hippocampal sclerosis ,  usually unilateral or assymetric .
leber `plus' disease describes patients with the clinical features of leber's hereditary optic neuropathy  ( lhon ;  see term )  in combination with other serious systemic or neurological abnormalities .
familial esophageal achalasia is an inherited form of primary achalasia  ( see this term )  ,  a disorder of esophageal mobility ,  and is characterized by dysphagia due to the inability of the lower esophageal sphincter to relax .
myotonia fluctuans  ( mf )  is a form of potassium - aggravated myotonia  ( pam )  which is cold insensitive ,  dramatically fluctuating and profoundly worsened by potassium ingestion .
myotonia permanens is a very rare ,  persistent and more severe form of potassium - aggravated myotonia  ( pam )  .
acetazolamide - responsive myotonia is a form of potassium - aggravated myotonia  ( pam )  which shows dramatic improvement with the use of acetazolamide  ( acz )  .
king - denborough syndrome is a rare genetic non - dystrophic myopathy characterized by the triad of congenital myopathy ,  dysmorphic features and susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia .
amish lethal microcephaly is a very rare syndrome characterized by extreme microcephaly and early death ,  within the first year .
kostmann syndrome is a rare ,  severe ,  congenital neutropenia disorder characterized by a lack of mature neutrophils  ( absolute neutrophil counts less than 500 cells / mm3 )  associated with frequent ,  recurrent bacterial infections  ( e .g .
atypical progressive supranuclear palsy  ( atypical psp )  is a group of clinical syndromes associated with underlying psp - tau pathology ,  that do not conform to the classic presentation of psp  ( richardson syndrome )  ,  a rare late - onset neurodegenerative disease .
mosaic trisomy 9 is a chromosomal abnormality that can affect may parts of the body .
dentin dysplasia type i  ( dd - i )  is a rare form of dentin dysplasia  ( dd )  characterized by sharp conical short roots or rootless teeth .
dentin dysplasia type ii  ( dd - ii )  is a rare mild form of dentin dysplasia  ( dd )  characterized by normal tooth roots but abnormal primary dentition .
dentin dysplasia - sclerotic bones syndrome is a rare ,  genetic odontologic disease characterized by the clinical ,  radiographic ,  and histologic features of dentine dysplasia and osteosclerosis of all long bones ,  with heavy cortical bone and narrowed or occluded marrow spaces .
a developmental brain abnormality characterized by atypical migration of neurons during cortical development .
anodontia is an extreme developmental dental anomaly characterized by the complete absence of all teeth .
oligodontia is a rare developmental dental anomaly in humans characterized by the absence of six or more teeth .
albinism - deafness syndrome  ( adfn )  is characterised by congenital nerve deafness and piebaldness with no ocular albinism .
hemimegalencephaly is a rare cerebral malformation characterized by overgrowth of all or part of a cerebral hemisphere ,  often with ipsilateral severe cortical dysplasia or dysgenesis ,  white matter hypertrophy and dilated lateral ventricle ,  presenting in early infancy with progressive hemiparesis ,  severe psychomotor retardation and intractable seizures .
haddad syndrome is a rare congenital disorder in which congenital central hypoventilation syndrome  ( cchs )  ,  or ondine syndrome ,  occurs concurrently with hirschsprung disease .
oculootodental syndrome is a contiguous gene syndrome comprising otodental syndrome  ( characterized by globodontia and sensorineural high - frequency hearing deficit )  associated with eye abnormalities including ,  typically ,  iris and chorioretinal coloboma ,  as well as ,  on occasion ,  microcornea ,  microphtalmos ,  lenticular opacity ,  lens coloboma and iris pigment epithelial atrophy .
peho - like syndrome is a rare ,  genetic neurological disease characterized by progressive encephalopathy ,  early - onset seizures with a hypsarrhythmic pattern ,  facial and limb edema ,  severe hypotonia ,  early arrest of psychomotor development and craniofacial dysmorphism  ( evolving microcephaly ,  narrow forehead ,  short nose ,  prominent auricles ,  open mouth ,  micrognathia )  ,  in the absence of neuro - ophthalmic or neuroradiologic findings .
an instance of porencephaly that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
neuronal intestinal pseudoobstruction is a form of chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction caused by a developmental failure of the enteric neurons to differentiate or migrate properly and manifests as a bowel obstruction .
lig4 syndrome is a hereditary disorder associated with impaired dna double - strand break repair mechanisms and characterized by microcephaly ,  unusual facial features ,  growth and developmental delay ,  skin anomalies ,  and pancytopenia ,  which is associated with combined immunodeficiency  ( cid )  .
non - polyposis turcot syndrome or turcot syndrome type 1  ( ts1 )  is a form of hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer  ( hnpcc ;  see this term )  characterized by concurrent presentation of a primary tumor of the central nervous system  ( principally glial tumors ;  see this term )  ,  relatively few colonic polyps ,  and adenomas or colorectal carcinoma .
turcot syndrome with polyposis or turcot syndrome type 2 is a form of familial adematous polyposis ,  characterized by the concurrence of thousands of colonic adenomatous polyposis or colorectal cancer  ( crc )  and a primary central nervous system tumor  ( principally medulloblastoma )  .
resistance to thyrotropin - releasing hormone  ( trh )  syndrome is a type of central congenital hypothyroidism characterized by low levels of thyroid hormones due to insufficient release of thyroid - stimulating hormone  ( tsh )  caused by pituitary resistance to trh .
leukocyte adhesion deficiency type i  ( lad - i )  is a form of lad characterized by life - threatening ,  recurrent bacterial infections .
leukocyte adhesion deficiency type ii  ( lad - ii )  is a form of lad characterized by recurrent bacterial infections ,  severe growth delay and severe intellectual deficit .
leukocyte adhesion deficiency type iii  ( lad - iii )  is a form of lad characterized by both severe bacterial infections and a severe bleeding disorder .
genetic recurrent myoglobinuria is an inborn error of metabolism characterized by abnormal urinary excretion of myoglobin due to acute destruction of skeletal muscle fibers .
autosomal dominant myoglobinuria is a rare metabolic myopathy characterized by episodic myalgia with myoglobinuria which is induced by fever ,  viral or bacterial infection ,  prolonged exercise or alcohol abuse ,  and could ,  on occasion ,  lead to acute renal failure .
muscle beta - enolase deficiency is a glycolysis disorder reported in one patient to date and characterized clinically by exercise intolerance and myalgia due to severe enolase deficiency in muscle .
ravine syndrome is an extremely rare genetic neurological disorder ,  reported in a small number of patients in a specific community on reunion island  ( ravine region )  ,  characterized by infantile anorexia with irrepressible and repeated vomiting ,  acute brainstem dysfunction ,  severe failure to thrive ,  and progressive encephalopathy with mri showing vanishing of medulla oblongata and cerebellar white matter and severe atrophy of pons ,  along with supra - tentorial periventricular white - matter hyperintensities and basal ganglia anomalies .
idiopathic syringomyelia is a rare ,  non - syndromic central nervous system malformation characterized by a longitudinally oriented fluid - filled cavity inside the spinal cord parenchyma or the central canal ,  without any readily identifiably cause .
an instance of parathyroid gland adenoma that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a rare ,  autosomal dominant hereditary syndrome characterized by hypercalcemia ,  abnormally high levels of parathyroid hormone ,  and isolated hyperfunctioning parathyroid tumors .
an autosomal dominant inherited syndrome characterized by the development of parathyroid adenoma or carcinoma ,  ossifying fibroma of the mandible and maxilla ,  renal neoplasms ,  and renal cysts .
transient neonatal diabetes mellitus  ( tndm )  is a genetically heterogeneous form of neonatal diabetes  ( ndm )  characterized by hyperglycemia presenting in the neonatal period that remits during infancy but recurs in later life in most patients .
mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  due to complete interferon gamma receptor 1  ( ifn - gammar1 )  deficiency is a genetic variant of msmd characterized by a complete deficiency in ifn - gammar1 ,  leading to impaired ifn - gamma immunity and ,  consequently ,  to severe and often fatal infections with bacillus calmette - guc ) rin  ( bcg )  and other environmental mycobacteria  ( em )  .
cutaneous albinism - ermine phenotype is characterised by the association of white hair with black tufts ,  depigmented skin and sensorineural deafness .
a genetic disorder characterized by deficiency of the enzyme long - chain acyl - coenzyme a dehydrogenase that metabolizes long - chain fatty acids .
acyl - coa dehydrogenase 9  ( acad9 )  deficiency is a rare disorder leading to a deficiency of complex i of the respiratory chain and is characterized by neurological dysfunction ,  hepatic failure and cardiomyopathy .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2b  ( cmt2b )  is a severe form of axonal charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2c  ( cmt2c )  is a form of axonal charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy ,  characterized by the association of vocal cord anomalies ,  impairment of respiratory muscles and sensorineural hearing loss with the distal hands and feet weakness .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2d  ( cmt2d )  is a form of axonal charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy ,  characterized by distal weakness primarily and predominantly occurring in the upper limbs and tendon reflexes absent or reduced in the arms and decreased in the legs .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2e  ( cmt2e )  is a form of axonal charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2f  ( cmt2f )  is a form of axonal charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2g  ( cmt2g )  is a form of axonal charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2i  ( cmt2i )  is a form of axonal charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy ,  characterized by a late onset with severe sensory loss  ( paresthesia and hypoesthesia )  associated with distal weakness ,  mainly of the legs ,  and absent or reduced deep tendon reflexes .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2j  ( cmt2j )  is a form of axonal charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy ,  characterized by a relatively late onset ,  pupillary abnormalities and deafness ,  in most patients ,  associated with distal weakness and muscle atrophy .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  type 2k  ( cmt2k )  is an axonal cmt peripheral sensorimotor polyneuropathy .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2l  ( cmt2l )  is a form of axonal charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2a1  ( cmt2a1 )  is a form of axonal charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2a2  ( cmt2a2 )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2 characterized by the childhood onset of distal weakness and areflexia  ( with earlier and more severe involvement of the lower extremities )  ,  reduced sensory modalities  ( primarily pain and temperature sensation )  ,  foot deformities ,  postural tremor ,  scoliosis and contractures .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4a  ( cmt4a )  is a subtype of charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4 characterized by early - onset  ( infancy to early childhood )  of severe ,  rapidly progressing demyelinating ,  axonal ,  or intermediate sensorimotor neuropathy usually affecting first ,  and more severely ,  the distal lower extremities and later the proximal muscles and upper extremities .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4c  ( cmt4c )  is a subtype of charcot - marie - tooth type 4 characterized by childhood or adolescent - onset of a relatively mild ,  demyelinating sensorimotor neuropathy that contrasts with a severe ,  rapidly progressing ,  early - onset scoliosis ,  and the typical cmt phenotype  ( i .e .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4d  ( cmt4d )  is a subtype of charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4 characterized by a childhood - onset of severe ,  progressive ,  demyelinating sensorimotor neuropathy manifesting with distal muscle weakness and atrophy ,  sensorineural hearing impairment leading to deafness  ( usually in third decade )  ,  severely reduced nerve conduction velocities ,  and skeletal ,  especially foot ,  deformities .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4e  ( cmt4e )  is a congenital ,  hypomyelinating subtype of charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4 characterized by a dejerine - sottas syndrome - like phenotype  ( incl .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4f  ( cmt4f )  is a severe ,  demyelinating subtype of charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4 characterized by the childhood onset of a slowly - progressing typical cmt phenotype  ( i .e .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4g  ( cmt4g )  is a subtype of charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4 characterized by early childhood onset of progressive distal muscle weakness and atrophy ,  delayed motor development ,  prominent distal sensory impairment ,  areflexia ,  moderately reduced nerve conduction velocities ,  and foot and hand deformities in balkan  ( russe )  gypsies .
charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  type 4h  ( cmt4h )  is a demyelinating cmt peripheral sensorimotor polyneuropathy
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4b1  ( cmt4b1 )  is a subtype of charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4 characterized by an early childhood - onset of severe ,  demyelinating sensorimotor neuropathy ,  various degrees of complex myelin outfoldings seen on peripheral nerve biopsy ,  very slow ,  and often undetectable ,  nerve conduction velocities ,  and the typical cmt phenotype  ( i .e .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4b2  ( cmt4b2 )  is a subtype of charcot - marie - tooth type 4 characterized by a severe ,  early childhood - onset of demyelinating sensorimotor neuropathy ,  early - onset glaucoma ,  focally folded myelin sheaths in the peripheral nerves ,  severely reduced nerve conduction velocities ,  and the typical cmt phenotype  ( i .e .
benign recurrent intrahepatic cholestasis 1  ( bric1 )  is characterized by episodes of liver dysfunction called cholestasis ,  during which the liver cells have a reduced ability to release a digestive fluid called bile .
intermediate dend syndrome  ( idend )  is a rare mild form of dend syndrome ,  a neonatal diabetes mellitus ,  developmental delay and epilepsy condition .
