any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
the determination of the spectral absorbance of a solution .
the determination of the mass of a gas or vapour adsorbed to a surface .
the use of an electrochemical cell to measure a qualitative or quantitative response .
an electrochemical technique where the cell current is measured whilst the potential difference between the indicator and reference electrodes is controlled .
an electrochemical technique where the time dependence of the cell current is measured whilst the potential difference between the indicator and reference electrodes is controlled .
an electrochemical technique where the time dependence of the cell current is measured whilst the potential difference between the indicator and reference electrodes is controlled .
an electrochemical technique where the time dependence of the cell current is measured whilst the potential difference between the indicator and reference electrodes is varied as a step function .
an electrochemical technique where the cell current is measured whilst the potential difference between the indicator and reference electrodes is held at a constant value  ( sufficient to oxidize or reduce the sample )  .
an electrochemical technique where the cell direct current is measured whilst the potential difference between the indicator and reference electrodes is controlled .
the measurement of the conductance of a solution as a function of concentration .
the measurement of the conductance of a solution as a function of concentration .
an electrochemical technique where the total coulombs of electricity required to complete  ( fully oxidise or fully reduce the sample in )  an electrochemical reaction is measured .
an electrochemical technique where the total coulombs of electricity required to complete  ( fully oxidise or fully reduce the sample in )  an electrochemical reaction is measured whilst the current is held at a constant value .
an electrochemical technique where the time - dependence of the total coulombs of electricity required to complete  ( fully oxidise or fully reduce the sample in )  an electrochemical reaction is measured whilst the current is held at a constant value .
an electrochemical technique where the total coulombs of electricity required to complete  ( fully oxidise or fully reduce the sample in )  an electrochemical reaction is measured whilst the potential of the working electrode is held at a constant value .
an electrochemical technique where the potential difference between the indicator and reference electrodes is measured under conditions where the current passed is sufficiently small to maintain thermodynamic equilibrium .
an electrochemical technique where the time - dependence of the potential difference between the indicator and reference electrodes is measured under conditions where the current passed is sufficiently small to maintain thermodynamic equilibrium .
an electrochemical technique where the analyte of interest is electroplated onto the working electrode before being removed or 'stripped' .
an electrochemical technique where the analyte of interest is electroplated onto the working electrode before being removed or 'stripped' by re - oxidation using either oxidants in the sample or by applying a small constant current ,  or a combination of both .
an electrochemical technique where the analyte of interest is electroplated onto the working electrode before being removed or 'stripped' by re - reduction .
an electrochemical technique where the potential difference between the indicator and reference electrodes is measured under conditions where the current passed is sufficiently small to maintain thermodynamic equilibrium and held at a constant  ( non - zero )  value .
an electrochemical technique where the potential difference between an ion - selective indicator electrode and the reference electrode is measured under conditions where the current passed is sufficiently small to maintain thermodynamic equilibrium .
an *obsolete* electrochemical technique where the potential difference between the indicator and reference electrodes is measured using an oscillograph under conditions where the current passed is sufficiently small to maintain thermodynamic equilibrium .
an electrochemical technique where the cell current is measured as a function of time and as a function of the potential between the indicator and reference electrodes .
an electrochemical technique where the cell current is measured as a function of time and as a function of the potential between the indicator and reference electrodes .
an electrochemical technique where the cell current is measured as a function of time and as a function of the potential between the indicator and reference electrodes .
an electrochemical technique where the cell current flowing during convective mass transfer  ( the movement of material by the action of a fluid )  is measured as a function of time and as a function of the potential between the indicator and reference electrodes .
an electrochemical technique where the cell current is measured as a function of time and as a function of the potential between the indicator and reference electrodes .
an electrochemical technique where the cell current is measured as a function of time and as a function of the potential between the indicator and reference electrodes .
an electrochemical technique where the cell current is measured as a function of time and as a function of the potential between the indicator and reference electrodes .
an electrochemical technique where the cell current is measured as a function of time and as a function of the potential between the indicator and reference electrodes .
an electrochemical technique where the cell current is measured as a function of time and as a function of the potential between the indicator and reference electrodes .
an electrochemical technique where the alternating current  ( ac )  component of the cell current is measured as a function of time and as a function of the ac potential between the indicator and reference electrodes .
an electrochemical technique where the ac component of the cell current is measured as a function of time and as a function of the ac potential between the indicator and reference electrodes .
an electrochemical technique where the ac component of the cell current is measured as a function of time and as a function of the ac potential between the indicator and reference electrodes .
an electrochemical technique where the cell current is measured as a function of time and as a function of the potential between the indicator and reference electrodes .
an electrochemical technique where the cell current is measured as a function of time and as a function of the potential between the indicator and reference electrodes .
an *obsolete* electrochemical technique where the cell current is measured as a function of time and as a function of the potential between the indicator and reference electrodes using an oscillograph .
an electrochemical technique where the cell current is measured as a function of time and as a function of the potential between the indicator and reference electrodes .
an electrochemical technique where the cell current is measured as a function of time and as a function of the potential between the indicator and reference electrodes .
an electrochemical technique where the analyte of interest is first deposited  ( usually by electroplating )  onto the working electrode before being removed or 'stripped' .
an electrochemical technique where the analyte of interest is first electroplated onto the working electrode before being removed or 'stripped' by applying an oxidising potential .
an electrochemical technique where the analyte of interest is first electroplated onto the working electrode before being removed or 'stripped' by applying an oxidising potential  ( as a series of voltage pulses of increasing amplitude )  .
an electrochemical technique where the analyte of interest is first electroplated onto the working electrode before being removed or 'stripped' by applying an oxidising potential .
an electrochemical technique where the analyte of interest is first electroplated onto the working electrode before being removed or 'stripped' by applying an oxidising potential .
an electrochemical technique where the analyte of interest is first adsorbed onto the working electrode before being removed or 'stripped' .
an electrochemical technique where the analyte of interest is first electroplated onto the working electrode before being removed or 'stripped' by applying a reducing potential .
the simultaneous measurement of spectra and images .
the collection of spatially resolved infrared spectra of a sample during optical microscopy .
the collection of spatially resolved infrared spectra of a sample during optical microscopy .
the collection of spatially resolved near - infrared spectra  ( 0 .8 to 2 micrometres )  of a sample during microscopy .
the collection of spatially resolved mass spectra of a sample during microscopy which are used to visualise the spatial distribution of compounds by their molecular masses .
the collection of spatially resolved mass spectra of a sample during microscopy where a pulse laser is used to produce both ionisation and vapourisation and the sample is held in a matrix  ( such as dihydrobenzoic acid )  to protect it from direct laser illumination and to separate the sample molecules .
the collection of spatially resolved mass spectra of a sample during microscopy where the sample is bombarded with a stream of primary mass - selected particles and the secondary ions ejected from the sample are detected .
the collection of spatially resolved raman spectra of a sample during optical microscopy .
the detection of luminescence from a sample .
the detection of luminescence emitted from a sample as a result of a chemical reaction .
the detection of chemiluminescence caused the emission of light by tiny bubbles in a liquid excited by sound .
the measurement or detection of luminescence which results from the molecular absorption of a photon which triggers the emission of a photon with a longer wavelength .
a method for analysing microscopic particles suspended in a stream of fluid .
a method for determining the distance between molecules using an energy transfer between two chromophores  ( a donor and an acceptor )  in close proximity  ( typically  < 10 nm )  via a nonradiative ,  long - range dipole - dipole coupling mechanism .
forster resonance energy transfer in a bioluminescent system ,  usually between a luciferase  ( donor )  and a green fluorescent protein  ( acceptor )  .
a method for determining the distance between molecules using an energy transfer between two fluorescent chromophores  ( a donor and an acceptor )  in close proximity  ( typically  < 10 nm )  via a nonradiative ,  long - range dipole - dipole coupling mechanism .
a method for determining the mobility of fluorescent molecules by photobleaching a sub - set of the sample during fluorescence microscopy and monitoring the movement of the remaining fluorescent molecules .
the measurement of the fluorescence decay time of probes solubilised in micellar surfactant solutions in the presence of quenchers .
any technique where a microscope is used to view a small object  ( or specimen )  by producing a magnified image .
microscopy where the specimen is bombarded with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 50 - 150 kv under vacuum .
microscopy where the specimen is bombarded with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam produced by field emission with an acceleration voltage 50 - 150 kv under vacuum .
microscopy where the specimen is bombarded with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  low energy  ( 1 - 100 ev )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 50 - 150 kv under vacuum .
low - energy electron microscopy where a magnet is used to align all electron spins parallel to the sample surface .
microscopy where the specimen is bombarded with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 50 - 150 kv under vacuum .
microscopy where a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 50 - 150 kv is scanned across the specimen under vacuum and the interaction of the electrons with the specimen is determined .
microscopy where a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam produced by thermionic emission heating  ( field emission )  and with an acceleration voltage 50 - 150 kv is scanned across the specimen under vacuum and the interaction of the electrons with the specimen is determined .
microscopy where a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam produced by applying a high voltage to a tungsten crystal  ( cold - field emission )  and with an acceleration voltage 50 - 150 kv is scanned across the specimen under vacuum and the interaction of the electrons with the specimen is determined .
microscopy where a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 50 - 150 kv is scanned across the specimen in a gaseous environment and the interaction of the electrons with the specimen is determined .
microscopy where a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 50 - 150 kv is scanned across the specimen under vacuum .
microscopy where a pulsed electron beam is scanned over the surface of the specimen in order to generate elastic waves which are reflected and detected .
microscopy where a focused electron beam of small diameter is used to produce auger electrons which are detected .
electron microscopy where the intensities of the electrons through an electron - transparent specimen are measured .
transmission electron microscopy where the specimen is cooled in liquid ethane to 180 °c .
transmission electron microscopy where the intensities of transmitted electrons of particular kinetic energies are measured .
transmission electron microscopy where the electron - transparent specimen  ( normally a fresh tissue or cell suspension )  is prepared by rapid freezing using liquid nitrogen ,  then fractured ,  and the cold fractured surface is coated with pt or au by evaporation .
transmission electron microscopy where the phase contrast between the transmitted interfering electron waves is used to produce an image .
microscopy where an electron - transparent specimen is bombarded with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 700–3000 kv under vacuum and the intensities of the transmitted electrons are measured .
microscopy where a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 50–150 kv is scanned across an electron - transparent specimen under vacuum and the intensities of the transmitted electrons are measured .
any type of microscopy where the specimen can be made to fluoresce  ( emit energy as visible light )  by illuminating it with light of specific wavelengths .
microscopy where the specimen can be made to fluoresce  ( emit energy as visible light )  by scanning a laser spot of specific wavelength over its surface .
microscopy where the specimen can be made to fluoresce  ( emit energy as visible light )  by scanning a gas  ( ar or kr )  laser spot of specific wavelength over its surface and using a spatial pinhole to eliminate out - of - focus fluorescence .
microscopy where the specimen can be made to fluoresce  ( emit energy as visible light )  by scanning a solid - state  ( ti sapphire )  laser spot of specific wavelength over its surface to produce multi - photon fluorescence  ( i .e .
microscopy where the specimen can be made to fluoresce  ( emit energy as visible light )  by illuminating it with light of specific wavelengths and the spatial distribution of mean fluorescence lifetimes  ( usually on the ns scale )  is mapped within the microscopic images .
microscopy where the specimen can be made to fluoresce  ( emit energy as visible light )  by illuminating it with radiation in the infra - red region  ( 2 .5–16 &#x3bc ; m )  .
microscopy where the specimen can be made to fluoresce  ( emit energy as visible light )  by illuminating it with radiation in the near infra - red region  ( 0 .8–2 .5 &#x3bc ; m )  .
microscopy where the specimen  ( a fluorophore )  can be made to fluoresce  ( emit energy as visible light )  by illuminating it with light of specific wavelength .
microscopy where the specimen can be made to fluoresce  ( emit energy as visible light )  by illuminating it with radiation in the ultra - violet region  ( 4–380 nm )  .
microscopy where the specimen can be made to fluoresce  ( emit energy as visible light )  by illuminating it with radiation in the visible region  ( 380–750 nm )  .
microscopy where ions are used to produce an image .
microscopy where atoms of an inert gas in the vicinty of the specimen  ( which is in the form of a very sharp tip  < 10 m diameter )  are ionised by the application of a strong electric field to the tip and an image is produced by the projection of the ions onto a fluorescent screen .
microscopy where atoms in the vicinty of the specimen  ( which is in the form of a very sharp tip  < 10 m diameter )  are ionised by the application of a strong electric field to the tip and an image is produced by the projection of the ions onto a fluorescent screen .
microscopy where atoms of he gas in the vicinty of the specimen are ionised and an image is produced by the projection of the ions onto a fluorescent screen .
microscopy where an ion beam is scanned over the specimen surface and the secondary electrons emitted are detected .
microscopy where the specimen is illuminated with visible light and a system of lenses is used to produce an image .
microscopy where visible light coming from the specimen is collected and guided through a pinhole before it is detected .
microscopy where the specimen is illuminated with light transmitted from a source on the opposite side of the specimen from the objective .
microscopy where two specimens can be compared by illuminating them with visible light using two identical sets of microscope lenses which are linked by an optical bridge .
microscopy where the specimen is illuminated with visible light split into two beams ,  which then interfere to produce fringes whose spacing is proportional to the height of the specimen .
microscopy where the specimen is illuminated with polarised visible light split into two beams ,  which then interfere to produce fringes whose spacing is proportional to the height of the specimen .
microscopy where the specimen is illuminated with short - coherence length visible light split into two beams ,  which then interfere to produce fringes whose spacing is proportional to the height of the specimen .
microscopy where the surface of the specimen is illuminated with short - coherence length visible light split into two beams ,  which then interfere to produce fringes whose spacing is proportional to the profile of the specimen .
microscopy where a transparent specimen is illuminated with visible light and small phase shifts in the light passing through the specimen are used to produce an image .
microscopy where the specimen placed between two orthogonal polarising filters and illuminated with visible light .
microscopy which uses a probe to scan the surface of the specimen and measure some form of interaction between surface and probe .
microscopy which uses a sharp spike  ( known as a 'tip' )  mounted on the end of a cantilever to scan the surface of the specimen .
microscopy where an electric field is applied to a sharp spike  ( known as a 'tip' )  which is mounted on the end of a cantilever .
microscopy which uses a sharp magnetic spike  ( known as a 'tip' )  mounted on the end of a cantilever to scan the surface of a magnetic specimen .
microscopy where optical tweezers are used to trap a small fluorescent latex bead which is then scanned across biological specimens in aqueous solution .
microscopy which uses a small electrode to scan the surface of the specimen .
any type of microscopy where a probe is positioned very close to the surface of the specimen  ( in the near - field )  .
microscopy where the specimen is illuminated with a near - field of photons .
microscopy where a probe consisting of a laser transmitted through a tapered optical fibre is positioned very close to  (  < 10 nm from )  the surface of the specimen .
microscopy where a probe consisting of a laser of a specific wavelength transmitted through a tapered optical fibre is positioned very close to  (  < 10 nm from )  the surface of the specimen .
microscopy where a probe consisting of an infrared laser transmitted through a tapered optical fibre is positioned very close to  (  < 10 nm from )  the surface of the specimen .
microscopy where a probe consisting of a microwave radiation source transmitted through a tapered optical fibre is positioned very close to  (  < 10 nm from )  the surface of the specimen .
microscopy where a laser spot is focused on a solid sharp metallic probe producing a confined light field very close to  (  < 10 nm from )  the surface of the specimen .
microscopy where a laser spot is focused on a solid sharp noble metal probe very close to  (  < 10 nm from )  the surface of the specimen .
microscopy where a thermocouple probe is positioned very close to the surface of the specimen  ( in the near - field )  .
microscopy where an electrode probe is positioned very close to the surface of the specimen  ( in the near - field )  .
microscopy where a probe consisting of a glass nano -  or micro -  pipette filled with electrolyte is positioned very close to  ( in the near - field of )  a specimen which is held in an oppositely charge electrolyte .
microscopy where a probe vibrating at its resonant frequency is scanned over the specimen .
microscopy where a probe vibrating at its resonant frequency is positioned very close to the surface of the specimen  ( in the near - field )  .
microscopy where an wollaston wire probe is scanned over the surface of the specimen and the height required by a feedback loop in order to maintain a constant temperature between the probe and the specimen is recorded as a function of position .
microscopy which uses a sharp conducting probe  ( or 'tip' )  held very close  ( 1 nm )  to the surface of the specimen .
microscopy where an excitation laser and a probe laser are focused onto a specimen forming a refractive index distribution which results in a concave excitation beam .
thermal lens microscopy where the excitation laser is an ultraviolet laser .
the measurement of the profile of a surface in order to quantify its roughness .
a method where the profile of a surface is determined by moving a diamond stylus laterally across it at a specified contact force and measuring its vertical displacement .
a method where the profile of a surface is determined by illuminating the sample with a beam of light which has been split into two paths ,  one of which is directed at the sample and the other at a reference mirror .
a method where the profile of a surface is determined by illuminating the sample with a beam of light which has been split into two paths ,  one of which is directed at the sample and the other at a reference mirror .
a method where the profile of a surface is determined by illuminating the sample with a beam of light which has been split into two paths ,  one of which is directed at the sample and the other at a reference mirror .
any detection or measurement method for a set of points in reciprocal space .
any detection or measurement method where the structure of a crystal or molecule can be determined by directing a beam of particles or radiation at a sample and recording the resulting diffraction pattern .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of electrons  ( the energies of which are controlled by their acceleration voltage )  and recording the resulting diffraction pattern .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of electrons at the sample  ( the energies of which are controlled by their acceleration voltage )  and recording the resulting diffraction pattern of any backscattered electrons .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of high energy  ( 10–200 kev )  electrons at the sample and recording the resulting diffraction pattern .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of high energy  ( 10–200 kev )  electrons at the sample and recording the resulting diffraction pattern produced by any electrons transmitted through the sample .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of high energy  ( 10–200 kev )  electrons at the sample and recording the resulting diffraction pattern produced by any reflected or elastically scattered electrons .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of low energy  (  < 500 ev )  electrons at the sample and recording the resulting diffraction pattern .
a method for determining structure by directing a highly convergent beam  ( nm diameter )  of low energy  (  < 500 ev )  electrons at the sample and recording the resulting diffraction pattern .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of low energy  (  < 500 ev )  electrons at the sample and recording the resulting diffraction pattern produced by any elastically scattered  ( scattering where kinetic energy is conserved )  electrons .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of low energy  (  < 500 ev )  electrons at the sample and recording the resulting diffraction pattern produced by any inelastically scattered  ( scattering where kinetic energy is not conserved )  electrons .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of high energy  (  < 500 ev )  electrons at the sample and recording the resulting diffraction pattern produced by any electrons transmitted through the sample .
a method for determining structure during photoelectron spectroscopy .
a method for determining structure during photoelectron spectroscopy .
a method for determining structure during photoelectron spectroscopy .
a method for determining structure during x - ray photoelectron spectroscopy .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of x - rays at the sample and detecting the positions and intensities of the diffracted x - rays as a pattern of spots on a photographic plate .
a method for determining structure by detecting the positions and intensities of x - rays ,  that have been generated in microstructural domain ,  as a pattern of spots on a photographic plate .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of x - rays at a powdered solid sample and detecting the positions and intensities of the diffracted x - rays as a pattern of spots on a photographic plate .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of x - rays at a single crystal sample and detecting the positions and intensities of the diffracted x - rays as a pattern of spots on a photographic plate .
any detection or measurement method where reciprocal space structure can be determined by measuring the change in direction or energy of incident particles or radiation scattered by a sample .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of scattered alpha - particles .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of scattered atoms .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction and energy of scattered he atoms .
spectroscopy where a beam of electrons with a known ,  extended range of kinetic energies is scattered by a surface and the energy and position of the scattered electrons is measured .
spectroscopy where a beam of electrons with a known ,  extended range of kinetic energies is scattered by a sample supported on a nano - sized wire  ( such as a carbon nanotube )  and the energy loss the electrons suffer upon scattering is measured .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of scattered visible light .
a method for determining the size distribution of a sample of small particles in solution by illuminating the sample with a light source  ( usually a laser )  and measuring the time - dependent fluctuations in the intensity of the scattered light caused by brownian motion .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of scattered visible light at a number of different angles ,  none of which are close to the angle of incidence of the light .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of rayleigh scattered visible light .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of rayleigh scattered visible light which has been passed through an inferometer .
a method for determining the structure of a liquid sample by measuring the change in direction or energy of hyper - rayleigh scattered visible light  ( scattering where photons from the incident laser– - with frequency – - are scattered into photons of the second harmonic– - photons with frequency 2 )  .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of rayleigh scattered visible light ,  where the wavelength of the incident light does not correspond to any absorption bands in the scattering molecules .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of rayleigh scattered visible light ,  where the wavelength of the incident light corresponds to an energy which is near to an absorption band in the scattering molecules .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of rayleigh scattered visible light ,  where the wavelength of the incident light corresponds to an absorption band in the scattering molecules .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of rayleigh scattered visible light ,  as a function of time ,  where the wavelength of the incident light corresponds to an absorption band in the scattering molecules .
a method for determining structure where a grating created by the interference of two laser beams is written into a sample and a further laser beam is rayleigh scattered by the grating .
a method for determining structure where a grating created by the interference of two laser beams is written into a sample which contains a small amount of dye .
a method for determining structure where a grating created by the interference of infrared laser beams is written into a sample which contains a small amount of dye .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of visible light scattered at a small angle  ( 0 .1–10° )  to the incident light .
a method for determining structure by measuring the total or time - averaged scattering intensity of scattered visible light as a function of angle .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of scattered neutrons .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of scattered neutrons .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction of scattered neutrons .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of scattered neutrons at small angles  ( corresponding to a scattering vector q =  ( 4 /  ) sin (  \  \ pi / 2 )  = 0 .005–0 .2 inverse degrees )  .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of neutrons scattered at low angles .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of scattered neutrons at ultra - small angles  ( corresponding to q = 0 .000003–0 .01 inverse degrees )  .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of scattered neutrons at wide angles  ( corresponding to q  > 1 inverse degrees )  .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of scattered neutrons .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction of scattered neutrons .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of scattered neutrons .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of scattered neutrons .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of scattered neutrons .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of backscattered neutrons .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of scattered neutrons and the time since the indicent pulse  ( 'time - of - flight' )  for each neutron .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction ,  energy and momentum of scattered neutrons .
a method for determining structure by measuring the velocity of neutrons in known magnetic fields before and after scattering by the sample .
a method for determining structure by measuring the velocity of neutrons in known magnetic fields before and after scattering at small angles by the sample .
a method for determining structure by measuring the velocity of neutrons in known magnetic fields before and after scattering at small angles by a magnetic sample .
a method for determining structure by measuring the velocity of neutrons in known magnetic fields before and after scattering at wide angles by the sample .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of x - rays scattered by a sample .
a method for determining structure by measuring the energy loss of x - rays scattered by a sample .
a method for determining structure by measuring the energy loss of x - rays scattered by a sample where the incident x - ray energy is chosen to coincide with an electronic transition in the sample .
a method for determining structure by measuring the energy loss of x - rays scattered by a sample as a function of emission angle ,  where the incident x - ray energy is chosen to coincide with an electronic transition in the sample .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of x - rays scattered by a sample at low angles  ( 0–10° )  .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of x - rays scattered by a sample .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of x - rays scattered by a sample at ultra - low angles  ( corresponding to q = 0 .00005–0 .005 inverse° )  .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of x - rays scattered by a sample at wide angles  (  > 10° )  .
any method for determining structure where the change in direction or intensity of reflected radiation or particles is detected .
any method for determining structure by directing a beam of particles or x - rays onto an extremely flat surface and measuring the intensity of the reflected radiation as a function of angle .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of neutrons onto an extremely flat surface and measuring the intensity of the reflected neutrons as a function of angle and neutron wavelength .
a method for determining structure by illuminating an extremely flat surface with visible light and measuring the intensity of the reflected light as a function of angle .
a method for determining structure by illuminating an extremely flat surface with visible light and measuring the intensity of the light reflected at the brewster angle .
a method for determining structure by illuminating an extremely flat surface with visible light and interfering the light reflected from the sample at the brewster angle with light reflected from a reference mirror .
a method for determining structure by illuminating an extremely flat surface with light from a pulsed laser and interfering the light reflected from the sample at the brewster angle with light reflected from a reference mirror .
a method for determining structure by directing an optical pulse through an optical fibre and measuring the intensity of light reflected at the brewster angle as a function of time .
a method for determining structure by directing an optical pulse through an optical fibre and measuring the polarisation state of light reflected at the brewster angle as a function of time .
a method for determining structure by illuminating an extremely flat surface with visible light and monitoring the intensity of light reflected at the brewster angle during the adsorption of particles on the surface .
a method for determining structure by illuminating an extremely flat surface with visible light and measuring the intensity of light reflected at different angles around the brewster angle .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of x - rays at an extremely flat surface and measuring the intensity of the reflected x - rays as a function of angle .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of x - rays at an extremely flat surface  ( at angle theta minus omega to the surface )  and measuring the intensity of the x - rays which undergo diffuse reflection  ( and are emitted at angle theta plus omega from the surface )  .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of x - rays at an extremely flat surface  ( at a grazing angle )  and measuring the intensity of the reflected x - rays as a function of angle .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of x - rays at an extremely flat surface  ( at angle theta to the surface )  and measuring the intensity of the x - rays which undergo specular reflection  ( and are emitted at angle theta from the surface )  .
any method for determining structure where the sample is illuminated with light and the intensity and change in polarisation of the reflected light are measured .
a method for determining structure by illuminating a sample with a monochromatic light source and measuring the intensity and change in polarisation of the reflected light .
a method for determining structure by illuminating a sample with a continuous - wavelength light source and measuring the intensity and change in polarisation of the reflected light as a function of wavelength .
a method for determining structure by illuminating a sample with a continuous infrared wavelength light source and measuring the intensity and change in polarisation of the reflected light as a function of wavelength .
a method for determining structure by illuminating an anisotropic sample with a continous infrared wavelength light source in a magnetic field and measuring the intensity and change in polarisation of the reflected light as a function of wavelength .
the study of the interaction of a sample with radiation or particles for measurement or detection .
spectrometry where the noise generated by the movement of bubbles or particles is detected .
spectrometry where the alpha - particles  ( or 4he nuclei )  spontaneously emitted from radioisotopes are detected .
any spectroscopic method which probes the electronic degrees of freedom of an atom or molecule .
any spectroscopic technique which is based upon the ability of atoms to absorb or emit electromagnetic radiation .
a type of atomic spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with ultraviolet or visible light which is absorbed by the non - excited atoms at characteristic wavelengths .
a type of atomic absorption spectrometry where a glow discharge  ( a potential difference applied across two electrodes immersed in the sample gas )  is used to atomise the sample before it absorbs ultra - violet or visible light atoms at characteristic wavelengths .
a type of atomic absorption spectrometry where no vaporisation step is required because the sample is a volatile heavy metal such as mercury ,  which is a vapour at room temperature .
a type of atomic absorption spectrometry where the sample is atomised using a probe which is rapidly heated by passing a current through it .
a method where a liquid sample is first separated by capillary electrophoresis ,  then vaporised and atomised using a probe which is rapidly heated by passing a current through it .
a type of atomic absorption spectrometry where the sample is atomised by placing it in a small graphite - coated tube which is rapidly heated by passing a current through it .
a type of atomic absorption spectrometry where a solid sample is ground into a fine powder and suspensed in a diluent such as 0 .1% hno3 to form a 'slurry' .
a type of atomic absorption spectrometry where a solid sample is atomised by placing it in a small graphite - coated tube which is rapidly heated by passing a current through it .
a type of atomic absorption spectrometry where a solid sample is atomised by placing it in a small quartz tube which is rapidly heated by passing a current through it .
a type of atomic absorption spectrometry where the sample is  aspirated ,  aerosolised ,  and mixed with combustible gases ,  such as acetylene and air or acetylene and nitrous oxide .
a type of atomic absorption spectrometry where sample is forced through a heated metal capillary tip before atomisation in a flame .
a type of atomic absorption spectrometry where the sample is carried to the spectrometer by flow injection and forced through a heated metal capillary tip before atomisation in a flame furnace .
a type of atomic absorption spectrometry where flow injection is used to transfer a sample to the spectrometer .
a type of atomic absorption spectrometry where flow injection is used to carry a sample to an electrothermal atomiser where it is atomised using a probe which is rapidly heated by passing a current through it .
a type of atomic absorption spectrometry where flow injection is used to carry a gas phase sample to flame where it is atomised .
a type of atomic absorption spectrometry where metal samples such as as ,  sb and se are vaporised by converting them into volatile hydrides .
a type of atomic absorption spectrometry using a line source of radiation .
a type of atomic spectroscopy where the atoms in the sample are excited and the emission of electromagnetic radiation at characteristic wavelengths is detected .
a type of atomic emission spectrometry where the sample is atomised using a probe which is rapidly heated by passing a current through it .
a type of atomic emission spectrometry where the sample is atomised by placing it in a small graphite - coated tube which is rapidly heated by passing a current through it .
a type of atomic emission spectrometry where the sample is atomised by placing it in a small graphite - coated tube which is rapidly heated by passing a current through it ,  then excited using a glow discharge  ( a potential difference applied across two electrodes immersed in the sample gas )  .
a type of atomic emission spectrometry where the sample is excited using an n2 / oxide–acetylene flame .
a type of atomic emission spectrometry where a glow discharge  ( a potential difference applied across two electrodes immersed in the sample gas )  is used to excite the sample .
a type of atomic emission spectrometry where a laser pulse is used as the excitation source .
a type of atomic emission spectrometry where a high energy laser pulse is used to generate a plasma which acts as the excitation source .
a type of atomic emission spectrometry where a high energy femtosecond laser pulse is used to generate a plasma which acts as the excitation source .
a type of atomic emission spectrometry where a high energy laser pulse is used to generate a plasma which acts as the excitation source .
a type of atomic emission spectrometry where a finely focused  (  < 10 m diameter )  high energy laser pulse is used to generate a plasma which acts as the excitation source .
a type of atomic emission spectrometry where a high energy nanosecond laser pulse is used to generate a plasma which acts as the excitation source .
any type of atomic emission spectrometry where a plasma is used as the excitation source .
a type of atomic emission spectrometry where a plasma generated by a potential difference between two electrodes ,  one of which is grounded and one of which is live .
a type of atomic emission spectrometry where a plasma generated by passing an electrical discharge between two electrodes is used as the excitation source .
a type of atomic emission spectrometry where a furnace is used to atomise the sample and a plasma is used as the excitation source .
a type of atomic emission spectrometry where a plasma generated by electromagnetic induction is used as the excitation source .
atomic emission spectrometry of metal samples such as as ,  sb and se that are vaporised by converting them into volatile hydrides and excited using a plasma generated by electromagnetic induction .
inductively coupled atomic emission spectrometry where the sample is vaporised by laser ablation .
inductively coupled atomic emission spectrometry where the sample is vaporised by laser ablation with a finely focused  (  < 10 m diameter )  laser .
inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy where the sample mixture is first separated by liquid chromatography .
inductively - coupled atomic emission spectrometry where the sample mixture is first passed through a nebuliser to form a mist of finely dispersed droplets using compressed air .
a type of atomic emission spectrometry where the sample mixture is first passed through a nebuliser to form a mist of finely dispersed droplets  ( using high frequency vibrations )  and then excited using a plasma generated by electromagnetic inductance .
a type of atomic emission spectrometry where the sample mixture is first separated by solid phase extraction and then excited using a plasma generated by electromagnetic inductance .
a type of atomic emission spectrometry where the sample mixture is first separated by solid phase extraction ,  carried to the spectrometer by flow injection and then excited using a plasma generated by electromagnetic inductance .
a type of atomic emission spectrometry where atoms are excited by energy transfer from metastable n2 species in a nitrogen plasma .
atomic emission spectrometry where a plasma generated by microwave bombardment is used as the excitation source .
atomic emission spectrometry where the sample is excited by an arc or spark between two electrodes .
atomic spectroscopy where an atom absorbs then spontaneously emits a photon .
atomic fluorescence spectroscopy where no vaporisation step is required because the sample is a volatile heavy metal such as mercury ,  which is a vapour at room temperature .
atomic fluorescence spectroscopy where the sample is atomised using a probe which is rapidly heated by passing a current through it .
a type of atomic fluorescence spectroscopy where the sample is atomised using a flame .
a type of atomic fluorescence spectroscopy of metal samples such as as ,  sb and se which are vaporised by converting them into volatile hydrides .
a type of atomic fluorescence spectroscopy where a laser is used to excite the atoms in the sample .
a type of atomic fluorescence spectroscopy where a plasma is used to excite the atoms in the sample .
a type of atomic fluorescence spectroscopy where a plasma generated by electromagnetic induction is used to excite the atoms in the sample .
spectroscopy where the intensity of the fluorescence emitted by molecules excited by ultraviolet light is detected as a function of wavelength or time .
spectroscopy where the spontaneous fluorescence intensity fluctuations of a sample are measured and correlated within a very small detection volume .
spectroscopy where spontaneous fluorescence intensity fluctuations of a sample are measured at two distinct wavelengths and correlated within a very small detection volume .
a method for measuring the binding interaction between two labelled molecules .
spectroscopy where the sample absorbs radiation in the range ultraviolet to near - infrared  ( 0 .1–2 .5 μm )  resulting in electronic transitions within the sample .
spectroscopy where the sample absorbs radiation in the range ultraviolet to visible  ( 190 - 800 nm )  resulting in electronic transitions within the sample .
ultraviolet - visible spectroscopy where the difference between incident and transmitted radiation is measured for a gaseous sample .
ultraviolet–visible spectroscopy where the reflection or scattering of radiation from the sample surface is detected .
a method where the absorption of radiation in the ultraviolet to near - infrared  ( 0 .1 - 2 .5 &#x3bc ; m )  is used to calculate stability constants by equimolar dilution .
spectroscopy where the sample absorbs radiation in the vacuum ultraviolet region  ( 0 .1 - 200 nm )  resulting in electronic transitions within the sample .
spectroscopy where the absorption or emission of x - rays is detected .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with x - rays and the x - ray absorption coefficient of the sample is measured .
x - ray absorption spectroscopy where changes in the x - ray absorption coefficient around the absorption edge  ( the part of the spectrum where the incident x - ray energy matches the binding energy of an electron )  are measured as a function of incident x - ray energy .
x - ray absorption spectroscopy where changes in the x - ray absorption coefficient measured 500–1000 ev below the absorption edge  ( the part of the spectrum where the incident x - ray energy matches the binding energy of an electron )  are determined as a function of incident x - ray energy .
x - ray absorption spectroscopy where changes in the x - ray absorption coefficient measured 500–1000 ev below the absorption edge  ( the part of the spectrum where the incident x - ray energy matches the binding energy of an electron )  are determined as a function of incident x - ray energy .
x - ray absorption spectroscopy where changes in the x - ray absorption coefficient measured 500–1000 ev below the absorption edge  ( the part of the spectrum where the incident x - ray energy matches the binding energy of an electron )  are determined as a function of incident x - ray energy .
x - ray absorption spectroscopy where changes in the x - ray absorption coefficient and the auger emission of the sample are measured 500–1000 ev below the absorption edge  ( the part of the spectrum where the incident x - ray energy matches the binding energy of an electron )  as a function of incident x - ray energy .
x - ray absorption spectroscopy where changes in the x - ray absorption coefficient around the absorption edge  ( the part of the spectrum where the incident x - ray energy matches the binding energy of an electron )  are measured as a function of incident x - ray energy .
x - ray absorption spectroscopy where changes in the x - ray absorption coefficient measured within 40 ev of the absorption edge  ( the part of the spectrum where the incident x - ray energy matches the binding energy of an electron )  are determined as a function of incident x - ray energy .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with a finely focused x - ray beam  (  < 10 m diameter )  and the x - ray absorption coefficient of the sample is measured .
x - ray spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with x - rays or particles and the energies and intensities of the x - rays emitted due to core - to - core transitions  ( known as 'x - ray fluorescence' )  are detected .
x - ray emission spectroscopy where the sample is irradiated with alpha - particles and the energies of the backscattered alpha - particles and x - rays emitted due to core - to - core transitions are measured .
x - ray emission spectroscopy where the energy spectrum of the x - rays emitted due to core - to - core transitions is measured using a semiconductor detector .
x - ray spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with incident x - rays of a wavelength which does not correspond to a specific electronic transition within the atoms of the sample ,  and the energies and intensities of the emitted x - rays are measured .
x - ray emission spectroscopy where the x - rays are generated by bombarding the sample with a focused beam of high - energy particles .
x - ray emission spectroscopy where the x - rays are generated by bombarding the sample with a finely focused  (  < 10 m diameter )  beam of high - energy particles .
x - ray emission spectroscopy where the x - rays are generated by bombarding a flat polished sample with a finely focused  (  < 10  \  \ μm diameter )  beam of electrons which results in the ionisation of the inner shells of sample atoms .
x - ray emission spectroscopy where the energy spectrum of the x - rays emitted due to core - to - core transitions is measured using a diffraction grating or crystal .
x - ray spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with a finely focused  (  < 10 m diameter )  x - ray beam and the energies and intensities of the x - rays emitted due to core - to - core transitions  ( known as 'x - ray fluorescence' )  are detected .
x - ray spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with low energy x - rays and the energies and intensities of the x - rays emitted due to valence - to - core transitions are detected .
x - ray spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with ultra - low energy  (  < 1 kev )  x - rays and the energies and intensities of the x - rays emitted due to valence - to - core transitions are detected .
x - ray spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with radiation is generated in a synchrotron and the energies and intensities of the emitted x - rays are detected .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with x - rays and the energies of reflected x - rays are measured .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with x - rays and the energies of totally reflected x - rays are measured .
spectroscopy where the beta - particles spontaneously emitted from radioisotopes are detected .
spectroscopy where the spontaneous emission of a beta - particle produces a flash of light  ( known as a 'scintillation' )  which is detected .
spectroscopy based on the differential absorption of left -  and right - handed circularly polarised light by a sample .
spectroscopy based on the differential absorption of left -  and right - handed circularly polarised luminescence .
spectroscopy based on the differential absorption of left -  and right - handed circularly polarised photon radiation in the presence of a magnetic field .
spectroscopy based on the differential absorption of left -  and right - handed circularly polarised x - ray radiation in the presence of a magnetic field .
spectroscopy based on the differential absorption of left -  and right - handed circularly polarised infrared radiation during a vibrational transition .
spectroscopy where the response of an atom with an unpaired electron to a perturbing magnetic field is measured .
spectroscopy where the response of an atom with an unpaired electron to a perturbing magnetic field is measured as a function of the frequency of a periodic perturbation .
spectroscopy where the response of an atom with an unpaired electron to short  ( ns )  pulses of microwave radiation in a magnetic field is measured .
spectroscopy where the absorption or emission of electrons is detected .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with an electron beam and the energy threshold for excitation is indicated by the appearance of relaxation products  ( auger electrons or x - rays )  or by a change in the electron beam current .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with an electron beam and the energy threshold for excitation is indicated by a sudden increase in secondary electron current .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with an electron beam and the energy threshold for excitation is indicated by the sudden disappearance of electrons from the beam .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with an electron beam and the energy threshold for excitation is indicated by a sudden change in the electron beam current .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with an electron beam and the energy threshold for excitation is determined by measuring the total electron current incident on the sample target .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with an electron beam and the energy threshold for excitation is indicated by the sudden appearance of soft x - ray fluorescence .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with an electron beam and the energy threshold for excitation is indicated by the sudden appearance of peaks in the photoelectron spectrum .
spectroscopy where a high energy photon ionises a core electron and an electron from a higher energy level descends to take its place ,  releasing sufficient energy to eject a second so - called 'auger' electron and the energy of the auger electron is detected as a function of incident photon energy .
spectroscopy where bombardment of a sample with high - energy photons results in the ionisation of core electrons and the emission of so - called 'auger' electrons .
spectroscopy where bombardment of a sample with high - energy photons results in the ionisation of core electrons and the emission of so - called 'auger' electrons .
spectroscopy where bombardment of a sample with high - energy photons results in the ionisation of core electrons and the emission of so - called 'auger' electrons .
spectroscopy where bombardment of a sample with high - energy photons results in the ionisation of core electrons and the emission of so - called 'auger' electrons .
spectroscopy where electron bombardment of a sample results in the ionisation of core electrons and the emission of so - called 'auger' electron and the energies of these auger electrons are detected as a function of incident electron energy .
spectroscopy where bombardment of a sample with a finely focused  (  < 10 m diameter )  beam of electrons results in the ionisation of core electrons and the emission of so - called 'auger' electrons .
spectroscopy where ion bombardment of a sample results in the ionisation of core electrons and the emission of so - called 'auger' electrons ,  which are detected as a function of incident ion energy .
spectroscopy where the bombardment of a sample with he +  ions results in the ionisation of core electrons and the emission of so - called 'auger' electrons ,  which are detected as a function of incident he +  ion energy .
spectroscopy where the bombardment of a sample with protons results in the ionisation of core electrons and the emission of so - called 'auger' electrons ,  which are detected as a function of incident proton energy .
spectroscopy where ion bombardment of a sample results in the ionisation of core electrons and the emission of so - called 'auger' electrons ,  which are detected as a function of emission angle .
spectroscopy where a high - energy photon beam is scanned over the surface of a sample resulting in the ionisation of core electrons and the emission of so - called 'auger' electrons .
spectroscopy where the bombardment of a sample with high - energy photons results in the ionisation of core electrons and the emission of so - called 'auger' electrons .
spectroscopy where the bombardment of a sample with high - energy photons results in the ionisation of core electrons and the emission of so - called 'auger' electrons .
spectroscopy where x - ray bombardment of a sample results in the ionisation of core electrons and the emission of so - called 'auger' electrons ,  which are detected as a function of incident x - ray energy .
spectroscopy where the bombardment of a sample with a continuous x - ray source  ( x - rays generated when electrons ,  or other high energy charged particles such as protons or alpha - particles ,  lose energy whilst passing through the coulomb field of a nucleus )  results in the ionisation of core electrons and the emission of so - called 'auger' electrons ,  which are detected .
spectroscopy where two or more particles  ( electrons ,  photons or ions )  originating from a single event ,  such as an ionisation ,  are detected as a function of energy .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with x - rays resulting in the emission of photoelectrons and 'auger' electrons which are detected as a function of energy .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with high - energy photons resulting in the emission of a pair of electrons which are detected as a function of energy .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with high - energy photons resulting in the emission of a pair of electrons which are detected as a function of emission angle .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with high - energy photons resulting in the emission of an ion and a pair of electrons which are detected as a function of energy .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with high - energy photons resulting in the emission of an ion and a pair of electrons which are detected as a function of emission angle .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with high - energy photons resulting in the emission of an ion and an electron which are detected as a function of energy .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with metastable atoms resulting in the emission of two or more particles  ( electrons ,  photons or ions )  which are detected as a function of energy .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with metastable atoms resulting in the emission of an electron  ( by resonant ionisation )  and an auger electron .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with metastable atoms resulting in the emission of an electron  ( by penning ionisation )  and an auger electron .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with high - energy photons resulting in the emission of a photoelectron and its corresponding ion which are detected as a function of energy .
spectroscopy where a beam of electrons with a known ,  narrow range of kinetic energies  ( 50–200 ev )  interacts with a surface and the energy loss  ( 0 .005–100 ev )  the electrons suffer as a result of the interaction is measured .
spectroscopy where a beam of electrons with a known ,  narrow range of kinetic energies is reflected by a surface and the number of electrons with a given characteristic energy loss is measured .
spectroscopy where a beam of electrons with a known ,  extended range of kinetic energies is reflected by a surface and the energy loss the electrons suffer upon reflection is measured .
spectroscopy where a beam of electrons with a known ,  extended range of kinetic energies is reflected by a surface and the auger emission is measured .
spectroscopy where a beam of electrons with a known ,  narrow range of kinetic energies is reflected by a surface and the small energy loss  ( 0 .02–1 ev )  the electrons suffer upon reflection is measured .
spectroscopy where the loss in energy of electrons produced by ionisation is measured .
spectroscopy where a beam of electrons with a known ,  narrow range of low kinetic energies is reflected by a surface and the energy loss the electrons suffer upon reflection is measured .
spectroscopy where a beam of electrons with a known ,  narrow range of kinetic energies is transmitted through a sample and the energy distribution of the transmitted electrons is measured .
spectroscopy where a beam of electrons with a known ,  narrow range of kinetic energies is reflected by a surface and energy loss the electrons suffer  ( corresponding to vibrational modes in the sample )  is measured .
any type of electron spectroscopy where electrons are emitted from a cathode by application of an intense electric field .
any type of electron spectroscopy where electrons are emitted from a cathode by application of an intense electric field and a magnet is used to align all electron spins parallel to the sample surface .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with electrons and the photons emitted are detected .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with electrons which decay in unoccupied states emitting bremsstrahlung radiation .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with electrons which decay in unoccupied states emitting bremsstrahlung radiation which is detected as a function of emission angle .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with electrons which decay in unoccupied states emitting bremsstrahlung radiation which is detected as a function of photon momentum .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with electrons which decay in unoccupied states emitting bremsstrahlung radiation in the ultraviolet region .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with electrons which decay in unoccupied states emitting bremsstrahlung radiation in the x - ray region .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with electrons which decay in unoccupied states emitting bremsstrahlung radiation which is detected as a function of the vector k  ( where k is the difference between the wave vectors of the incident and scattered radiation )  .
spectroscopy where a magnetised ferromagnetic sample is bombarded with electrons of a specific spin polarisation which decay in unoccupied states emitting bremsstrahlung radiation .
spectroscopy where energy transfer from a metastable atom in close proximity to  ( ~5  )  the sample gives rise to a characteristic ejected electron energy spectrum .
spectroscopy where energy transfer from a metastable atom in close proximity to  ( ~5  )  the sample gives rise to a characteristic ejected electron energy spectrum .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with photons causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons ,  the energies of which are measured .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with photons causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons which are detected as a function of emission angle .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with gamma - rays causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons ,  the energies of which are measured .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with photons causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons which are detected as a function of energy .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with photons causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons which are detected as a function of emission angle .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with a finely focused  (  < 10 m )  photon beam causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons ,  the energies of which are measured .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with a finely focused  (  < 10 m )  extreme ultraviolet  ( 10–121 nm )  photon beam causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons ,  the energies of which are measured .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with radiation  ( x - ray–ultraviolet )  generated in a synchrotron causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons ,  the energies of which are measured .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with radiation  ( x - ray–ultraviolet )  generated in a synchrotron causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons which are detected as a function of emission angle .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with radiation  ( x - ray–ultraviolet )  generated in a synchrotron causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with radiation  ( x - ray–ultraviolet )  generated in a synchrotron causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with radiation  ( x - ray–ultraviolet )  generated in a synchrotron causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with radiation  ( x - ray–ultraviolet )  generated in a synchrotron causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with radiation  ( x - ray–ultraviolet )  generated in a synchrotron causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with ultraviolet  ( 10–400 nm )  photons causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons ,  the energies of which are measured .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with ultraviolet  ( 10–400 nm )  photons causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons ,  which are detected as a function of emission angle .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with vacuum ultraviolet  ( 10–20 nm )  photons causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons ,  the energies of which are measured .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with x - rays causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons ,  the energies of which are measured .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with x - rays causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons ,  which are detected as a function of emission angle .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with monochromatic x - rays causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons ,  the energies of which are measured .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with 'soft'  (  < 300 ev )  x - rays causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons ,  the energies of which are measured .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with monochromatic 'soft'  (  < 300 ev )  x - rays causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons ,  the energies of which are measured .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with photons causing ionisation of the valence shell and the emission of photoelectrons ,  the energies of which are measured .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with photons causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons ,  the energies of which are measured .
spectroscopy where primary electrons interact with a sample and the electrons emitted as a result of the interaction  ( secondary electrons )  are detected .
spectroscopy where primary electrons interact with a sample and the electrons emitted as a result of the interaction  ( secondary electrons )  are detected as a function of emission angle .
spectroscopy where primary electrons interact with a sample and the electrons emitted as a result of the interaction  ( secondary electrons )  are detected .
spectroscopy where the energies of gamma - rays emitted or absorbed by a sample is measured .
a type of gamma - ray emission spectroscopy where the gamma - rays are produced by bombarding the sample with a focused beam of ions .
spectroscopy where gamma - rays are absorbed by a sample resulting in the ejection of an electron and the emission of light which is detected .
spectroscopy where the intensity of a gamma - rays beam transmitted through a solid sample is detected .
spectroscopy where gamma - rays are absorbed by a sample resulting in the ejection of conversion electrons ,  the energy distribution of which is measured .
a type of gamma - ray emission spectroscopy where atomic nuclei are excited  ( by a heavy ion beam or by collision with another nucleus )  and their decaying gamma - ray emissions are measured .
a type of activation analysis where atomic nuclei are excited  ( by a heavy ion beam or by collision with another nucleus )  and their decaying gamma - ray emissions are measured and compared to reference spectra .
spectroscopy where the change in impedance  ( the resistance of alternating current )  of a sample during excitation is measured as a function of frequency .
spectroscopy where the change in impedance  ( the resistance of alternating current )  of a sample during excitation with an alternating - current voltage is measured .
spectroscopy where the change in impedance  ( the resistance of alternating current )  of an electrochemical cell is measured .
spectroscopy where the change in impedance  ( the resistance of alternating current )  of a sample during laser excitation is measured .
spectroscopy where the absorption of emission of ions is detected .
spectroscopy where a focused beam of ions is directed at a sample and the secondary ions emitted are detected .
spectroscopy where a focused beam of ions is directed at a sample causes binary collisions with surface molecules which result in molecular decomposition and the emission of atoms .
spectrocsopy where a finely focused  (  < 10 m diameter )  beam of ions is directed at a sample and the secondary ions emitted are detected .
spectroscopy where a focused beam of proton is directed at a uranium sample and the secondary ions emitted are detected .
spectroscopy where the velocity of gas phase ions in an electric field is measured .
spectroscopy where the velocity of gas phase ions in an electric field is measured .
spectroscopy where the velocity of gas phase ions in an electric field is measured .
a method for determining structure where the sample is bombarded with ions  ( 100–1000 ev )  and the energies and positions of the scattered ions are detected .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with he +  or h +  ions  ( 500–1500 ev )  and the energies and positions of any backscattered ions are detected .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with one or more laser beams and the absorption or emission of light by the sample is measured .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with one or more laser beams and the absorption of light by the sample is measured .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with one or more laser beams and light absorption is measured .
any type of laser spectroscopy where the sample is in the form of an accelerated beam of particles  ( atoms or ions )  which is superimposed on a resonant laser beam  ( a laser beam with a wavelength that corresponds to an atomic transition in the sample )  and light absorption is measured .
a type of laser spectroscopy where the sample is in the form of a high - speed accelerated beam of atoms which is superimposed on a resonant laser beam  ( a laser beam with a wavelength that corresponds to an atomic transition in the sample )  and light absorption is measured .
a type of laser spectroscopy where the sample is in the form of an accelerated beam of ions which is superimposed on a resonant laser beam  ( a laser beam with a wavelength that corresponds to an atomic transition in the sample )  and light absorption is measured .
a type of laser spectroscopy where the sample is in the form of a high - speed accelerated beam of ions which is superimposed on a resonant laser beam  ( a laser beam with a wavelength that corresponds to an atomic transition in the sample )  and light absorption is measured .
a type of laser spectroscopy where a diode laser is tuned to a specific absorption line of interest in the sample and the intensity of the transmitted radiation is measured .
a type of laser spectroscopy where a fixed - wavelength infrared  or ultraviolet laser is used to excite the sample which is placed in an electric field .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with a laser which is tuned to match an absorption frequency of the molecules in the sample .
any type of laser spectroscopy where an effect induced by the absorption of laser light is detected .
any type of laser spectroscopy where the sample is placed inside the laser cavity and an effect induced by the absorption of laser light is detected .
a type of laser spectroscopy where the sample is placed inside a highly reflective laser cavity and an effect induced by the absorption of laser light is detected .
a type of laser spectroscopy where the sample is placed inside a v - shaped optical cavity and an effect induced by the absorption of laser light is detected .
a type of laser spectroscopy where the sample is placed inside a highly reflective laser cavity and an effect induced by the absorption of a supercontinuum light source is detected .
a type of laser spectroscopy where the sample is placed inside a highly reflective laser cavity and an effect induced by the absorption of laser light is detected .
spectroscopy where a pump laser is used to excite a chromophore and the transmitted power of a probe laser is used to determine the state concentration  ( excited vs . non - excited )  of the sample .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with a laser and molecules in the sample dissociate following the absorption of one or more high - energy photons .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with a laser and molecules in the sample dissociate following the absorption of two or more high - energy photons .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with a resonant laser  ( a laser which is tuned to match a transition within the sample )  and molecules in the sample dissociate following the absorption of two or more high - energy photons .
spectroscopy where a sample in the form of ions is illuminated with a resonant laser  ( a laser which is tuned to match a transition within the sample )  and molecules in the sample dissociate following the absorption of one or more high - energy photons .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with a laser causing molecules in the sample to be electronically excited .
spectroscopy where the energy generated by nonradiative thermal relaxation after laser light absorption is measured .
spectroscopy where the energy generated by nonradiative thermal relaxation after visible laser light absorption is measured .
spectroscopy where the energy generated by nonradiative thermal relaxation after ultraviolet laser light absorption is measured .
spectroscopy where a thermally - excited vapour sample is illuminated with an ultraviolet or visible laser and the photon emission spectrum of the sample is observed .
spectroscopy where a thermally - excited vapour sample is illuminated with a finely focused  (  < 10 m diameter )  ultraviolet or visible laser and the photon emission spectrum of the sample is observed .
spectroscopy where a sample is illuminated with a laser and photoexcitation is used to promote an atom or molecule above its ionisation potential to create an ion .
spectroscopy where a sample is illuminated with resonant laser light  ( using a laser which is tuned to match an electronic transition within the sample )  and photoexcitation is used to promote an atom or molecule above its ionisation potential to create an ion .
spectroscopy where resonant laser illumination  ( using a laser which is tuned to match an electronic transition within the sample )  is used to ehanced the collisional ionisation of atoms  ( or molecules )  occurring in a flame .
spectroscopy where a sample is illuminated with a laser and photoexcitation  ( by the absorption of two or more photons )  is used to promote an atom or molecule above its ionisation potential to create an ion .
spectroscopy where a sample is illuminated with resonant laser light  ( using a laser which is tuned to match an electronic transitions within the sample )  and photoexcitation  ( by the absorption of two or more photons )  is used to promote an atom or molecule above its ionisation potential to create an ion .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with one or more finely focused  (  < 10 m diameter )  laser beams and the absorption or emission of light by the sample is measured .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with one or more finely focused  (  < 10 m diameter )  resonant laser beams  ( lasers which have been tuned to match an electronic transition within the sample )  and the absorption or emission of light by the sample is measured .
spectroscopy where the current passing through a gas discharge is monitored as a laser light source is tuned through the frequencies of allowed transitions for excited atoms in the discharge .
spectrometry where the sample is converted into gaseous ions which are characterised by their mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised and the ions are accelerated to very high kinetic energies .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised by interaction  ( electron or proton transfer )  with reagent  ( n2 ,  o2 ,  h2o )  gaseous ions at low pressure .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised by interaction  ( electron or proton transfer )  with reagent  ( n2 ,  o2 ,  h2o )  gaseous ions at atmospheric pressure .
mass spectrometry where the sample is dissolved in a volatile solvent and dropped onto a heated filament before being ionised by interaction  ( electron or proton transfer )  with reagent  ( n2 ,  o2 ,  h2o )  gaseous ions at low pressure .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised by interaction with reagent gaseous anions at low pressure .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised by interaction with reagent gaseous cations at low pressure .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised and selected ions are allowed to collide with neutral gas molecules resulting in fragmentation .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised by interaction with thermal electrons  ( electrons with energy 0 .1 ev or less )  .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised by electrons  ( energy 70 ev )  which have been emitted from a glowing filament and accelerated through an electric field .
mass spectrometry where the sample is atomised using an electrothermal  ( resistively - heated )  furnace and then ionised by electrons  ( energy 70 ev )  which have been emitted from a glowing filament and accelerated through an electric field .
spectrometry where the sample is ionised by electrospray ionization .
electrospray ionisation mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised by forcing a solution  ( usually in an organic solvent )  of the sample through a small cold  ( 10 - 80 c )  capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1 - 10 l min1 )  .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised by directing charged solvent droplets  ( which are formed by forcing the solvent through a small heated capillary into an electric field )  at the sample surface .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised by forcing a solution  ( usually in an organic solvent )  of the sample through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10 l min - 1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised by forcing an aqueous solution of the sample through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1 - 10 l min1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised by forcing a solution  ( usually in an organic solvent )  of the sample through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1 l min - 1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised by forcing a solution  ( usually in an organic solvent )  of the sample through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of nl min - 1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets .
a method where the sample mixture is first separated by high - performance liquid chromatography before being ionised by forcing a solution  ( usually in an organic solvent )  of the sample through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of nl min1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets .
mass spectrometry where the sample ionised by spraying it with a very fine mist of charged droplets which was produced by forcing a solvent through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10 l min - 1 )  into an electric field .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised by interaction with a high electric field .
mass spectrometry where the sample is deposited on a solid surface known as an 'emitter' and ionised by interaction with a high electric field .
mass spectrometry where the sample is pyrolysed then deposited on a solid surface known as an 'emitter' and ionised by interaction with a high electric field .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised by interaction with a high electric field .
mass spectrometry where the sample is pyrolysed then ionised by interaction with a high electric field .
mass spectrometry where the sample is pyrolysed then ionised by interaction with a high electric field .
any method where a sample mixture is first separated by gas chromatography then ionised and characterised according to mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
mass spectrometry where the 'exact' mass of the molecular ions in the sample is determined as opposed to the 'nominal' mass  ( the number of protons and neutrons )  .
spectrometry where the ionic species associated with the peaks in an ion mobility spectrum are identified by a mass spectrometer .
mass spectrometry where the mass - to - charge ratio of the sample ions is measured whilst the ions are held in a stable orbit by an electric or magnetic field .
mass spectrometry where the mass - to - charge ratio of the sample ions is determined by measuring their cyclotron frequency  ( the frequency at which they precesses in a fixed magnetic field )  .
mass spectrometry where the mass - to - charge ratio of the sample ions is determined by measuring their cyclotron frequency  ( the frequency at which they precesses in a fixed magnetic field )  and subjecting it to a fourier transform .
mass spectrometry where the mass - to - charge ratio of the sample ions is determined by measuring their cyclotron frequency  ( the frequency at which they precesses in a fixed magnetic field )  .
mass spectrometry where the mass - to - charge ratio of the sample ions is measured whilst the ions are held in a stable orbit by an electric field generated by four parallel electrodes .
mass spectrometry where the mass - to - charge ratio of the sample ions is measured whilst the ions are held in a stable orbit by an electric field generated by three electrodes .
mass spectrometry where the relative abundance of isotopes in a sample is determined .
mass spectrometry where the sample is first subject to elemental analysis  ( dropped onto a heated reactor which contains an oxidant– - such as copper and chromium oxide– - and combusted at 900 c to produce n2 ,  nox ,  h2o and co2 which are reduced in a stream of helium )  before the relative abundance of isotopes in the sample is determined .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by gas chromatography before being characterised according to mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance of isotopes .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by liquid chromatography before it is ionised and the relative abundance of isotopes in the sample is determined .
mass spectrometry where the relative abundance of isotopes in a sample is determined by using an isotope dilution standard  ( the sample labelled with a rare isotope )  .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised by a plasma which has been generated by electromagnetic induction .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by high - performance liquid chromatography before being ionised by a plasma which has been generated by electromagnetic induction .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised by a plasma which has been generated by electromagnetic induction .
mass spectrometry where the relative abundance of non - radioactive isotopes in a sample is determined .
mass spectrometry where the sample is vaporised and ionised using a high - energy pulsed laser .
mass spectrometry where the sample is vaporised and ionised using a finely focused  (  < 10 um diameter )  high - energy pulsed laser .
mass spectrometry using negative ionisation where a high - energy pulsed laser is used for sample vaporisation .
mass spectrometry using positive ionisation where a high - energy pulsed laser is used for sample vaporisation .
mass spectrometry where the sample  ( usually a large organic molecule or biomolecule )  is vaporised and ionised using a high - energy pulsed laser .
matrix - assisted laser desorption - ionisation mass spectrometry where the sample ions are accelerated to the same  ( known )  kinetic energy and the time taken for each ion to reach a detector at a known distance is measured .
mass spectrometry where the sample  ( usually a large organic molecule or biomolecule )  is vaporised and ionised using a high - energy pulsed laser .
mass spectrometry where the sample  ( usually a large organic molecule or biomolecule )  is vaporised and ionised using a high - energy pulsed laser .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by liquid chromatography before being vaporised and ionised using a high - energy pulsed laser ,  and characterised by mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by liquid chromatography before being converted into ions which are characterised by their mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
mass spectrometry where the sample is irradiated with an ultraviolet laser .
mass spectrometry where the sample is irradiated with an ultraviolet laser at atmospheric pressure .
mass spectrometry where the sample is irradiated with an ultraviolet laser .
mass spectrometry where the sample is irradiated with a resonant laser  ( a laser beam with a wavelength that corresponds to an atomic transition in the sample )  .
mass spectrometry where the sample is irradiated with a resonant laser  ( a laser beam with a wavelength that corresponds to an atomic transition in the sample )  .
mass spectrometry where ionisation is achieved using a pneumatic nebuliser which turns the sample solution into a supersonic spray of small droplets .
mass spectrometry where a pressurised solution of the sample is forced through a heated metal capillary tip .
mass spectrometry where ionisation is achieved by loading the sample onto a heated filament .
mass spectrometry where a liquid sample passes through a desolvation chamber producing a beam of microscopic solid particles .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas ,  such as ar ,  containing free electrons )  .
plasma mass spectrometry where the plasma has been generated by a potential difference between two electrodes ,  one of which is grounded and one of which is live .
plasma mass spectrometry where the plasma has been generated by superimposing a static magnetic field and a high - frequency electromagnetic field at the electron cyclotron resonance frequency  ( the frequency at which an electron precesses in a magnetic field )  .
plasma mass spectrometry where the plasma has been generated by passing an electrical discharge between two electrodes under reduced pressure .
plasma mass spectrometry where the plasma has been generated by electromagnetic induction .
plasma mass spectrometry where the sample is vaporised by depositing it on a probe which is rapidly heated  ( to  > 1000 deg c )  by passing a current through it .
etv - icp - ms where the solid sample is prepared by grinding into a fine powder and suspension in a diluent such as 0 .1% hno3 .
mass spectrometry where a solid sample is ground to a fine powder and suspended in a diluent  ( such as 0 .1% hno3 )  before being vaporised by a probe which is rapidly heated by passing a current through it .
mass spectrometry where a solid sample is vaporised by depositing it on a probe which is rapidly heated by passing a current through it .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by high - performance liquid chromatography before being ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by electromagnetic induction ,  and characterised by mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by high - performance liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection before being ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by electromagnetic induction ,  and characterised according to mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by high - performance liquid chromatography with photodiode array detection before being ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by electromagnetic induction ,  and characterised according to mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by electromagnetic induction .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by electromagnetic induction .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by electromagnetic induction .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by electromagnetic induction .
mass spectrometry where the sample is vaporised using a laser pulse then ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by electromagnetic induction .
mass spectrometry where the sample is vaporised using a laser pulse then ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by electromagnetic induction .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by liquid chromatography before being ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by electromagnetic induction ,  and characterised by mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by electromagnetic induction .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by size - exclusion chromatography before being ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by electromagnetic induction ,  and characterised by mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by size - exclusion and high - performance liquid chromatographies before being ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by electromagnetic induction ,  and characterised by mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
mass spectrometry where a sample mixture  ( a solution in dilute hno3 )  is ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by electromagnetic induction .
mass spectrometry where a sample mixture  ( a solution in dilute hno3 )  is passed through a nebuliser to form a mist of finely dispersed droplets before being ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by electromagnetic induction .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by microwave radiation .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by bombarding the sample  ( mounted on a thin foil )  with a highly energietic fission fragment from 252cf .
mass spectrometry where the sample is bombarded with a stream of primary mass - selected particles and the secondary ions ejected from the sample are detected .
mass spectrometry where the sample is bombarded with a continuous focused beam of primary mass - selected ions which remove material from the surface of the sample by sputtering .
mass spectrometry where the sample is bombarded with a continuous focused beam of primary mass - selected ions which remove material from the surface of the sample by sputtering .
mass spectrometry where the sample  ( which is held in a liquid matrix )  is bombarded with a stream of primary noble gas atoms and the secondary ions ejected from the sample are detected .
mass spectrometry where the sample is bombarded with a stream of primary mass - selected particles and the secondary elemental ions  ( usually h +  ,  d +  or he +  )  ejected from the sample are detected .
mass spectrometry where the sample is bombarded with a stream of primary mass - selected particles and the secondary ions ejected from the sample are detected by accelerating them to the same  ( known )  kinetic energy and measuring the time taken for each ion to reach a detector at a known distance .
mass spectrometry where a surface is bombarded with sample ions and the secondary electrons emitted are detected .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 15n nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
mass spectrometry where the sample ions are directed into magnetic field ,  the orientation of which is perpendicular to the beam .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised by introducing it into a tube containing fast flowing he gas and ions such as h3o +  ,  no +  and o2 +  .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised by introducing it into a tube containing fast flowing he gas and h3o +  ions .
mass spectrometry where the intensities of one or more specific ion beams are recorded rather than the entire mass spectrum .
mass spectrometry where the intensity of a specific ion beam is recorded rather than the entire mass spectrum .
mass spectrometry where the intensities of multiple specific ion beams are recorded rather than the entire mass spectrum .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised by a vacuum spark discharge ,  which is generated by a pulsed high  ( 25–100 kv )  potential difference between two electrodes .
mass spectrometry involving multiple mass - selection steps ,  with some form of fragmentation occurring between each stage .
mass spectrometry involving multiple mass - selection steps ,  where the sample ions are allowed to collide with neutral gas molecules  ( resulting in fragmentation )  between each mass - selection stage .
mass spectrometry involving multiple mass - selection steps ,  with some form of fragmentation occurring between each stage .
a method where the sample mixture is first separated by high - performance liquid chromatography before being ionised by forcing a solution  ( usually in an organic solvent )  of it through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10 ul min1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets .
mass spectrometry involving multiple mass - selection steps ,  with some form of fragmentation occurring between each stage .
mass spectrometry where sample ions with different masses are accelerated to the same  ( known )  kinetic energy and the time taken for each ion to reach a detector at a known distance is measured .
any type of chemical imaging spectroscopy where an optical microscope is used to image the sample and locate a small area for spectral analysis .
spectroscopy where an optical microscope is used to image the sample and locate a small area for spectral analysis with radiation in the ultraviolet to near infrared range .
spectroscopy which probes the rotational degrees of freedom of a molecule .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with radiation in the microwave region  ( 1–1000 mm )  .
spectroscopy where the sample is irradiated with a single pulse of radiation in the microwave region  ( 1–1000 mm )  and the spectrum is subject to a fourier transform .
spectroscopy where the sample  ( in the form of a molecular beam )  is irradiated with a single pulse of radiation in the microwave region  ( 1–1000 mm )  and the spectrum is subject to a fourier transform .
spectroscopy where the sample  ( in the form of a molecular beam )  is vaporised by laser ablation before being irradiated with a single pulse of radiation in the microwave region  ( 1–1000 mm )  and the spectrum is subject to a fourier transform .
spectroscopy where a beam of neutrons is used to probe atomic and magnetic dynamics .
spectroscopy where the energy states of spin - active nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of spin - active nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 1h nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 11b nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 13c nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 13c nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 19f nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
an nmr experiment in which a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between interacting nuclei .
a type of homonuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between nuclei which are j - coupled  ( usually  \  \ leq 3 bonds apart )  .
a type of nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between protons and heteronuclei .
a type of heteronuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between protons and nuclei which are 2–3 bonds removed .
a type of heteronuclear nmr spectroscopy where pulsed - field gradients are used and a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between protons and nuclei which are 2–3 bonds removed .
a type of heteronuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between protons and the nuclei to which they are covalently bound .
a type of heteronuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between protons and the nuclei to which they are covalently bound .
a type of homonuclear nmr spectroscopy which reveal correlations between all nuclei of a spin - system .
a type of homonuclear proton–proton nmr spectroscopy where chemical shift and j - coupling information are separated onto different frequency axes .
a type of homonuclear nmr spectroscopy based on the nuclear overhauser enhancement effect in which correlations are seen between nuclei that are spatially proximate within a molecule  ( ⩽6 å apart )  .
a type of heteronuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed ,  based on the nuclear overhauser enhancement effect in which correlations are seen between nuclei that are spatially proximate within a molecule  ( ⩽6 å apart )  .
a type of heteronuclear two - dimensional nmr spectroscopy incorporating a water flip - back sequence ,  based on the nuclear overhauser enhancement effect in which correlations are seen between nuclei that are spatially proximate within a molecule  ( ⩽6 å apart )  .
a type of heteronuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed ,  based on the nuclear overhauser enhancement  ( noe )  effect in which correlations are seen between nuclei that are spatially proximate within a molecule  ( ⩽6 å apart )  .
a type of heteronuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed ,  based on the nuclear overhauser enhancement effect in which correlations are seen between nuclei that are spatially proximate within a molecule  (  \  \ leq 6  \  \ aa apart )  .
a heteronuclear nmr experiment in which magnetisation arising from 1h nuclei is transferred to covalently bound heteronuclei ,  thereby enhancing the nmr signal of the heteronuclei .
spectroscopy where the energy states of spin - active nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the response of nuclei with non - zero spin ,  in a solid sample ,  to a perturbing magnetic field is detected .
nmr spectroscopy using a solid sample and involving magic angle spinning .
a type of nmr spectroscopy using a solid sample .
magic angle spinning spectroscopy where cross polarisation is used to enhance the signal from weakly coupled nuclei .
magic angle spinning spectroscopy using a high resolution magnetic susceptibility matching probe .
spectroscopy where the sound emitted when a gaseous sample is exposed to an intense laser beam ,  which is rapidly interrupted by a rotating slotted disk ,  is measured .
spectroscopy where the sound emitted when a gaseous sample is exposed to an intense infrared laser beam ,  which is rapidly interrupted by a rotating slotted disk ,  is measured .
infrared photoacoustic spectroscopy where the spectrum is then subject to a fourier transform .
spectroscopy where light energy absorbed by the sample results in heating and the subsequent change in temperature ,  pressure or density is measured .
spectroscopy where a scanning tunnelling microscope is used to measure the i - v characteristics of the sample .
spectroscopy where the resonant excitation of surface plasmons  ( usually on a noble metal e .g .
spectroscopy where the resonant excitation of surface plasmons on a surface ,  which is the working electrode in an electrochemical experiment ,  by ultraviolet or visible light is measured .
spectroscopy where the resonant excitation of surface plasmons  ( usually on a au or ag surface )  by ultraviolet or visible light is measured ,  during which the reflectivity of the sample is measured at a fixed angle or wavelength .
spectroscopy using short pulses of radiation from the terahertz range  ( 1 millimetre to 100 micrometres )  .
spectroscopy which probes the vibrational degrees of freedom of a molecule .
spectroscopy where a metal - molecule - metal sandwich is formed and electrons tunnel from metal to metal through the molecules .
spectroscopy where the sample absorbs radiation from the infrared region  ( 0 .78 to 1000 micrometres )  .
spectroscopy using radiation in the infrared region  ( 0 .78–1000 μm )  where an evanescent wave is generated using an optical fibre .
spectroscopy where the sample absorbs radiation in the far infrared region  ( 15–1000 μm )  .
spectroscopy where the sample absorbs radiation from the infrared region  ( 0 .78–1000 μm )  with sufficient energy to cause photodissociation by the absorption of two or more photons .
spectroscopy where the sample absorbs resonant radiation from the infrared region  ( 0 .78–1000  \  \ μm )  with sufficient energy to cause photodissociation by the absorption of two or more photons .
spectroscopy where the sample absorbs radiation in the mid infrared region  ( 3–8 μm )  .
spectroscopy where the sample absorbs a single pulse of radiation from the infrared region  ( 0 .78–1000 μm )  and the spectrum obtained is subject to a fourier transform .
spectroscopy where the sample absorbs radiation from a finely focused beam  (  < 10 μm diameter )  of infrared light   ( 0 .78–1000 μm )  .
spectroscopy where the sample absorbs radiation from the near infrared region  ( 0 .8–2  \  \ μm )  .
spectroscopy where the sample absorbs a single pulse of radiation from the near infrared region  ( 0 .8–2  \  \ μm )  and the spectrum obtained is subject to a fourier transform .
spectroscopy where the difference in infrared radiation  ( 0 .78–1000 μm )  bsorption of a sample cell against a reference cell is measured .
spectroscopy where the rough metal surface of a sample absorbs radiation in the infrared region  ( 0 .78–1000  \  \ μm )  .
spectroscopy where transient species such as radicals ,  ions or reactive intermediates are studied using pulses from an infrared laser .
spectroscopy where the reflection or scattering of infrared radiation  ( 0 .78–1000 μm )  by a sample is detected .
spectroscopy where the diffuse reflection of infrared radiation by a sample is measured .
spectroscopy where the diffuse reflection of a single pulse of infrared radiation by a sample is measured ,  and the spectrum obtained is subject to a fourier transform .
spectroscopy where the reflection or scattering of near infrared radiation  ( 0 .8 - 2 micrometres )  by a sample is detected .
spectroscopy where the absorption and reflection of low incident angle infrared light by the surface molecules of a highly reflective or polished sample is measured .
spectroscopy where infrared light is introduced into a prism at an angle exceeding the critical angle for internal reflection .
spectroscopy where the sample is heated and the infrared radiation  ( 0 .78–1000 μm )  emitted during cooling is detected .
spectroscopy where the sample is heated in a flame and the infrared radiation  ( 0 .78–1000  \  \ μm )  emitted during cooling is detected .
spectroscopy where the sample is heated in a flame and the infrared radiation   ( 0 .78–1000 μm )  emitted during cooling is detected .
ir emission spectroscopy where the spectrum is obtained by a single pulse of  ( uv )  radiation ,  and is subject to a fourier transform .
spectroscopy where the sample is heated and the mid infrared radiation  ( 0 .78–1000 μm )  emitted during cooling is detected .
spectroscopy where the sample is heated and the infrared radiation  ( 0 .78–1000 μm )  emitted during cooling is detected with a two - dimensional focal plane array infrared camera .
spectroscopy where the sample is heated using ultraviolet excitation  ( single photon )  and the infrared radiation  ( 0 .78–1000  \  \ μm )  emitted during cooling is detected .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light ,  usually from a laser in the visible ,  near infrared ,  or near ultraviolet range by a sample is detected .
spectroscopy where vibrational optical activity is measured by means of a small difference in the intensity of raman scattering from chiral molecules of right -  and left - circularly polarised incident light .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light from three lasers  ( known as pump ,  probe and stokes / anti - stokes )  by a sample is detected .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light by a sample is detected .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light by a sample is detected .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light by a sample is detected .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light by a sample is detected .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light is detected .
the collection of spatially resolved raman spectra of a sample during optical microscopy .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of light  ( produced by a single laser pulse )  by a sample is detected and the spectrum is subject to a fourier transform .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of light by a  ( liquid )  sample is detected .
spectroscopy where the polarisation of light which has been subjected to raman scattering by a sample is determined .
raman spectroscopy where the energy of the incoming laser is adjusted such that it or the scattered light coincides with an electronic transition in the sample .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light ,  usually from a laser in the visible ,  near infrared ,  or near ultraviolet range ,  by a sample is detected .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light ,  from a visible laser ,  by a sample adsorbed onto a metal  ( au ,  ag or cu )  surface is detected .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light ,  from an ultraviolet laser ,  by a sample is detected .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light ,  from a deep ultraviolet  (  < 300 nm )  laser ,  by a sample is detected .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light ,  from a laser ,  by a sample is detected .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light ,  from two lasers  ( 'pump' and 'probe' )  by a sample is detected .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light ,  from a femtosecond laser pulse ,  by a sample is detected .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light ,  from a visible laser ,  by a sample adsorbed onto a metal  ( au ,  ag or cu )  surface is detected .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light ,  from a visible laser  ( 500–650 nm )  ,  by metal surfaces ,  where scattering is enhanced by the optical near - field of a metal - coated scanning probe microscopy tip ,  is detected .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of visible laser light ,  by metal surfaces ,  where scattering is enhanced by the optical near field of a scanning tunnelling tip ,  under ultra - high vacuum is detected .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light ,  from an ultraviolet laser ,  by a sample is detected .
any measurement technique in which a physical property of the sample is measured as a function of temperature .
the measurement of thermodynamic parameters  ( e .g .
the measurement of thermodynamic parameters  ( e .g .
the measurement of thermodynamic parameters  ( e .g .
the measurement of thermodynamic parameters  ( e .g .
the measurement of thermodynamic parameters  ( e .g .
the measurement of the temperature difference between the sample and a reference material .
thermal analysis where the characteristics of imposed acoustic wave passing through the sample are measured .
the measurement of a dimension of the sample under negligible load as a function of temperature .
the measurement of the mass of a sample as a function of temperature .
the measurement of the magnetic susceptibility of a sample as a function of temperature .
the measurement of an optical characteristic of a sample as a function of temperature .
the measurement of the luminescence of a sample as a function of temperature .
the measurement of the total light ,  or the light of a specific wavelength emitted by a sample as a function of temperature .
the measurement of the refractive index of a sample as a function of temperature .
the measurement of the refractive index of small glass fragments as a function of temperature .
the measurement of the sound emitted by a sample as a function of temperature .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of cold or thermal neutrons at a sample and recording the resulting diffraction pattern .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of cold or thermal neutrons at a powdered solid sample and detecting the positions and intensities of the diffracted neutrons .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with radiation in the range xray–ultraviolet ,  which causes ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons ,  the energies of which are measured .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by liquid chromatography before being ionised and characterised by mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance using two mass spectrometers in series .
any method where the sample is first separated by capillary electrophoresis ,  before being analysed by mass spectrometry .
mass spectrometry where a sample mixture is first separated by capillary electrophoresis ,  before being ionised in a plasma which has been generated by electromagnetic induction and characterised according to mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised by a corona discharge within a he atmosphere .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised by forcing a solution  ( usually in an organic solvent )  of the sample through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10 microlitre min - 1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets .
any method where the sample is first separated by electrophoresis ,  before being analysed by mass spectrometry .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by two - dimensional gel electrophoresis ,  before being converted into ions which are characterised by their mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised by a corona discharge within a he atmosphere .
any mass spectrometry technique where the sample is ionised at low or ambient temperature .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  generated by an alternating current .
mass spectrometry where the sample is illuminated with a laser .
spectroscopy where the energy states of spin - active nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by high - performance liquid chromatography before the energy states of spin - active nuclei in the sample ,  placed in a static magnetic field ,  are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by ultra - performance liquid chromatography before being converted into ions which are characterised by their mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by high - performance liquid chromatography before the energy states of spin - active nuclei in the sample ,  placed in a static magnetic field ,  are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
mass spectrometry where a neutral sample ,  in the form of a gas or aerosol flow ,  is ionised by directing it into a plume of charged droplets ,  generated by forcing a solution of pure solvent through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1 - 10 microlitres per minute )  into an electric field .
a pulse sequence which is applied during nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy to measure spin–spin  ( t2 )  relaxation times .
a pulse sequence which is applied during nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy of quadrupolar nuclei ,  to measure spin–spin  ( t2 )  relaxation times .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 33s nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of spin - active nuclei placed in a static  (  > 900 mhz )  magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 77se nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of spin - active nuclei placed in a static  (  > 300 mhz )  magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
a type of homonuclear nmr spectroscopy where only one frequency dimension is employed ,  based on the nuclear overhauser enhancement effect in which correlations are seen between nuclei that are spatially proximate within a molecule  (  < =6 angstrom apart )  .
a type of homonuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed ,  based on the nuclear overhauser enhancement effect in which correlations are seen between nuclei that are spatially proximate within a molecule  (  < =6 angstrom apart )  .
mass spectrometry where the sample  ( which is held in a liquid matrix )  is bombarded with a stream of primary noble gas atoms and the secondary ions ejected from the sample are detected .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 2h nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
a heteronuclear nmr experiment in which magnetisation arising from 1h nuclei is transferred to covalently bound heteronuclei ,  thereby enhancing the nmr signal of the heteronuclei .
microscopy where a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 50–150 kv is scanned across an electron - transparent specimen under vacuum .
microscopy where a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 50–150 kv is scanned across an electron - transparent specimen under vacuum .
microscopy where a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 50–150 kv is scanned across an electron - transparent specimen under vacuum .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of x - rays at the sample and detecting the positions and intensities of the diffracted x - rays as a pattern of spots on a photographic plate .
a type of nmr spectroscopy using pulsed - field gradients where the rate of decay of nmr signals in each component of a sample mixture is measured across a series of experiments .
mass spectrometry where the sample  ( usually a large organic molecule or biomolecule )  is vaporised and ionised using a high - energy pulsed laser .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by gas chromatography then sample ions with different masses are accelerated to the same  ( known )  kinetic energy and the time taken for each ion to reach a detector at a known distance is measured .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised by forcing a solution  ( usually in an organic solvent )  of the sample through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10 l min - 1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets and where sample ions with different masses are accelerated to the same  ( known )  kinetic energy and the time taken for each ion to reach a detector at a known distance is measured .
mass spectrometry where the sample mixture is first separated by liquid chromatography before being ionised by forcing a solution  ( usually in an organic solvent )  of the sample through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10 l min - 1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets and where sample ions with different masses are accelerated to the same  ( known )  kinetic energy and the time taken for each ion to reach a detector at a known distance is measured .
a method where the sample mixture is first separated by reverse - phase liquid chromatography before being ionised by forcing a solution  ( usually in an organic solvent )  of it through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10 ul min1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 31p nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 51v nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by an electrical discharge .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by passing an alternating - voltage electrical discharge between a cu sheet electrode and a discharge electrode separated by a glass slide .
any type of magnetic resonance spectroscopy involving unpaired electrons .
spectroscopy where one electron spin resonance is detected though its effect on another .
spectroscopy where two microwave frequency pulse sequences are used to excite two electron resonance transitions and the effect of the first transition on the second is measured .
spectroscopy where the sample is irradiated by two microwave frequencies which match electron resonance transitions .
spectroscopy where a nuclear resonance is detected though its effect on an electron spin resonance .
spectroscopy where a microwave frequency pulse is used to saturate the electron resonance transitions in a sample ,  and a radio frequency pulse is used excite a nuclear transition .
spectroscopy where a sample is irradiated by a microwave frequency which matches an electron resonance transition ,  whilst nuclei in the vicinty of the unpaired eletron are excited by a radio frequency sweep .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by capillary liquid chromatography before being ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by electromagnetic induction and characterised according to mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
mass spectrometry where a sample mixture is first separated by liquid chromatography before being ionised by forcing the solution  ( usually in an organic solvent )  through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10 l min - 1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by liquid chromatography  ( with a flow rate of nl min - 1 )  before being ionised by forcing the solution  ( usually in an organic solvent )  through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10 l min - 1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets .
amethod where a sample mixture is first separated by liquid chromatography before being ionised ,  and the mass - to - charge ratio of the sample ions is measured whilst the ions are held in a stable orbit by an electric or magnetic field .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by liquid chromatography  ( flow rate nl min - 1 )  before being passed though a 'chip'  ( a microfluidic device )  to the mass spectrometer where the mass - to - charge ratio of the sample ions is measured whilst the ions are held in a stable orbit by an electric or magnetic field .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised under atmospheric pressure in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by passing an electrical discharge between two electrodes .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised under atmospheric pressure in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by passing an electrical discharge between two electrodes .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of x - rays at a powder sample and detecting the positions and intensities of the diffracted x - rays as a pattern of spots on a photographic plate .
spectroscopy where by intentionally matching the plasmon resonance frequency of a gold nanoparticle with the frequency of the electronic transition energy of a biomolecule ,  energy transfer occurs which gives rise to resonant quenching dips in the rayleigh scattering spectrum of the particle .
any method where a biological sample is illuminated with a light source and the energy transfer between molecules can be used for imaging and to measure inter - molecular distances .
spectroscopy where the spontaneous fluorescence intensity fluctuations of a sample are measured and correlated within a very small detection volume .
spectroscopy where the spontaneous fluorescence intensity fluctuations of a sample are measured and correlated within a very small detection volume which is moving with respect to the sample .
spectroscopy where infrared light is introduced into a prism at an angle exceeding the critical angle for internal reflection .
microscopy which uses a microparticle  ( usually made of silica )  mounted on the end of a cantilever to scan the surface of a colloidal specimen .
spectroscopy where ultraviolet light is used to stimulate fluorescence in a sample ,  and the spontaneous fluorescence intensity fluctuations are measured and correlated within a very small detection volume .
spectroscopy where the spontaneous fluorescence intensity fluctuations of a sample emitted at supercritical angles are measured and correlated within a very small detection volume .
spectroscopy where the spontaneous fluorescence intensity fluctuations of a sample are measured at several different points in parallel and correlated within very small detection volumes .
microscopy where the specimen is stained with heavy metals salts  ( to improve contrast )  before being bombarded with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 50–150 kv under vacuum .
microscopy where a finely focused electron beam is scanned across the specimen under vacuum and the secondary and backscattered electrons produced are detected .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light ,  from a visible laser ,  by a single molecule sample adsorbed onto a metal  ( au ,  ag or cu )  surface is detected .
microscopy where fluorophores in the specimen can be made to fluoresce  ( emit energy as visible light )  by absorption of two or more photons .
microscopy where fluorophores in the specimen can be made to fluoresce  ( emit energy as visible light )  by the near - simultaneous absorption of two photons .
spectroscopy where luminesence  ( the emission of visible light )  from molecules irradiated with light ,  is detected as a function of wavelength .
a type of nmr experiment employed for protein samples in which relaxation mechanisms are optimised in order to suppress transverse relaxation times  ( t2 )  and deliver only the sharpest signal present in a multiplet .
spectroscopy based on the differential absorption of polarised light by a sample .
spectroscopy based on the differential absorption  ( parallel and perpendicular to the orientation axis )  of linearly polarised light by a sample .
spectroscopy based on the differential diffuse reflectance of left -  and right - handed circularly polarised light by a sample .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in phase of x - rays scattered by a sample .
the measurement of the extent to which a sample interacts with polarized electromagnetic radiation by transmission ,  reflection ,  refraction ,  or diffraction .
spectroscopy where the response of a nucleus with non - zero spin to a perturbing magnetic field is detected at temperatures above or below the ambient probe temperature .
a type of two - dimensional epr spectroscopy based on the electron spin - echo envelope modulation  ( eseem )  effect ,  where a sequence of four microwave pulses is applied to the sample and the stimulated spin - echo produced is measured .
a type of activation analysis where a sample is bombarded with neutrons ,  the capture of which results in the generation of radioactive nuclei for most elements in the sample .
spectroscopy based on the differential absorption or reflection of polarised infrared light by a sample .
spectroscopy based on the differential absorption of polarised infrared light by a set of isotopically labelled sites in a sample .
the measurement of light rotation as a function of wavelength .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 129xe nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 197au nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 119sn nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
a type of nmr spectroscopy where a spatially inhomogeneous magnetic field with a defined gradient is used ,  either to select a particular signal or to render unwanted signals undetectable .
a type of nmr spectroscopy using pulsed - field gradients where the rate of decay of nmr signals in each component of a sample mixture is measured across a series of experiments .
a two -  or three - dimensional plot of one -  or two - dimensional nmr spectra vs . the diffusion coefficients of the species involved .
spectroscopy where the sample absorbs radiation in the range ultraviolet to near - infrared  ( 190–2000 nm )  resulting in electronic transitions within the sample .
an information content entity that is output by an assay .
a plot of cell current vs . the potential between the indicator and reference electrodes obtained from a cyclic voltammetry experiment .
column chromatography where the mobile phase is a liquid ,  the stationary phase consists of very small  (  <  2 microm )  particles and the inlet pressure is relatively high .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by high - performance liquid chromatography before being converted into ions which are characterised by their mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised and the ions are accelerated to very high kinetic energies by an ion source that works by sampling an ion beam travelling in a direction orthogonal to the axis of the flight path in the mass - to - charge analyser .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised and the ions are accelerated to the same  ( known )  very high kinetic energies by an ion source that works by sampling an ion beam travelling in a direction orthogonal to the axis of the flight path in the mass - to - charge analyser .
a plot of absorbance vs . wavelength ,  obtained by measuring the amount of radiation absorbed by a sample as a function of the wavelength of incident radiation ,  which reflects the electronic degrees of freedom of an atom or molecule .
a plot of a measured quantity against some experimental parameter .
a plot of absorbance vs . wavelength obtained by measuring the amount of radiation absorbed by a sample as a function of the wavelength of incident radiation .
a plot of decibels  vs . frequency obtained by measuring the amount of noise generated by a sample as a function of frequency of incident radiation .
a plot of alpha - particle count vs . energy obtained by measuring the number and kinetic energies of alpha - particles emitted by a sample .
a plot of absorption or emission radiation vs . frequency that reflects the internal degrees of freedom of an atom ,  obtained in an experiment where the sample is vaporised and then atomised .
a plot of beta - particle count vs . energy obtained by measuring the number and energy of beta - particles emitted by a sample .
a plot of relative abundance  ( % )  vs . mass - to - charge ratio obtained from a mass spectrometry experiment .
a plot of relative abundance  ( % )  vs . mass - to - charge ratio obtained from a mass spectrometry experiment where the ions are obtained by the sample interacting with reagent  ( n2 ,  o2 ,  h2o )  gaseous ions at low pressure .
a plot of ellipticity vs . wavelength obtained by measuring the differential absorption of left -  and right - handed circularly polarised photon radiation as a function of wavelength .
a plot of force vs . distance obtained by measuring the force experienced by a tip against position on a surface .
a plot of intensity vs . energy loss obtained by measuring the energy lost by electrons on interacting with a surface .
a spectrum that reflects the electronic degrees of freedom of an atom or molecule .
a plot of relative abundance  ( % )  vs . mass - to - charge ratio obtained from a mass spectrometry experiment  where the ions are obtained by forcing a solution  ( usually in an organic solvent )  of the sample through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10 l min - 1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets .
a plot of emission against wavelength obtained by measuring the emitted spectral radiant power against a quantity related to photon energy such as frequency ,  wavenumber or wavelength .
a plot of emission against wavelength  obtained by measuring the emitted spectral radiant power against a quantity related to photon energy such as frequency ,  wavenumber or wavelength and corrected for wavelength - dependent instrumental and sample effects .
a plot of intensity against wavelength obtained by measuring the amount of radiation emitted by a sample through fluorescence against the frequency of the incident radiation .
a plot of gamma - ray count vs . energy spectrum obtained by measuring the number and energy of gamma - rays emitted or absorbed by a sample .
a plot of impedance  ( ω )  vs . frequency that reflects the change in impedance of a sample during excitation .
a plot of absorbance or emission vs . wavelength / wavenumber / frequency obtained by measuring the absorption or emission of infrared radiation by a sample .
a spectrum obtained from a very small portion of a sample ,  for example by means of a microscope .
a plot of emission vs . wavelength obtained through a fourier transform of the time series of the radiation emitted by a sample of gas phase molecules that have been excited by a microwave - frequency pulse .
a plot of intensity vs . wavelength obtained by measuring the sound emitted when a gaseous sample is exposed to an intense laser beam ,  which is rapidly interrupted by a rotating slotted disk .
a plot of photoelectron count vs . kinetic energy .
a plot of intensity vs . raman shift  ( cm - 1 )  obtained by measuring the raman scattering of monochromatic light from a sample .
a spectrum that reflects the rotational degrees of freedom of a molecule .
a plot of reflectance vs . incident frequency or angle obtained by measuring the resonant excitation of surface plasmons  ( usually on a au or ag surface )  by ultraviolet or visible light .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 13c nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
a plot of relative abundance  ( % )  vs . mass - to - charge ratio obtained from a mass spectrometry experiment where the ions are obtained by forcing a pressurised solution of the sample through a heated metal capillary tip .
a plot of relative abundance  ( % )  vs . mass - to - charge ratio obtained from a mass spectrometry experiment where the mass - to - charge ratio is determined from the time they take to reach a detector .
a spectrum that reflects the vibrational degrees of freedom of a molecule .
a plot of intensity vs . energy obtained by measuring the number and energy of x - rays absorbed or emitted by a sample .
a plot of a relative biological or chemical photoresponse per number of incident photons against wavelength or energy of radiation under the same radiant power of light .
a plot of a quantity related to the absorption ,  for example absorbance or cross section ,  multiplied by the quantum yield for the process considered against a measure of photon energy such as frequency ,  wavenumber or wavelength .
a plot of the spectral radiant exitance or of the spectral photon exitance against the frequency  ( or wavenumber ,  or wavelength )  of excitation .
a three - dimensional spectrum generated by scanning the emission spectrum at incremental steps of excitation wavelength .
any spectrum that shows the response of spin - active nuclei to radio frequency radiation in an applied magnetic field .
a plot of intensity vs . magnetic field strength obtained by measuring the absorption of radiation due to spin - state transitions of unpaired electrons against a perturbing magnetic field ,  in the presence of fixed - frequency microwave radiation .
a plot of chemical shift vs . intensity for carbon - 13 nuclei obtained by measuring the effect of the absorption of radio frequency radiation on nuclear spin - state transitions in the presence of a magnetic field .
a plot of chemical shift vs . intensity and possibly other parameters for hydrogen - 1 nuclei obtained by measuring the effect of the absorption of radio frequency radiation on nuclear spin - state transitions in the presence of a magnetic field .
a plot of chemical shift vs . intensity for phosphorus - 31 nuclei obtained by measuring the effect of the absorption of radio frequency radiation on nuclear spin - state transitions in the presence of a magnetic field .
a plot of intensity vs . velocity obtained by measuring the intensity and kinetic energy of a beam of gamma - rays transmitted through a solid sample .
a plot of intensity vs . wavelength obtained by measuring the amount of radiation emitted by a sample through phosphorescence against the wavelength of the incident radiation .
a plot of absorbance vs . wavelength obtained by measuring the amount of radiation absorbed by a sample as a function of the wavelength of incident radiation in the ultraviolet to visible  ( 190–800 nm )  range .
a plot of chemical shift vs . intensity for boron - 11 nuclei obtained by measuring the effect of the absorption of radio frequency radiation on nuclear spin - state transitions in the presence of a magnetic field .
a plot of chemical shift vs . intensity for nitrogen - 15 nuclei obtained by measuring the effect of the absorption of radio frequency radiation on nuclear spin - state transitions in the presence of a magnetic field .
a plot of chemical shift vs . intensity for fluorine - 19 nuclei obtained by measuring the effect of the absorption of radio frequency radiation on nuclear spin - state transitions in the presence of a magnetic field .
a plot of chemical shift vs . intensity for sulfur - 33 nuclei obtained by measuring the effect of the absorption of radio frequency radiation on nuclear spin - state transitions in the presence of a magnetic field .
a plot of the resonance frequency of vanadium - 51 nuclei in the same magnetic environment on a scale relative to their resonance frequency and with intensities proportional to the populations of nuclei in those environments .
a plot of chemical shift vs . intensity for selenium - 77 nuclei obtained by measuring the effect of the absorption of radio frequency radiation on nuclear spin - state transitions in the presence of a magnetic field .
data which is obtained from a diffraction experiment .
data which is obtained from an x - ray diffraction experiment .
data which is obtained from an x - ray diffraction experiment where the specimen is a powder .
data which is obtained from an x - ray diffraction experiment where the specimen is a single crystal .
a plot of absorbance or emission vs . wavelength / wavenumber / frequency obtained through a fourier transform of the times series of the absorption of a sample that has been excited by an infrared - frequency pulse .
a plot of intensity vs . kinetic energy obtained when a high energy photon ionises a core electron and an electron from a higher energy level descends to take its place ,  releasing sufficient energy to eject a second so - called 'auger' electron .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 31p nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
a nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum in which line broadening has been averaged to zero by spinning the solid sample very rapidly at the magic angle  ( 54 .74° with respect to the direction of the magnetic field )  .
a nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum where the nuclei of interest are carbon - 13 nuclei and in which line broadening has been averaged to zero by spinning the sample very rapidly at the magic angle  ( 54 .74° with respect to the direction of the magnetic field )  .
a nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum where the nuclei of interest are phosphorus - 31 nuclei and in which line broadening has been averaged to zero by spinning the sample very rapidly at the magic angle  ( 54 .74° with respect to the direction of the magnetic field )  .
the ftir analysis of volatile compounds released during the measurement of the mass of a sample as a function of temperature .
the ms analysis of volatile compounds released during the measurement of the mass of a sample as a function of temperature .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of x - rays at the sample which is heated from 25–2000 °c and detecting the positions and intensities of the diffracted x - rays as a pattern of spots on a photographic plate .
a method for determining structure by directing a parallel beam of x - rays at the sample and detecting the positions and intensities of the diffracted x - rays as a pattern of spots on a photographic plate .
a method for probing the free volume between polymer chains in which the anti - particle of an electron  ( a positron )  is injected ,  from a radioactive source into the sample .
a plot of intensity against wavelength obtained by measuring the amount of radiation emitted by a sample through luminescence against the frequency of the incident radiation .
a plot of intensity vs . wavelength obtained by measuring the intensity of radiation emitted by a sample through photoluminescence  ( emission of light as a result of stimulation with light )  against the frequency / wavelength of the incident radiation .
a plot of intensity vs . wavelength obtained by measuring the amount of radiation emitted by a sample through photoluminescence  ( emission of visible light )  against the frequency of the incident radiation at room temperature .
a plot of intensity vs . wavelength obtained by measuring the amount of radiation emitted by a sample through photoluminescence  ( emission of visible light )  against the frequency of the incident radiation at low temperature .
mass spectrometry where the sample  ( usually a large organic molecule or biomolecule )  is vaporised and ionised using a high - energy pulsed laser .
mass spectrometry where the sample  ( usually a large organic molecule or biomolecule )  is vaporised and ionised using a high - energy pulsed laser .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of near - infrared radiation  ( radiation in the range 0 .8–2 μm )  is detected .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by electromagnetic induction .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by gas chromatography before being ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by electromagnetic induction ,  and characterised according to mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by ion - exchange chromatography before being ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by electromagnetic induction ,  and characterised according to mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
conductive afm is used for collecting simultaneous topography imaging and current imaging .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light ,  from a visible laser ,  at a metal  ( au ,  ag or cu )  electrochemcial interface is detected .
spectroscopy where the change in impedance  ( the resistance of alternating current )  of an electrochemical cell is measured .
a method for determining structure by directing a short  ( ns or ps )  pulse beam of x - rays at the sample and detecting the positions and intensities of the diffracted x - rays as a pattern of spots on a photographic plate as a function of time .
spectroscopy where the luminesence  ( the emission of visible light )  from a small area  (  < 10 microns diameter )  of a sample which has been illuminated with light ,  is detected .
spectroscopy where the response of an atom with an unpaired electron to short  ( ns )  pulses of high - frequency microwave radiation  ( mm wavelength )  in a high magnetic field is measured .
spectroscopy where the response of an atom with an unpaired electron to short  ( ns )  pulses of low - frequency microwave ,  l - band  ( cm wavelength )  or radio frequency  ( m wavelength )  radiation in a magnetic field is measured .
spectroscopy used to measure very slow rotational motions where the response of an atom with an unpaired electron to short  ( ns )  pulses of microwave radiation in a magnetic field is measured .
spectroscopy where the longitudinal response of an atom with an unpaired electron in a magnetic field to two transverse waves is detected .
mass spectrometry where a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  is directed onto the surface of interest causing desorption of sample molecules from the surface and subsequent ionisation .
mass spectrometry where neutral molecules are desorbed from the sample  ( usually biological )  using a nitrogen laser and then ionised by collision with charged solvent droplets which are formed by forcing the solvent through a small heated capillary into an electric field .
spectroscopy where vibrational optical activity from a sample absorbed onto a metal  ( au ,  ag or cu )  surface is measured by means of a small difference in the intensity of raman scattering from chiral molecules of right -  and left - circularly polarised incident light .
mass spectrometry where purified gas obtained from a sample is alternated rapidly with a standard gas  ( of known isotopic composition )  by means of a system of valves ,  so that a number of comparative measurements are made of both gases .
mass spectrometry where the relative abundance of isotopes in a sample is determined .
a type of nmr spectroscopy where  ( j / scalar )  couplings to 1h nuclei are cancelled by applying radio frequency radiation to saturate or otherwise manipulate the 1h spins such that no evolution of the coupling occurs .
a type of nmr spectroscopy where  ( j / scalar )  couplings between 31p and 1h nuclei are cancelled by applying radio frequency radiation to saturate or otherwise manipulate the 1h spins such that no evolution of the coupling occurs .
a type of nmr spectroscopy where  ( j / scalar )  couplings between 13c and 1h nuclei are cancelled by applying radio frequency radiation to saturate or otherwise manipulate the 1h spins such that no evolution of the coupling occurs .
a nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum where  ( j / scalar )  coupling patterns between protons and heteronuclei have been removed .
a nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum where the nuclei of interest are phosphorus - 31 nuclei and  ( j / scalar )  coupling patterns between protons and phosphorus - 31 nuclei have been removed .
a nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum where the nuclei of interest are carbon - 13 nuclei and  ( j / scalar )  coupling patterns between protons and carbon - 13 nuclei have been removed .
data which is obtained from an electron diffraction experiment .
data which is obtained from a transmission high - energy electron diffraction experiment .
a magic angle spinning nmr experiment in which the evolution of dipolar couplings between nuclei is controlled by applying pulses at appropriate points in the rotational period ,  allowing the determination of the size of the coupling and ,  thus ,  yielding distance information .
a type of nmr spectroscopy where radio frequency pulses are used to induce an equal population of upper and lower spin states in  ( 'saturate' )  certain selected protons ,  removing their signal from the nmr spectrum .
a type of nmr spectroscopy where radio frequency pulses are used to induce an equal population of upper and lower spin states in  ( 'saturate' )  certain selected protons ,  removing their signal from the nmr spectrum .
spectroscopy where the diffuse reflection of radiation in the range ultraviolet to visible  ( 190–800 nm )  by a sample is measured .
a plot of photoelectron count vs . kinetic energy  ( following illumination of the sample with x - rays )  .
data which is obtained from a neutron diffraction experiment .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of x - rays at the sample and detecting the positions and intensities of the diffracted x - rays as a pattern of spots on a photographic plate as a function of temperature .
an nmr experiment in which differences in chemical shift are used to give information about the orientation of those spins with respect to the field and ,  thus ,  the orientation of the molecule .
an nmr technique whereby paramagnetic ions are introduced to a sample which cause enhanced relaxation of the spins in proximity of the paramagnetic spin label ,  giving long - range  ( up to 24 å )  structural information .
an nmr experiment which exploits the increased efficiency of energy  ( magnetisation )  transfer between nuclei via dipolar coupling in rigid or semi - rigid samples .
an nmr experiment which measures the variation in amplitude of signals from dipolar - coupled nuclei over time ,  yielding information about the number of coupled nuclei in the system .
an nmr experiment which exploits the increased efficiency of energy  ( magnetisation )  transfer between 1h nuclei via dipolar coupling in rigid or semi - rigid samples .
an nmr experiment which exploits the increased efficiency of energy  ( magnetisation )  transfer between 19f nuclei via dipolar coupling in rigid or semi - rigid samples .
magic angle spinning nmr experiments in which dipolar coupling is reintroduced to obtain information on the proximity of nuclei within the sample .
a two - dimensional nmr experiment which exploits the differential dipolar couplings which nuclei exhibit to their neighboring protons within local magnetic fields .
a two - dimensional nmr experiment which exploits the differential dipolar couplings which 15n nuclei exhibit to their neighboring protons within local magnetic fields .
an nmr experiment which measures the variation in amplitude of signals from dipolar - coupled 19f nuclei over time ,  yielding information about the number of coupled nuclei in the system .
an nmr experiment in which differences in chemical shift of 15n nuclei under isotropic  ( unaligned media )  and anisotropic  ( aligned media )  conditions are used to give information about the orientation of those spins with respect to the field and ,  thus ,  the orientation of the molecule .
a plot of enthalpy vs . temperature obtained by measuring the enthalpy required to increase the temperature of a sample as a function of temperature .
the study of the flow of fluids which cannot be defined by a single value of viscosity .
the characterisation of flow or deformation of a liquid ,  which cannot be defined by a single value of viscosity ,  as a result of shear stress .
the study of the temperature dependence of the relationship between deformation and stress for fluids which cannot be defined by a single value of viscosity .
a plot of stress vs . flow rate obtained from rheological measurements .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of x - rays at the sample and detecting the positions and intensities of the diffracted x - rays as a pattern of spots on a photographic plate .
a two - dimensional solid - state nmr experiment which correlates the chemical shift anisotropy of a nucleus with its isotropic chemical shift by performing a series of experiments each at a different spinning angle relative to the magnetic field .
an electrochemical technique where the cell current is measured as a function of time and as a function of the potential between the indicator and reference electrodes .
a plot of cell current vs . the potential between the indicator and reference electrodes obtained from a voltammetry experiment .
a plot of cell current vs . the potential between the indicator and reference electrodes obtained from a square - wave voltammetry experiment .
the measurement of the strength and / or direction of magnetic fields ,  or the magnetic susceptibility of a sample .
the measurement of the change in magnetic field caused by the vibration of a sample .
the measurement of very small magnetic fields  ( 5 x 10 - 18 t )  using a superconducting quantum interference device .
the measurement of the velocity of a moving object or medium .
a method for determining the velocity of fluids by tracking the diffracted or fluorescent light emitted from individual particles in successive digital camera images .
a magic angle spinning nmr dipolar recoupling technique used to determine dipolar couplings between 1h and 13c nuclei .
a plot of relative abundance  ( % )  vs . mass - to - charge ratio obtained from a mass spectrometry experiment  ,  where the ions are obtained by forcing a solution  ( usually in an organic solvent )  of the sample through a small cold  ( 10–80 °c )  capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10 l min1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets .
any type of heteronuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed .
a two - dimensional plot of chemical shift vs . intensity for spin - active nuclei obtained by measuring the effect of the absorption of radio frequency radiation on nuclear spin - state transitions in the presence of a magnetic field .
a nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum where the where the nuclei of interest are carbon - 13 nuclei ,  the signals from which are enhanced by the transfer of magnetisation from 1h nuclei .
a two - dimensional nmr spectrum in which peaks appear at the chemical shift of  ( usually )  protons in one dimension and at the chemical shift of their covalently - bound heteroatoms in the other dimension .
a heteronuclear nmr spectrum where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between nuclei which are 2–3 bonds removed .
the study of radiation as a function of wavelength that has been reflected from or scattered by a sample .
a plot of reflectance  ( % )  vs . wavenumber obtained by measuring the amount of radiation reflected by a sample .
the study of radiation as a function of wavelength that has been transmitted through a sample .
a plot of transmittance vs . wavelength .
microscopy where an electric field is applied to a sharp spike  ( known as a 'tip' )  which is mounted on the end of a cantilever .
a piece of apparatus which is used to produce an enlarged image of a specimen by scanning a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage of 50–150 kv across the specimen under vacuum and measuring the interaction of the electrons with the specimen .
a piece of apparatus which is used to produce an enlarged image of a specimen by scanning a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam produced by thermionic emission heating  ( field emission )  with an acceleration voltage of 50–150 kv across the specimen under vacuum and measuring interaction of the electrons with the specimen .
a microscope which uses a probe to scan the surface of the specimen ,  mechanically moving the probe in a raster scan of the specimen ,  line by line ,  and recording the probe - surface interaction as a function of position ,  producing an image of the surface .
a piece of apparatus that contains a reagent gas that reacts preferentially with certain species in order to allow only the analyte ions into the mass - to - charge analyser and the detector .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of a laser ,  an optical microscope ,  a condenser and a ccd camera ,  that is used to manipulate microscopic particles .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of an eyepiece ,  an objective lens ,  object turret ,  stage ,  and light source ,  which collects electromagnetic radiation in the visible range .
a piece of apparatus ,  based on a semiconductor chip ,  which converts the intensity of light falling onto its surface at different points into a charge .
a diffractometer in which the detector is a charge - coupled device .
a piece of apparatus which illuminates a sample with x - rays ,  electrons or neutrons and measures the diffraction pattern produced .
a sharp spike which is mounted on the end of a cantilever and used to scan the surface of a specimen in atomic force microscopy .
a cantilever used in atomic force microscopy to transmit force from the tip to a recording device .
a piece of apparatus which is used to generate an image of the surface of a specimen ,  whether by focusing reflected light onto where it can be collected or by scanning a given area of the surface .
a microscope which uses a sharp spike  ( known as a 'tip' )  mounted on the end of a cantilever to scan the surface of the specimen .
a mass spectrometer that uses an inductively coupled plasma torch ,  an ion source that consists of a torch that is surrounded by a radio frequency generator that ionises argon gas inside the torch to form a high - temperature  ( up to 10 000 k )  plasma that can be used to ionise analytes .
an ion source that consists of a torch that is surrounded by a radio frequency generator that ionises argon gas inside the torch to form a high - temperature  ( up to 10 000 k )  plasma that can be used to ionise analytes .
an ion source that consists of a high - pressure ionisation chamber containing a reagent gas  ( for example n2 ,  o2 or h2o )  which is ionised by high - energy electrons from a heated strip of metal and goes on to react with the analyte to ionise it .
a mass spectrometer that uses an electron ionisation source ,  which consists of a thin strip of metal that is heated electrically to incandescence or a temperature at which it emits free electrons that are accelerated through a potential to an energy where they ionise the sample .
an ion source that consists of an ionisation chamber and a thin strip of metal that is heated electrically to incandescence or a temperature at which it emits free electrons that are accelerated through a potential to an energy where they ionise the sample .
a piece of apparatus that takes an analyte and generates ions which are passed to the rest of a mass spectrometer for analysis .
an ion source that works by sampling an ion beam travelling in a direction orthogonal to the axis of the flight path in the mass - to - charge analyser .
a mass spectrometer which uses a time - of - flight mass - to - charge analyser to separate ions .
a piece of apparatus that consists of an ion source ,  a mass - to - charge analyser ,  a detector and a vacuum system and is used to measure mass spectra .
a piece of apparatus consisting of paired trapping plates ,  receiver plates and transmitter plates which provides a magnetic field that coherently excites ions according to their cyclotron frequencies which depend on their mass - to - charge ratio .
a mass spectrometer that uses an ion cyclotron resonance cell  ( a piece of apparatus that measures the frequency at which ions precesses in a fixed magnetic field and subjects the frequency output to a fourier transform )  as a mass - to - charge analyser and detector .
a mass - to - charge analyser that uses a quadrupolar potential  ( generated by four parallel electrodes )  to constrain the trajectories of ions according to their mass - to - charge ratio .
a mass - to - charge analyser that consists of a set of four linear electrodes and allows only ions of a given mass - to - charge ratio ,  set according to the direct current and radio frequency potentials ,  to reach a detector .
a mass - to - charge analyser that consists of two coaxial axially symmetric electrodes ,  the outer one in the shape of a barrel ,  the inner one in the shape of a spindle ,  that traps ions in oscillating trajectories along the z - axis according to their mass - to - charge ratio .
a mass - to - charge analyser that uses a two - dimensional quadrupole field  ( generated by four parallel electrodes )  to constrain ions radially into trajectories that correspond to their mass - to - charge ratio .
a mass - to - charge analyser that uses a three - dimensional quadrupole field  ( generated by four parallel electrodes )  to trap ions in orbits that correspond to their mass - to - charge ratio .
an open - tubular column in which a layer of porous particles deposited from a suspension coats the inner wall and serves as a support for a liquid stationary phase .
an open - tubular column in which a porous layer ,  achieved by either etching a non - porous layer or by deposition of porous particles from a suspension ,  coats the inner wall and may serve as a support for a liquid stationary phase or as the stationary phase itself .
an open - tubular column in which the liquid stationary phase is coated on the unmodified smooth inner wall of the tube .
a chromatography column in which either the inner tube wall or a liquid or active solid held stationary on the tube wall acts as the stationary phase and there is an open ,  unrestricted path for the mobile phase .
a chromatography column that contains a solid packing .
a chromatography column that contains very small particles and is capable of taking a high inlet pressure .
a mass spectrometer which uses a time - of - flight mass - to - charge analyser and a reflectron to separate ions .
a piece of apparatus which separates ions according to their mass - to - charge ratio .
a piece of apparatus which produces an electric field that accelerates ions in a mass - to - charge analyser in a direction opposite to their direction of travel ,  acting as an ion mirror to separate ions of the same mass - to - charge ratio that have different kinetic energy .
a piece of apparatus which accelerates a sample of ions so that they all have the same kinetic energy across a field - free drift region of length 1–2 m to a detector ,  thus separating the ions by their velocity ,  which is proportional to their mass - to - charge ratio .
a mass spectrometer which uses a time - of - flight mass - to - charge analyser to separate ions .
a piece of apparatus that consists of at least an ion source ,  a mass - to - charge analyser ,  a detector and a vacuum system and is used to measure mass spectra .
a piece of apparatus that has the form of a tube with an internal diameter of 20–100 micrometres and hosts the separation medium in capillary electrophoresis .
a liquid that plays the role of the stationary component in chromatography ,  and may be chemically bonded or immobilized onto a solid .
a solid that plays the role of the stationary component in chromatography .
a solid ,  gel or liquid that plays the role of the stationary component in chromatography .
a piece of apparatus that has the form of a tube with a diameter of less than a millimetre and hosts the stationary bed in chromatography .
an open chromatographic bed that consists of a sheet of paper ,  often filter paper .
an open chromatographic bed that consists of a thin  ( 0 .10 to 0 .25 mm )  layer of sorbent applied to a firm backing of glass ,  aluminium or a plastic sheet to act as a support .
a piece of apparatus that is planar and is or hosts the stationary bed in chromatography .
a liquid that percolates through the stationary bed in chromatography .
a supercritical fluid that percolates through the stationary bed in chromatography .
an independent material continuant that is self - connected and retains its identity over time .
one of the portions of material between which the components to be separated are distributed in chromatography .
a fluid that percolates through or along the stationary bed in chromatography .
a gas that percolates through the stationary bed in chromatography .
a piece of apparatus that has the form of a tube with a diameter between 5 to 50 mm and hosts the stationary bed in chromatography .
a method that results in the separation of two or more components according to some property .
a separation method where the components are distributed between two phases ,  one of which is stationary ,  while the other moves in a definite direction .
a chromatography method where the stationary bed is within a tube  ( of standard length 25 cm )  .
column chromatography where the mobile phase is a gas .
column chromatography where the mobile phase is a fluid above and relatively close to its critical temperature and pressure .
column chromatography where the mobile phase is a liquid .
a chromatography method where the stationary phase is present as or on a plane .
chromatography where the separation is caused by differing biological specificity of the analyte - ligand interactions .
a chromatography method where the stationary phase is a thin  ( 0 .10 to 0 .25 mm )  layer of sorbent applied to a firm backing such as glass ,  aluminium or plastic sheet .
a chromatography method where the stationary phase is or is impregnated in a sheet of paper .
column chromatography where the mobile phase is a liquid ,  the stationary phase consists of very small particles and the inlet pressure is relatively high .
column chromatography where the separation is caused by exclusion effects such as differences in molecular size ,  shape or charge .
column chromatography where the separation is caused by exclusion effects within the stationary phase and where the stationary phase is a swollen gel .
column chromatography where the separation is caused by differences in charge ,  the mobile phase is aqueous and the analyte is ionic .
column chromatography where the separation is caused by differences in molecular size .
column chromatography where the separation is caused by differences in ion - exchange affinity .
gas chromatography where the stationary phase is a solid .
gas chromatography where the stationary phase is a liquid .
a method that results in the separation of two components along two physical axes .
a two - dimensional separation method where the separation processes are both chromatography .
a separation method where colloidal particles move at different speeds according to their electrophoretic mobilities in a separation medium ,  across which an electric field is applied .
a two - dimensional separation method where the separation processes are both electrophoresis .
a separation method where colloidal particles move at different speeds according to their electrophoretic mobilities in a separation medium consisting of gel ,  across which an electric field is applied .
a separation method where colloidal particles move at different speeds according to their electrophoretic mobilities in a separation medium consisting of agarose gel ,  across which an electric field is applied .
a separation method where colloidal particles move at different speeds according to their charge and frictional forces in a separation medium consisting of polyacrylamide gel ,  across which an electric field is applied .
an electrophoresis method which takes place in a capillary .
an electrophoresis method in a discontinuous buffer system where the analytes migrate according to their electrophoretic mobilities ,  forming a chain of adjacent zones moving with equal velocity between two solutions ,  the leading and terminating electrolytes ,  bracketing the mobility range of the analytes .
an electrophoresis method for the separation of amphoteric analytes according to their isoelectric points by the application of an electric field along a ph gradient .
a separation method where colloidal particles move at different speeds according to their charge and frictional forces in a separation medium consisting of polyacrylamide gel ,  across which an electric field is applied ,  and the electrophoretic mobility of the analytes ,  usually proteins is altered by their binding to sodium dodecyl sulfate .
a two dimensional gel electrophoresis method where protein analytes have been previously labelled with different fluorescent dyes and different analytes are compared .
a two - dimensional separation method where the separation processes are both gel electrophoresis .
an electrophoresis method where the separation medium contains a reticulated system ,  for example an entangled polymer network ,  that further separates the analytes according to their size and shape .
an electrophoresis method that takes place in a capillary and where the separation medium contains a reticulated system ,  for example an entangled polymer network ,  that further separates the analytes according to their size and shape .
a separation method that takes place in a capillary and where colloidal particles move at different speeds according to their electrophoretic mobilities in a separation medium consisting of gel ,  across which an electric field is applied .
an electrophoresis method for the separation of amphoteric analytes according to their isolectric points by the application of an electric field along a ph gradient in a capillary .
an electrophoresis method in a capillary containing a discontinuous buffer system where the analytes migrate according to their electrophoretic mobilities ,  forming a chain of adjacent zones moving with equal velocity between two solutions ,  the leading and terminating electrolytes ,  bracketing the mobility range of the analytes .
a separation method based on a combination of electrophoresis and interactions of the analytes with additives which form a dispersed phase moving at a different velocity .
electrokinetic chromatography where the secondary phase is a micellar dispersed phase .
electrokinetic chromatography where the secondary phase is a microemulsion .
electrokinetic chromatography where the movement of the mobile phase through a capillary is achieved by electroosmotic flow .
an electrophoresis method which takes place in a capillary where the separation medium has specific interactions with the analytes .
an electrophoresis method where the separation medium has specific interactions with the analytes .
electrokinetic chromatography where the secondary phase has liposomes suspended in it .
a separation method where colloidal particles consisting of polynucleotides move at different speeds according to their charge and frictional forces in a separation medium consisting of a gel that contains a denaturing agent that causes double - stranded dna to unzip ,  across which an electric field is applied .
a separation method where colloidal particles consisting of polynucleotides move at different speeds according to their charge and frictional forces in a separation medium consisting of a gel ,  across which an electric field is applied and across which there is a gradient of temperatures that cause double - stranded dna to unzip .
a separation method where colloidal particles move at different speeds according to their dielectrophoretic mobilities in a separation medium ,  across which an electric field is applied .
an electrophoresis method where the sample is introduced continuously to the separation chamber and the electric field is applied perpendicular to the hydrodynamic flow resulting in two - dimensional separation of the analytes based on the flow rate and their electrophoretic mobilities .
an electrophoresis method where colloidal particles move at different speeds in a separation medium that has an electrophoretic mobility gradient so that the analytes move and stack in the order of their electrophoretic mobilities .
a method in which a separation method is coupled to a measurement method in order to perform measurements upon different components of a sample .
chromatography which takes place in a separation capillary and where the mobile phase is a liquid .
liquid chromatography where the mobile phase is significantly more polar than the stationary phase ,  for example a microporous silica - based material with chemically bonded alkyl chains .
liquid chromatography where the stationary phase is more polar than the mobile phase .
a mass spectrometer that uses a wedge - shaped magnetic field to separate the total ion beam into discrete ion beams according to the mass - to - charge ratio of the ions .
a piece of apparatus consisting of a magnet which is used to separate an ion beam into discrete ion beams according to the mass - to - charge ratio of the ions .
a piece of apparatus which applies an electric field in order to select ions that have the same kinetic energy from an ion beam .
a mass spectrometer that applies an electric field in order to select ions that have the same kinetic energy from an ion beam and uses a wedge - shaped magnetic field to separate the total ion beam into discrete ion beams according to the mass - to - charge ratio of the ions .
a double - focusing mass spectrometer where the electric sector precedes the magnetic sector .
a double - focusing mass spectrometer where the magnetic sector precedes the reverse sector .
an ion detector consisting of a collector electrode connected to a high - ohmic resistor and surrounded by a faraday cage .
a piece of apparatus that produces an output that depends on the number of ions that it encounters .
a piece of apparatus that on contact with a charged particle of sufficient energy emits a greater number electrons .
an electron multiplier that consists of a sequence of discrete electron multiplier electrodes ,  or dynodes .
an electron multiplier that consists of a single electrode in the form of a horn of plenty .
an ion detector that consists of an aluminised cathode or daly knob held at a very large negative potential that attracts ions and produces secondary electrons which impact a scintillator ,  producing photons that are detected by a photomultiplier .
a piece of apparatus which illuminates a powder sample with x - rays ,  electrons or neutrons and measures the diffraction pattern produced .
a sharp spike mounted on the end of a cantilever which is used to scan the surface of a specimen in atomic force microscopy .
a plot of incident photon - to - current conversion efficiency  ( ipce )  vs . wavelength obtained from a solar or photovoltaic cell .
an nmr experiment for the measurement of heteronuclear dipolar couplings .
a magic - angle spinning nmr experiment to measure dipolar couplings .
spectroscopy where the energy levels of paramagnetic species  ( such as hcn )  are tuned into resonance with a far - infrared laser source in order to investigate rotational transitions .
any type of nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy in which three independent frequency dimensions are employed for the correlation and dispersal of signals  ( by employing two magnetisation transfer steps )  .
a type of heteronuclear three - dimensional nmr experiment in which the proton signals of a 2d tocsy spectrum are dispersed along a third frequency axis according to the chemical shift of their covalently bound heteronuclei .
any type of nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy in which three independent frequency dimensions are employed for the correlation and dispersal of signals .
any type of nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy in which three independent frequency dimensions are employed for the correlation and dispersal of signals .
microscopy in which the same object  ( e .g . ,  a cell )  is imaged at regular time intervals over several hours .
a process where a sample is analyzed for its elemental and sometimes isotopic composition  ( the elements present and sometimes their weight percentage )  .
a type of elemental analysis accomplished by combustion of the sample at 1200 °c in a stream of unreactive gas and excess oxygen and collection of the products  ( co2 ,  h2o and nox )  .
a piece of apparatus used to measure the mass per unit area  ( 1 μg per cm2 )  by measuring the change in frequency of a quartz crystal resonator  ( a quartz crystal sandwiched between a pair of electrodes )  as a function of mass change .
spectroscopy where the differential absorption and reflection of low incident angle p -  and s - polarized infrared light by the surface molecules of a highly reflective or polished sample is measured .
spectroscopy where the energy states 15n nuclei in a solid sample placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states 13c nuclei in a solid sample placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 125te nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
the measurement of the osmotic strength of a substance which often used to determine its molecular weight .
a technique used to determine the concentration of osmotically active particles that reduce the vapor pressure of a solution .
microscopy where the specimen can be made to fluoresce  ( emit energy as visible light )  and the specimen is imaged at regular time intervals over several hours .
a method for separating microscopic particles suspended in a stream of fluid .
a type of electron microscopy where the distribution of electrons emitted by a specimen sample following excitation by uv light ,  synchrotron radiation or x - ray sources is used to produce an image .
a type of electron microscopy where the distribution of electrons emitted by a specimen sample following excitation with an x - ray source is used to produce an image .
a piece of apparatus which is used to produce an enlarged image of a specimen using a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage of 50–150 kv under vacuum and measuring the interaction of the electrons with the specimen .
a piece of apparatus which combines a low energy electron microscope  ( leem )  and an energy filtered x - ray photoemission electron microscope  ( xpeem )  .
spectroscopy used to study processes through in situ observation of the time profile of molecular absorptions .
microscopy where an electron - transparent specimen is bombarded with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 50–150 kv under vacuum and the phase contrast between transmitted electron waves is used to produce an image .
an imaging method which uses the detection of unpaired spins in a magnetic field gradient so that the resonance condition is sensitive to the position of the spins in the sample .
a type of molecular spectroscopy where the sample is placed in a small graphite - coated tube which is rapidly heated by passing a current through it ,  then excited using a glow discharge  ( a potential difference applied across two electrodes immersed in the sample gas )  .
a type of atomic emission spectrometry where the sample is atomised by placing it in a small graphite - coated tube which is rapidly heated by passing a current through it ,  then ionised and excited using a glow discharge  ( a potential difference applied across two electrodes immersed in the sample gas )  .
a microscope that uses an excitation source to produce light which is passed through an excitation filter ,  reflects off the surface of a dichroic mirror onto the specimen which fluoresces ,  producing light that passes through an emission filter to select only the required wavelengths onto the collector lens .
a fluorescence microscope where the light source is mounted above  ( epi )  the specimen and the excitation light passes through the microscope objective lens on its way toward the specimen .
a piece of apparatus that generates electrical current when it experiences a thermal gradient .
a composite wire consisting of a fine platinum core with a silver coating .
a piece of apparatus which is used to produce an enlarged image of an electron transparent specimen using a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage of 50–150 kv under vacuum .
a piece of apparatus which is used to produce an enlarged image of an electron transparent specimen using a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam  ( produced by thermionic emission heating )  with an acceleration voltage of 50–150 kv under vacuum .
x - ray spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with synchrotron radiation  ( radiation produced by the movement of charged particles in a magnetic field )  and the energies and intensities of the x - rays emitted due to core - to - core transitions  ( known as 'x - ray fluorescence' )  are detected .
the recording of the image of an object through the effect of ionising radiation on a film or emulsion .
a data set consisting of a 2d representation obtained from a sample .
an image of an object obtained through the effect of ionising radiation on a film or emulsion .
a two - dimensional separation method where one separation process is isoelectric focusing on a gel and the other separation process is polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis .
a two - dimensional separation method where the separation processes are both polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised to positive ions by forcing a solution  ( usually in an organic solvent )  of the sample through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10 l min - 1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised to positive ions by forcing a solution  ( usually in an organic solvent )  of the sample through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10 l min - 1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets ,  and where sample ions with different masses are accelerated to the same  ( known )  kinetic energy and the time taken for each ion to reach a detector at a known distance is measured .
mass spectrometry involving multiple mass - selection steps ,  with some form of fragmentation occurring between each stage .
a method for determining the velocity of fluids by pulsing a planar laser light sheet twice ,  and recording images of fine particles lying in the light sheet using a video camera or a photograph .
a method for determining the velocity of fluids by pulsing a planar laser light sheet twice ,  and recording images of microscopic particles lying in the light sheet using a video camera or a photograph .
microscopy where the specimen is illuminated with light transmitted from a source on the opposite side of the specimen from the objective ,  and image resolution  ( which is normally limited by diffraction )  is enhanced by processing the images with image restoration algorithms .
mass spectrometry where a thin membrane  ( usually made of a silicone elastomer )  provides a selective means introducing low - molecular - weight volatile organic compounds into the ionisation source .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of x - rays at a sample solution and detecting the positions and intensities of the diffracted x - rays as a pattern of spots on a photographic plate .
a plot of cell current vs . the potential between the indicator and reference electrodes obtained from a differential - pulse voltammetry experiment  ( i .e .
the measurement of cell current ,  whilst the potential difference between the indicator and reference electrodes is controlled ,  associated with the ion transfer across the interface between two immiscible electrolyte solutions  ( ities )  .
any type of nmr spectroscopy used to measure diffusion coefficients .
an nmr experiment in which pulsed field gradients are applied to a spin echo sequence to cleanly and precisely excite particular resonances .
an nmr experiment used to measure self - diffusion coefficients via signal attenuation which occurs due to diffusion during the application of pulsed field gradients .
an nmr experiment used to measure small diffusion coefficients via the attenuation of signals occurring due to molecular diffusion during the application of pulsed field gradients .
a plot of  ( adhesion or rupture )  force vs . loading rate obtained from an atomic force microscopy experiment .
the use of an atomic force microscope to measure rupture or fusion force as a function of loading rate .
spectroscopy where an atomic force microscope is used to measure the force experienced by a sample ,  usually by taking force–distance curves .
a plot of absorbance vs . wavelength obtained by measuring the amount of radiation absorbed by a sample as a function of the wavelength of incident radiation in the ultraviolet to near - infrared  ( 190–2000 nm )  range .
an optical microscope that works by scanning one or more focussed beams of light across the specimen .
an optical microscope that works by scanning a laser across the specimen .
an optical microscope that works by using a spinning nipkow disc ,  a wheel pierced by a spiral of pinholes ,  to illuminate small areas of the sample .
chromatography in which separation is based mainly on differences between the adsorption affinities of the sample components for the surface of an active solid .
chromatography where the mobile phase contains a compound  ( the displacer )  more strongly retained than the components of the sample under examination .
an ion source that produces ions by continuous sputtering of the sample by a glow discharge plasma ,  which is produced by passing a current of several hundred volts through a low pressiure gas ,  usually argon .
a sample preparation method where material is removed from a specimen by illuminating it with a laser beam .
a method in which a sample preparation method is coupled to a measurement method .
the measurement of the viscosity of fluids by observing the relative motion of the fluid and an object .
the determination of the viscosity of a fluid by measuring the time a defined volume of fluid requires to flow through a capillary tube of a specific length and width .
a method for determining structure by detecting the positions and intensities of x - rays ,  that have been generated within a structural domain ,  as a pattern of spots on a photographic plate .
a method for determining structure by detecting the positions and intensities of x - rays ,  that have been generated within a synchrotron ,  as a pattern of spots on a photographic plate .
a method for determining structure by scanning a finely focused  (  < 10 μm2 )  beam of x - rays over the sample and detecting the positions and intensities of the diffracted x - rays as a pattern of spots on a photographic plate .
microscopy where visible light coming from the specimen  ( which is placed approximately half a confocal parameter from the focal plane along the optical axis of the microscope )  is collected and guided through a pinhole before it is detected .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 207pb nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 207pb nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 1h nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states 93nb nuclei in a solid sample placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 93rb nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
a type of heteronuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between protons and the 13c nuclei to which they are covalently bound .
a type of heteronuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between protons and the 15n nuclei to which they are covalently bound .
a type of heteronuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between protons and 13c nuclei which are 2 to 3 bonds removed .
a type of heteronuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between protons and 15n nuclei which are 2 to 3 bonds removed .
a type of homonuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between protons which are j - coupled  ( usually ≤3 bonds apart )  .
a type of homonuclear nmr spectroscopy based on the nuclear overhauser enhancement effect in which correlations are seen between protons that are spatially proximate within a molecule  ( ≤6  \  \ aa apart )  .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of x - rays at the sample and detecting the positions and intensities of the diffracted x - rays as a pattern of spots on a photographic plate .
data which is obtained from an x - ray diffraction experiment where the x - rays are incident on the sample at small angles  ( 0–10 degrees )  .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 29si nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 29si nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
a nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum where the nuclei of interest are silicon - 29 nuclei and in which line broadening has been averaged to zero by spinning the sample very rapidly at the magic angle  ( 54 .74° with respect to the direction of the magnetic field )  .
a technique for measuring the time - resolved concentration of monomers during polymerisation reactions .
a technique for measuring the time - resolved concentration of radicals during polymerisation reactions .
a technique for measuring the propagation rate coefficient during polymerisation reactions .
the observation of circular dichroism  ( the differential absorption of left -  and right - handed circularly polarised light )  in the raman spectra of chiral molecules .
spectroscopy based on the differential reflectance of left -  and right - handed circularly polarised light by a sample .
a technique for measuring the propagation rate coefficient during polymerisation reactions .
the measurement of the surface tension of a liquid .
the measurement of surface tension by determining the distortion of drop by gravity ,  which elongates or flattens otherwise spherical drops .
the measurement of surface tension by determining the shape of a droplet of liquid  ( with known surface energy )  and the contact angle it makes with the surface of interest .
the measurement of the surface tension of a non - static liquid .
a method for determining surface area by measuring the amount of an inert gaseous or liquid substance  ( the 'sorbent' ,  usually h2 or n2 )  which adsorbs onto the surface of interest  ( the 'sorbate' )  ,  and the subsequent amount that desorbs at a constant temperature .
a method for determining surface area by measuring the amount of an inert gaseous or liquid substance  ( the 'sorbent' ,  usually h2 or n2 )  which adsorbs onto the surface of interest  ( the 'sorbate' )  .
a method for determining surface area by measuring the amount of n2 that adsorbs onto the surface of interest  ( the 'sorbate' )  .
a plot of intensity vs . raman shift  ( cm - 1 )  obtained by measuring the raman scattering of monochromatic light from a sample adsorbed onto a highly scattering surface  ( e .g .
a two - dimensional spectrum which plots the resonance frequency of homonuclear nuclei approximately 6  \  \ aa apart which are correlated by the nuclear overhauser enhancement effect .
a two - dimensional spectrum which plots the resonance frequency of protons approximately 6  \  \ aa apart which are correlated by the nuclear overhauser enhancement effect .
a type of homonuclear nmr spectroscopy based on the nuclear overhauser enhancement effect in which correlations are seen between 13c nuclei that are spatially proximate within a molecule  (  \  \ leq 6  \  \ aa apart )  .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of high energy  ( 10–200 kev )  electrons at the sample within a transmission electron microscope and recording the resulting diffraction pattern produced by any electrons transmitted through the sample .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 27al nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 27al nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of protons derived from para - hydrogen  ( dihydrogen with an antisymmetric nuclear spin arrangement )  placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
an nmr experiment where pulsed field gradients are used to filter thermal signals from nmr spectra whilst leaving those derived from para - hydrogen - derived protons intact .
an nmr experiment where pulsed field gradients are used to filter thermal signals from 1h nmr spectra whilst leaving those derived from para - hydrogen - derived protons intact .
a type of homonuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between nuclei which are j - coupled  ( usually  < = 3 bonds apart )  .
a type of homonuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between nuclei which are j - coupled  ( usually  < = 3 bonds apart )  .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of scattered visible light .
a plot of relative abundance  ( % )  vs . mass - to - charge ratio obtained from a mass spectrometry experiment where the mass - to - charge ratio is determined from the time they take to reach a detector .
a separation method where singly - charged complexes move at different speeds according to their electrophoretic mobilities in air under the influence of an electric field .
a separation method where singly - charged complexes move at different speeds according to their electrophoretic mobilities in air under the influence of an electric field .
a separation method where singly - charged complexes move at different speeds according to their electrophoretic mobilities in air under the influence of an electric field .
a plot of electrophoretic mobility diameter vs . particle count generated by separating singly - charged complexes in air under the influence of an electric field .
a plot of electrophoretic mobility diameter vs . particle count generated by separating singly - charged complexes in air under the influence of an electric field .
nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy that probes oxygen - 17 nuclei .
magic angle spinning nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy that probes oxygen - 17 nuclei .
magic angle spinning nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy that probes vanadium - 51 nuclei .
nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy that probes 7li nuclei .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 14n nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 14n nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
an nmr experiment in which multiple frequencies in an nmr spectrum are excited simultaneously over a broad frequency rnage using polychromatic pulses .
a type of homonuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between all nuclei of a spin - system .
a type of homonuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and which reveal correlations between all nuclei of a spin - system .
a type of homonuclear nmr spectroscopy which reveal correlations between all nuclei of a spin - system .
a type of homonuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and which reveal correlations between all 13c nuclei of a spin - system .
the detection of luminescence emitted by electrochemically - generated intermediates during an electrochemical reaction .
an nmr experiment used for half - integer quadrupolar nuclei ,  involving transitions between non - consecutive energy levels during the excitation of the spin system by the first rf pulse .
an nmr experiment where the selective excitation of central and satellite transitions during magic angle spinning is used for recording high - resolution nmr spectra of quadrupolar nuclei in solids .
an nmr experiment where the selective excitation of satellite transitions during magic angle spinning is used for recording high - resolution nmr spectra of quadrupolar nuclei in solids .
an nmr experiment used for 3 / 2 - spin quadrupolar nuclei ,  involving transitions between non - consecutive energy levels during the excitation of the spin system by the first rf pulse .
an nmr experiment where the selective excitation of central transitions during magic angle spinning is used for recording high - resolution nmr spectra of quadrupolar nuclei in solids .
an nmr experiment used for 5 / 2 - spin quadrupolar nuclei ,  involving transitions between non - consecutive energy levels during the excitation of the spin system by the first rf pulse .
an nmr experiment where the selective excitation of central and satellite transitions during magic angle spinning is used for recording high - resolution nmr spectra of quadrupolar nuclei in solids .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 87rb nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
column chromatography where anions are retained by positively charged functional groups in the stationary phase .
column chromatography where cations are retained by negatively charged functional groups in the stationary phase .
the process of determining the quantity of a sample by adding measured increments of a titrant until the end - point ,  at which essentially all of the sample has reacted ,  is reached .
the process of determining the quantity of a sample  ( an acid or base )  by adding measured increments of a titrant  ( a base or acid )  until the endpoint ,  at which essentially all of the sample has reacted ,  is reached .
acid - base titration where the sample is a base and the titrant is an acid .
acid - base titration where the sample is an acid and the titrant is a base .
any technique which detects the response of spins to a perturbing magnetic field .
a double resonance technique in which transitions between spin sublevels are detected by optical means  ( i .e .
a double resonance technique in which transitions between spin sublevels at zero applied magnetic field are detected by optical means  ( i .e .
a double resonance technique in which transitions between spin sublevels are detected by light absorption .
a double resonance technique in which transitions between spin sublevels are detected by delayed light emission .
a double resonance technique in which transitions between spin sublevels are detected by delayed fluorescence .
a double resonance technique in which transitions between spin sublevels are detected by fluorescence .
a double resonance technique in which transitions between spin sublevels are detected by phosphorescence .
a double resonance technique in which transitions between spin sublevels are detected by means of reaction yield .
a kind of elemental or isotopic analysis based on the measurement of characteristic radiation from nuclides formed directly or indirectly by activation of the test portion .
a kind of activation analysis in which the elemental concentrations in the material are calculated from known nuclear constants ,  irradiation and measurement parameters ,  rather than by comparing with known standards .
the measurement of the enthalpy change during chemical reaction in order to determine quantitative values of a reactant or catalyst .
the measurement of the enthalpy change during a chemical reaction in order to measure the amount of the imiting reagent .
the process of determining the quantity of a sample by adding measured increments of a titrant until the end - point is reached .
the process of determining the quantity of a sample by adding measured increments of a titrant until the end - point is reached .
the process of determining the quantity of a sample  ( metal cation )  by adding measured increments of a titrant  ( a chelating agent )  until the end - point ,  at which essentially all of the sample has reacted ,  is reached .
the detection of luminescence resulting from a thermal electron - transfer reaction .
a term used to describe methods wherein a reagent is continuously fed into a flowing analyte stream and the temperature difference is measured before and after a reactor  ( mixing chamber )  .
an electrochemical technique where the analyte of interest is electroplated onto the working electrode before being removed or 'stripped' .
a piece of apparatus used to measure a spectrum .
a piece of apparatus that consists of a laser ,  a beam splitter ,  an interferometer and a detector and is used to measure raman spectra .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of a laser beam  (  < 10 μm diameter )  ,  a monochromator and a detector coupled to an optical microscope ,  which is used to measure raman spectra .
a two - dimensional nmr experiment which shows correlations between all the nuclei of a spin system and also allows determination of t1 relaxation rates .
an nmr experiment which measures spin - lattice  ( t1 )  relaxation rates by acquiring spectra at different delay times following inversion of the spin - state populations .
spectroscopy where the intensity of the  fluorescence emitted by molecules excited using ultraviolet light is detected as it changes upon interaction of the molecule with its environment .
a technique for measuring elemental concentration depth profiles in thin films by directing an ion beam at the sample and detecting recoiled atoms .
a technique for measuring elemental concentration depth profiles in thin films by directing a heavy - ion  ( such as iodine - 127 )  beam at the sample and detecting the recoiled atoms .
a method for measuring charge carrier mobilities and conductivities by applying two sequentional triangular - shaped voltage pulses and measuring the resulting current .
a method for measuring charge carrier mobilities and conductivities by applying a short  ( ns )  laser pulse to generate charge carriers .
a method for measuring charge transport by sandwhiching the sample between two parallel electrodes ,  one of which has to be semitransparent .
a method for measuring charge carrier mobilities and conductivities by applying two sequentional square - shaped voltage pulses and measuring the resulting current .
any technique for measuring charge transport .
a method for determining charge transport by incorporating the sample  ( as a thin film )  into an fet .
a method for measuring density - of - state  ( dos )  distributions by injecting a nonequilibrium density of charges and measuring the resulting current .
a plot of relative abundance  ( % )  vs . mass - to - charge ratio obtained from a mass spectrometry experiment where the ions are generated from the sample  ( which is held in a liquid matrix )  by bombarding it with a stream of primary noble gas atoms .
the measurement of magneto - optical activity by placing the sample in a strong magnetic field and observing a beam of plane - polarized light which is directed along the magnetic field axis .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 183w nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the sample absorbs radiation from the ultraviolet region  ( 190–400 nm )  resulting in electronic transitions within the sample .
a plot of absorbance vs . wavelength obtained by measuring the amount of radiation absorbed by a sample as a function of the wavelength of incident radiation from the ultraviolet region  ( 190–400 nm )  range .
the detection of luminescence emitted from a sample as a result of the application of an electric current or a strong electric field .
the detection of short bursts of light emitted from a liquid sample excited by sound .
the detection of luminescence emitted from a sample as a result of irradiation with light .
a plot of intensity against wavelength obtained by measuring the intensity of radiation emitted by a sample through electroluminescence  ( emission of light as a result of the application of a current or an electric field )  against wavelength .
liquid chromatography where the inlet pressure is relatively high and the mobile phase is significantly more polar than the stationary phase  ( which consists of very small particles )  ,  for example a microporous silica - based material with chemically bonded alkyl chains .
the chemical degradation of a sample by thermal energy where the volatile pyrolysates are then separated by column chromatography where the mobile phase is a gas .
a method where a sample mixture is first chemically degraded by heating then separated by gas chromatography then ionised and characterised according to mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
any method where a sample mixture is first separated by column chromatography where the mobile phase is a gas ,  then the absorption of radiation from the infrared region by the sample is measured .
any method where a sample mixture is first chemically degraded by heating then separated by column chromatography where the mobile phase is a gas ,  then the absorption of radiation from the infrared region by the sample is measured .
spectroscopy where the sample is first chemically degraded by heating then its absorption of radiation from the infrared region  ( 0 .78–1000  \  \ μm )  is measured .
spectrometry where the sample is chemically degraded by thermal energy then converted into gaseous ions which are characterised by their mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of x - rays  ( generated in a synchrotron )  scattered by a sample at low angles  ( 0–10° )  .
mass spectrometry where ionisation is achieved using a corona discharge which directs a liquid spray  ( composed of an inert ,  high velocity gas and solvent ions )  onto the sample surface .
a chromatography method where the stationary bed is within a tube  ( of less than the standard length of 25 cm )  .
a plot of intensity vs . magnetic field strength obtained by measuring the absorption of radiation due to spin - state transitions of unpaired electrons against the magnetic field strength .
a plot of intensity vs . magnetic field strength obtained by measuring the absorption of radiation due to spin - state transitions of unpaired electrons against a perturbing magnetic field ,  in the presence of fixed - frequency microwave radiation .
a type of pulsed epr spectroscopy which is used to observe the electron spin echo in a paramagnetic system as a function of the time that separates the pulses causing the echo .
a plot of intensity vs . magnetic field strength obtained by measuring the absorption of radiation due to electron spin - echo envelope modulation against the resonant frequency of the unpaired electrons .
time - of - flight mass spectrometry where there is an initial electrospray ionisation stage .
tandem time - of - flight mass spectrometry where there is an initial electrospray ionisation stage .
a type of column chromatography where a sample mixture is first separated according to molecular size ,  then subjected to chromatography where the mobile phase is a liquid ,  the stationary phase consists of very small particles and the inlet pressure is relatively high
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by reversed - phase high - performance liquid chromatography before being ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by electromagnetic induction ,  and characterised by mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
column chromatography where the mobile phase is a liquid ,  the stationary phase consists of very small particles held in a tube of diameter less than a millimetre ,  and the inlet pressure is relatively high .
column chromatography where the mobile phase is a liquid ,  the stationary phase consists of very small particles ,   the inlet pressure is relatively high and the flow rate is nl min - 1 .
column chromatography where the mobile phase is a liquid and is significantly more polar than the stationary phase ,  which consists of very small particles ,  the inlet pressure is relatively high and the flow rate is nl min - 1 .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by high - performance liquid chromatography  ( flow rate nl min - 1 )  before being ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by electromagnetic induction ,  and characterised by mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
a method where the sample mixture is first separated by high - performance liquid chromatography before being ionised by forcing a solution  ( usually in an organic solvent )  of it through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of nl min1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets .
inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry where the sample mixture is first separated by reversed - phase nanoflow high performance liquid chromatography .
quadrupole time - of - flight mass spectrometry where there is a nanoflow high - performance liquid chromatography separation step and an electrospray - ionisation mass selection step .
a method used to determine an analyte on the basis of a mass of a sample .
a method used to measure the mass  ( micrograms )  per unit area of a sample using a quartz crystal microbalance  ( a piece of apparatus that measures the change in frequency of a quartz crystal sandwiched between a pair of electrodes as a function of the mass of the sample )  .
a piece of apparatus that is used to measure the heat of chemical reactions or physical changes .
a method for generating surface - specific vibrational spectra by mixing two light beams at a surface and detecting the output beam ,  which has frequency equal to the sum of the two input frequencies .
a plot of relative abundance  ( % )  vs . mass - to - charge ratio obtained from a mass spectrometry experiment where the ions are obtained by vaporisation and ionisation using a high - energy pulsed laser .
a technique allowing the quantitative and qualitative detection of radiation - induced charge separation by time - resolved measurement of the changes in microwave absorption resulting from the production and decay of charged and dipolar molecular entities .
a technique allowing the quantitative and qualitative detection of radiation - induced charge separation by time - resolved measurement of the changes in microwave absorption resulting from the production and decay of charged and dipolar molecular entities .
the process of the settling of particles  ( atoms or molecules )  from a vapour ,  at sub - atmospheric pressure ,  onto a pre - existing surface ,  resulting in the growth of a new phase .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of x - rays at a low angle  (  < 5 deg )  toward an extremely flat surface and measuring the intensity of the reflected x - rays as a function of angle .
a range of techniques used to determine the structure of thin films by directing a beam of x - rays at the sample and detecting the positions and intensities of the diffracted x - rays as a pattern of spots on a photographic plate .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 23na nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states 23na nuclei in a solid sample placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 23na nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
a nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum where the nuclei of interest are sodium - 23 nuclei and in which line broadening has been averaged to zero by spinning the sample very rapidly at the magic angle  ( 54 .74° with respect to the direction of the magnetic field )  .
a plot of the resonance frequency of nuclei in the same magnetic environment on a scale relative to their resonance frequency and with intensities proportional to the populations of nuclei in those environments for solid samples .
a plot of chemical shift vs . intensity for sodium - 23 nuclei obtained by measuring the effect of the absorption of radio frequency radiation on nuclear spin - state transitions in the presence of a magnetic field .
a method used to synthesise a sample .
the process of individual components of a sample associating to form a new pattern or structure .
a method of depositing crystalline films one molecular layer at a time ,  by dipping the substrate into water containing a polymer that forms a single layer of molecular chains on the surface .
a synthesis method in which thin films of oppositely charged layers are deposited in sequence .
a process where the components of a sample spontaneously  ( and reversibly )  associate by non - covalent interactions ,  forming an organised structure or pattern .
a synthesis method in which a drop of solvent is placed on the components to be assembled and allowed to dry freely in air .
a process where molecules spontaneously adopt a defined arrangement .
a synthesis method in which the components of the sample spontaneously  ( and reversibly )  associate by non - covalent interactions ,  forming a organised structure or pattern on a physical template .
the method of using hexagonally - packed water microspheres as templates for the fabrication of microporous polymer films .
the process of the settling of particles  ( atoms or molecules )  from a solution ,  suspension or vapour onto a pre - existing surface ,  resulting in the growth of a new phase .
a thin film deposition technique based on the sequential reaction of gaseous precursors at a surface to produce a monolayer
the process of the settling of particles  ( atoms or molecules )  from a solution or suspension onto a pre - existing surface ,  resulting in the growth of a new phase .
the process of the settling of  ( nm sized )  particles from a colloidal suspension onto a pre - existing surface ,  resulting in ceramic materials .
a synthesis method where the substrate is exposed to one or more volatile precursors ,  which react or decompose on the surface to produce a deposit .
a synthesis method where the substrate is exposed to one or more involatile precursors ,  suspended in a liquid–gas aerosol  ( generated ultrasonically )  ,  which react or decompose on the surface to produce a deposit .
a synthesis method where the substrate is exposed to one or more volatile precursors ,  at atmospheric pressure ,  which react or decompose on the surface to produce a deposit .
a synthesis method where the substrate is exposed to one or more volatile precursors ,  which react or decompose on the surface to produce a monolayer deposit .
a synthesis method where the substrate is exposed to one or more liquid precursors ,  which react or decompose on the surface to produce a deposit .
a synthesis method where the substrate is exposed to one or more volatile precursors ,  which react or decompose  ( catalysed by a hot filament )  on the surface to produce a deposit .
a synthesis method that involves both the chemical decomposition of a precursor gas and the vaporization of a solid source e .g .
a synthesis method where a laser - heated substrate is exposed to one or more volatile precursors ,  which react or decompose on the surface to produce a deposit .
a synthesis method where the substrate is exposed to one or more volatile precursors ,  at less than atmospheric pressure ,  which react or decompose on the surface to produce a deposit .
a synthesis method where the substrate is exposed to one or more volatile precursors under ultrahigh vacuum  (  < 10^{ - 6} pa )  ,  which react or decompose on the surface to produce a deposit .
a synthesis method where the substrate is exposed to volatile precursors  ( one of which is an organometallic compound )  which react or decompose on the surface to produce a deposit .
a synthesis method where the substrate is exposed to one or more volatile precursors ,  in the presence of a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas ,  containing free electrons )  ,  which react or decompose on the surface to produce a deposit .
a synthesis method where the substrate is exposed to one or more volatile precursors ,  in the presence of a microwave - induced plasma  ( a partially ionised gas containing free electrons )  ,  which react or decompose on the surface to produce a deposit .
a synthesis method where the substrate is exposed to one or more volatile precursors which react or decompose in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas ,  containing free electrons )  and are then transferred to the surface to produce a deposit .
a synthesis method where a rapidly heated substrate is exposed to one or more volatile precursors ,  which react or decompose on the surface to produce a deposit .
the process of the settling of particles  ( atoms or molecules )  from a gas or vapor onto a pre - existing surface ,  resulting in the growth of a new phase .
any synthesis process where colloidal particles suspended in a liquid medium migrate under the influence of an electric field and are deposited on an electrode .
a synthesis method in which a film of solid metal is deposited from a solution of ions onto an electrically conducting surface  ( an electrode )  .
a synthesis method in which a film of solid metal is deposited from a solution of ions onto an electrically conducting surface  ( an electrode )  .
a synthesis method in which a film of solid metal is deposited from a solution of ions onto an electrically conducting surface .
a development method where the substrate is first immersed in a colloidal gold solution  ( containing negatively charged gold particles )  at low ph .
a development method where the substrate is first immersed in a colloidal gold solution  ( containing negatively charged gold particles )  at low ph .
a synthesis method which consists of depositing a monocrystalline film  ( from liquid or gaseous precursors )  on a monocrystalline substrate .
a synthesis method that consists of depositing alternating monolayers of two elements onto a substrate .
a synthesis method which consists of depositing a monocrystalline film  ( from liquid or gaseous precursors )  of one substance ,  on a monocrystalline substrate of a different substance .
a synthesis method which consists of depositing a monocrystalline film  ( from liquid or gaseous precursors )  on a monocrystalline substrate of the same substance .
a synthesis method which consists of depositing a monocrystalline film  ( from liquid or melt precursors )  on a monocrystalline substrate .
a synthesis method which consists of depositing a monocrystalline film  ( from a molecular beam )  on a monocrystalline substrate under high vacuum  (  < 10^{ - 8} pa )  .
a synthesis method which consists of depositing a monocrystalline film  ( from a molecular beam of reactive gases )  on a monocrystalline substrate under high vacuum  (  < 10^{ - 8} pa )  .
a synthesis method which consists of depositing a monocrystalline film  ( from a molecular beam of organometallic precursors )  on a monocrystalline substrate under high vacuum  (  < 10^{ - 8} pa )  .
a synthesis method which consists of depositing a monocrystalline film  ( from a beam of evapourated metal particles )  on a monocrystalline substrate under high vacuum  (  < 10^{ - 8} pa )  .
a synthesis method which consists of depositing an amorphous film on a monocrystalline substrate ,  then heating the substrate to crystallise the film .
a synthesis method which consists of depositing a monocrystalline film  ( from vapour - phase precursors )  on a monocrystalline substrate .
a synthesis method which consists of depositing a monocrystalline film ,  from vapour - phase precursors  ( in hydrogen or ammonia carrier gases )  ,  on a monocrystalline substrate .
a synthesis method which consists of depositing a monocrystalline film ,  from organometallic vapour - phase precursors ,  on a monocrystalline substrate .
a synthesis method where a flow of precursors is projected onto a surface ,  resulting in a deposit .
a synthesis method where an aerosol containing precursors is projected onto a surface ,  resulting in a deposit .
a synthesis method where a flow of carrier gas containing vaporised precursors is projected onto a surface ,  resulting in a deposit .
a synthesis method where a flow of carrier gas  ( moving faster than the speed of sound )  containing vaporised precursors is projected onto a surface ,  resulting in a deposit .
a synthesis method where a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas containing free electrons )  containing precursors is projected onto a surface ,  resulting in a deposit .
a synthesis method where a pattern or ink layer is deposited on a substrate using a liquid dispensed through a microsized conical nozzle .
a synthesis technique where a monomer is irradiated with uv light ,  causing cross - linking and the deposition of a polymer film on a substrate .
a synthesis technique where vaporized molecules or atoms condense on a surface ,  forming a thin layer .
a synthesis technique where an electric arc is used to vaporize material from a cathode target .
a synthesis method where an electron beam is used to decompose gaseous molecules leading to deposition of a solid on a nearby substrate .
a synthesis method where an ion beam  ( e .g .
a synthesis technique where the material to be deposited is heated until evaporation in a vacuum  (  < 10^{ - 4} pa )  and eventually deposits as a thin film by condensing on a  ( cold )  substrate .
a synthesis technique where the substrate is placed in a vacuum  (  < 10^{ - 4} pa )  and a metal electrode  ( e .g .
a development technique where the substrate is placed in a vacuum  ( 10^{ - 4} pa )  and two metal electrodes are melted and evaporated  ( sequentionally )  by passing a current through them .
a synthesis technique where a high - power pulsed laser beam is focused  ( inside a vacuum chamber )  onto a target of the desired composition .
a synthesis technique where a solid target is bombarded with electrons or energetic ions  ( e .g .
sputter deposition where the substrate is held in a barrel which is swung from side - to - side to ensure even deposition .
sputter deposition where a secondary ion beam is then used to remove any partially bound atoms from the substrate surface .
sputter deposition where the energetic ions come from an external ion source ,  which generates a focused ion beam .
sputter deposition where the ion source is a magnetron .
magnetron sputter deposition where the ionisation process uses extremely high power densities of the order of kw cm - 2 in short pulses .
a synthesis technique where a solid target is bombarded with energetic ions  ( e .g .
a synthesis technique where a solid target is bombarded with energetic ions  ( e .g .
a synthesis technique where a solid target is bombarded with energetic ions  ( e .g .
a synthesis technique where a solid target is bombarded with energetic ions  ( e .g .
a synthesis technique where a metal - containing precursor ,  dissolved in a solvent ,  is atomised and ignited .
a synthesis method where a solid material is dissolved in a supercritical fluid  ( at elevated pressure )  which is forced through a small orifice into a region of relatively low pressure .
any technique for depositing a thin film of material onto a substrate or onto previously deposited layers .
a synthesis method for growing single crystals from an aqueous solution in an autoclave  ( a thick - walled steel vessel )  at high temperature  ( 400 °c )  and pressure .
the process of filling in the pores of a material  ( e .g .
the process of filling in the pores of a material  ( e .g .
the process of filling in the pores of a material  ( e .g .
the process of filling in the pores of a material  ( e .g .
the process of filling in the pores of a material  ( e .g .
the process of filling in the pores of a material  ( e .g .
the process of filling in the pores of a material  ( e .g .
the process of filling in the pores of a material  ( e .g .
the process of filling in the pores of a material  ( e .g .
a synthesis method for growing single crystals from an ionic liquid in an autoclave  ( a thick - walled steel vessel )  at high temperature  ( 400 °c )  and pressure .
any synthesis technique involving the transfer of a pattern to a material  ( a 'resist' )  by selective exposure to a radiation source  ( e .g .
any synthesis technique involving the transfer of a pattern to a material  ( a 'resist' )  by exposure to a radiation source  ( e .g .
any synthesis technique involving the transfer of a microsized pattern to a material  ( a 'resist' )  by selective exposure to a radiation source  ( e .g .
any synthesis technique involving the transfer of a nanosized pattern to a material .
a synthesis technique that uses mechanical deformation to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis technique that uses an electrochemical reaction to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis technique that uses mechanical deformation to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis technique that uses mechanical deformation to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis technique that uses mechanical deformation to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis technique that uses mechanical deformation to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis technique that uses mechanical deformation and cross - linking to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis technique that uses mechanical deformation and cross - linking to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a type of lithography where electrons or ions are used to generate pattern ,  which is transferred to a resist .
a synthesis technique that uses electrons to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis technique that uses electrons to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis technique that uses electrons to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis technique that uses electrons to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis technique that uses electrons to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis technique that uses electrons to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis technique that uses ions to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis technique that uses ions to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis method that uses light to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis method that uses light to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis method that uses light to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis method that uses light to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis method that uses light to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis method that uses light to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis method that uses light to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis method that uses light to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis method that uses light to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis method that uses light to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis method that uses light to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis method that uses light to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis method that uses light to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis method that uses light to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis method which uses light and a self - assembled monolayer  ( sam )  to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
any synthesis technique which uses elastomeric stamps ,  moulds ,  and conformable photomasks prepared from liquid polymer precursors .
any synthesis technique which uses elastomeric stamps ,  molds ,  and conformable photomasks prepared from multiple liquid polymer precursors .
any process for shaping pliable polymer materials using a rigid frame or model called a 'mould' .
a process for shaping pliable thermoplastic or thermosetting plastics using a rigid frame or model called a 'mould' .
a process for shaping pliable polymer material using a rigid frame or model called a 'mould' .
a process for shaping pliable thermoplastic or thermosetting plastics using a rigid frame or model called a 'mould' .
a process for shaping pliable polymer material using a microsized rigid frame or model called a 'mould' .
a process for shaping pliable polymer material using multiple microsized rigid frames or models called 'moulds' .
a process for shaping pliable polymer materials using a microsized rigid frame or model called a 'mould' .
a process for shaping pliable polymer materials using a microsized rigid frame or model called a 'mould' .
a process for shaping pliable thermoplastic or thermosetting plastics using a rigid frame or model called a 'mould' .
a process for shaping pliable polymer materials using a rigid frame or model called a 'mould' .
a process for shaping pliable polymer materials using a microsized rigid frame or model called a 'mould' .
a process for shaping pliable polymer materials using a nanosized rigid frame or model called a 'mould' .
a process for shaping pliable polymer materials using a microsized rigid frame or model called a 'mould' .
a synthesis method for transferring a pattern to a gold surface .
a process for shaping pliable polymer material using a microsized rigid frame or model called a 'mould' .
a synthesis technique which uses x - rays to transfer a pattern to a substrate .
a synthesis method in which the reaction outcome is determined by the use of mechanical constraints to direct reactive molecules to specific molecular sites .
any process in which the molecular structure of a hydrocarbon is rearranged to alter its properties  ( e .g .
the reaction of biomass - derived oxygenated compounds  ( e .g .
any process in which the molecular structure of a hydrocarbon is rearranged to alter its properties  ( e .g .
any process in which the molecular structure of a hydrocarbon is rearranged to alter its properties  ( e .g .
any process in which the molecular structure of a hydrocarbon is rearranged to alter its properties  ( e .g .
the reaction of hydrocarbons with oxygen and carbon dioxide at 950–1100 °c to form syngas .
the reaction of hydrocarbons with steam at high temperature  ( 700–1000 °c )  in order to produce hydrogen .
the reaction of hydrocarbons with steam at high temperature  ( 700–1000 °c )  in the presence of a nickel catalyst ,  in order to produce hydrogen .
the reaction of methanol with steam at high temperature  ( 700–1000 °c )  in the presence of a nickel catalyst ,  in order to produce hydrogen .
the reaction of natural gas with steam at high temperature  ( 700–1000 °c )  in the presence of a nickel catalyst ,  in order to produce hydrogen .
the reaction of natural gas or syngas with steam at high temperature  ( 700–1000 °c )  in the presence of a nickel catalyst ,  in order to produce hydrogen .
the reaction of ethanol with steam at high temperature  ( 700–1000 °c )  in the presence of a nickel catalyst ,  in order to produce hydrogen .
any synthesis technique where a scanning probe microscope is used to pattern surfaces either constructively  ( by depositing a substance )  or destructively  ( by etching a pattern in a surface )  .
a synthesis technique where an atomic force microscope is used to pattern surfaces with molecules or particles .
a synthesis method for growing single crystals from a non - aqueous solution in an autoclave  ( a thick - walled steel vessel )  at high temperature  ( 400 °c )  and pressure .
a synthesis method which relies on the use of reversible noncovalent bonding interactions between molecular building blocks in order to preorganise them into a certain relative geometry as a prelude to covalent bond formation .
reversal of coagulation or flocculation ,  i .e . ,  the dispersion of aggregates to form a colloidally stable suspension or emulsion
a solution that contains a conjugate acid–base pair in equilibria and hence resists changes to its ph near the pk value of the acid .
a buffer solution in which the ph is maintained by a boric acid–borate anion equilibrium .
any time - dependent change of the properties of a precipitate e .g .
a heat treatment that alters the microstructure of a material causing changes in its properties such as strength and hardness
the conversion of a vaporized sample into atomic components .
the heating of a sample to high temperatures in air or oxygen .
a process in which a metal oxide is reduced in the presence of carbon or a carbon - containing compound .
a process in which a ceramic precursor is converted into a ceramic .
the application of a thin cover to a sample .
the application of a thin cover to sample by immersing it in a tank containing coating material ,  allowing it to remain there for a certain 'dwell time' ,  removing the piece from the tank  ( 'withdrawal' )  ,  and allowing it to drain .
a coating method for applying a thin  (  < 1 μm thickness )  cover to flat substrates where an excess amount of coating solution  ( in a volatile solvent )  is placed on the substrate ,  which is then rotated at high speed  ( 8000 rpm )  for approximately 30 s in order to spread the solution by centripetal force .
an exothermic chemical reaction between a fuel  ( usually a hydrocarbon )  and an oxidant  ( usually oxygen )  which is sometimes accompanied by the production of light .
the transfer of thermal energy from a sample to its surrounding environment .
a technique for cooling atoms by directing two laser beams  ( with energy just below an electronic transition )  at the sample from opposite directions .
the process of allowing a sample  ( a glass or polymer )  at its melting point to cool at a controlled rate in order to cause changes in morphology or properties .
the formation of a crystalline solid from a solution ,  melt vapour ,  or a different solid phase ,  generally by lowering the temperature or by evaporation of a solvent .
the simultaneous crystallisation of two different substances or two different structural elements of the same substance .
the stepwise crystallisation of two or more different substances induced by changes in concentration or temperature .
a chemical process in which a prepolymer or polymer is converted into a polymer of higher molar mass and then into a network .
a chemical process in which a prepolymer is converted into a polymer and then into a network ,  upon irradiation with an electron beam .
a chemical process in which a prepolymer is converted into a polymer and then into a network ,  upon irradiation with light .
a chemical process in which a prepolymer is converted into a polymer and then into a network ,  upon application of heat .
the removal of impurities and elimination of pores from a xerogel  ( a gel that has been dried with unhindered shrinkage )  .
the transformation of a chemical compound  ( the 'educt' )  into another similar compound  ( the 'derivative' )  by altering one or more of its functional groups .
the transformation of a chemical compound  ( the 'educt' )  following column chromatography into another similar compound  ( the 'derivative' )  by altering one or more of its functional groups .
the breakdown of a single phase into two or more phases by heating or treatment with acid ,  alkali or enzymes .
the breakdown of a single entity  ( normal molecule ,  reaction intermediate ,  etc . ) 
the decomposition of a sample into liquid form by treatment with enzymes or strong acids or alkalis .
the decomposition of a sample by the addition of liquid reagents in order to solubilise it .
the decomposition of a sample in strong acids such as nitric ,  sulfuric or perchloric acid in order to obtain the sample in liquid form .
the decomposition of a sample in strong acids such as nitric ,  sulfuric or perchloric acid in a sealed vessel  ( lined with ptfe )  ,  under high pressure and high temperature ,  in order to obtain the sample in liquid form .
the decompositon of a sample in strong alkalis  ( e .g .
the decomposition of sample by an enzyme to obtain the sample in liquid form .
the decomposition of only part of a sample by the addition of liquid reagents to solubilise it .
the assisted solubilisation of a sample by the application of radiation in the 1 - 1000 mm region .
the decomposition of a sample by placing it in an organic matrix and irradiating the matrix with radiation in the range 200 - 435 nm  ( indirectly ,  using a mirror )  .
the conversion of a high - molecular - mass species into a lower - molecular - mass species using an enzyme .
a clustering reaction in a homogeneous ,  supersaturated solution  ( solid or liquid )  which is unstable against infinitesimal fluctuations in density or composition .
the separation of a chemical compound into elements or smaller compounds by heating it to a high temperature  ( approx .
the conversion of carbonaceous materials  ( e .g .
the chemical degradation of a sample by thermal energy .
the characterisation ,  in an inert atmosphere ,  of a material or a chemical process by a chemical degradation reaction induced by thermal energy .
the chemical degradation of a sample by thermal energy in the presence of a catalyst .
the chemical degradation of a sample caused by a fast rate of temperature increase  ( 10 , 000 k / s )  .
the chemical degradation of different fractions of the same sample by heating at different temperatures for different times .
the chemical degradation of a sample caused by passing a carrier gas  ( h2 ,  o2 ,  n2 etc . ) 
the chemical degradation of a sample by thermal energy in which the reactor is located within the ion source of a mass spectrometer .
the chemical degradation of a sample by thermal energy during which the temperature is held constant .
a technique used to synthesize ultrafine powders by heating a mixture of reactant vapour and inert gas with a laser .
the chemical degradation of a sample by thermal energy in which the products of a reaction are trapped before analysis .
the chemical degradation of a sample by thermal energy in the presence of an oxidative atmosphere .
the chemical degradation of a sample by thermal energy during which the pressure of the volatile pyrolysates is recorded .
the chemical degradation of a sample by thermal energy in the presence of an reductive atmosphere .
the repeated chemical degradation of a sample by thermal energy under the same conditions of time ,  temperature etc .
the chemical degradation of a sample caused by spraying it ,  as a liquid mixture ,  onto a heated substrate .
the chemical degradation of a sample caused by heating it ,  as a vapour ,  with steam .
the chemical degradation of a sample by thermal energy where the temperature is raised in a stepwise manner and the pyrolysates are recorded between each step .
the chemical degradation of a sample  ( usually an organic material )  by heating it in a vacuum in order to decrease its boiling point and avoid adverse chemical reactions .
the uncatalysed cleavage of one or more covalent bonds resulting from exposure of a compound to a raised temperature ,  or a process in which such cleavage is an essential part .
the reaction of a molecule by exposing it to a short thermal shock at high temperature ,  usually in the gas phase .
the separation of molecules in solution by the difference in their rates of diffusion through a semipermeable membrane .
the selective separation of molecules in solution by the difference in their rates of diffusion across a semipermeable membrane under the influence of an electric field .
the separation of molecules in solution by the difference in their rates of diffusion across a semipermeable membrane .
the distribution of particles of one phase in a continuous phase of a different nature .
a sample preparation method where solid particles are dispersed in a liquid phase .
a technique for the preparation and extraction of solid and viscous samples .
the disassembly of an object to determine its internal structure .
the disassembly of a small part of an object  (  < 10 μm diameter )  to determine its internal structure .
a type of dissection where a laser is coupled to a microscope and focused onto a biological sample  ( e .g .
a method for isolating specific cells of interest from microscopic regions of tissue using a microscope coupled to a uv laser .
a method of separating mixtures based on differences in their volatilities in a boiling liquid mixture .
a method of separating mixtures based on differences in their volatilities in a boiling liquid mixture .
a method of separating mixtures based on differences in their volatilities in a boiling liquid mixture .
a method of separating two components of very similar boiling point from a mixture .
a method of separating mixtures based on differences in their volatilities in a boiling liquid mixture .
a method of separating a lower - boiling - point product from its reactants in a reaction mixture .
a method of separating mixtures based on differences in their volatilities in a boiling liquid mixture .
a method of separating mixtures based on differences in their volatilities in a boiling liquid mixture .
a method of separating mixtures based on differences in their volatilities in a boiling liquid mixture .
a method of separating mixtures based on differences in their volatilities in a boiling liquid mixture .
a method of separating mixtures based on differences in their volatilities in a boiling liquid mixture .
a method of separating mixtures based on differences in their volatilities in a boiling liquid mixture under reduced pressure .
the controlled dropwise release of a liquid .
the dropwise release of a liquid using a focused acoustic beam to eject a controlled droplet from an open pool of liquid .
the dispensing of droplets from an electrode surface after an applied voltage has been removed .
the dispensing of droplets by applying a pattern of piezoelectric acceleration and deceleration to the droplets such that inertial force can overcome adhesion force ,  resulting in droplet detachment from the device .
the dispensing of droplets between two electrodes by applying an electric field .
the process of removing a solvent from a substance .
the removal of solvent from a sample by the application of radio frequency  ( 3 hz to 300 ghz )  or microwave  ( 1–1000 mm )  radiation .
the removal of solvent from a sample by the application of heated air .
the removal of solvent from a sample by applying it as a thin layer to the surface of a heated drum .
the removal of solvent from a sample without passing through the liquid–gas boundary .
the removal of solvent from a sample by heating in an oven .
the removal of water from a liquid sample by pumping it through an atomiser  ( to produce a spray of fine droplets )  then passing a hot gas  ( e .g .
the removal of solvent from a sample without passing through the liquid–gas boundary ,  by immersion in a supercritical fluid and de - pressurisation .
the removal of water from a sample by placing it under reduced pressure .
the process of chemically removing a thin layer from a sample surface ,  usually to leave behind a pattern .
the process of removing a thin layer of a sample surface by sputtering or dissolving using reactive ions or a vapour - phase etchant
the process of removing a thin layer of a sample surface using short pulses of a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas containing free electrons and radicals )  .
the process of creating deep holes and trenches in a sample surface using short pulses of a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas containing free electrons and radicals )  alternating with the deposition of a chemically inert passivation layer .
the process of creating deep holes and trenches in a silicon surface using short pulses of a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - usually sf6– - containing free electrons and radicals )  alternating with the deposition of a chemically inert passivation layer  ( e .g .
the process of creating deep holes and trenches in a sample surface  ( cooled to  - 110 °c )  using short pulses of a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas containing free electrons and radicals )  alternating with the deposition of a chemically inert passivation layer .
the process of removing the unprotected areas of a surface by placing it inside an electrochemical etching solution in the presence of an electric current .
the process of removing the unprotected areas of a silicon surface by placing it inside an electrochemical etching solution  ( koh ,  hf or tmah )  in the presence of an electric current .
a patterning process which involves using a focused ga +  beam to cut trenches into substrates .
the process of generating a pattern in a photosensitive sample by irradiating it with uv light .
the process of removing a thin layer of a sample surface by bombarding it with energetic ions .
the process of removing a thin layer of a sample surface by bombarding it with high - energy or highly charged heavy ions .
the process of removing a thin layer of a sample surface by bombarding it with high - energy or highly charged heavy ions .
the process of using strong acids / alkalis to cut into the unprotected parts of a surface  ( e .g .
the process of using strong acids / alkalis to remove a thin layer of the unprotected parts of a sample surface  ( e .g .
the physical process by which a liquid substance is converted to a gas or vapour .
the evaporation of solvent from a sample by placing it a centrifuge and spinning it rapidly .
the removal of solvent from a sample by applying heat and lowering the pressure above the sample whilst rotating it at 10–300 rpm .
the transfer of a solute from a liquid phase to another immiscible or partially - miscible liquid phase in contact with it .
the transfer of two solutes from a liquid phase to a  ( low - polarity )  organic liquid phase in contact with it .
the process of transferring a substance from a solid or liquid matrix to the vapour phase by heating .
the process of transferring a substance from a solid or liquid matrix to the vapour phase by heating ,  and removing analytes from the headspace in a carrier gas .
the process of transferring a substance from a solid or liquid matrix to the vapour phase by heating .
the process of transferring a substance from a solid or liquid matrix to the vapour phase by heating .
the process of transferring a substance from a liquid to a solid phase by passing the liquid sample through a stationary phase  ( e .g .
the process of transferring a substance from a liquid to a solid phase by passing the  ( polar )  liquid sample through a  ( non - polar )  stationary phase .
the process of transferring a substance from a liquid to a solid phase by passing the  ( non - polar )  liquid sample through a  ( polar )  stationary phase .
the process of transferring a substance from a liquid to a solid phase by passing the liquid sample through a small fibre containing a stationary phase bonded to a silica needle  (  < 10  \  \ μm diameter )  .
the process of transferring a substance from a liquid to a solid phase by passing the liquid sample through a small fused - silica capillary .
the process of transferring a substance from a liquid to a solid phase by passing the liquid sample through a small sol–gel - coated fused - silica capillary .
the process of transferring a substance from a liquid to a solid phase by exposing a small fibre containing a stationary phase bonded to a silica needle  (  < 10  \  \ μm diameter )  to the headspace above the liquid sample .
the process of transferring a substance from a liquid to a solid phase by passing the liquid sample through a stationary phase  ( 1 mg )  packed into a microlitre syringe .
the process of transferring a substance from a liquid to a solid phase by attaching a stationary phase to a stir bar which moves throughout the liquid sample .
a method for extracting biological molecules from a biological sample by functionalising a magnetic bead  ( 0 .001–200  \  \ μm diameter )  with a molecule specific to the target molecule  ( e .g .
the transfer of a solute from one phase  ( the 'donor' or 'feed' phase )  to another  ( the 'acceptor' or 'strip' phase )  across a nonporous membrane .
the transfer of a solute from one phase  ( the 'donor' or 'feed' phase )  to another  ( the 'acceptor' or 'strip' phase )  across a non - porous non - polar polymer membrane .
the transfer of a solute from one phase  ( the 'donor' or 'feed' phase )  to another  ( the 'acceptor' or 'strip' phase )  across a nonporous sillicon rubber membrane .
the transfer of a solute from one phase  ( the 'donor' or 'feed' phase )  to another  ( the 'acceptor' or 'strip' phase )  across a non - porous liquid membrane .
an analytical process that sequentially chemically leaches metals from soils ,  sludges or sediments .
the process of transferring a substance from any matrix to an appropriate liquid phase .
a flotation process in which the material of interest ,  adsorbed on the surface of gas bubbles in a liquid ,  is collected on an upper layer of immiscible liquid .
the process of transferring a dissolved substance from one liquid phase to another  ( immiscible or partially miscible )  liquid phase in contact with it .
the process of transferring a non - ionic surfactant from one liquid phase to another by heating .
the process of transferring a microlitre amount of a substance from an aqueous phase to an organic phase  ( or vice versa )  .
the process of transferring a dissolved substance from one liquid phase to another  ( immiscible or partially miscible )  liquid phase in contact with it .
the process of transferring a dissolved substance from one liquid phase to another  ( immiscible or partially miscible )  liquid phase in contact with it using solvents at elevated temperature  ( 50–200 °c )  and pressure  ( 7–20 mpa )  .
the transfer of a solute from one phase  ( the 'donor' or 'feed' phase )  to another  ( organic )  phase  ( the 'acceptor' or 'strip' phase )  across a porous hydrophobic membrane the pores of which are filled with the same acceptor phase .
the process of transferring a substance from any matrix to an appropriate liquid phase ,  during which the sample and solvent are kept in contact in a mechanical shaker .
the process of transferring the soluble components of a solid to the liquid phase using a solvent .
the process of transferring the organic components of a solid to an organic liquid phase .
the process of transferring the partially soluble components of a solid to the liquid phase using a soxhlet extractor .
the process of transferring a substance from any matrix to a liquid phase using a supercritical fluid .
the process of transferring a substance from any matrix to an appropriate liquid phase ,  assisted by sound waves  (  > 20 khz in frequency )  that propagate through the liquid media .
the process of transferring a substance from any matrix to another where the amount of reagent used is lower than that dictated by stoichiometry .
a process used to create objects of a fixed cross - sectional profile by forcing or drawing a material through a die .
a process used to create objects of a fixed cross - sectional profile by forcing or drawing a material through a die at room temperature .
a process used to create objects of a fixed cross - sectional profile by forcing or drawing a material through a die at elevated temperatures  ( up to 2000 °c )  .
a process used to create objects of a fixed cross - sectional profile by forcing or drawing a material through a die in the presence of a pressurised fluid .
a process used to create objects of a fixed cross - sectional profile by forcing or drawing a material through a die at a temperature that is above room temperature ,  but below the recrystallisation temperature of the material  ( 400–900 °c )  .
a process used to create polymer fibers using a spinneret  ( a multi - pored device similar to a shower head )  to form multiple continuous filaments .
a process used to create polymer fibers .
a process used to created very fine  ( μm or nm scale )  fibres from a liquid .
a process used to create polymer fibers .
a process used to create polymer fibers .
a process used to create polymer fibers .
the process in which cells  ( microorganisms ,  plant or animal cells )  are cultured in a bioreactor in a liquid or solid medium to convert organic substances into biomass  ( growth )  or into products .
the process of dividing up a sample mixture into smaller quantities according to their physical  ( e .g .
any separation technique based on the application of a field perpendicular to a flow stream in a narrow channel .
a technique for separating particles from solution by placing the sample in a narrow channel and applying an electric field perpendicular to the channel .
a technique for separating particles from solution by placing the sample in a narrow channel and applying an alternating electric field perpendicular to the channel .
a technique for separating particles from solution by placing the sample in a narrow channel and applying a carrier liquid flow perpendicular to the channel .
a technique for separating small particles from solution by placing the sample in a narrow channel such that the earth's gravitational field is perpendicular to the channel .
a technique for separating particles from solution by placing the sample in a narrow channel ,  such that the earth's gravitational field is perpendicular to the channel ,  and varying the ionic strength of the solution or hamaker constant / surface potential of the particles .
a technique for separating particles from solution by placing the sample in a narrow channel and applying a magnetic electric field perpendicular to the channel .
a technique for separating particles from solution by placing the sample in a narrow channel within a centrifuge such that the centripetal force is applied perpendicular to the flow stream  ( driving the particles towards the walls of the channel )  .
a technique for separating large  ( = channel width )  particles from solution by placing the sample in a narrow channel .
a technique for separating polymer particles from solution by placing the sample in a narrow channel and heating one end ,  whilst cooling the other .
a method of separation in which a component of the bulk liquid is preferentially adsorbed at the liquid–vapour interface and is removed by foaming .
the process of enriching a solution by partially freezing it and removing frozen material that contains less of the dissolved material than the remaining solution .
a method for separating proteins from plasma by changing the conditions  ( e .g .
a method for separating proteins from plasma by changing the conditions of the plasma by simultaneous cooling and addition of alcohol .
the process of segregation of phases ;  the separation of suspended solids from a liquid or gas ,  usually by forcing a carrier gas or liquid through a porous medium .
a pressure - driven membrane - based separation process in which particles and dissolved macromolecules larger than 0 .1 micrometre are rejected .
a pressure - driven membrane - based separation process in which particles and dissolved macromolecules larger 200 da are rejected .
a separation process which involves using pressure to force a solution through a membrane ,  retaining the solute on one side and allowing the pure solvent to pass to the other side .
the separation of a solid phase from a liquid phase by passing the sample through a porous medium under pressure .
a separation process whereby a solution containing a solute of molecular size significantly greater than that of the solvent molecule is removed from the solvent by the application of hydraulic pressure which forces only the solvent to flow through a suitable membrane ,  usually having a pore size in the range 0 .001–0 .1  \  \ μm .
the formation of a gel or solidification of a gelatin solution caused by a change in conditions  ( such as temperature or ph )  .
the formation of a gel from a solution by electrochemical oxidation .
the formation of a gel from a solution by irradiation with light from the visible region  ( 400–800 nm )  .
the formation of a gel from a solution by altering the ph of the solution .
the formation of a gel from a solution by the application of ultrasound  ( sound waves  > 20 khz frequency )  .
the formation of a gel from a solution by heating .
the mechanical reduction of the particle size of a solid sample by attribution  ( friction )  ,  impact or cutting .
the mechanical reduction of the particle size of a solid sample by attribution  ( friction )  ,  impact or cutting in the presence of a small amount of solvent .
the mechanical reduction of the particle size of a solid sample by grinding with one or more inert balls  ( ceramic ,  flint ,  or stainless steel ,  2–8 mm diameter )  rotating around a horizontal axis .
the mechanical reduction of the particle size of a solid sample by grinding with one or more inert balls  ( ceramic ,  flint or stainless steel ,  2–8 mm diameter )  rotating at high speed around a horizontal axis .
the mechanical reduction of the particle size of a solid sample by grinding with one or more inert balls  ( ceramic ,  flint or stainless steel ,  2–8 mm diameter )  rotating at high speed  ( up to 650 rpm )  around a horizontal axis .
the mechanical reduction of the particle size of a solid sample by attribution  ( friction )  ,  impact or cutting in the presence of a small amount of liquid  ( which is not a solvent for the solid )  .
the physical process of converting an atom or molecule into an ion by removing electrons .
an ionisation method where the sample is either forced through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10 l min - 1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets ,  or solvent droplets subjected to the same process are directed at the sample .
an ionisation method where charged solvent droplets which are formed by forcing the solvent through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10 l min - 1 )  into an electric field are directed at the sample surface .
an ionisation method where neutral molecules are desorbed from the sample  ( usually biological )  using a nitrogen laser and then ionised by collision with charged solvent droplets which are formed by forcing the solvent through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10 l min - 1 )  into an electric field .
an ionisation method where neutral molecules are desorbed from the sample  ( usually biological and held in an organic acid matrix )  using a nitrogen laser and then ionised by collision with charged solvent droplets which are formed by forcing the solvent through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10 l min - 1 )  into an electric field .
an ionisation method where a neutral sample ,  in the form of a gas or aerosol flow ,  is ionised by directing it into a plume of charged droplets ,  generated by forcing a solution of pure solvent through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10  \  \ μl min - 1 )  into an electric field .
an ionisation method where the sample is vaporised using a high - energy pulsed laser and then ionised by forcing a solution  ( usually in an organic solvent )  of it through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10 l min - 1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets .
any ionisation method when the sample is ionised in a plasma– - a partially ionised gas  ( such as ar )  containing free electrons .
an ionisation method where a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  is directed onto the sample surface causing desorption of sample molecules from the surface and subsequent ionisation .
an ionisation method when the sample is ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by passing an electrical discharge under reduced pressure between two electrodes .
an ionisation method when the sample is ionised ,  at atmospheric pressure ,  in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by passing an electrical discharge between two electrodes .
an ionisation method where the sample is ionised by interaction  ( electron or proton transfer )  with reagent  ( n2 ,  o2 ,  h2o )  gaseous ions at low pressure .
an ionisation method in which a corona discharge is used to direct a liquid spray  ( composed of an inert ,  high velocity gas and solvent ions )  onto the sample surface .
an ionisation method when the sample is ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by passing an alternating voltage across a dielectric layer between two electrodes .
an ionisation method where the sample is ionised by a corona discharge within a he atmosphere .
the process of pressing a powder under a gas or liquid so that pressure is transmitted equally in all directions .
the process of pressing a powder under a gas or liquid at elevated temperatures so that pressure is transmitted equally in all directions .
the process of attaching a label onto a substance .
the process of covalently attaching a chemically - reactive derivative of a fluorophore to another molecule ,  such as a protein or nucleic acid .
the substitution of an atom or an ion  ( present in the form of its stable isotope )  by an isotope of the same element .
the substitution of one or more hydrogen atoms in a molecule with deuterium atoms .
the substitution of an atom or an ion  ( present in the form of its stable isotope )  by a radioactive isotope of the same element .
the process of covalently attaching a phosphorescent molecule to another molecule ,  such as a protein or nucleic acid .
the dissolution of material from a solid phase into a liquid in which it is not wholly soluble .
the process of heating a substance to cause the solid–liquid phase change .
the melting of a material within a frozen shell of the same substance .
the melting of a material by high - frequency induction within a frozen shell of the same substance .
the combining of components ,  particles or layers into a more homogeneous state .
the growth of larger crystals from those of smaller size ,  which have a higher solubility than the larger ones .
the photochemical transformation of a molecule into lower molecular weight fragments ,  usually in an oxidation process .
the sedimentation of a solid material  ( a 'precipitate' )  from a liquid solution in which the material is present in amounts greater than its solubility in the liquid .
the selective sedimentation of a solid material  ( a 'precipitate' )  from a liquid sample containing a ligand and a target protein .
the simultaneous precipitation of a normally soluble component with a macro - component from the same solution by the formation of mixed crystals ,  by adsorption ,  occlusion or mechanical entrapment .
the sedimentation of a solid material  ( a 'precipitate' )  ,  consisting of an antigen–specific antibody complex ,  from solution .
the sedimentation of a solid material  ( a 'precipitate' )  ,  consisting of a specific protein–antibody complex ,  from a solution containing many different proteins .
the sedimentation of a solid material  ( a 'precipitate' )  consisting of a protein–specific antibody complex  ( where the protein is attached to a arger protein complex )  from solution .
the sedimentation of a solid material  ( a 'precipitate' )  consisting of a protein–specific antibody complex  ( where the protein is attached to a protein–dna complex )  from solution .
the sedimentation of a solid material  ( a 'precipitate' )  consisting of a protein–specific antibody complex  ( where the protein is part of a protein–rna complex )  from solution .
the subsequent precipitation of a chemically different species upon the surface of an initial precipitate usually ,  but not necessarily ,  including a common ion .
the planned repetition of a precipitation to remove impurities from a precipitate or improve its stoichiometry .
the cleavage of one or more bonds resulting from exposure to high - energy radiation .
the cleavage of one or more bonds in a radioactive material resulting directly or indirectly from its own radioactive decay .
the cleavage of one or more bonds resulting from exposure to a beam of highly accelerated  ( 10 mev )  electrons .
the fusing together of small particles by heating the sample below its melting point until its particles adhere to each other .
the fusing together of small particles by heating the sample  ( consisting of a powder and a liquid )  below the melting point of the solid until its particles adhere to each other .
the fusing together of small particles by heating a powder sample below its melting point until its particles adhere to each other .
the fusing together of small particles by heating the powder sample below its melting point  ( without applied pressure )  until its particles adhere to each other .
the fusing together of small particles by heating the sample below its melting point ,  using a high - energy laser ,  until its particles adhere to each other .
the fusing together of small particles by heating the sample below its melting point ,  using a direct current ,  until its particles adhere to each other .
the irradiation of a liquid sample with sound  ( 20 hz - 20 khz )  waves resulting in agitation .
the irradiation of a liquid sample with ultrasonic  (  > 20 khz )  waves resulting in agitation .
a method used to indicate the presence of a substance within a sample .
a detection method where metastable ar atoms are used to ionise the sample ,  which is held in a carrier gas .
a detection method that is sensitive to individual elements .
a detection method that is sensitive to compounds containing c–h bonds .
a detection method that is sensitive to compounds which can be either reduced or oxidised .
a detection method that is sensitive to compounds which can be either reduced or oxidised .
a detection method that is sensitive to compounds containing br or cl .
a detection method that is sensitive to compounds containing br or cl .
a detection method that is sensitive to electronegative compounds  ( e .g .
a detection method where a liquid containing the sample is atomised in a gas ,  forming small droplets which are allowed to evaporate leaving the sample as fine particles .
a detection method which is sensitive to compounds containing c–h bonds .
a detection method that is sensitive to sulfur -  and phosphorus - containing compounds .
a detection method which is sensitive to naturally fluorescent or tagged compounds .
a detection method which is sensitive to naturally fluorescent or tagged compounds .
a detection method where metastable helium ions  ( generated by irradiation with beta - particles from a radioactive source )  ionise the molecules in the sample  ( held in he carrier gas )  .
a detection method where metastable helium ions  ( generated by an electric arc )  ionise the molecules in the sample  ( held in he carrier gas )  .
a detection method that is sensitive to small gas molecules  ( e .g .
a detection method that is sensitive to compounds containing n and p . a flow of carrier gas containing the sample is mixed with h2 and air in the presence of a small ,  heated bead of an alkali salt such as rb2so4 .
a detection method that is based on light emitting diodes  ( leds )  .
a detection method that is sensitive to organic compounds .
a detection method that is sensitive to volatile organic compounds .
a detection method based on the change in refractive index of a solution .
a detection method that is sensitive to inorganic gases .
a detection method that is sensitive to molecules containing no and no2 groups .
a detection method which is sensitive to unsaturated organic compounds .
a buffer solution in which the ph is maintained by phosphoric acid - phosphate anion or phosphate - hydrogen phosphate equilibria .
an experiment in which a separation method is coupled to a detection method in order to detect one or more different components of a sample .
flame ionisation detection that is sensitive to compounds containing c - h bonds .
nitrogen - phosphorus detection where the input is from a gas chromatography separation .
photodiode array detection where input is the mobile phase from a liquid chromatography separation .
a gas chromatography method that is sensitive to compounds containing no and no2 groups .
thermal conductivity detection where the sample is the eluent from a gas chromatography separation .
a gas chromatography method that is sensitive to sulfur -  and phosphorus - containing compounds .
a liquid chromatography method that is sensitive to naturally fluorescent or tagged compounds .
a liquid chromatography method where detection is based on the change in refractive index of a solution .
a liquid chromatography method where the mobile phase is atomised in a gas ,  forming small droplets which are allowed to evaporate leaving the sample as fine particles .
a liquid chromatography method that is sensitive to compounds which can be either reduced or oxidised .
a gas chromatography method that is sensitive to small gas molecules  ( e .g .
a buffer solution in which the ph is maintained by an acetic acid - acetate equilibrium .
a borate buffer solution prepared from tris ,  boric acid ,  and edta .
an acetate buffer solution prepared from tris ,  acetic acid ,  and edta .
a phosphate buffer ,  prepared from sodium phosphate ,  potassium phosphate and sodium chloride ,  where the ph is maintained by a phosphate–phosphoric acid equilibrium .
a buffer solution where the ph is maintained by an acid–base equilibrium involving one of good's buffer substances  ( chebi:39011 )  .
a buffer solution where the ph is maintained by an n -  ( 2 - acetamido )  - 2 - aminoethanesulfonic acid–2 -  [  ( 2 - amino - 2 - oxoethyl ) ammonio ] ethanesulfonate anion equilibrium .
a buffer where the ph is maintained by a tris–htris equilibrium .
a buffer solution in which the ph is maintained by tris  [ tris ( hydroxymethyl ) aminomethane ]  and hcl solution .
a buffer solution where the ph is maintained by an equilibrium involving 2 , 2' -  [  ( 2 - amino - 2 - oxoethyl ) imino ] diacetic acid .
a buffer solution where the ph is maintained by an equilibrium involving 2 -  [ bis ( 2 - hydroxyethyl ) amino ] ethanesulfonic acid
a buffer solution where the ph is maintained by an equilibrium involving n , n - bis ( 2 - hydroxyethyl ) glycine .
a buffer solution where the ph is maintained by an equilibrium involving 2 -  [ 4 -  ( 2 - hydroxyethyl ) piperazin - 1 - yl ] ethanesulfonic acid .
a buffer solution where the ph is maintained by an equilibrium involving 2 -  ( n - morpholino ) ethanesulfonic acid .
a buffer solution where the ph is maintained by an equilibrium involving 3 -  ( n - morpholino ) propanesulfonic acid .
a buffer solution where the ph is maintained by a 2 , 2' - piperazine - 1 , 4 - diylbisethanesulfonic acid–2 , 2' - piperazine - 1 , 4 - diylbisethanesulfonate equilibrium .
a buffer solution where the ph is maintained by a n - tris ( hydroxymethyl ) methyl - 2 - aminoethanesulfonic acid–n - tris ( hydroxymethyl ) methyl - 2 - ammonioethanesulfonate equilibrium .
a buffer solution where the ph is maintained by a n - tris ( hydroxymethyl ) methylglycine–n - tris ( hydroxymethyl ) methylammonioacetate equilibrium .
a plot of chemical shift vs . intensity for tin - 119 nuclei obtained by measuring the effect of the absorption of radio frequency radiation on nuclear spin - state transitions in the presence of a magnetic field .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light ,  usually from a laser ,  by a sample is detected .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light ,  usually from a laser ,  by a sample  ( e .g .
any method used to trap a sample for further analysis .
the trapping of microscopic particles by a focused laser beam .
a method for determining the extent of intrinsic and process - induced defects in the crystalline layers within  semiconductor devices .
a method for determining the extent of intrinsic and process - induced defects in the  crystalline layers within  semiconductor devices .
a method for determining the extent of intrinsic and process - induced defects in the  crystalline layers within  semiconductor devices .
a method for determining the extent of intrinsic and process - induced defects in the  crystalline layers within  semiconductor devices .
a method for determining the extent of intrinsic and process - induced defects in the  crystalline layers within  semiconductor devices .
a method for determining the extent of intrinsic and process - induced defects in the  crystalline layers within  semiconductor devices .
a method for determining the extent of intrinsic and process - induced defects in the  crystalline layers within  semiconductor devices .
a method for determining the extent of intrinsic and process - induced defects in the  crystalline layers within  semiconductor devices .
a method for determining the extent of intrinsic and process - induced defects in the  crystalline layers within  semiconductor devices .
an nmr experiment used for 23na nuclei ,  involving transitions between non - consecutive energy levels during the excitation of the spin system by the first rf pulse .
an nmr experiment used for 27al nuclei ,  involving transitions between non - consecutive energy levels during the excitation of the spin system by the first rf pulse .
an nmr experiment used for 45sc nuclei ,  involving transitions between non - consecutive energy levels during the excitation of the spin system by the first rf pulse .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 45sc nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
a process for shaping pliable thermoplastic polymers .
a method for the separation of liquid mixtures based on diffusion rate and membrane affinity .
mass spectrometry that uses sinusoidal radio frequency fields  ( in the x -  and y -  direction ,  differing in phase by 90° )  during ion detection .
mass spectrometry ,  developed by biotrove ,  which uses microfluidics to aspirate an aliquot of sample directly from a quenched assay plate and performs a solid - phase extraction on the sample before ionisation .
the fusing together of small particles by heating the sample with a laser  ( e .g .
the fusing together of small particles by heating the sample with an ar plasma  ( a partially ionised gas containing free electrons )  until the particles adhere to each other .
column chromatography where the mobile phase is a liquid ,   the stationary phase consists of very small particles ,  and the inlet pressure is relatively high .
a separation method where the sample is first transferred from one phase  ( the 'donor' or 'feed' phase )  to another  ( the 'acceptor' or 'strip' phase )  across a non - porous non - polar polymer membrane .
mass spectrometry where a solid sample is vaporised by depositing it on a probe which is rapidly heated  ( to  < 1000 °c )  by passing a current through it .
a method consisting of a sample transformation method coupled to a detection method .
a method consisting of a sample transformation method coupled to a measurement method .
fourier transform infrared spectroscopy where the sample is initially transferred from a matrix to a liquid phase using a supercritical fluid .
a plot of the absorption of radio frequency radiation vs . frequency for spin - active nuclei .
a plot of the absorption of radio frequency radiation vs . frequency for hydrogen - 1 nuclei .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 1h nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the absorption and reflection of low - incident - angle infrared light by the surface molecules of a highly reflective or polished sample is measured .
a method used to determine the ratio of the mass ,  deposited at the electrode surface during an electrochemical reaction ,  to the total charge passed through the electrode  ( the 'current efficiency' )  .
an image obtained by bombarding the specimen with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage under vacuum ,  and detecting the transmitted ,  secondary ,  backscattered and diffracted electrons ,  and characteristic x - rays emitted .
an image obtained by scanning a finely - focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam across the specimen under vacuum .
an image obtained by bombarding the specimen with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam under vacuum and measuring the intensities of the transmitted electrons .
a piece of apparatus that consists of: a light source ;  a holder for the sample ;  a diffraction grating or monochromator to separate the different wavelengths of light ;  a detector ,  and is used to measure spectra in the range ultraviolet to visible  ( 190–800 nm )  .
a piece of apparatus that consists of: a light source ;  a holder for the sample ;  a diffraction grating or monochromator to separate the different wavelengths of light ;  a detector ,  and is used to measure spectra in the ultraviolet range  ( 190–400 nm )  .
a plot of reflectance  ( % )  vs . wavenumber obtained by measuring the amount of ultraviolet to visible  ( 190–800 nm )  radiation reflected from an uneven surface at a number of angles by the sample .
a technique or procedure applied in nuclear magnetic resonance experiments .
a piece of apparatus used to conduct nmr experiments consisting of a magnet housing a sample space surrounded by two coils which act to transmit radio frequency radiation to the sample and to detect the response of the sample .
a plot of the change in intensity of absorption vs . the change in frequency as a function of the frequency of radiation applied ,  for spin - active nuclei .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of an electron source ,  a grating and a semiconductor detector ,  which is used to measure the x - ray emissions of a sample as a function of wavelength .
a large - scale particle accelerator in which a magnetic field is used to create the particle orbits .
a method for determining crystal orientation ,  using x - ray diffraction ,  which involves systematically rotating the sample about well defined angles until all possible lattice planes are reflected ,  and measuring the reflection intensity as a function of angle .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of x - rays scattered by a sample .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of an optical microscope coupled to a reflecting magnifying mirror system ,  which is used to collect spatially resolved infrared spectra of the surface of a specimen .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of a laser beam  (  < 10 μm diameter )  ,  a monochromator and a detector coupled to an optical microscope ,  which is used to measure raman spectra .
a piece of apparatus consisting of  a quartz crystal resonator ,   which is used to measure the current efficiency  ( mass - to - charge ratio )  during an electrochemical reaction ,  by measuring the change in resonance frequency of the crystal .
the fourier transform of a plot of intensity vs . wavelength obtained by measuring the sound emitted when a gaseous sample is exposed to an intense laser beam ,  which is rapidly interrupted by a rotating slotted disk .
the collection of spatially resolved infrared spectra of a sample during optical microscopy .
a type of chemical imaging spectroscopy where an optical microscope is used to image the sample and locate a small area for spectral analysis that probes the vibrational degrees of freedom of a molecule .
a plot of absorbance or emission vs . wavelength / wavenumber / frequency obtained through a fourier transform of the times series of the absorption or emission of a sample that has been excited by an infrared - frequency pulse generated in a synchrotron .
the collection of spatially resolved infrared spectra of a sample during optical microscopy .
spectroscopy where the sample absorbs a single pulse of radiation from the infrared region  ( 0 .78–1000  \  \ μm )  ,  produced in a synchrotron ,  and the spectrum obtained is subject to a fourier transform .
a piece of apparatus consisting of an infrared laser ,  a beam splitter and a detector  ( a ccd )  ,  which is used to measure spectra in the infrared range .
a piece of apparatus consisting of an infrared laser ,  an interferometer and a detector ,  which is used to measure spectra in the infrared range .
a magnified image obtained using a microscope to view a small object  ( or specimen )  .
an image obtained by illuminating the specimen with visible light ,  and using a system of magnifying lenses .
a method for determining the electrophoretic mobility and zeta - potential of a sample of colloidal particles in solution by illuminating the sample with a light source  ( usually a laser )  and measuring the time dependent fluctuations in the frequency of the scattered light caused by an oscillating electric field .
spectroscopy where the refractive index change of the sample induced by two polarized laser beams  ( pump and probe )  under the influence of an electric field  ( the 'optical kerr effect' )  is measured .
spectroscopy where two polarized laser beams  ( pump and probe )  with a frequency difference close to a raman - mode frequency in the sample induce a refractive index change in the sample .
spectroscopy where the refractive index change of laser light reflected by a magnetized sample  ( the 'magneto - optic kerr effect' )  is measured .
spectroscopy where two polarized laser beams  ( pump and probe )  with a frequency difference close to a raman - mode frequency in the sample induce a refractive index change in the sample .
the collection of spatially resolved infrared spectra of a sample during optical microscopy .
a plot of relative abundance  ( % )  vs . mass - to - charge ratio obtained from a mass spectrometry experiment of a sample mixture separated by liquid chromatography .
spectroscopy where femtosecond pulses of two polarized laser beams  ( pump and probe )  with a frequency difference close to a raman - mode frequency in the sample induce a refractive index change in the sample .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by nanoflow liquid chromatography  ( flow rate of nl min - 1 )  before being converted into ions which are characterised by their mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance ,  by two mass spectrometers in series .
a type of chromatography where the mobile phase is a liquid ,  an initial separation proceeds in a primary column  ( commonly ion - exchange )  ,  and parts of the eluent from this column are directed into a secondary column  ( commonly reverse phase )  .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated sequentially using two different liquid chromatography columns  ( commonly ,  ion - exchange followed by reversed - phase )  before being analysed by two mass spectrometers in series .
spectroscopy where time response of a transient birefringence induced in the sample by two polarized laser beams  ( pump and probe )  under the influence of an electric field  ( the 'optical kerr effect' )  is measured .
spectroscopy where the refractive index change of the sample induced by two polarized laser beams  ( pump and probe )  under the influence of an electric field  ( the 'optical kerr effect' )  is measured .
spectroscopy where femtosecond pulses of two polarized laser beams  ( pump and probe )  with a frequency difference close to a raman - mode frequency in the sample induce a refractive index change in the sample .
a series of short  ( microsecond )  bursts  ( pulses )  of rf radiation separated by delays  ( of defined duration )  designed to interact with ,  and manipulate the magnetic moments of spin - active nuclei during nmr spectroscopy .
a short  ( microsecond )  period of radio frequency wavelength radiation .
a pulse cluster  ( a spin echo on 1h with inversion of 13c in the centre )  used to achieve selective inversion of 12c - bound protons ,  thus achieving the removal of signals due to 12c - bound nuclei .
an nmr pulse sequence that decouples nuclei i .e .
an nmr pulse sequence ,  employing composite pulses ,  which decouples nuclei i .e .
a sequence of composite pulses designed to remove signal splitting due to heteronuclear j - couplings in multinuclear liquid nmr experiments .
a sequence of composite pulses designed to remove signal splitting due to heteronuclear j - couplings in multinuclear liquid nmr experiments .
a sequence of composite pulses designed to remove signal splitting due to heteronuclear j - couplings in multinuclear liquid nmr experiments .
a sequence of composite pulses designed to remove signal splitting due to heteronuclear j - couplings in multinuclear liquid nmr experiments .
a sequence of composite pulses designed to remove signal splitting due to heteronuclear j - couplings in multinuclear liquid nmr experiments .
a sequence of composite pulses designed to remove signal splitting due to heteronuclear j - couplings in multinuclear liquid nmr experiments .
an nmr pulse sequence ,  used in magic angle spinning ,  that decouples nuclei i .e .
a sequence of pulses used in magic angle spinning nmr to remove the effect of homonuclear dipolar couplings .
a sequence of pulses used in magic angle spinning nmr to remove the effect of homonuclear dipolar couplings .
a sequence of pulses used in magic angle spinning nmr to remove the effect of homonuclear dipolar couplings .
a continuous sequence of pulses used in magic angle spinning nmr to remove the effects of heteronuclear dipolar coupling .
a pulse sequence used in magic angle spinning nmr to remove the effects of homonuclear dipolar coupling .
a pulse sequence used in magic angle spinning nmr to remove the effects of homonuclear dipolar coupling .
a pulse sequence used to selectively excite a frequency range by applying a series of very short pulses to manipulate ,  or nutate ,  the magnetisation vectors of the desired spins ,  interspersed with delays which cause the off - resonance magnetisation to receive a different phase .
an nmr pulse sequence in which pulsed field gradients are applied to a doubled spin echo sequence to cleanly and precisely excite particular resonances .
a pulse sequence used to selectively resolve the signals from two coupled nuclei ,  see j .
a sequence of composite pulses designed to allow isotropic mixing of magnetisation between nuclei .
an nmr pulse sequence used to transfer magnetisation between protons and covalently bound  ( spin active )  heteronuclei via isotropic mixing of their magnetisation .
an nmr pulse sequence that is used to suppress or remove the solvent signal .
a pulse cluster used for solvent suppression consisting of two rf pulses separated by a delay with conditions set such that the solvent signal alone is rendered unobservable by the second pulse .
a pulse cluster used to suppress solvent  ( water )  signals exploiting the differing relaxation properties of solvent and sample .
a pulse cluster used for solvent  ( water )  suppression .
a pulse cluster used in nmr experiments which manipulates signals such that ,  at the end of the sequence ,  the effects of chemical shift differences have been compensated / removed .
a pulse sequence used in magic angle spinning nmr experiments to remove additional signals resulting from spinning the sample too slowly to obtain a response composed solely of isotropic chemical shifts .
a selective or shaped pulse ,  which is designed to excite only a specific region of a spectrum .
an adiabatic shaped pulse .the resonance frequency is swept through a defined rf range during application of the pulse .
an adiabatic shaped pulse incorporating a linear sweep through a frequency range used for selective inversion of spin state populations over wide ranges .
a dimensionality reduction technique used in multidimensional nmr experiments .
a technique used in 2d nmr whereby the chemical shift frequency modulation of the fids necessary to interrogate the second dimension is achieved by moving the position of a rf pulse within a fixed time period on subsequent repeats of the experiment .
an nmr technique used to edit the nmr response from a sample by selecting particular spin systems of interest according to the number of nuclei present within them .
an nmr technique used to edit the nmr response from a sample by selecting only two - spin coupled systems ,  usually achieved by appropriate cycling of the phase  ( direction of application )  of the pulses in an experiment and of the receiver .
an nmr technique used to edit the nmr response from a sample by selecting only uncoupled spins  ( singlets )  ,  usually achieved by appropriate cycling of the phase  ( direction of application )  of the pulses in an experiment and of the receiver .
an nmr technique used to edit the nmr response from a sample by selecting only three - spin coupled systems ,  usually achieved by appropriate cycling of the phase  ( direction of application )  of the pulses in an experiment and of the receiver
a technique used in ft nmr experiments whereby the sense of application  ( or phase )  of the rf pulses is altered on repeating the experiment such that addition of the resulting signals results in increased intensity for the signals of interest ,  elimination of artefacts and more effective noise reduction .
a phase cycle technique used in ft nmr experiments whereby the sense of application  ( or phase )  of the rf pulses is altered on repeating the experiment such that addition of the resulting signals results in increased intensity for the signals of interest and more effective noise reduction .
a phase cycle technique used in ft nmr experiments whereby the sense of application  ( or phase )  of the rf pulses is altered on repeating the experiment to eliminate spectral artefacts .
an nmr technique whereby particular resonances are saturated  ( their spin - state populations are equalised )  .
a tool employed in nmr experiments ;  spatially inhomogeneous magnetic fields applied with a defined gradient .
a technique used in multidimensional nmr experiments to achieve frequency discrimination of the signals in the additional dimensions .
a technique used in multidimensional nmr experiments to achieve frequency discrimination of the signals in the additional dimensions .
a technique used in multidimensional nmr experiments to achieve frequency discrimination of the signals in the additional dimensions .
a technique used in solid - state nmr experiments to achieve the controlled reintroduction of dipolar couplings by varying the angle at which the sample is spun relative to the applied magnetic field .
a technique used in nmr of isotopically enriched samples  ( usually 13c / 15n )  to select for ,  or to remove signals of protons bound to a particular isotope .
a technique used in 2d nmr of isotopically enriched samples  ( usually 13c / 15n )  to remove signals of protons which are not bound to a particular isotope from one of the two domains of the experiment .
a technique used in nmr experiments to remove unwanted signals from the spectrum by destroying the magnetisation giving rise to these signals using a pulsed filed gradient whilst the magnetisation of interest is maintained in a state which is unaffected by the pulsed field gradient  ( zz - state )  .
a data set derived from microspectroscopy consisting of a three - dimensional image where two axes describe the x and y spatial dimensions and the third dimension represents spectral wavelength .
a data set derived from ftir microscopy consisting of a three - dimensional image where two axes describe the x and y spatial dimensions and the third dimension represents the infrared wavelength .
a data set derived from infrared microscopy consisting of a three - dimensional image where two axes describe the x and y spatial dimensions and the third dimension represents the infrared wavelength .
an imaging method that uses infrared  ( 900 - 14 000 nm )  radiation and allows variation in temperature to be observed  ( typically brighter areas in the image represent higher temperatures )  .
an image obtained by illuminating the specimen with  ( usually )  ultraviolet light ,  and collecting the light emitted by chromophores in the specimen  ( fluorescence )  using a system of magnifying lenses .
microscopy which uses a sharp spike  ( known as a 'tip' )  mounted on the end of a cantilever to scan the surface of the specimen .
microscopy which uses a sharp spike  ( known as a 'tip' )  mounted on the end of a cantilever to scan the surface of the specimen .
microscopy which uses a sharp spike  ( known as a 'tip' )  mounted on the end of a cantilever to scan the surface of the specimen .
an experimental method where the sample is first transferred to the liquid phase using a supercritical fluid ,  then subjected to column chromatography where the supercritical fluid acts as the mobile phase ,  and finally depressurised ,  collected and subjected to gas chromatography .
an experimental method where the sample is first transferred to the liquid phase using a supercritical fluid ,  then depressurised ,  collected and subjected to gas chromatography .
an experimental method where the sample is first transferred to the liquid phase using a supercritical fluid ,  then subjected to column chromatography where the supercritical fluid acts as the mobile phase .
an experimental method where the sample is first transferred to the liquid phase using a supercritical fluid ,  then subjected to column chromatography where the supercritical fluid acts as the mobile phase ,  and finally depressurised ,  collected and subjected to liquid  chromatography .
a technique where a solid sample is dissolved in a supercritical fluid and this mixture is then expanded using a restrictor ,  causing the solid to precipitate .
any material processing method that uses a supercritical fluid .
a solid sample is dissolved in a common  ( organic or inorganic )  solvent then injected into a supercritical fluid  ( held under pressure )  resulting in a large decrease in solution density .
a solid sample is heated above its melting point and combining the molten material with a supercritical fluid .
spectroscopy where the sample absorbs radiation from the infrared region  ( 0 .78–1000 μm )  .
spectroscopy where the sample absorbs radiation from the infrared region   ( 0 .78–1000  \  \ μm )  .
a sensing device ,  consisting of an array of light - sensing pixels at the focal plane of a lens ,  that is sensitive to infrared radiation .
data obtained from a structure determination method .
data which is obtained from an x - ray scattering experiment where the x - rays are scattered by the sample at low angles  ( 0–10° )  .
a nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum where the nuclei of interest are aluminium - 27 nuclei and in which line broadening has been averaged to zero by spinning the sample very rapidly at the magic angle  ( 54 .74° with respect to the direction of the magnetic field )  .
a nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum in which line broadening has been averaged to zero by spinning the sample very rapidly at the magic angle  ( 54 .74° with respect to the direction of the magnetic field )  and cross polarisation has been used to enhance the signal from weakly coupled nuclei .
a nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum in which the nuclei of interest are phosphorus - 31 nuclei ,  line broadening has been averaged to zero by spinning the sample very rapidly at the magic angle  ( 54 .74° with respect to the direction of the magnetic field )  ,  and cross polarisation has been used to enhance the signal from weakly coupled nuclei .
a nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum in which the nuclei of interest are carbon - 13 nuclei ,  line broadening has been averaged to zero by spinning the sample very rapidly at the magic angle  ( 54 .74° with respect to the direction of the magnetic field )  ,  and cross polarisation has been used to enhance the signal from weakly coupled nuclei .
a type of nmr spectroscopy using a solid sample .
spectroscopy where the time decay of the fluorescence of molecules excited using ultraviolet light is detected .
a method for measuring the binding interaction between two labelled molecules .
spectroscopy where the fluorescence of a single molecule excited by ultraviolet light is detected as a function of wavelength .
a plot of fluorescence intensity vs . time .
a plot of fluorescence anisotropy  ( the difference in polarisation between incident and fluorescent light )  vs . time .
the detection of luminescence emitted from a sample as a result of the impact of high - energy electrons .
microscopy which uses a sharp spike  ( known as a 'tip' )  mounted on the end of a cantilever to scan the surface of the specimen .
a method for determining molecular motion by measuring the time it takes for a particle in a highly - scattering suspension  ( e .g .
a type of optical microscopy which is used to monitor brownian fluctuations in the separation between a single microscopic sphere and a flat plate in aqueous media .
spectroscopy based on the differential absorption of left -  and right - handed circularly polarised visible or near - ultraviolet radiation  ( 200–400 nm )  .
a plot of ellipticity vs . wavelength obtained by measuring the differential absorption of left -  and right - handed circularly polarised visible or near - ultraviolet radiation as a function of wavelength .
a plot of chemical shift vs . intensity for spin - active nuclei obtained by measuring the effect of the absorption of radio frequency radiation on nuclear spin - state transitions in the presence of a magnetic field .
a three - dimensional plot of chemical shift vs . intensity for spin - active nuclei obtained by measuring the effect of the absorption of radio frequency radiation on nuclear spin - state transitions in the presence of a magnetic field .
a synthesis method in which the components of the sample spontaneously  ( and reversibly )  associate by non - covalent interactions ,  taking the form of an existing lithographically templated structure or pattern .
a method where a sample mixture is first adsorbed onto packed tubes  ( e .g .
a detection method where a dc voltage pulse is passed through a carrier gas  ( e .g .
a detection method where a dc voltage pulse is passed through a carrier gas generating high - energy  ( 13 .5–17 .5 ev )  photons which photoionise the elements in the sample mixture ,  and the current generated by this ionisation is measured .
a detection method where a dc voltage pulse is passed through argon gas generating high - energy  ( 13 .5–17 .5 ev )  photons which photoionise the elements in the sample mixture ,  and the current generated by this ionisation is measured .
a detection method where a dc voltage pulse is passed through krypton gas generating high - energy  ( 13 .5–17 .5 ev )  photons which photoionise the elements in the sample mixture ,  and the current generated by this ionisation is measured .
a detection method where a dc voltage pulse is passed through helium gas generating high - energy  ( 13 .5–17 .5 ev )  photons which photoionise the elements in the sample mixture ,  and the current generated by this ionisation is measured .
a detection method where a dc voltage pulse is passed through a carrier gas generating high - energy  ( 13 .5–17 .5 ev )  photons which photoionise the elements a sample obtained by gas chromatography ,  and the current generated by this ionisation is measured .
a fragmentation method where the sample is ionised ,  and selected ions are allowed to collide with neutral gas molecules ,  resulting in fragmentation .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light from two lasers  ( 'pump' and 'probe' )  by a sample is detected .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light from two lasers  ( 'pump' and 'probe' )  by a sample is detected .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light by a sample is detected .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light ,  from two lasers  ( 'pump' and 'probe' )  by a sample is detected .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light ,  from a two - colour laser ,  by a sample is detected .
a type of three - dimensional nmr experiment in which the signals of a 2d nmr experiment are dispersed along a third frequency axis according to diffusion coefficient .
a technique where a solid sample is first partially dissolved in a organic solvent in a vessel .
a solid sample is dissolved in a common  ( organic or inorganic )  solvent mixed with a supercritical fluid and sprayed into an autoclave  ( using a nozzle with two or three coaxial channels )  resulting in precipitation .
a technique where a solid sample is dissolved in a common  ( organic or inorganic )  solvent then sprayed into a vessel pressurised with a dense gas  ( e .g .
a technique where a solid sample is dissolved in a common  ( organic or inorganic )  solvent ,  mixed with a supercritical fluid and sprayed into an autoclave .
a solid sample is dissolved in a common  ( organic or inorganic )  solvent then sprayed into a supercritical fluid  ( held under pressure )  resulting in a large decrease in solution density .
a type of three - dimensional nmr experiment in which the signals of a 2d tocsy spectrum are dispersed along a third frequency axis according to diffusion coefficient .
a type of three - dimensional nmr experiment in which the signals of a 2d cosy spectrum are dispersed along a third frequency axis according to diffusion coefficient .
a type of three - dimensional nmr experiment in which the signals of a 2d hmqc spectrum are dispersed along a third frequency axis according to diffusion coefficient .
a type of three - dimensional nmr experiment in which the signals of a 2d j - spectrum are dispersed along a third frequency axis according to diffusion coefficient .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 29si nuclei in a solid sample placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
a plot of chemical shift vs . intensity for silicon - 29 nuclei obtained by measuring the effect of the absorption of radio frequency radiation on nuclear spin - state transitions in the presence of a magnetic field .
an image obtained by illuminating the specimen with visible light ,  and passing the light through pinhole before it reaches a system of magnifying lenses .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of a flow cell ,  a laser and a detector ,  which detects the fluorescence and light scattering of individual particles  ( e .g .
an image obtained by scanning a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam ,  produced by thermionic emission heating  ( field emission )  ,  across the specimen under vacuum .
a plot of absorbance vs . wavelength obtained by measuring the amount of radiation absorbed by a sample as a function of the wavelength of incident radiation from the visible region  ( 380–800 nm )  range .
the trapping of microscopic particles by a focused laser beam .
spectroscopy where transient species such as radicals ,  ions or reactive intermediates are studied using laser pulses .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with one or more laser beams and the absorption or emission of light by the sample is measured in the following fs–ns timescale is measured .
a method that is used to measure the relaxation rate of molecules in fluorescent samples .
a method for determining the distribution of enzyme activity in a sample by photobleaching a specific fluorescent metabolite during microscopy ,  and monitoring its enzymatically - driven recovery .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 111cd nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 57fe nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where a microwave frequency pulse is used to saturate the electron resonance transitions in the 17o nuclei of a sample ,  and a radio frequency pulse is used excite a nuclear transition .
spectroscopy where a microwave frequency pulse is used to saturate the electron resonance transitions in the 57fe nuclei of a sample ,  and a radio frequency pulse is used excite a nuclear transition .
spectroscopy where a microwave frequency pulse is used to saturate the electron resonance transitions in the 95mo nuclei of a sample ,  and a radio frequency pulse is used excite a nuclear transition .
spectroscopy where a microwave frequency pulse is used to saturate the electron resonance transitions in the 1h nuclei of a sample ,  and a radio frequency pulse is used excite a nuclear transition .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 3he nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 6li nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 9be nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 89y nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 63cu nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 39k nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 139la nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 127i nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 121sb nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 123sb nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 95mo nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 113cd nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
a type of pulsed epr spectroscopy which is used to observe the electron spin echo in 14n nuclei as a function of the time that separates the pulses causing the echo .
a type of pulsed epr spectroscopy which is used to observe the electron spin echo in a paramagnetic system as a function of the time that separates the two pulses causing the echo .
a type of pulsed epr spectroscopy which is used to observe the electron spin echo in a paramagnetic system as a function of the time that separates the three pulses causing the echo .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light ,  usually from a laser in the visible ,  near infrared ,  or near ultraviolet range by a sample is detected .
the removal of solvent from a sample without passing through the liquid–gas boundary ,  by immersion in supercritical co2 and de - pressurisation .
a method for the synthesis of solid particles from an aerosol .
the process of transferring a substance from any matrix into ethanol .
the process of two individual components of a sample associating to form a new pattern or structure .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of a laser ,  a beam splitter ,  an optical microscope ,  a condenser and a ccd camera ,  that is used to manipulate microscopic particles .
a plot of relative pressure vs . volume adsorbed obtained by measuring the amount of an inert gasesous or liquid substance  ( the 'sorbent' ,  usually h2 or n2 )  which adsorbs onto the surface of interest  ( the 'sorbate' )  ,  and the subsequent amount that desorbs at a constant temperature .
a plot of relative pressure vs . volume adsorbed obtained by measuring the amount of n2 gas that adsorbs onto the surface of interest  ( the 'sorbate' )  ,  and the subsequent amount that desorbs at a constant temperature .
a piece of apparatus that measures surface profiles by dragging a  ( diamond )  stylus across the sample surface .
spectrometry where the sample is atomised and converted into gaseous ions which are characterised by their mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
spectrometry where the sample is converted into gaseous molecular ions ,  which are characterised by their mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
a type of column chromatography where the mobile phase is a liquid ,  the stationary phase consists of very small particles and the inlet pressure is relatively high .
a type of column chromatography where the mobile phase is a liquid ,  the stationary phase consists of very small particles and the inlet pressure is relatively high .
a method that results in the separation of two or more components along two physical axes .
a method where the sample is first subjected to two - dimensional high - performance liquid chromatography  ( passed through two columns in sequence – - a primary ion - exchange column where the particles show no loss or gain of charge with varying ph ,  and a secondary column where the stationary phase is significantly less polar than the mobile phase )  .
a multi - dimensional separation method where the separation processes are all chromatography .
an experiment in which a two - dimensional separation method is coupled to a detection method in order to detect one or more different components of a sample .
a type of chromatography where an initial separation proceeds in a primary column and parts of the eluent from this column are directed into a secondary column .
a method in which a two - dimensional chromatography method is coupled to mass spectrometry .
a multi - dimensional separation method where the separation processes are all electrophoresis .
a method where the sample is first subjected to column chromatography where the mobile phase is a liquid ,  the stationary phase consists of very small particles and the inlet pressure is relatively high .
a method in which a two - dimensional chromatography method  ,  where the mobile phase is a liquid ,  is coupled to mass spectrometry , 
a method in which a two - dimensional chromatography method  ,  where the mobile phase is a liquid and the inlet pressure is relatively high ,  is coupled to mass spectrometry , 
a method where the sample is first subjected to two - dimensional high - performance liquid chromatography  ( passed through two columns in sequence – - a primary ion - exchange column where the particles show no loss or gain of charge with varying ph ,  and a secondary column where the stationary phase is significantly less polar than the mobile phase )  .
a separation method where components of a sample are separated on the basis of their density in a centrifuge according to the centrifugal force they experience .
a separation method where the components of a sample are separated on the basis of their density in a centrifuge according to the centrifugal force they experience .
a separation method where the components of a sample  are separated on the basis of their density in a centrifuge according to the centrifugal force they experience .
a separation method where components of a sample are separated on the basis of their density in a centrifuge according to the centrifugal force they experience .
a method where a sample is purified by removing impurities on the basis of their density in a centrifuge .
a separation method where the components of a cell are separated on the basis of their density in a centrifuge according to the centrifugal force they experience .
a method where components of a sample are separated on the basis of their density in an ultracentrifuge according to the centrifugal force they experience .
a method where the components of a sample are separated on the basis of their density ,  in a dense medium or density gradient ,  in a centrifuge ,  according to the centrifugal force they experience .
a method where the components of a sample are separated on the basis of their density ,  in a density gradient of e .g .
a method where the components of a sample are separated on the basis of their density ,  in a density gradient of e .g .
the intensive mixing of μtually insoluble phases  ( sometimes with addition of surfactants )  to obtain a soluble suspension or emulsion .
a piece of apparatus that consists of an ion source ,  a mass - to - charge analyser ,  a detector and a vacuum system and is used to measure mass spectra .
an ionisation method where the sample is ionised by interaction  ( electron or proton transfer )  with reagent  ( n2 ,  o2 ,  h2o )  gaseous ions at atmospheric pressure .
column chromatography where the mobile phase is a liquid ,  the stationary phase consists of very small particles ,  the inlet pressure is relatively high and the separation is caused by differences in ion - exchange affinity .
a method where the sample is first subjected to column chromatography where the mobile phase is a liquid ,  the stationary phase consists of very small particles and the inlet pressure is relatively high .
the process of determining the quantity of a sample by adding measured increments of a titrant until the end - point is reached .
a method for determining structure by directing polarised neutrons onto an extremely flat surface and measuring the intensity of the reflected neutrons as a function of angle and neutron wavelength .
a method for determining structure by directing two beams of polarised neutrons  ( one spin 'up' and one spin 'down' )  onto the sample ,  which contains a ferromagnetic reference layer ,  and measuring the intensity of the reflected neutrons in the presence of an applied magnetic field .
spectroscopy where the intensity of a gamma - rays beam transmitted through a solid sample containing 129xe nuclei is detected .
spectroscopy where the intensity of a gamma - rays beam transmitted through a solid sample containing 127i nuclei is detected .
spectroscopy where the intensity of a gamma - rays beam transmitted through a solid sample containing 57fe nuclei is detected .
spectroscopy where the intensity of a gamma - rays beam transmitted through a solid sample containing 119sn nuclei is detected .
spectroscopy where the intensity of a gamma - rays beam transmitted through a solid sample containing 121sb nuclei is detected .
spectroscopy where the intensity of a gamma - rays beam transmitted through a solid sample containing 125te nuclei is detected .
spectroscopy where the intensity of a gamma - rays beam transmitted through a solid sample containing 151eu nuclei is detected .
spectroscopy where the intensity of a gamma - rays beam transmitted through a solid sample containing 129i nuclei is detected .
spectroscopy where the intensity of a gamma - rays beam transmitted through a solid sample containing 197au nuclei is detected .
a method in which a two - dimensional separation method is coupled to a measurement method .
the measurement of the light transmitted through a sample for a given wavelength .
a method for determining the velocity of a sample by measuring the doppler shift experienced by ultrasound radiation .
a method for determining the velocity of a sample by measuring the doppler shift experienced by microwave radiation .
the measurement of the velocity of a moving object or medium using light .
a method for determining the velocity or zeta - potential of a sample by measuring the doppler shift experienced by light .
a method for measuring the velocity of a sample by detecting and analysing successive ultrasonic speckle signals that result from the interference of backscattered echoes of successive incident pulses of ultrasonic radiation  ( 36 mhz )  .
a method for measuring the velocity of a sample by detecting and analysing successive ultrasonic speckle signals that result from the interference of backscattered echoes of successive incident pulses of ultrasonic radiation  ( 36 mhz )  as a function of time .
the measurement of the velocity of a moving object or medium using an nmr signal .
a method for determining the velocity of a fluid by tagging  ( presaturating the magnetisation in )  a particular group of spins and tracking them in a fluid flow using nmr spectroscopy .
a method for determining the velocity of fluids by using magnetic field gradients to encode velocity information into the phase of an nmr signal .
a method for determining the velocity of fluids by using magnetic field gradients to encode velocity information into the phase of the nmr signal .
a method for determining the velocity of a sample flow using two coherent intersecting pulsed laser beams to create a density grating in the sample and a third ,  continuous ,  laser beam to detect the doppler shift in the signal .
a method for determining the velocity of fluids by encoding it into an nmr signal .
a method for determining the velocity of fluids by using a pulsed - field gradient spin echo sequence to encode the velocity into an nmr signal .
a method for determining the velocity of a sample flow using two coherent intersecting pulsed laser beams to create a density grating in the sample and a third ,  continuous ,  laser beam to detect the doppler shift in the signal .
a method for detemining the velocity of metallic or semiconductor melts  ( at ~1000 °c )  by measuring the doppler shift experienced by ultrasound radiation .
any type of nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy in which four independent frequency dimensions are employed for the correlation and dispersal of signals  ( by employing three magnetisation transfer steps )  .
a 2d nmr experiment which correlates the chemical shifts of spatially proximate protons with the chemical shifts of all  ( of one type of )  their covalently bound heteronuclei .
a 2d nmr experiment which correlates the chemical shifts of all the protons in a spin system with the chemical shifts of all  ( of one type of )  their covalently bound heteronuclei .
a method for determining the size distribution of a sample of small particles in concentrated or opaque solutions by illuminating the sample with two laser beams and cross - correlating the time - dependent fluctuations in the intensity of the scattered light caused by brownian motion .
any method for the synthesis or processing of colloids  ( mixtures where one substance is dispersed evenly throughout another )  .
a method for dispersing two or more immiscible liquids by shaking ,  stirring or homogenising the mixture .
a method for dispersing two or more immiscible liquid by shaking ,  stirring or homogenising the mixture .
purification of crude chemical compounds containing solid impurities where a solvent is chosen in which the desired product is insoluble and the undesired by - products are very soluble  ( or vice versa )  .
spectroscopy where the absorption of linearly  ( p -  )  polarised uv - vis light by a poled thin film sample ,  as it is rotated about the vertical axis ,  is recorded at incremental angles of incidence .
variable - angle polarised absorption spectroscopy where the angle - independent s - polarisation of the light is also measured as a reference .
a buffer solution where the ph is maintained by tris  [ tris ( hydroxymethyl ) aminomethane ]  and edta  ( ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid )  .
a plot of intensity vs . energy obtained by measuring the number and energy of x - rays absorbed by the sample within 40 ev of the absorption edge  ( the part of the spectrum where the incident x - ray energy matches the binding energy of an electron )  .
a plot of energy against time obtained from the measurement of the heat evolved during a chemical or biochemical reaction  ( such as protein - receptor binding )  .
a piece of apparatus that consists of: a light source ;  a holder for the sample ;  a diffraction grating or monochromator to separate the different wavelengths of light ;  a detector ,  and is used to measure spectra in the range ultraviolet to near - infrared  ( 190 - 2000 nm )  resulting in electronic transitions within the sample .
a plot of weight% vs . temperature ,  usually consisting of a series of steps ,  obtained by measuring the mass of a sample during heating .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 79br nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
a type of nmr spectroscopy using a solid sample .
the measurement of thermodynamic parameters  ( e .g .
the measurement of thermodynamic parameters  ( e .g .
the measurement of thermodynamic parameters  ( e .g .
the measurement of thermodynamic parameters  ( e .g .
the measurement of thermodynamic parameters  ( e .g .
the measurement of thermodynamic parameters  ( e .g .
the measurement of thermodynamic parameters  ( e .g .
the measurement of thermodynamic parameters  ( e .g .
the measurement of thermodynamic parameters  ( e .g .
the measurement of thermodynamic parameters  ( e .g .
a sample preparation method where  ( contaminated )  material is removed from a specimen by illuminating it with a laser beam .
a separation method where particles move at different speeds according to their thermal conductivity in a separation medium ,  across which a thermal gradient is applied .
a separation method where particles move at different speeds according to their thermal conductivity in a separation medium ,  across which a thermal gradient  ( produced by laser irradiation )  is applied .
a separation method where two or more particles  ( e .g .
the measurement of thermodynamic parameters  ( e .g .
the measurement of thermodynamic parameters  ( e .g .
a method for determining the exact amount of an analyte by adding an equivalent amount of a reagent of exactly known concentration to the sample .
a method for separating cells ,  where each one is suspended in a single aqueous droplet .
the measurement of the density of a solution by determining the neutral buoyancy of an object  ( the point at which it maintains a constant depth )  in the solution .
the measurement of the density of a sample .
the measurement of the density of a solution by determining the resonant frequency of a quartz u - tube which holds about 1 ml of sample .
a detection method that is sensitive to peptides .
mass spectrometry involving multiple mass - selection steps ,  where anions transfer electrons to multiply protonated peptides  ( resulting in fragmentation )  between each mass - selection stage .
the recording of an interference pattern on a photographic film .
spectroscopy where three incident laser beams are mixed .
spectroscopy where three femtosecond pulse incident laser beams are mixed ,  two 'pump' beams of the same frequency and one 'probe' beam of a different frequency .
spectroscopy where one laser beam is split into three beams .
spectroscopy where three incident laser beams are mixed ,  two 'pump' beams of the same frequency and one 'probe' beam of a different frequency .
spectroscopy where three incident terahertz laser beams are mixed .
a piece of apparatus which illuminates a sample with x - rays and measures the diffraction pattern produced .
the process of making a polymer blend by mechanically mixing different polymers together in the melt .
oximetry used to determine the extent of oxygenation of an enzyme ,  based on the absorption of light by the oxygenated and deoxygenated forms .
a technique used to measure the levels of oxygen in a sample .
oximetry used to determine the extent of oxygenation of haemoglobin based on the red  ( 600 - 750 nm )  and infrared  ( 800 - 1000 nm )  light absorption characteristics of the oxygenated and deoxygenated forms .
a technique used to measure the levels of oxygen in a sample by measuring the enhancement of relaxation rates  ( proportional to o2 concentration )  of paramagnetic species  ( 'labels' or 'probes' ,  e .g .
a technique used to determine the amount of oxygen in sample based on the absorption of laser radiation .
a technique for measuring the amount of oxygen in a sample by collecting proton nuclear magnetic resonance data whilst irradiating the electron paramagnetic resonance signal from o2 .
spectroscopy based on the differential absorption of left -  and right - handed circularly polarised near - infrared radiation in the presence of a magnetic field .
a method of separating mixtures based on differences in their volatilities in a boiling liquid mixture .
a plot of % oxygen vs . time ,  measured during a process where oxygen is consumed or evolved .
microscopy which uses a sharp spike  ( known as a 'tip' )  mounted on the end of a cantilever to scan the surface of the specimen .
microscopy which uses a sharp spike  ( known as a 'tip' )  mounted on the end of a cantilever to scan the surface of the specimen that is immersed in a liquid cell .
the measurement of the size distribution in a collection of grains .
a piece of apparatus that transmits a narrow band of wavelengths of light or other radiation  ( e .g .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of a quartz or alumina chamber ,  a balance ,  a sample pan and a heating mechanism ,  which is used to record the mass of a sample as a function of increasing temperature .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of an anode  ( the specimen )  a cathode  ( the source of sputter atoms or 'target' )  and a magnet ,  all held inside a vacuum chamber ,  which is used to coat specimens with a thin layer of atoms  ( e .g .
the measurement of the overall charge a particle acquires in a specific medium .
the removal of solvent from a sample by the application of an inert gas or air .
an image obtained by bombarding the specimen with several finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beams under vacuum and using the phase contrast between transmitted interfering electron waves .
a piece of apparatus that can increase the power of a signal .
a piece of apparatus that is used to increase the amplitude of either the voltage or the current output from a patch - clamp  ( ion - channel measurement )  experiment .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 73ge nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
an nmr experiment used to enhance the sensitivity of low gyromagnetic ratio nuclei by collapsing the intensity of the 'full' spectrum into discrete 'spikelets' / peaks .
an nmr experiment for 73ge nuclei where spin - spin  ( t2 )  relaxation times are measured whilst the solid sample is spun rapidly at the magic angle  ( 54 .74° with respect to the direction of the magnetic field )  to reduce line broadening .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 73ge nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
a plot of chemical shift vs . intensity for germanium - 73 nuclei obtained by measuring the effect of the absorption of radio frequency radiation on nuclear spin - state transitions in the presence of a magnetic field .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 67zn nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 25mg  nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
column chromatography where the mobile phase is a gas and the stationary phase is a chiral ,  high - boiling - point ,  thermally - stable liquid such as a chiral polysiloxane .
column chromatography where the mobile phase is a liquid ,  the stationary phase consists of very small chiral particles and the inlet pressure is relatively high .
an nmr experiment used to measure spin - spin  ( t2 )  relaxation times of quadropolar nucei by acquiring multiple spin echos with the intensity decay of the echos proportional to t2 .
a plot of the nuclear magnetic resonance frequency vs . intensity composed of a series of peaks  ( separated by the reciprocal of a user - defined time delay in a qcpmg pulse sequence )  which describe the envelope of the full ,  static spectrum .
a plot of the nuclear magnetic resonance frequency vs . intensity composed of a series of peaks  ( separated by the reciprocal of a user - defined time delay in a qcpmg pulse sequence )  which describe the envelope of the full ,  static spectrum .
a plot of the nuclear magnetic resonance frequency for 73ge nuclei vs . intensity ,  composed of a series of peaks  ( separated by the reciprocal of a user - defined time delay in a qcpmg pulse sequence )  which describe the envelope of the full ,  static spectrum .
spectroscopy where the spontaneous fluorescence intensity fluctuations of a sample are measured and correlated within a very small detection volume .
an electrochemical technique where the cell current is measured as a function of time and as a function of the potential between the indicator and reference electrodes .
the process of determining the quantity of a sample by adding measured increments of a titrant until the end - point is reached .
the process of determining the quantity of a sample by adding measured increments of a titrant until the end - point is reached .
the process of determining the quantity of a sample by adding measured increments of a titrant until the end - point ,  at which essentially all of the sample has reacted ,  is reached .
any synthesis technique involving the transfer of a pattern to a sample .
any patterning technique that utlilises the movement of particles under the influence of an electric field  ( e .g .
any technique that utlilises the movement of particles under the influence of an electric field  ( e .g .
a technique that utlilises the movement of particles under the influence of an electric field  ( e .g .
a method for dispersing two or more immiscible liquids as micrometre - sized droplets by shaking ,  stirring or homogenising the mixture .
any process that makes one sample unreactive to another ,  prior to using the samples together .
an eletrochemical process that increases the thickness of the oxide layer on the surface of a metal sample in order to make it less reactive .
any eletrochemical process that makes one sample unreactive to another ,  prior to using the samples together .
the deposition of a layer of metal on a substrate  ( usually to provide electrical contacts in devices )  .
the deposition of a layer of aluminium on a substrate  ( usually to provide electrical contacts in devices )  .
the deposition of a layer of silane - like molecules on a surface  ( e .g .
the removal of ions from a solution using an ion - exchange method .
a method of producing large single crystals  ( of semiconductors or metals )  by inserting a small seed crystal into a crucible filled with similar molten material ,  then slowly pulling the seed up from the melt while rotating it .
a method for preparing synthetic gemstones .
a method of growing a single crystal 'ingot' or 'boule' .
the deposition of a layer of metal on dna by chemically reducing dna - complexed metal salts  ( e .g . ,  ag ,  pd ,  pt ,  and cu )  .
a plot of volume of titrant vs . an independent variable  ( e .g . ,  ph or enthalpy )  obtained from a titration experiment .
the application of a thin cover to a sample by depositing consecutive drops of a solution on its surface ,  and allowing the solvent to evaporate .
the process of the settling of metal ions from a solution or suspension onto a pre - existing surface .
a type of raman spectroscopy where the spectral signal is enhanced by pre - concentration of the sample .
a thick - walled steel vessel used during synthesis methods that require both high pressures and high temperatures .
the synthesis of metal - containing compounds in poly ( ethylene glycol ) s . the ethylene glycol acts as both the solvent and reducing agent .
the synthesis of metal - containing compounds in poly ( ethylene glycol ) s heated by microwave irradiation .
the synthesis of metal - containing compounds in poly ( ethylene glycol )  which is irradiated with ultrasonic  (  > 20 khz )  waves .
an image obtained by using a sharp spike  ( known as a 'tip' )  mounted on the end of a cantilever to scan the surface of the specimen ,  line by line ,  and recording the force experienced by the tip as a function of position .
an image obtained by using a sharp spike  ( known as a 'tip' )  mounted on the end of a cantilever to scan the surface of the specimen ,  line by line ,  and recording the drop in amplitude of the oscillating cantilever as a function of position .
an image obtained by using a sharp spike  ( known as a 'tip' )  mounted on the end of a cantilever to scan the surface of the specimen ,  line by line ,  and recording the height moved by the tip as a function of position .
an image obtained by using a sharp spike  ( known as a 'tip' )  mounted on the end of a cantilever to scan the surface of the specimen ,  line by line ,  and recording the deflection of the tip as a function of position .
a detection method where the sample is converted into gaseous ions which are characterised by their mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
spectroscopy where the resonant excitation of surface plasmons  ( usually on a au or ag nanosized surface )  by ultraviolet or visible light is measured .
a plot of reflectance vs . incident frequency or angle obtained by measuring the resonant excitation of surface plasmons  ( usually on a au or ag nanosized surface )  by ultraviolet or visible light .
microscopy where the sample is illuminated with visible light that is not collected by the objective lens .
an image obtained by illuminating the specimen with visible light that is not collected by the objective lens .
spectroscopy where a dark - field optical microscope is used to image the sample and locate a small area for spectral analysis with radiation in the ultraviolet to near infrared range .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of an eyepiece ,  an objective lens ,  object turret ,  stage ,  condenser and light source ,  which collects electromagnetic radiation in the visible range .
a piece of apparatus that converts optical brightness into an electrical signal using a ccd  ( a semiconductor chip ,  which converts the intensity of light falling onto its surface at different points into a charge )  and then reproduces an image of the specimen .
a piece of apparatus ,  based on a semiconductor chip ,  which converts the intensity of light falling onto its surface at different points into a potential difference .
a piece of apparatus that converts optical brightness into an electrical signal using a emccd and then reproduces an image of the specimen .
spectroscopy where the amount of light transmitted through a sample is measured .
a plot of extinction  ( or transmittance )  vs . wavelength  ( or wavenumber )  obtained by measuring the amount of radiation transmitted through a sample as a function of the wavelength of the incident radiation .
spectroscopy where the sample is irradiated with an initial pulse of polarised laser light  ( the 'pump' )  and the change in polarisation of a second laser pulse  ( the 'probe' )  is determined .
spectroscopy where a spectral shift ,  in fluorescence spectrum ,  which depends on the phase of lipid membranes is measured .
spectroscopy where the difference between the red and blue fluorescence emission of the fluorescent probe laurdan  ( 6 - dodecanoyl - 2 -  dimethylaminonaphthalene )  ,  which depends on the phase of lipid membranes ,  is measured .
a type of chemical imaging where an optical microscope is used to image the sample and locate a small area for fluorescence spectroscopy .
data which is obtained from an x - ray diffraction experiment where the specimen is a powder and the x - rays are incident on the sample at small angles  ( 0 - 10 degrees )  .
a patterning technique that involves the self - assembly of nanospheres into a two - dimensional mask  ( by e .g .
a process for applying a thin cover to flat substrates by placing a drop of the coating solution on the substrate and then placing it inside a cooled box  ( to control the speed of evaporation )  at an angle of 9°  ( to initiate evaporation evaporation from the top of the substrate )  .
a synthesis method in which colloidal particle suspensions in thin evaporating films spontaneously  ( and reversibly )  associate by non - covalent interactions .
microscopy where the specimen can be made to fluoresce  ( emit energy as visible light )  by illuminating it with light of specific wavelengths .
an image obtained by bombarding the specimen with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam under vacuum and measuring the intensities of the transmitted electrons .
any process that involves preparing or exciting a sample for a subsequent reaction .
a process that involves improving the adhesion properties of a sample using short pulses of a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas containing free electrons and radicals )  .
a technique for purifying a crystalline sample where the impure sample is dissolved in a small volume of solvent ,  forming a supersaturated solution .
a piece of apparatus consisting of a motor unit that rotates the evaporation flask ,  a vacuum system ,  a heated water bath and a condenser ,  which is used to remove solvents from samples under reduced pressure .
a piece of apparatus that is used to measure the heat of chemical reactions or physical changes for both a sample and a reference .
a plot of relative abundance  ( % )  vs . mass - to - charge ratio obtained from a mass spectrometry experiment where the sample  ( usually a large organic molecule or biomolecule )  is vaporised and ionised using a high - energy pulsed laser whilst being held in a matrix  ( such as crystallised dihydrobenzoic acid )  to protect it from direct laser illumination and to separate the sample molecules .
a mass spectrometer that uses a plate to hold the sample in a matrix  ( such as crystallised dihydrobenzoic acid )  whilst it is vaporised and ionised using a high - energy pulsed laser .
a extremely flat surface that holds the sample during a mass spectrometry experiment where the sample is vaporised and ionised using a high - energy pulsed laser whilst being held in a matrix to protect it from direct laser illumination and to separate the sample molecules .
a process for forming thermoplastic polymer samples by dipping a mould into a solution of the polymer and drawing off the solvent to leave a polymer film adhering to the mould .
a process for forming thermoplastic polymer samples by dipping a mould into a solution of the polymer and particles of known dimension ,  and drawing off the solvent to leave a composite polymer - particle film adhering to the mould .
a technique used to isolate and purify polymers .
the simultaneous precipitation of a normally soluble component with a polymer component from the same solution by the formation of a composite by adsorption ,  occlusion or mechanical entrapment .
the removal of solvent from a sample ,  usually by the application of heat .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of x - rays at the sample and detecting the positions and intensities of the diffracted x - rays as a pattern of spots on a photographic plate .
a synthesis technique where a pt metal target is bombarded with energetic ions  ( e .g .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of x - rays at the powdered sample and detecting the positions and intensities of the diffracted x - rays as a pattern of spots on a photographic plate .
x - ray emission spectroscopy where the energy spectrum of the x - rays emitted ,  by a single particle ,  due to core - to - core transitions is measured using a semiconductor detector .
any method used to prepare a polymer sample .
any method for the synthesis of polymer membranes that involves the polymer transforming from the liquid phase of the cast solution to the solid phase .
a technique for preparing a polymer membrane by mixing polymer and solvent ,  then casting this solution onto a surface and allowing the solvent to partially evaporate .
a method for preparing a polymer membrane by mixing the polymer with a substance that acts as a solvent a high temperature and casting the solution into a film .
any technique used to purify a sample by forcing it to pass from the solid to gas phase without passing through an intermediate liquid phase .
a method for purifying samples by heating the sample under reduced pressure and allowing the fractions to sublime order of increasing sublimation temperature  ( a function of vapor pressure )  .
a technique for purifying solid samples by heating the sample under vacuum .
a technique for purifying solid samples by heating the sample under high vacuum  (  < 0 .1 pa )  .
a method for crystal growth where polycrystalline sic lumps are carefully packed between two concentric graphite tubes .
a technique for growing crystals of sic by heating a source  ( polycrystalline sic or powder )  at high temperature  ( 1800 - 2600 °c )  and low pressure in an ar atmosphere causing it to sublime .
a technique for growing thick  ( micrometre )  epitaxial layers of sic by heating a source  ( polycrystalline sic or powder )  at high temperature  ( 1800 - 2600 °c )  and low pressure in an ar atmosphere causing it to sublime .
any synthesis method used to grow crystals .
a method for growing low - purity polycrystalline sic .
a data set derived from energy - dispersive x - ray spectroscopy consisting of a three - dimensional image where two axes describe the x and y spatial dimensions and the third dimension represents x - ray energy .
a plot of energy  ( kev )  vs . intensity for x - rays emitted by a sample due to core - to - core transitions ,  following bombardment with electrons .
the measurement of thermodynamic parameters such as heat release rate ,  heat of combustion ,  ignitability ,  and the evolution of toxic gases ,  smoke and soot ,  for flame retarding materials using a cone calorimeter .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of a cone - shaped heater ,  a hood to collect evolving gases and a laser beam ,  that is used to measure thermodynamic parameters such as heat release rate ,  heat of combustion ,  ignitability ,  and the evolution of toxic gases ,  smoke and soot ,  for flame retarding materials .
the distribution of particles of one phase in a continuous phase of a different nature ,  assisted by sound waves  (  > 20 khz in frequency )  .
any technique used to physically separate an analyte from byproducts ,  reagents or contaminating substances .
a piece of apparatus used to measure a spectrum by illumination with visible light .
a type spectroscopy where a sub - ensemble of molecules within an inhomogeneously broadened absorption band is selectively excited by means of a narrow - band laser and the fluorescence and phosphorescence signal is detected with a monochromator or interferometer .
a type of laser spectroscopy where a dye laser is used to remove ,  from an inhomogeneously broadened spectral line ,  a narrow homogenous line causing the appearance of a dip  (  or 'hole' )  in a spectrum .
microscopy where a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 50 - 150 kv is scanned across an electron - transparent specimen under vacuum .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of an eyepiece ,  an objective lens ,  a condenser lens ,  stage ,  and light source ,  which collects electromagnetic radiation in the visible range .
a piece of apparatus which is used to produce an enlarged image of an electron -  transparent specimen using a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage of 50 - 150 kv under vacuum .
microscopy where the specimen is bombarded with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 50 - 150 kv under vacuum .
any method used to synthesise carbon nanotubes .
a method for the synthesis of carbon nanotubes where a direct - current arc voltage is applied across two graphite electrodes immersed in an inert gas such as he .
a method for the synthesis of carbon nanotubes where a direct - current arc voltage is applied across two graphite electrodes immersed in h2 gas .
a plot of heat release  ( w / m2 )  vs . time obtained during a calorimetry experiment .
a type of laser spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with a laser of frequency ω whilst a direct - current electric field is applied ,  allowing the production of the second harmonic  ( 2ω )  .
any piece of apparatus used to detect an analyte .
a detector that uses a silicon chip to convert light into electrical signal .
a very sensitive room - temperature detector for mid - infrared range measurements that employs temperature - sensitive ferroelectric crystals of deuterated triglycine sulfate .
a very sensitive temperature - controlled detector for mid - infrared range measurement that employs temperature - sensitive ferroelectric crystals of either deuterated lanthanum triglycine sulfate or deuterated l - alanine doped triglycine sulfate .
a detector for infrared measurements that employs a thin layer of the semiconductor hgcdte .
the measurement of the pore diameter ,  pore - size distribution and total pore volume of a sample .
the measurement of the pore diameter ,  pore - size distribution and total pore volume of a thin porous film sample by measuring the changes in intensity and polarisation of  reflected light during vapour adsorption and desorption .
a method applied to polymer films to increase polymer chain mobility .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of a laser ,  a monochromator  ( for selecting a specific excitation wavelength )  and a detector ,  which is used to measure fluorescence spectra .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of a microwave radiation source ,  a resonator  ( a cavity )  ,  a magnet and a detector ,  that is used to measure electron spin resonance spectra .
an electrophoresis method for the separation of amphoteric analytes according to their isoelectric points by the application of an electric field along a ph gradient .
affinity chromatography where proteins containing amino acids with a specific affinity for metal ions  ( e .g .
a chromatography method where the separation is caused by differing analyte - ligand interactions .
a chromatography method where the separation is caused by differing analyte–ligand interactions .
column chromatography where anions are retained by positively charged functional groups that have a permanent positive charge in aqueous solution ,  such as quaternary ammonium groups ,  in the stationary phase .
column chromatography where anions are retained by positively charged functional groups that have a positive charge only at high ph ,  such as amine groups ,  in the stationary phase .
column chromatography where cations are retained by functional groups that are permanently negatively charged in aqueous conditions ,  for example aliphatic sulfonic acid groups ,  in the stationary phase .
column chromatography where cations are retained by functional groups that are  negatively charged at low ph ,  for example aliphatic carboxylic acid groups ,  in the stationary phase .
liquid chromatography where the stationary phase is hydrophilic ,  the mobile phase is organic and separation is achieved based on polarity .
a chromatography column where the stationary phase is a cation exchanger .
a chromatography column where the stationary phase is an ion exchanger .
a chromatography column where the stationary phase is an anion exchanger .
a chromatography column where the stationary phase is a strong cation exchanger .
a chromatography column where the stationary phase is a weak cation exchanger .
a chromatography column where the stationary phase is a strong anion exchanger .
a chromatography column where the stationary phase is a weak anion exchanger .
hydrophilic interaction chromatography where the chromatography column is an ion - exchange column and the mobile phase is predominantly organic .
a method for obtaining colloidal solutions of nanoparticles by the condensation of a plasma plume formed by the laser ablation of a bulk metal plate dipped in a solution .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of two separate beams of x - rays scattered by a sample at low angles  ( 0–10° )  .
data which is obtained from an x - ray scattering experiment where two separate beams of x - rays scattered by a sample at low angles  ( 0–10 deg )  .
a method where the sample mixture is first separated by size - exclusion chromatography and then excited using a plasma generated by electromagnetic induction ,  and the emission of electromagnetic radiation from the sample at characteristic wavelengths is detected .
a separation method where protein molecules move at different speeds ,  in non - denaturing conditions ,  according to their charge and frictional forces in a separation medium consisting of polyacrylamide gel ,  across which an electric field is applied .
a separation method where protein molecules move at different speeds ,  in non - denaturing conditions ,  according to their charge and frictional forces in a separation medium consisting of polyacrylamide gel ,  across which an electric field is applied .
a separation method where protein molecules move at different speeds ,  in non - denaturing conditions ,  according to their charge and frictional forces in a separation medium consisting of polyacrylamide gel ,  across which an electric field is applied .
a separation method where metalloprotein molecules move at different speeds ,  in a buffer with ph 10 ,  according to their charge and frictional forces in a separation medium consisting of polyacrylamide gel ,  across which an electric field is applied .
a two - dimensional separation method where the separation processes are both native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis .
a type of column chromatography in which ions in solution can be 'paired' or neutralised and separated as an ion pair on a reversed - phase column .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by ion - pair chromatography  ( where sample ions are 'paired' or neutralised and separated as an ion pair on a reversed - phase column )  before being ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by electromagnetic induction ,  and characterised according to mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
an image obtained by scanning the specimen with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam under vacuum and measuring the intensities of the transmitted electrons .
a synthesis technique where a solid target is bombarded with electrons causing atoms to be ejected  ( 'sputtering' )  .
spectroscopy where the spontaneous fluorescence intensity fluctuations of a sample are measured and correlated within a very small detection volume which is moving with respect to the sample .
microscopy where a metal - coated afm tip is positioned very close to the surface of the specimen  ( in the near - field )  and an image of the surface is obtained by mechanically moving the tip in a raster scan of the specimen ,  line by line ,  and recording the change in the polarisation of incident light when it is reflected from a surface as a function of position .
spectroscopy where the sample absorbs a single pulse of polarised radiation from the infrared region  ( 0 .78–1000  \  \ μm )  and the spectrum obtained is subject to a fourier transform .
spectroscopy where the sample is first chemically degraded by heating then its absorption of radiation from the infrared region  ( 0 .78–1000  \  \ μm )  is measured and the spectrum obtained is subject to a fourier transform .
spectroscopy where the sample absorbs a single pulse of polarised radiation from the infrared region  ( 0 .78–1000  \  \ μm )  and the spectrum obtained ,  recorded as a function of time ,  is subject to a fourier transform .
spectroscopy where the sample absorbs a single pulse of radiation from the infrared region  ( 0 .78–1000 μm )  and the spectrum obtained is subject to a fast fourier transform .
spectroscopy where the transmission of infrared radiation  ( 0 .78–1000 μm )  through a sample is detected .
spectroscopy where the sample absorbs radiation from the infrared region  ( 0 .78–1000 μm )  .
spectroscopy where the resonant excitation of surface plasmons  ( usually on a noble metal e .g .
a separation method where magnetic particles move at different speeds according to their magnetic susceptibilities in a separation medium ,  across which a magnetic field is applied .
a technique for separating magnetic and nonmagentic particles by placing the sample in a narrow channel and applying a magnetic field .
spectroscopy where the sample is bombarded with electrons causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons ,  the energies of which are measured .
x - ray emission spectroscopy where the x - rays are generated by bombarding the sample with a focused beam of high - energy electrons .
x - ray emission spectroscopy where the x - rays are generated by bombarding the sample with a focused beam of high - energy protons .
the detection of luminescence emitted over a long timescale from a sample ,  as a result of irradiation with light .
the detection of luminescence exhibited by certain crystalline materials ,  such as some minerals ,  when previously absorbed energy from electromagnetic radiation or other ionizing radiation is re - emitted as light upon heating of the material .
a type of homonuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between 13c nuclei that are j - coupled  ( usually  \  \ leq 3 bonds apart )  .
a separation method where the components are distributed between two phases ,  one of which is stationary and non - polar ,  while the other is polar and moves in a definite direction .
a separation method where the components are distributed between two phases ,  one of which is stationary ,  while the other moves in a definite direction  ( the 'mobile' phase )  .
a separation method where the components are distributed between two phases ,  one of which is stationary ,  while the other moves in a definite direction  ( the 'mobile' phase )  .
a separation method where the components are distributed between two phases ,  one of which is stationary ,  while the other moves in a definite direction  ( the 'mobile' phase )  .
a plot of ellipticity vs . wavelength obtained by measuring the differential absorption of left -  and right - handed circularly polarised photon radiation as a function of wavelength in the presence of a magnetic field .
a buffer where the ph is maintained by tris–htris ,  where tris = tris ( hydroxymethyl ) aminomethane ,  and n - tris ( hydroxymethyl ) methyl - 2 - aminoethanesulfonic acid–n - tris ( hydroxymethyl ) methyl - 2 - ammonioethanesulfonate equilibria .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of a xe lamp ,  a sample holder and at least two polarising filters ,  that is used to measure optical rotations in solution .
a time - of - flight mass spectrometer that uses an orthogonal - acceleration ion source .
a mass spectrometer which uses two time - of - flight mass - to - charge analysers in sequence to separate ions .
an imaging technique where a beam of x - rays is directed at the specimen and the intensities of the x - rays emitted due to core - to - core transitions  ( known as 'x - ray fluorescence' )  are detected as a function of wavelength and position .
an imaging technique where soft x - rays  ( 100–1000 ev )  are directed at the specimen ,  and the difference in absorption of the x - rays by different elements  ( mainly o and c )  produces an image .
an imaging technique where a finely focused beam of x - rays is directed at the specimen and the energies and intensities of the transmitted x - rays are measured as a function of position .
an imaging technique where a finely focused  ( 20–50 nm )  beam of x - rays is scanned over the surface of the specimen ,  and the energies and intensities of the transmitted x - rays are measured as a function of position .
a separation method where colloidal particles move at different speeds according to their electrophoretic mobilities in a separation medium ,  across which a pulsed electric field is applied  ( a field in which the voltage changes direction )  .
a separation method where colloidal particles move at different speeds according to their electrophoretic mobilities in a separation medium consisting of gel ,  across which a pulsed electric field is applied  ( one in which the voltage direction is periodically switched among three directions ;  one that runs through the central axis of the gel and two that run at an angle of 120° either side )  .
column chromatography where both the mobile phase and the stationary phase are liquids .
column chromatography where the mobile phase is a liquid and the stationary phase is a solid .
a synthesis method for carbon nanotubes where an organometallic precursor  ( typically tungsten - based )  is vaporised then heated in an ar and c2h2 atmosphere to 950 °c .
a synthesis method for carbon nanotubes where a hydrocarbon vapor  ( such as methane )  is thermally decomposed in a tube furnace in the presence of a metal catalyst .
a synthesis method for carbon nanotubes that involves mixing high pressure  ( e .g .
a method for the synthesis of carbon nanotubes where a laser beam  ( typically a yag laser )  is focused onto a graphite–metal target located in a quartz tube surrounded by a furnace .
a piece of apparatus which is used to produce an enlarged image of an electron transparent specimen using several finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beams with an acceleration voltage of 50–150 kv under vacuum .
a method where the components of a sample are separated on the basis of their density ,  in a dense medium or density gradient ,  in a centrifuge ,  according to the centrifugal force they experience .
a separation method where colloidal particles move at different speeds according to their dielectrophoretic mobilities in a separation medium ,  across which an alternating electric field is applied .
a separation method where colloidal particles move at different speeds according to their dielectrophoretic mobilities in a separation medium ,  across which a direct electric field is applied .
a synthesis method for semiconducting single - walled carbon nanotubes where as - grown single - walled carbon nanotubes are treated with a methane plasma at 400–600 °c in a vacuum and the metallic single - walled carbon nanotubes are selectively etched .
an image obtained by bombarding the specimen with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage under vacuum ,  and detecting the transmitted ,  secondary ,  backscattered and diffracted electrons ,  and characteristic x - rays emitted .
microscopy where the specimen bombarded with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 50–150 kv under vacuum .
a synthesis method where a substrate is placed in a heated atmosphere  ( 600–800 °c )  and exposed to one or more volatile precursors ,  which react or decompose on the surface to produce a deposit .
a plot of current  ( or a first or higher derivative of current with respect to voltage )  vs . voltage obtained by measuring the tunnelling current through a metal - oxide - metal sandwich .
spectroscopy where the energy states 19f nuclei in a solid sample placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
a two - dimensional separation method where the separation processes are both blue native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis .
an ionisation method where the sample  ( usually a large organic molecule or biomolecule )  is vaporised and ionised using a high - energy pulsed laser .
an ionisation method where the sample  ( usually a large organic molecule or biomolecule )  is vaporised and ionised using a high - energy pulsed laser .
an ionisation method where the sample  ( usually a large organic molecule or biomolecule )  is vaporised and ionised using a high - energy pulsed laser .
a mass detection method where the sample is either forced through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10 l min - 1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets ,  or solvent droplets subjected to the same process are directed at the sample .
a mass detection method where the sample is ionised by forcing a solution of the sample through a small heated capillary into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets  ( or by collision with solvent ions produced by the same process )  .
a mass detection method where the sample  ( usually a large organic molecule or biomolecule )  is vaporised and ionised using a high - energy pulsed laser .
a piece of apparatus that can increase the power of a signal with a known carrier wave from an extremely noisy environment .
a nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum in which line broadening has been averaged to zero by spinning the sample very rapidly at the magic angle  ( 54 .74° with respect to the direction of the magnetic field )  and using a high - resolution magnetic susceptibility matching probe .
a plot of relative abundance  ( % )  vs . mass - to - charge ratio obtained from a mass spectrometry experiment  ,  where the ions are obtained by forcing a solution  ( usually in an organic solvent )  of the sample through a small capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10 l min1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets .
the measurement of relaxation variables in nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy .
an electrically - conducting piece of apparatus that exchanges electrons with an electrolyte as part of an electrical circuit .
an electrode through which no appreciable current is allowed to flow and is used to observe or control the potential at a working electrode .
an electrode at which the potential is measured .
an electrode that participates in a redox couple where the other partner is a gas .
a reference electrode based on the equilibrium between aqueous protons and electrons on one side and hydrogen gas on the other ,  in solutions saturated with hydrogen gas .
a two - dimensional surface that separates two portions of material of different compositions .
a boundary between two electrolyte solutions of different composition ,  across which arises a potential difference ,  called the liquid junction potential .
a piece of apparatus in which a current causes chemical reactions or chemical reactions cause a current to flow .
an electrochemical cell which is used for practical ph measurements ,  consisting of a hydrogen ion - responsive electrode and a reference electrode immersed in the test solution .
a hydrogen - ion - responsive electrode consisting of a piece ,  usually a bulb ,  of special glass attached to a stem of high - resistance glass complete with internal reference electrode and internal filling solution system .
the measurement of ph ,  the negative logarithm to base ten of the hydrogen ion activity in a solution .
a piece of apparatus which is used to measure ph .
a reference electrode where the electrochemical reaction is between silver metal and silver ( i )  chloride .
a reference electrode where the electrochemical reaction is between mercury metal and mercury ( i )  chloride .
an electrode that serves merely to carry the current flowing through an electrochemical cell .
a type of homonuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between nuclei that are j - coupled  ( usually  \  \ leq 3 bonds apart )  .
a type of heteronuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between protons and the nuclei to which they are covalently bound .
a plot of relative abundance  ( % )  vs . mass - to - charge ratio obtained from a mass spectrometry experiment  ,  where the ions are obtained by forcing a solution  ( usually in an organic solvent )  of the sample through a small capillary  ( at a flow rate of nl min - 1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets .
a plot obtained from a scattering experiment on large particles which is used to determine the average molecular weight of the  ( polymer )  sample .
data which is obtained from a scattering experiment .
the process of transferring a substance from an aqueous phase to an organic phase immobilised within the pores of the wall of a porous hollow fibre  (  < 10  \  \ μm diameter )  .
the process of transferring a substance from an aqueous phase to an organic phase immobilised within the pores of the wall of a porous hollow fibre  (  < 10  \  \ μm diameter )  .
a process for transferring a substance from an aqueous phase to an organic phase  ( or vice versa )  by injecting one phase into a glass chamber using a conventional microsyringe and holding the  \  \ μl droplet at the outlet tip of a ptfe connecting tube .
the process of transferring a microlitre amount of an ionisable substance from an aqueous phase to another aqueous phase ,  via an organic phase ,  by performing simultaneous extraction and back - extraction between the phases .
the process of transferring a substance from an aqueous phase to an organic phase  ( or vice versa )  by suspending a microlitre - sized drop of the organic phase in a large volume of the aqueous phase .
the process of transferring a substance from an aqueous phase to an organic phase  ( or vice versa )  by the repeated movement of a microsyringe .
the process of transferring a substance from an organic phase to an aqueous phase  ( or vice versa )  by heating the organic sample within a confined space in the presence of an aqueous acceptor droplet suspended on the tip of a microsyringe .
the process of determining the quantity of a sample by adding measured increments of a titrant until the end - point ,  at which essentially all of the sample has reacted ,  is reached .
a piece of apparatus that measures and compares tastes using a number of discrete sensors ;  usually one for each of the five taste categories ;  sourness ,  saltiness ,  bitterness ,  sweetness ,  and umami .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light ,  from a visible laser ,  by a sample adsorbed onto a metal  ( au ,  ag or cu )  surface is detected .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 109ag nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
a type of nmr spectroscopy using a solid sample .
a type of heteronuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between protons and the 109ag nuclei to which they are covalently bound .
a type of heteronuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between protons and the 113cd nuclei to which they are covalently bound .
a type of homonuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between 113cd nuclei that are j - coupled  ( usually  \  \ leq 3 bonds apart )  .
a type of nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between protons and 113cd nuclei .
a type of nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between protons and 13c nuclei .
a type of nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between protons and 31p nuclei .
a type of homonuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between nuclei which are j - coupled  ( usually  \  \ leq 3 bonds apart )  .
a type of homonuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between 113cd nuclei which are j - coupled  ( usually  \  \ leq 3 bonds apart )  .
the process of determining the quantity of a sample by adding measured increments of a titrant until the end - point ,  at which essentially all of the sample has reacted ,  is reached .
microscopy that involves the collection of spatially resolved mid - infrared spectra  ( 3–8 μm )  .
the measurement of the relative permittivity of a solution as a function of concentration .
a plot of detector signal  ( e .g .
a plot of ion current vs . retention time obtained from a chromatography experiment with mass detection .
a plot of the total ion current vs . retention time obtained from a chromatography experiment with mass detection .
a plot of ion current vs . retention time obtained from a chromatography experiment with mass detection .
a plot of ion current vs . retention time obtained from a chromatography experiment with mass detection .
a plot of relative abundance  ( % )  vs . mass - to - charge ratio obtained from a mass spectrometry experiment where the sample is ionised by electrons  ( energy 70 ev )  which have been emitted from a glowing filament and accelerated through an electric field .
an electrode which responds to the activity of a primary ion in presence of various other  ( interfering )  ions in the sample solution .
an electrode formed by a sequence of mercury drops falling from a small aperture .
an electrode formed of a partial mercury drop of controlled geometry and surface area at the end of a capillary .
a piece of apparatus which is used to detect footwear marks and indented impressions of handwriting in paper .
spectroscopy where the response of nuclei with non - zero spin ,  in a sample dissolved in a deuterated solvent ,  to a perturbing magnetic field is detected .
a type of heteronuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between protons and the 15n nuclei to which they are covalently bound .
a type of heteronuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between protons and the 13c nuclei to which they are covalently bound .
a type of homonuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between 15n nuclei which are j - coupled  ( usually ⩽3 bonds apart )  .
a separation method where the components are distributed between two phases ,  one of which is stationary and polar ,  while the other is non - polar and moves in a definite direction .
a chromatography method where the stationary bed is within a tube and the mobile phase moves continuously through the column and the analyte is detected as it emerges from the column .
chromatography in which separation is based mainly on differences between the solubility of the sample components in the stationary phase  ( gas chromatography )  ,  or on differences between the solubilities of the components in the mobile and stationary phases  ( liquid chromatography ) 
a type of nmr spectroscopy where  ( j / scalar )  couplings to 2h nuclei are cancelled by applying radio frequency radiation to saturate or otherwise manipulate the 2h spins such that no evolution of the coupling occurs .
the separation of molecules in solution by the difference in their rates of diffusion through a semipermeable membrane .
any method that involves observing ,  or measuring the time take for ,  loss of fluorescence in a sample .
a phosphate buffer ,  containing citric acid and sodium phosphate ,  where the ph is maintained by citrate–citric acid and phosphate–hydrogen phosphate equilibria .
the process of determining the quantity of a sample by adding measured increments of a titrant until the end - point ,  at which essentially all of the sample has reacted ,  is reached .
the process of determining the quantity of a sample by adding measured increments of a titrant until the end - point ,  at which essentially all of the sample has reacted ,  is reached .
the process of determining the quantity of a sample by adding measured increments of a titrant until the end - point ,  at which essentially all of the sample has reacted ,  is reached .
a plot of volume of titrant vs . absorbance obtained from an absorbance titration experiment .
the process of heating a substance by irradiation with ultraviolet light  ( 190–400 nm )  to cause the solid–liquid phase change .
microscopy where the specimen ,  which is cooled in liquid ethane to 180 °c ,  is bombarded with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 50–150 kv under vacuum and the interaction of the electrons with the specimen produces transmitted ,  secondary ,  backscattered and diffracted electrons and characteristic x - rays which are detected .
any method that measures the amount of light that a substance scatters at certain wavelengths ,  incident angles ,  and polarization angles .
spectroscopy where the intensity of luminescence emitted by molecules excited is detected as a function of wavelength or time .
the detection of luminescence emitted over a long timescale from a sample ,  as a result of irradiation with light ,  as a function of wavelength or time .
spectroscopy using short pulses of radiation from the radio frequency  ( mhz )  range .
a synthesis technique involving the transfer of a nanosized pattern to a material using a micelle solution of a block copolymer .
a plot of chemical shift vs . intensity for hydrogen - 1 nuclei obtained by measuring the effect of the absorption of radio frequency radiation on nuclear spin - state transitions in the presence of a magnetic field .
a two - dimensional plot of chemical shift vs . intensity for hydrogen - 1 nuclei obtained by measuring the effect of the absorption of radio frequency radiation on nuclear spin - state transitions in the presence of a magnetic field .
a three - dimensional plot of chemical shift vs . intensity for hydrogen - 1 nuclei obtained by measuring the effect of the absorption of radio frequency radiation on nuclear spin - state transitions in the presence of a magnetic field .
a spectrum that shows the response of spin - active nuclei to radio frequency radiation in an applied magnetic field .
a plot of signal vs . temperature for a sample that is heated to cause the solid–liquid phase change .
a plot of absorbance vs . temperature for a sample that is heated by irradiation with a specific wavelength of ultraviolet light  ( range 190–400 nm )  to cause the solid–liquid phase change .
the process of the settling of  ( nm sized )  particles from a colloidal suspension onto a pre - existing surface ,  resulting in a ceramic thin film .
a piece of apparatus that maintains the current through an electrochemical cell at a preset value .
a piece of apparatus that maintains the potential through an electrochemical cell at a preset value .
an electrode based on a ferrocene or cobaltocene redox couple internal standard through which no appreciable current is allowed to flow and is used to observe or control the potential at a working electrode .
an electrode through which no appreciable current is allowed to flow and is used to observe or control the potential at a working electrode .
a process for shaping pliable thermoplastic polymers .
a process for shaping pliable thermoplastic polymers .
the process of removing a thin layer of a sample surface using short pulses of an oxygen plasma  ( a partially ionised gas containing free electrons and radicals e .g .
the measurement of the properties of two or more lasers or waves by studying the pattern of interference created by their superposition .
the measurement of the intensity of the light resulting from the interference of two lasers of different wavelength .
the measurement of the intensity of the light resulting from the interference of two lasers of the same wavelength .
the measurement of the intensity of the light resulting from the interference of two lasers of different wavelength at the beat frequency .
microscopy that determines the specimen's shape and distance away from a nearby ,  usually flat ,  reflective surface from the interference pattern produced by light reflecting from both the object and the surface .
a solution ,  containing cacl2 ,  kcl ,  kh2po4 ,  mgcl2 ,  mgso4 ,  nacl ,  nahco3 ,  na2hpo4 ,  d - glucose and phenol red ,  that resists changes to its ph .
a solution ,  containing cacl2 ,  mgso4 ,  kcl ,  nahco3 ,  nacl ,  nah2po4 and phenol red ,  that resists changes to its ph .
a plot of chemical shift vs . intensity for tungsten - 183 nuclei obtained by measuring the effect of the absorption of radio frequency radiation on nuclear spin - state transitions in the presence of a magnetic field .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 1h nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
an nmr experiment in which a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between interacting 1h nuclei .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of a high -  voltage transformer ,  a cavity magnetron ,  a waveguide and a sample chamber ,  that is used to heat samples by irradiation with microwave  ( 2 ghz )  radiation .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with an initial laser pulse  ( the 'pump' )  followed by a second laser pulse  ( the 'probe' )  after a short delay .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with an initial laser pulse  ( the 'pump' )  followed by a second laser pulse  ( the 'probe' )  after a fs delay .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with an initial laser pulse  ( the 'pump' )  followed by a second pump laser pulse ,  and finally a third laser pulse  ( the 'probe' )  after a short delay .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with an initial laser pulse  ( the 'pump' )  which causes excitations within the sample .
a two - dimensional spectrum in which the position of a peak ,  in one dimension ,  corresponds to the chemical shift of a particular hydrogen nucleus and ,  in the other dimension ,  to the chemical shift of a hydrogen nucleus which is j - coupled to the first .
a two - dimensional spectrum in which the position of a peak ,  in one dimension ,  corresponds to the chemical shift of a particular nucleus and ,  in the other dimension ,  to the chemical shift of a nucleus which is j - coupled to the first .
column chromatography where the mobile phase is a liquid held at or near its critical point .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by liquid chromatography ,  where the liquid is held at or near its critical point ,  before being converted into ions which are characterised by their mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
mass spectrometry where a sample mixture is first separated by liquid chromatography ,  where the liquid is held at or near its critical point ,  before being ionised by forcing the solution  ( usually in an organic solvent )  through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10 l min - 1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets .
a piece of apparatus which is used to produce an enlarged image of a specimen by scanning a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam produced  by applying a high voltage to a tungsten crystal  ( cold - field emission )  with an acceleration voltage of 50–150 kv across the specimen under vacuum and measuring interaction of the electrons with the specimen .
spectroscopy where the energy states of 195pt nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
a method for determining structure where the sample is illuminated with light and the ellipsometric angles of the reflected light are measured from the configuration of the analyzer and the compensator for which no reflected light is detected .
microscopy which uses a sharp spike  ( known as a 'tip' )  mounted on the end of a cantilever to scan the surface of the specimen .
a measurement method for determining the contact potential difference or difference in work functions between the sample and a reference electrode .
spectroscopy where an atomic force microscope is used to measure the force experienced by a sample .
an image obtained by using a sharp spike  ( known as a 'tip' )  mounted on the end of a cantilever to scan the surface of the specimen ,  line by line ,  and recording the difference in work function between the tip and sample as a function of position .
a two - dimensional separation method where the separation processes are both capillary electrophoresis .
a two - dimensional separation method where the sample is first subjected to liquid chromatography followed by capillary electrophoresis .
an ionisation method where the sample is either forced through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10 l min - 1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of positively  charged droplets ,  or solvent droplets subjected to the same process are directed at the sample .
an ionisation method where the sample is either forced through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10 l min - 1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of negatively charged droplets ,  or solvent droplets subjected to the same process are directed at the sample .
the sedimentation of a solid material  ( a 'precipitate' )  from a liquid solution caused by the addition of an additional different solvent .
the sedimentation of a solid protein  ( a 'precipitate' )  from an aqueous solution caused by the addition of an organic solvent  ( e .g .
the component of a system to be analysed .
the liquid or gas entering a chromatographic column and used to effect a separation by elution .
microscopy where an electron - transparent specimen is bombarded with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 50–150 kv .
microscopy where an electron - transparent specimen is bombarded with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 50–150 kv .
microscopy where a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 50–150 kv is scanned across an electron - transparent specimen under vacuum .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of a crucible  ( made of pyrolytic boron nitride ,  quartz ,  tungsten or graphite )  ,  heating filaments ,  a water cooling system ,  which is used to measure very low vapor pressures by measuring the mass of vapor which escapes when the vessel contains a liquid in equilibrium with its vapor .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of an electromagnet containing a paramagnetic core material with a tip - shaped end ,  that is used to trap and manipulate magnetic particles .
the trapping of microscopic particles by a localised magnetic field .
a synthesis method for metal nanopowders that consists of passing a pulse of a high - density current  ( 10^4 to 10^6 a / mm^2 )  through a wire causing the explosive disintegration of the metal  ( accompanied by a bright flash of light ,  a shock wave ,  the dispersion of the metal ,  and the fast expansion of a mixture of boiling metal droplets and vapour to the surrounding medium )  and the production of metal  ,  particles with characteristic sizes of tens of   \  \ μm to a few nm .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of a mobile phase supply system ,  an injection or sampling system ,  a column ,  detector and a data acquisition /  processing system ,  that is used to carry out chromatographic separations .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of a gas supply system ,  an injection or sampling system ,  a column ,  detector and a data acquisition /  processing system ,  that is used to carry out chromatographic separations .
a magic angle spinning nmr experiment in which the evolution of dipolar couplings between 13c nuclei is controlled by applying pulses at appropriate points in the rotational period ,  allowing the determination of the size of the coupling and ,  thus ,  yielding distance information .
a magic angle spinning nmr experiment in which the evolution of dipolar couplings between 15n nuclei is controlled by applying pulses at appropriate points in the rotational period ,  allowing the determination of the size of the coupling and ,  thus ,  yielding distance information .
a magic angle spinning nmr experiment in which the evolution of dipolar couplings between 31p nuclei is controlled by applying pulses at appropriate points in the rotational period ,  allowing the determination of the size of the coupling and ,  thus ,  yielding distance information .
a magic angle spinning nmr experiment in which the evolution of dipolar couplings between 19f nuclei is controlled by applying pulses at appropriate points in the rotational period ,  allowing the determination of the size of the coupling and ,  thus ,  yielding distance information .
a type of heteronuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed ,  based on the nuclear overhauser enhancement effect in which correlations are seen between 6li and 1h nuclei that are spatially proximate within a molecule  (  \  \ leq 6  \  \ aa apart )  .
a type of heteronuclear nmr spectroscopy where a second frequency dimension is employed ,  based on the nuclear overhauser enhancement effect in which correlations are seen between 19f and 1h nuclei that are spatially proximate within a molecule  (  \  \ leq 6  \  \ aa apart )  .
an nmr experiment in which pulsed field gradients are applied to a spin echo sequence to cleanly and precisely excite particular 2h nuclei resonances .
an nmr experiment in which pulsed field gradients are applied to a spin echo sequence to cleanly and precisely excite particular 19f nuclei resonances .
an nmr experiment in which pulsed field gradients are applied to a spin echo sequence to cleanly and precisely excite particular 1h nuclei resonances .
an nmr experiment in which pulsed field gradients are applied to a spin echo sequence to cleanly and precisely excite particular 7li nuclei resonances .
an nmr experiment in which pulsed field gradients are applied to a spin echo sequence to cleanly and precisely excite particular 13c nuclei resonances .
a magic angle spinning nmr experiment in which the evolution of dipolar couplings between 29si nuclei is controlled by applying pulses at appropriate points in the rotational period ,  allowing the determination of the size of the coupling and ,  thus ,  yielding distance information .
a magic angle spinning nmr experiment in which the evolution of dipolar couplings between 19f and 29si nuclei is controlled by applying pulses at appropriate points in the rotational period ,  allowing the determination of the size of the coupling and ,  thus ,  yielding distance information .
a type of nmr spectroscopy using a solid sample .
spectroscopy where the response of a 63cu atom to short  ( ns )  pulses of microwave radiation in a magnetic field is measured .
spectroscopy where the response of a 65cu atom to short  ( ns )  pulses of microwave radiation in a magnetic field is measured .
the process of determining the quantity of a sample by adding measured increments of a titrant until the end - point is reached .
a plot of volume of titrant vs . fluorescence intensity obtained from a fluorescence titration experiment .
a chemical process in which a prepolymer is converted into a polymer and then into a network ,  upon irradiation with light in the range 190–400 nm .
spectroscopy where the response of an unstable free radical to short  ( ns )  pulses of microwave radiation in a magnetic field is measured by first  forming a more stable radical adduct  ( e .g .
a buffer that serves as an anode in an electrophoresis experiment .
a buffer that serves as a cathode in an electrophoresis experiment .
a buffer that is used to separate proteins in a gel matrix .
a plot of ehv vs hv where e is the molar extinction coefficient ,  that is used to determine the optical gap  ( or 'tauc gap' )  in amorphous thin film materials .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of a two - dimensional pattern of diodes and a prism ,  that is used to detect organic compounds .
the use of an electrochemical cell to measure a qualitative or quantitative response for a biological system .
a nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum in which the nuclei of interest are silicon - 29 nuclei ,  line broadening has been averaged to zero by spinning the sample very rapidly at the magic angle  ( 54 .74° with respect to the direction of the magnetic field )  ,  and cross polarisation has been used to enhance the signal from weakly coupled nuclei .
an electrode whose response indicates the change of some analytical variable .
a method where the components of a sample  ( e .g .
a technique in which a sample is first excited by a strong pulse  ( the 'pump' pulse )  of light from a laser or flash lamp .
a technique in which a sample is first excited by a strong pulse  ( the 'pump' pulse )  of light from a laser .
a technique in which a sample is first excited by a strong nanosecond pulse  ( the 'pump' pulse )  of light from a laser .
a technique in which a sample is first excited by a strong picosecond pulse  ( the 'pump' pulse )  of light from a laser .
a technique in which a sample is first excited by a strong femtosecond pulse  ( the 'pump' pulse )  of light from a laser .
a technique in which a sample is first excited by a strong pulse  ( the 'pump' pulse )  of light from a laser .
spectroscopy where the raman scattering of monochromatic light ,  from a laser in the visible ,  near infrared ,  or near ultraviolet range by a sample is detected .
an imaging technique where soft x - rays  ( 100–1000 ev )  are directed at the specimen ,  and the difference in the x - ray absorption coefficient measured within 40 ev of the absorption edge by different elements  ( mainly o and c )  produces an image .
a method for determining structure by directing a beam of x - rays at a surface  ( e .g .
an imaging technique where soft x - rays  ( 100–1000 ev )  are scanned across a specimen ,  and the difference in absorption of the x - rays by different elements  ( mainly o and c )  produces an image .
microscopy where the specimen can be made to fluoresce  ( emit energy as visible light )  by scanning a solid - state  ( ti sapphire )  laser spot of specific wavelength over its surface to produce multi - photon fluorescence  ( i .e .
microscopy where the specimen can be made to fluoresce  ( emit energy as visible light )  by scanning a solid - state  ( ti sapphire )  laser spot of specific wavelength over its surface to produce single - photon fluorescence .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of a light source that emits light at element - specific wavelengths ,  a sample aspirator ,  a flame or furnace apparatus for volatilising the sample ,  and a photon detector ,  that is used to measure the atomic absorption spectrum of a sample .
a type of fluorescence spectroscopy where a two - dimensional total fluorescence spectrum is recorded at various excitation wavelengths .
the process of transferring a substance from a vapour to a solid phase by passing the vapour sample through a stationary phase  ( e .g .
an extraction method for soil samples that uses a high - vacuum system to remove liquid and gas from low - permeability or heterogeneous soil .
a 3d plot of excitation wavelength vs . emission wavelength vs . intensity obtained from a fluorescence spectroscopy experiment .
microscopy where the specimen placed between two orthogonal polarising filters and illuminated with visible light transmitted from a source on the opposite side of the specimen from the objective .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of an eyepiece ,  an objective lens ,  object turret ,  stage ,  orthogonal polarising filters and light source ,  which collects electromagnetic radiation in the visible range .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of an eyepiece ,  an objective lens ,  object turret ,  stage ,  orthogonal polarising filters and light source ,  which collects electromagnetic radiation in the visible range .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of an eyepiece ,  an objective lens ,  a condenser lens ,  stage ,  and light source ,  which collects electromagnetic radiation in the visible range .
the application of a thin cover to sample by converting the coating solution to an aerosol then allowing the droplets to settle on the sample surface under the influence of gravity or using an electrostatic field .
the application of a thin cover to sample by immersing it  ( at constant velocity )  in a tank containing coating material ,  allowing it to remain there for a certain 'dwell time' ,  and removing the piece from the tank  ( 'withdrawal' )  at a constant velocity .
a detector used in scanning electron microscopy experiments to detect secondary electrons .
a plot of detector signal  ( e .g .
spectroscopy based on the differential absorption of left -  and right - handed circularly polarised light by a sample .
the process of determining trace amounts of water in a sample by the titration of sulphur dioxide in water using iodine .
the process of determining the quantity of a sample by adding measured volumes of a titrant  ( normally via a burette )  until the end - point ,  at which essentially all of the sample has reacted ,  is reached .
the process of determining the quantity of a sample by adding measured increments of a titrant until the end - point ,  at which essentially all of the sample has reacted ,  is reached .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by gas chromatography before part of the sample is ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by electromagnetic induction ,  and characterised according to mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by low - temperature gas chromatography  (  - 78°c )  before being ionised in a plasma  ( a partially ionised gas– - such as ar– - containing free electrons )  which has been generated by electromagnetic induction ,  and characterised according to mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance .
a sample preparation method for gas chromatography in which the sample is deposited into the inlet of the chromatograph at a low temperature ,  then the inlet temperature is rapidly raised to vaporise the desired components and cause their transfer onto the column .
mass spectrometry where the sample is ionised by forcing a solution  ( usually in an organic solvent )  of the sample through a small heated capillary  ( at a flow rate of 1–10 l min - 1 )  into an electric field to produce a very fine mist of charged droplets ,  and where sample ions with different masses are accelerated to the same  ( known )  kinetic energy and the time taken for each ion to reach a detector at a known distance is measured .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by gas chromatography before being ionised by electrons  ( energy 70 ev )  which have been emitted from a glowing filament and accelerated through an electric field .
a 2d nmr technique which correlates  ( commonly one - bond )  j - coupled homonuclei .
a 2d nmr technique which correlates  ( commonly one - bond )  j - coupled 13c nuclei .
a type of homonuclear nmr spectroscopy which reveal correlations between all nuclei of a spin - system .
a plot of the nuclear magnetic resonance frequency vs . intensity composed of a series of peaks  ( separated by the reciprocal of a user - defined time delay in a cpmg pulse sequence )  which describe the envelope of the full ,  static spectrum .
a two - dimensional nmr spectrum where signals are defined in terms of two frequencies ;  by the chemical shift of a particular nucleus in one dimension and ,  in the other ,  by the j - multiplets of correlated nuclei .
any experimental method used to prepare polymer samples .
a polymer preparation technique in which monomer  ( usually acrylic )  50–500 nm droplets are dispersed in a continuous aqueous phase and are kept colloidally stable through the use of a surfactant and are stablised against ostwald ripening using a costabiliser such as hexadecane .
a polymer preparation technique in which monomer  ( usually acrylic )  droplets are dispersed in a continuous aqueous phase and are kept colloidally stable through the use of a surfactant .
a polymer preparation technique in which monomer  ( usually acrylic )   < 100 nm droplets are dispersed in a continuous aqueous phase and are kept colloidally stable through the use of a surfactant and a cosurfactant e .g .
a polymerisation which is initiated by laser pulses at a constant repetition rate .
microscopy where a laser is scanned over the surface of the specimen and the photocurrent is recorded as a function of position .
a polymerisation process where the hydrophilic monomer is solubilised inside surfactant reverse micelle structures .
merged definition: \ ntarget definition: a type of nmr experiment in which excitation of the spin states of three different types of nuclei  ( 1h ,  13c and 15n )  is employed . \ n–––––––––– \ nsource definition: a type of nmr experiment in which excitation of the spin states of three different types of nuclei  ( usually 1h ,  13c and 15n )  is employed .
merged definition: \ ntarget definition: a triple - resonance nmr experiment used in to determine the chemical shifts of nuclei in a  ( isotopically enriched )  protein .
a triple - resonance nmr experiment used in to determine the chemical shifts of nuclei in a  ( isotopically enriched )  protein .
merged definition: \ ntarget definition: a triple - resonance nmr experiment used to determine the chemical shifts of nuclei in a  ( isotopically enriched )  protein .
a 3d nmr experiment in which the chemical shifts of protons are correlated with the chemical shifts of spatially proximate protons  (  < 6 \  \  \  \ a )  and with the shifts of the heteronuclei bound to these proximate protons .
a triple - resonance nmr experiment used to determine the chemical shifts of nuclei in a  ( isotopically enriched )  protein .
a 3d nmr experiment in which the chemical shifts of protons are correlated with the chemical shifts their covalently - bound heteronuclei and with the shifts of spatially proximate protons  (  < 6 \  \  \  \ a )  .
a 1d nmr experiment in which a 1d spectrum is subtracted from a spectrum acquired under steady - state noe conditions .
a triple - resonance nmr experiment used to determine the chemical shifts of nuclei in a  ( isotopically enriched )  protein .
a triple - resonance nmr experiment used to determine the chemical shifts of nuclei in a  ( isotopically enriched )  protein .
a triple - resonance nmr experiment used to determine the chemical shifts of nuclei in a  ( isotopically enriched )  protein .
a 4d triple - resonance nmr experiment used to determine the chemical shifts of nuclei in a  ( isotopically enriched )  protein .
a 4d nmr experiment which correlates the chemical shifts of carbon - bound protons with those of their bonded 13c nuclei and with the chemical shifts of spatially proximate carbon - bound protons  (  < 6 \  \  \  \ a )  and their associated 13c nuclei .
a 4d nmr experiment which correlates the chemical shifts of carbon - bound protons with those of their bonded 13c nuclei and with the chemical shifts of spatially proximate carbon - bound protons  (  < 6 \  \  \  \ a )  and their associated 13c nuclei .
a 4d nmr experiment which correlates the chemical shifts of carbon - bound protons with those of their associated 13c nuclei and with the chemical shift of spatially proximate amide protons  (  < 6 \  \  \  \ a )  and the 15n nuclei to which these are bound .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of a gas manifold with a series of tubes and valves connecting the sample chamber to one or more pressure reservoirs of known volume ,  used for measuring the thermodynamics of hydrogen sorption onto metal samples .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of an eluent supply system ,  an injection or sampling system ,  a column containing a swollen gel ,  a detector and a data acquisition /  processing system ,  that is used to carry out chromatographic separations .
a piece of apparatus used as a reaction vessel in air - sensitive chemistry .
a plot of detector signal  ( e .g .
an image obtained by placing the specimen between two orthogonal polarising filters ,  illuminating it with visible light ,  and using a system of magnifying lenses .
a buffer solution in which the ph is maintained by an acetic acid–sodium acetate equilibrium .
the process of determining the quantity of a sample by adding measured increments of a titrant until the end - point is reached .
the process of determining the quantity of a sample by adding measured increments of a titrant until the end - point ,  at which essentially all of the sample has reacted ,  is reached .
an ion source that consists of a syringe pump ,  a needle ,  a power source and a counter electrode  ( or 'cone' )  that is used to ionise samples for mass spectrometry .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of a rotating circular tray containing a number of sealed vials ,  that is used for the automatic injection of samples during a mass spectrometry experiment .
a test which produces colour change in the sample .
a colorimetric test which consists of coupling an fmoc  ( 9h - fluoren - 9 - yl - methoxycarbonyl  )  - protected amino acid and measuring the uv absorbance of the sample after deprotection using 20% piperidine in dmf .
a type of column chromatography where 0 .1 - 10 g of sample mixture is separated in less than 15 min by using pressurised gas to drive the mobile phase through the column .
a method for determining surface area by measuring the amount of an n2 which adsorbs onto the surface of interest  ( the 'sorbate' )  ,  and the subsequent amount that desorbs at a constant temperature .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of a light source ,  a phototelectric cell ,  a diffraction grating or monochromator to separate the different wavelengths of light ,  which is used to detect the absorbance of ultraviolet  ( 190–400 nm )  light by molecules in a sample separated by chromatography .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of a light source ,  a hollow prism and a photoelectric cell that is used to detect non - ultraviolet - absorbing molecules in a sample separated by chromatography .
a process used to create objects of a fixed cross - sectional profile by forcing or drawing a molten polymer through a die .
a synthesis method in which polymer spheres are assembled into a colloidal crystal on a substrate by evaporation induced self - assembly .
a reference electrode where the electrochemical reaction is between mercury metal and mercury ( ii )  sulfate .
microscopy where a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 50–150 kv is scanned across an electron transparent specimen under vacuum and the intensities of the transmitted electrons are measured .
spectroscopy where the sample absorbs radiation from the visible region  ( 380–800 nm )  resulting in electronic transitions within the sample .
a piece of apparatus that measures the size distribution of particles in an aerosol by neutralising the particles ,  passing them through a differential mobility analyser in order to control the size of the particles and then counting the particles of that size with a condensation particle counter .
an electrode that consists of a sample of granular carbon material that has been bound with pitch and has been fired at high temperature .
a carbon electrode that has been fired at a temperature around 2800 k ,  resulting in a largely graphitic composition .
a method of separating mixtures based on differences in their volatilities in a boiling liquid mixture under reduced pressure .
a buffer solution in which the ph  ( 6 .4–7 .4 )  is maintained by an cacodylic acid–cacodylate equilibrium .
a buffer solution in which the ph  ( 6 .4–7 .4 )  is maintained by an cacodylic acid– sodium cacodylate  [ na ( ch3 ) 2 aso2 ]  equilibrium .
microscopy where an electron - transparent specimen ,  that has been stained with heavy metals salts  ( e .g .
a synthesis method where an electrical discharge is passed under reduced pressure between two electrodes .
a synthesis method where an electrical discharge is passed under reduced pressure between two cathodes .
microscopy which uses a sharp spike  ( known as a 'tip' )  mounted on the end of a cantilever to scan the surface of the specimen .
an image obtained by scanning a gas  ( ar or kr )  laser spot of specific wavelength over the specimen and collecting the light emitted by chromophores in the specimen  ( fluorescence )  using a system of magnifying lenses .
spectroscopy where light energy absorbed by the sample results in the production of a current  ( the 'photocurrent' )  which is measured at different spectral intervals .
spectroscopy where light energy  ( from a fluctuating light source )  absorbed by the sample results in the production of a current  ( the 'photocurrent' )  which is measured at different spectral intervals as a function of the modulation frequency of the light source .
spectroscopy where light energy absorbed by the sample results in the production of a potential difference  ( the 'photovoltage' )  which is measured at different spectral intervals .
spectroscopy where light energy  ( from a fluctuating light source )  absorbed by the sample results in the production of a potential difference  ( the 'photovoltage' )  which is measured at different spectral intervals as a function of the modulation frequency of the light source .
any experimental method used to prepare polymer samples where the monomer is suspended as liquid droplets in a continuous water phase by means of strong agitation and the presence of a suspending agent .
a piece of apparatus which is used to physically interact with a sample under a microscope .
a piece of apparatus which is used to physically interact with a sample under a microscope ,  and is driven by the application of an alternating current to a piezoelectric material .
the conversion of an organic material in an inert atmosphere at temperatures in excess of 1800 °c to produce a graphite crystal structure .
a thin film of micrometre thickness which is used as a support for specimens during transmission electron microscopy .
microscopy where an electron - transparent specimen is bombarded with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam produced by thermionic emission heating  ( field emission )  and with an acceleration voltage 50–150 kv under vacuum and the intensities of the transmitted electrons are measured .
a plot of ellipticity vs . wavelength obtained by measuring the differential absorption of left -  and right - handed circularly polarised luminescence .
microscopy where a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 50–150 kv is scanned across an electron - transparent specimen under vacuum and the intensities of the transmitted electrons are measured .
microscopy where the specimen is bombarded with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 50–150 kv under vacuum .
microscopy where an electron - transparent specimen is bombarded with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 50–150 kv under vacuum and the intensities of the transmitted electrons are measured .
an image obtained by bombarding the specimen with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam under vacuum and measuring the intensities of the transmitted electrons .
a method for determining the size distribution of a sample of small particles in solution by bombarding the sample with coherent x - rays and measuring the time - dependent fluctuations in the intensity of the scattered x - rays caused by brownian motion .
an image obtained by bombarding the specimen with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam under vacuum and measuring the intensities of the transmitted electrons .
an image obtained by scanning the specimen with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam under vacuum and measuring the intensities of the transmitted electrons .
an image obtained by scanning a finely  focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam across the specimen under vacuum .
a plot of reflectance  ( % )  vs . wavenumber obtained by measuring the amount of radiation reflected from an uneven surface at a number of angles by the sample .
spectroscopy where the response of an atom with an unpaired electron to short  ( ns )  pulses of microwave radiation in a magnetic field is measured .
a plot of intensity vs . magnetic field strength obtained by measuring the absorption of radiation due to spin - state transitions of unpaired electrons against a perturbing magnetic field ,  in the presence of fixed - frequency microwave radiation of approximate frequency 9 ghz  ( known as the 'x - band' )  .
a type of atomic emission spectrometry where a glow discharge  ( a potential difference applied across two electrodes immersed in the sample gas )  is used to excite the sample .
a type of atomic emission spectrometry where a glow discharge  ( a potential difference applied across two electrodes immersed in the sample gas )  is used to excite the sample .
a method for generating surface - specific vibrational spectra by mixing two light beams  ( visible and ir )  at a surface and detecting the output beam ,  which has frequency equal to the sum of the two input frequencies .
a plot of sum - frequency intensity vs . wavelength  ( or wavenumber )  obtained by mixing two light beams at a surface and detecting the output beam ,  which has frequency equal to the sum of the two input frequencies .
a method for synthesising gold nanoparticles from haucl4 in non - aqueous solution  ( e .g .
a method for determining structure by measuring the change in direction or energy of x - rays scattered by a sample at wide angles  (  > 10° )  .
an electrochemical technique where the cell current is measured as a function of time and as a function of the potential between the indicator and reference electrodes .
a type of working electrode which usually consists of a pt disc  ( diameter 1 .0 mm )  sealed in a teflon carrier which rotates a high speed during the experiment .
a plot of cell current vs . the potential between the indicator and reference electrodes obtained from a voltammetry experiment during which convective mass transfer  ( the movement of material by the action of a fluid )  occurs .
a method of separating mixtures based on differences in their volatilities in a boiling liquid mixture .
a piece of apparatus used to measure the strength and / or direction of a magnetic field .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of superconducting loops containing josephson junctions ,  which is used to measure the strength and / or direction of an extremely weak magnetic field  ( 10 - 18 t )  .
an experimental method used to prepare polymer samples  ( e .g .
microscopy which uses a sharp spike  ( known as a 'tip' )  mounted on the end of a cantilever to scan the surface of the specimen .
a plot of intensity vs . raman shift  ( cm - 1 )  obtained by measuring the raman scattering of monochromatic light from a micrometre - sized area of a sample ,  located using an optical microscope .
a method where a sample mixture is first adsorbed onto packed tubes  ( e .g .
an image obtained by using a conducting sharp spike  ( known as a 'tip' )  mounted on the end of a cantilever to scan the surface of the specimen ,  line by line ,  and recording the drop in amplitude of the oscillating cantilever caused by the electrostatic force it experiences while the tip is biased with a voltage of a few volts ,  as a function of position .
the measurement and study of dimensional changes in polymers as a function of temperature ,  fluid absorption ,  mechanical stress or chemical reaction .
a plot of specific energy of an electrochemical cell vs . its specific power .
a polymer preparation technique in which an insoluble polymer is dispersed in a continuous organic phase .
a polymer preparation technique in which two different types of monomer are dissolved in an organic solvent and distilled until a precipitate of the corresponding copolymer is formed .
a log–log plot of molar conductivity  (  \  \ lambda )  vs . viscosity  (  \  \ eta )  which indicates the degree of ionicity of an ionic liquid .
a piece of apparatus used to measure the absorption or emission of x - rays .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of an x - ray source ,  an analyser and a detector ,  which is used to measure the photoelectron emission of samples bombarded with x - rays .
a transmission electron microscope where the electron beam is scanned across an electron - transparent specimen under vacuum and the intensities of the transmitted electrons are measured .
mass spectrometry where the sample  ( usually a large organic molecule or biomolecule )  is vaporised and ionised using a high - energy pulsed laser .
the measurement of the temperature difference between the sample and a reference material during the measurement of the mass of the sample as a function of temperature .
a crystal growth method for metal dichalcogenides in which the starting materials  ( high purity metal and chalcogen )  are placed in a quartz ampoule together with a transport agent  ( e .g .
a crystal growth method for metal dichalcogenides in which the starting materials  ( high - purity metal and chalcogen powders )  are placed in one half of a quartz ampoule together with a transport agent  ( e .g .
an image obtained by bombarding the specimen with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam under vacuum and measuring the intensities of the directly transmitted electrons .
an image obtained by bombarding the specimen with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam under vacuum and measuring the intensities of the scattered transmitted electrons .
a piece of apparatus which is used to produce an enlarged image of a specimen by scanning a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage of 50–150 kv across the specimen in a gaseous environment and measuring interaction of the electrons with the specimen .
a piece of apparatus that consists of an ion source ,  a mass - to - charge analyser ,  a detector and a vacuum system and is used to measure mass spectra .
a piece of apparatus that consists of an ion source ,  a mass - to - charge analyser ,  a detector and a vacuum system and is used to measure mass spectra .
a mass spectrometer that uses an orthogonal - acceleration ion source .
microscopy which uses a chemically functionalised sharp spike  ( e .g .
the simultaneous collection of afm topography data and spatially - resolved ir spectra by measuring the ir absorption via transient deformation of the afm cantilever induced by an infrared pulsed laser  ( tuned to a wavelength that corresponds to a vibrational absorbing wavelength in the specimen )  as a function of afm tip position .
microscopy where a probe consisting of a laser transmitted through a tapered optical fibre is positioned very close to  (  < 10 nm from )  the surface of the specimen and focused to a diffraction - limited spot size .
microscopy where a probe consisting of an infrared laser transmitted through a tapered optical fibre is positioned very close to  (  < 10 nm from )  the surface of the specimen and focused to a diffraction - limited spot size .
microscopy where a laser is focused to a diffraction - limited spot size onto an oscillating afm tip close to the surface of the specimen .
the measurement of the photothermal response  ( temperature fluctuations )  of a specimen exposed to the beam of a fourier transform infrared spectrometer ,  using an atomic force microscope tip as the thermal probe .
the simultaneous collection of afm topography data and spatially - resolved infrared spectra by measuring the infrared absorption via transient deformation of the afm cantilever induced by an infrared pulsed laser  ( tuned to a wavelength that corresponds to a vibrational absorbing wavelength in the specimen )  as a function of afm tip position .
the simultaneous collection of afm topography data and spatially - resolved infrared spectra by measuring the infrared absorption via transient deformation of the afm cantilever induced by an infrared pulsed laser  ( tuned to a wavelength that corresponds to a vibrational absorbing wavelength in the specimen )  as a function of afm tip position .
a data set derived from afmir consisting of a three - dimensional image where two axes describe the x and y spatial dimensions and the third dimension represents the infrared wavelength .
microscopy which uses a sharp spike  ( known as a 'tip' )  mounted on the end of a cantilever to scan the surface of the specimen .
microscopy which uses a sharp conductive spike  ( known as a 'tip' )  mounted on the end of a cantilever to scan the surface of the specimen .
a surface characterisation technique in which a pulse or constant concentration of a known gas or vapour  ( probe molecule )  is injected into a column packed with the solid sample at a fixed carrier gas flow rate .
a method for determining surface area by measuring the amount of an inert gasesous or liquid substance  ( the 'sorbent' ,  usually h2 or n2 )  which desorbs from the surface of interest  ( the 'sorbate' )  .
a method of observing desorbed molecules from a surface when the surface temperature is increased .
a plot of intensity or rate vs . temperature obtained by heating the sample slowly in a vacuum and measuring the change in pressure as molecules desorb from the surface of the sample .
a method for generating surface - specific electronic spectra by mixing two light beams at a surface and detecting the output beam ,  which has frequency equal to the sum of the two input frequencies .
spectroscopy where an atomic force microscope is used to measure the force experienced by a sample .
any piece of apparatus used to measure electric charge .
the process of determining trace amounts of water in a sample by the titration of sulphur dioxide in water using iodine .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of an electrolytic cell with an anodic compartment containing sulfur dioxide  ( so2 )  ,  iodide  ( iï¿½ )  and a cathodic compartment containing the sample ,  which is used to determine trace amounts of water in a sample by measuring the time and current flow required to reach the titration end - point .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of an electrolytic cell ,  that is used to determine electric charge by measuring the amount of an element deposited or released at the cathode during a specified time .
the process of determining trace amounts of water in a sample by the titration of sulphur dioxide in water using iodine .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of a laser ,  a polariser ,  a compensator  ( which elliptically polarises the light )  and a detector ,  which is used to measure the intensity and change in polarisation of light reflected by a sample .
a piece of apparatus ,  consisting of a light source ,  a polariser ,  a compensator  ( which elliptically polarises the light )  and a detector ,  which is used to measure the intensity and change in polarisation of light reflected by a sample as a function of wavelength .
an image obtained by using a sharp spike  ( known as a 'tip' )  mounted on the end of a cantilever to scan the surface of the specimen ,  line by line ,  and recording the force experienced by the tip as a function of position .
a plot of vertical displacement vs . distance obtained by using a sharp spike  ( known as a 'tip' )  mounted on the end of a cantilever to scan the surface of the specimen ,  line by line ,  and recording the force experienced by the tip as a function of position .
spectroscopy where the sample is illuminated with a fixed - energy light source resulting in the detachment of electrons ,  the energies of which are measured .
a plot of absorbance or emission vs . wavelength / wavenumber / frequency obtained through a fourier transform of the times series of the absorption or emission of a sample that has been excited by an infrared - frequency pulse .
a plot of detector signal  ( e .g .
a plot of complex impedance vs . frequency that reflects the change in impedance  ( the resistance of alternating current )  of an electrochemical cell .
spectroscopy based on the differential absorption of left -  and right - handed circularly polarised synchrotron radiation  ( radiation produced by the movement of charged particles in a magnetic field )  .
a plot of ellipticity vs . wavelength obtained by measuring the differential absorption of left -  and right - handed circularly polarised synchrotron radiation as a function of wavelength .
a photoluminescence spectrum where the excitation process involves two - photon absorption .
a fluorescence spectrum where the excitation process involves two - photon absorption .
a 2d image obtained by measuring fluorescence .
a fluorescence image obtained through a two - photon excitation process .
spectroscopy where xe atoms adsorbed on the surface of a sample are illuminated with photons causing ionisation and the emission of photoelectrons which are detected .
a separation method where the components  ( in this case stereoisomers )  are distributed between two chiral phases ,  one of which is stationary ,  while the other moves in a definite direction  ( the 'mobile phase' )  .
a separation method where the components  ( in this case stereoisomers )  are distributed between two chiral phases ,  one of which is stationary ,  while the other moves in a definite direction .
a heteronuclear nmr spectrum where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between 1h and 13c nuclei which are 2–3 bonds removed .
a heteronuclear nmr spectrum where a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between 1h and 15n nuclei which are 2–3 bonds removed .
far - infrared spectroscopy where the spectrum obtained is subject to a fourier transform .
a plot of absorbance or emission vs . wavelength / wavenumber / frequency obtained through a fourier transform of the times series of the absorption of a sample that has been excited by an far - infrared - frequency pulse .
microscopy where a very low concentration of fluorescent subunits in a polymer or peptide reveals the assembly dynamics ,  movement and turnover of assemblies throughout the image .
the measurement of spatially resolved force–distance curves using an atomic force microscope to produce a chemical profile image .
a method for producing metal nanoparticles by the reduction of metal salts with tetraalkylammonium hydrotriorganoborates .
spectroscopy in the liquid phase where the energy states of spin - active nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy in the gas phase where the energy states of spin - active nuclei placed in a static magnetic field are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by liquid chromatography before the energy states of spin - active nuclei in the sample ,  placed in a static magnetic field ,  are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by liquid chromatography before the energy states of spin - active nuclei in the sample ,  placed in a static magnetic field ,  are interrogated by inducing transitions between the states via radio frequency irradiation .
spectroscopy where the sample absorbs radiation from the infrared region  ( 0 .78–1000  \  \ μm )  over two frequency axes .
a magic angle spinning nmr experiment in which the evolution of dipolar couplings between 13c and 15n nuclei is controlled by applying pulses at appropriate points in the rotational period ,  allowing the determination of the size of the coupling and ,  thus ,  yielding distance information .
a technique that operates by mechanically vibrating a probe at a fixed amplitude ,  frequency and height over an electrochemically active sample in solution measuring and mapping the electric field generated by the sample .
microscopy which uses a cantilever tipped with a ferromagnetic  ( iron cobalt )  particle to directly detect a modulated spin gradient force between sample spins and the tip to scan the surface of a magnetic specimen .
spectroscopy where the intensity of the fluorescence emitted by molecules excited by constant illumination of ultraviolet light is detected as a function of wavelength .
a magic angle spinning nmr experiment in which the evolution of dipolar couplings between 31p and 13c nuclei is controlled by applying pulses at appropriate points in the rotational period ,  allowing the determination of the size of the coupling and ,  thus ,  yielding distance information .
a magic angle spinning nmr experiment in which the evolution of dipolar couplings between 31p and 15n nuclei is controlled by applying pulses at appropriate points in the rotational period ,  allowing the determination of the size of the coupling and ,  thus ,  yielding distance information .
a magic angle spinning nmr experiment in which the evolution of dipolar couplings between 31p and 19f nuclei is controlled by applying pulses at appropriate points in the rotational period ,  allowing the determination of the size of the coupling and ,  thus ,  yielding distance information .
a method where the sample mixture is first separated by size - exclusion chromatography and then aspirated ,  aerosolised ,  and mixed with combustible gases ,  such as acetylene and air or acetylene and nitrous oxide .
mass spectrometry that uses a system with a quadrupole mass - to - charge analyser connected to a time - of - flight mass - to - charge analyser .
a detection method that is sensitive to individual elements .
a gas chromatography method that is sensitive to individual elements .
spectroscopy where luminesence  ( the emission of visible light )  from molecules as a result of a chemical reaction )  is detected as a function of wavelength .
spectroscopy where thermoluminescence  ( visible light emitted by certain crystalline materials when previously absorbed energy from electromagnetic radiation or other ionizing radiation is re - emitted as light upon heating of the material )  is detected as a function of wavelength .
a method for providing phasing necessary for x - ray crystallography information by introducing heavy atoms into isomorphous crystals .
a method for providing phasing necessary for x - ray crystallography information by growing a crystal of the sample substituted with heavy metal atoms and analysing the x - ray data for both the original crystal and the isomorph .
a method for providing phasing necessary for x - ray crystallography information by growing a number of crystals of the sample substituted with different heavy metal atoms and analysing the x - ray data for each crystal .
a method for providing phasing necessary for x - ray crystallography information by growing a number of crystals of the sample substituted with different heavy metal atoms and analysing the x - ray data for each crystal .
a method for providing phasing necessary for x - ray crystallography information by growing a crystal of the sample substituted with heavy metal atoms and analysing the x - ray data for both the original crystal and the isomorph .
spectrometry where the sample spotted onto paper then solvent is applied and an electrically charged solvent is generated upon application of a high voltage .
a method for analysing cells suspended in a stream of fluid .
the process of determining the quantity of a sample by monitoring a redox process until the endpoint ,  at which essentially all of the sample has reacted ,  is reached .
the process of determining the quantity of a sample by monitoring a redox process until the endpoint ,  at which essentially all of the sample has reacted ,  is reached .
a method for nmr spectra acquisition of paramagnetic proteins ,  based on the use of homonuclear broadband decoupling of the diamagnetic region .
a type of homonuclear three - dimensional nmr experiment in which correlations are seen between nuclei that are spatially proximate within a molecule  (  \  \ leq 6  \  \ aa apart )  .
a type of homonuclear three - dimensional nmr experiment in which a second frequency dimension is employed to disperse the signals and reveal correlations between nuclei which are j - coupled  ( usually  \  \ leq 3 bonds apart )  .
a type of homonuclear three - dimensional nmr experiment spectroscopy which reveals correlations between all nuclei of a spin - system .
a type of homonuclear nmr spectroscopy which reveal correlations between all nuclei of a spin - system .
a type of homonuclear nmr spectroscopy based on the nuclear overhauser enhancement effect in which correlations are seen between nuclei that are spatially proximate within a molecule  (  \  \ leq 6  \  \ aa apart )  .
a measurement method which obtains the concentration or quantity of a specified substance in an analyte .
the role inhering in that portion of a sample which is measured by an experiment .
a function which is realized as elution .
a process wherein one material is extracted from another by interaction with a solvent .
those components of a sample that are not measured by an experiment .
the role inhering in that portion of a sample which is not measured by an experiment .
the function inhering in a portion of material that is the subject of an experiment .
a portion of material that is the subject of an experiment .
a quantitative determination method where the analyte is copper .
an experimental method output that consists of a number relating the adjusted retention volume or retention factor of the sample component to the adjusted retention volumes or retention factors of standards eluted before and after the peak of the sample component .
the operating temperature to which an ion source is set .
the volume of carrier gas passing through a chromatography column in unit time .
the length specified for a chromatography column .
the inner diameter specified for a chromatography column .
the plan specification for the temperatures in different places and times in a chromatography experiment .
high performance liquid chromatography where initial separation proceeds in a primary column and parts of the eleuent from this column are into a secondary column .
affinity chromatography where a cell membrane has been immobilized on a silica carrier .
derivatisation of a metabolite by addition of pyridinic methoxyamine to stabilise carbonyl moieties .
derivatisation of a metabolite by addition of a trimethylsilyl reagent to protect functional groups such as hydroxy ,  carboxylic acid ,  thio and amine groups .
extraction of plant metabolites using a 2:1 v / v mixture of water and chloroform .
extraction of plant metabolites using a 1:3:1 v / v mixture of water ,  methanol and chloroform .
a data item that describes a non - adjustable specification of a piece of equipment .
atmospheric pressure chemical ionization mass spectrometry where the sample is ionized by interaction with negative ions .
atmospheric pressure chemical ionization mass spectrometry where the sample is ionized by interaction with positive ions .
a mass spectrum obtained from positive mode atmospheric pressure chemical ionization mass spectrometry .
a mass spectrum obtained from negative mode atmospheric pressure chemical ionization mass spectrometry .
a spectrum obtained from a heteronuclear correlation experiment .
a chromatography column where the stationary phase is an octadecyl - bonded silica .
a piece of apparatus connecting a gas chromatograph to a mass spectrometer .
the specified temperature for a gas chromatograph - mass spectrometer transfer line .
a sample preparation step involving the increase in temperature of a sample .
a preparative step where the concentration of one component is increased .
a preparative step involving the removal of dissolved gases from a sample .
a mixing step where a soluble component is mixed with a liquid component .
mixing involving the agitation of a solution through circular motion .
stirring achieved by rotating a magnetic stir bar in a solution .
a short - path vacuum distillation apparatus consisting of an electric heater and two or more glass bulbs .
an x - ray source where copper atoms emit x - rays through a 1s from 2p transition .
an x - ray source where molybdenum atoms emit x - rays through a 1s from 2p transition .
an x - ray source where cobalt atoms emit x - rays through a 1s from 2p transition .
an x - ray source where aluminium atoms emit x - rays through a 1s from 2p transition .
vitreous silica in granular form for experimental purposes .
a gaseous environment in which an experiment takes place .
a laboratory atmosphere consisting of argon .
a laboratory atmosphere consisting of gaseous diatomic nitrogen .
the material left behind in the filter as a result of filtration .
a syringe which has the function of pumping material into an experiment .
a laboratory atmosphere consisting of gaseous diatomic hydrogen .
a piece of apparatus for carrying out hydrogenation reactions ,  usually under high pressure .
a setting datum that specifies the potential difference in a mass spectrometer where labile ions may dissociate .
a setting datum that specifies the potential difference across a skimmer .
a setting datum that specifies the potential difference across the tip of the capillary in electrospray ionisation .
a piece of apparatus that is used to measure a physical quantity .
a sensor that recognises the analyte under study by interaction with a given chemical motif .
a sensor that recognises the analyte under study by interaction with a given biological system .
measurement of the dose of a substance taken up by an object .
a sensor that is used to measure the dose of a substance taken by up an object .
measurement of the dose of ions or small molecules taken up by an object .
a sensor that is used to measure the dose of ions or small molecules taken by up an object .
a device for heating substances to high temperatures where the material is kept separate from the fuel .
the smallest measure that can be detected with reasonable certainty for a given analytical procedure .
the smallest measure that can be quantified with reasonable certainty for a given analytical procedure .
a data item that describes a non - adjustable specification of a method .
an experimental method output originating from the matrix ,  reagents and any residual bias in the measurement device or process ,  which contributes to the value obtained for the quantity in the analytical procedure .
the range of measures which can be quantified with reasonable certainty for a given analytical procedure .
the transfer of a microlitre amount of solute from a liquid phase to another immiscible or partially - miscible liquid phase in contact with it .
the working range over which the response is linearly proportional to the measure .
a piece of heating apparatus used to convert the sample into a gaseous mobile phase .
a piece of apparatus that is used to raise the temperature of a sample .
a piece of apparatus that consists of an oven ,  and apparatus to mix carrier gas containing the sample with hydrogen and air ,  then ignite it and collect the resulting positively - charged radicals at a cathode .
an x - ray source where magnesium atoms emit x - rays through a 1s from 2p transition .
an electrode consisting of agranular non - graphitizable carbon with high isotropy and low permeability for liquids and gases .
diffuse reflectance infrared fourier transform spectroscopy of a sample that is carried out in the environment where the sample might be used .
a measurement method that determines the concentration of a constituent in some solution .
the concentration of a solute in a saturated solution .
measurement of concentration of a solute in water .
the disposition of a sample to rotate the plane of polarization of a beam of transmitted plane - polarized light .
an experimental method output that consists of the angle through which plane polarized light is rotated clockwise ,  as seen when facing the light source ,  in passing through an optically active medium .
a sample preparation method where a sample is heated slowly in a gas .
experimental method output expressing the contribution of one constituent to the composition of a mixture .
experimental method output expressing a concentration in terms of the mass of a constituent divided by the volume of the mixture .
experimental method output expressing a concentration in terms of the amount of a constituent divided by the volume of the mixture .
experimental method output expressing a concentration in terms of the volume of a constituent divided by the volume of the mixture .
experimental method output expressing a concentration in terms of the number of entities of a constituent divided by the volume of the mixture .
the concentration of a solute in a saturated solution of water and the solute .
determination of the mass of a sample .
a process that contributes to producing a plan for an experiment .
storage of a sample that has been dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide .
an experimental planning process in which a plan specification is modified ,  resulting in a new plan specification .
a planned process in which materials for an experiment are acquired from an external supplier .
a planned process in which materials are removed permanently from the laboratory or repository .
an experimental planning process in which a plan specification is created de novo .
an assay to determine the propagation rate coefficient of a polymerisation process .
a material processing process that produces monodisperse particles of silica by adding tetraethyl silicate to an excess of water containing a low - molar - mass alcohol and stirring .
a material processing process that is intended to produce nanoparticles .
a material processing process that is intended to produce nanostructures .
a planned process involving setting up the equipment for another planned process .
part of a planned process where the equipment has been set up and human intervention is required to set the subprocesses going .
a process that involves adjusting a planned process in some respect .
a planned process adjustment that takes place when the subprocesses of the planned process have been suspended .
a planned process adjustment that takes place while at least one subprocess is taking place .
an experimental plan revision that involves creating a new experimental plan that has a lessened hazard compared to its predecessor .
a planned process that involves all aspects of dealing with the waste produced in experiments .
a material processing step that involves heating apparatus in an autoclave .
the largest measure at which the sensitivity of the detector is constant to within a specified variation .
the working range over which an incremental change in concentration or mass flow rate produces an incremental change in response .
the standard deviation of independent measurements obtained with the same method on identical test material under the same conditions .
the standard deviation of independent measurements obtained with the same method on identical test material under different conditions .
an experimental sample that is produced by spiking test material that is essentially free of a given analyte .
a material processing step that involves taking a test material with an adequately low background level of the intended analyte and mixing it with a known amount of analyte .
the fraction of the total quantity of a substance extracted in a separation experiment under specified conditions .
the quantity of gas ,  in pressure - volume units ,  at a specified temperature ,  flowing per unit time across a specified open cross section .
the mass of the product of a synthesis expressed as a percentage of the theoretical maxiμm mass given the masses of the reactants .
the absolute value of the mole fraction for one enantiomer in a mixture minus the mole fraction for the other enantiomer .
the absolute value of the mole fraction for one enantiomer in a mixture minus the mole fraction for the other enantiomer multiplied by 100% .
the ratio of the percentage of one diastereomer in a mixture to that of the other .
the ratio of the percentage of one enantiomer in a mixture to that of the other .
the absolute value of the mole fraction for one diastereomer in a mixture minus the mole fraction for the other .
the absolute value of the mole fraction for one diastereomer in a mixture minus the mole fraction for the other multiplied by 100% .
a reference material that has been certified by an appropriate authority .
a chromatography column that is small enough to use in a 96 - plate microarray .
an objective to minimize line broadening in solid state nmr that is caused by anisotropic interactions between nuclei .
a disc with a slot in it .
chromatography where the mobile phase is a gas ,  initial separation proceeds in a primary column and parts of the eluent from this column are directed into a secondary column .
microextraction using an antibody where the specificity is related to the specificity of the antibody to the compound of interest .
affinity chromatography where the separation is caused by differing antibody - ligand interactions .
function of a laser realized by it exciting some internal state of a sample .
function of a laser realized by its interactions with internal state of a sample being measured .
a laser that has the function of exciting some internal state of a sample .
a laser that has the function of probing some internal state of a sample .
a device that uses electrical and magnetic fields to generate heat .
a device that measures the angle of optical rotation of a sample .
polarimetry of a sample that has been dissolved in chloroform .
polarimetry of a sample that has been dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide .
angle of optical rotation of a substance that has been obtained with it dissolved in chloroform .
angle of optical rotation of a substance that has been obtained with it dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide .
a measure of the efficiency by which charge is transferred in a chemical reaction .
a measure of how the discharge capacity of a battery is maintained over a given number of cycles .
hydrothermal synthesis that uses cetyltrimethylammonium bromide to guide the morphology of the product .
hydrothermal synthesis that makes use of microwave radiation to affect the course of reaction .
thermal analysis of a system where the consumption of dioxygen in moles per second per gram of material is measured against temperature .
thermal analysis of a system where the consumption of reducing agent in moles per second per gram of material is measured against temperature .
a plot of the consumption of dioxygen in moles per second per gram of material against temperature obtained from a temperature - programmed oxidation experiment .
a plot of the consumption of a reducing agent in moles per second per gram of material against temperature obtained from a temperature - programmed reduction experiment .
spinning a sample very rapidly at the magic angle  ( 54 .74 deg with respect to the direction of the magnetic field )  in order to average anisotropic interactions between nuclei ,  which are usually averaged by brownian motion in liquid samples ,  to zero .
an assay that determines a figure of merit for a given technique ,  analyte and matrix .
a substance or mixture of substances ,  the composition of which is known within specified limits ,  and one or more of the properties of which is sufficiently well established to be used for the calibration of an apparatus ,  the assessment of a measuring method or for assigning values to materials .
the process of one material  ( absorbate )  being retained by another  ( absorption )  .
a phenomenon in which radiation transfers to matter which it traverses some or all of its energy .
material processing in which a liquid or gas transitions into a solid .
material processing in which a sample is cooled by immersion in a fluid .
equipment that is used in a laboratory context to prevent or mitigate adverse laboratory events .
equipment that is used in a laboratory context to mitigate adverse laboratory events .
an event that takes place in a laboratory that may unintentionally harm an organism or piece of apparatus .
an explosion that takes place in a laboratory and is not controlled by the experimenter .
laboratory safety equipment that prevents or mitigates adverse laboratory events happening to an experimenter .
gloves consisting of a nitrile polymer .
an event where a poisonous substance penetrates personal protective equipment ,  endangering the experimenter .
the function ascribed to laboratory equipment to prevent or mitigate adverse laboratory events .
a screen that blocks debris from an explosion .
an adverse laboratory event where an experimenter inhales poisonous fumes .
an adverse laboratory event where a reacting species gives off a gas poisonous to the experimenter .
a hood in which to conduct experiments that give off poisonous fumes that vents them to a non - enclosed environment .
an adverse laboratory event in which an organism comes into contact with the debris from an explosion at high speed .
a process in which ionized species in the gas phase are produced from an analyte - containing solution via highly charged fine droplets ,  by means of spraying the solution from a narrow - bore needle tip at atmospheric pressure in the presence of a high electric field .
a data item that measures the proportion of actual positives which are correctly identified as such  ( e .g .
a data item that refers to the proportion of negatives in a binary classification test which are correctly identified .
a planned process with the objective to produce information about the material entity that is the evaluant ,  by physically examining it or its proxies .
a planned process which results in physical changes in a specified input material .
an imaging assay is an assay to produce a picture of an entity .
an assay with the objective to capture information about the presence ,  concentration or amount of an analyte in the evaluant .
elisa is an assay where an enzyme linked antibody is used to detect a plate bound material in a liquid  ( the evaluant )  utilizing a chemiluminescent reaction .
the objective to separate a material entity into different compositions of which one or more have are purified fractions that contain higher concentration of a desired component ,  while others contain impurities and are not of interest .
a process with that achieves the objective to maintain some or all of the characteristics of an input material over time .
a material entity that is designed to perform a function in a scientific investigation ,  but is not a reagent .
a device which has a function to emit light .
a transfer function where the transfer requires work to move the entity ,  often against a gradient .
a device that is used to apply microwave irradiation to chemical reactions .
a device that is used to generate x - rays .
a principal components analysis dimensionality reduction is a dimensionality reduction achieved by applying principal components analysis and by keeping low - order principal components and excluding higher - order ones .
a process separating molecules by size or density using centrifugal forces generated by a spinning rotor .
washing is a process by which a material entity acting as contaminant  ( e .g .
a maintenance process by which material entities that are not actively metabolizing are placed in well identified location and possibly under controlled environment in ad - hoc devices / structures in order to preserve and protect them from decay / alteration and maintain availability .
a process in which a significant increase in the electrical conductivity and permeability of the cell plasma membrane caused by an externally applied electrical field .
a laser  ( acronym for light amplification by the stimulated emission of radiation )  is a light source that emits photons of the same characteristics in a coherent beam .
a light source is an optical subsystem that provides light for use in a distant area using a delivery system  ( e .g . ,  fiber optics )  .
this relation obtains between a planned process and a objective specification when the criteria specified in the objective specification are met at the end of the planned process .
a material processing in which components of an input material become segregated in space .
