an inorganic hydroxy compound that has formula h2o .
a form of tetrahydrofolate that acts as a donor of formyl groups in anabolism .
a pyrimidine 2' - deoxyribonucleoside having cytosine as the nucleobase .
a peptide containing ten or more amino acid residues .
a ribonucleoside composed of a molecule of adenine attached to a ribofuranose moiety via a beta - n ( 9 )  - glycosidic bond .
a naturally occurring polypeptide synthesized at the ribosome .
a ribonucleoside composed of a molecule of uracil attached to a ribofuranose moiety via a beta - n ( 1 )  - glycosidic bond .
a purine nucleoside in which guanine is attached to ribofuranose via a beta - n ( 9 )  - glycosidic bond .
a purine 2' - deoxyribonucleoside having guanine as the nucleobase .
a purine 2' - deoxyribonucleoside having adenine as the nucleobase .
a pyrimidine nucleoside in which cytosine is attached to ribofuranose via a beta - n ( 1 )  - glycosidic bond .
a pyrimidine ribonucleoside 5' - triphosphate that has formula c9h16n3o14p3 .
a pyrimidine 2' - deoxyribonucleoside having thymine as the nucleobase .
a single - stranded rna molecule containing about 70 - 90 nucleotides ,  folded by intrastrand base pairing into a characteristic secondary  ( 'cloverleaf' )  structure that carries a specific amino acid and matches it to its corresponding codon on an mrna during protein synthesis .
any nucleoside where the sugar component is d - ribose .
nuclear particle of charge number  + 1 ,  spin 1 / 2 and rest mass of 1 .007276470 ( 12 )  u .
a molecular entity having a net electric charge .
a 2 - amino - 3 - methylpentanoic acid having either  ( 2r , 3r )  -  or  ( 2s , 3s )  - configuration .
a nucleobase - containing molecular entity that is a nucleoside in which one or more of the sugar hydroxy groups has been converted into a mono -  or poly - phosphate .
any ribonucleic acid that is transfer rna in which one or more of the free oh groups carries an alpha - aminoacyl group .
a group of heterocyclic compounds based on the 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 - tetrahydropteroic acid skeleton conjugated with one or more l - glutamic acid units .
an alpha - amino acid in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon of glycine is substituted by a 1 - hydroxyethyl group .
an acyclic phosphorus acid anhydride obtained by condensation of two molecules of phosphoric acid .
an n - glycosyl compound that has both a nucleobase ,  normally adenine ,  guanine ,  xanthine ,  thymine ,  cytosine or uracil ,  and either a ribose or deoxyribose as functional parents .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the proton .
a nucleotide is a nucleoside phosphate .
a group of heterocyclic compounds based on the pteroic acid skeleton conjugated with one or more l - glutamic acid units .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of constituent rnas and proteins to form the large ribosomal subunit .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of constituent rnas and proteins to form the small ribosomal subunit .
a chromosome found in the cytoplasm .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a fragment of rna ,  such as excised introns or sequences removed from ribosomal rna during processing .
exonucleolytic digestion of a pre - rrna molecule in the process to generate a mature rrna molecule .
any phosphodiester bond hydrolysis involved in the conversion of a primary ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  transcript into a mature rrna molecule .
any process involved in the maturation of a precursor large subunit  ( lsu )  ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  molecule into a mature lsu - rrna molecule .
any endonucleolytic cleavage involved in the conversion of a primary ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  transcript into a mature rrna molecule .
any process involved in the maturation of a precursor 5s ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  molecule into a mature 5s rrna molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a specific dna sequence in a bacterial - type rna polymerase core promoter ,  the region composed of the transcription start site and binding sites for transcription factors of the basal transcription machinery ,  in order to modulate transcription .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with the bacterial - type rna polymerase core enzyme ,  typically consisting of two alpha ,  one beta ,  one beta prime ,  and one omega subunit .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with the basal transcription machinery which is composed of a bacterial - type rna polymerase core enzyme and a sigma factor ,  the minimal set of factors required for formation of the preinitiation complex  ( pic )  by a bacterial - type rna polymerase .
any process involved in the transition from the initiation to the elongation phases of transcription by a dna - dependent rna polymerase ,  generally including a conformational change from the initiation conformation to the elongation conformation .
any process involved in the melting of the dna hybrid of the core promoter region within the transcriptional closed complex of an rna polymerase preinitiation complex  ( pic )  to produce an open complex where the dna duplex around the transcription initiation site is unwound to form the transcription bubble .
a macromolecular complex containing protein ,  dna ,  and rna molecules .
the disaggregation of a transcription ternary complex ,  composed of rna polymerase ,  template dna ,  and an rna transcript ,  into its constituent components .
any process involved in the transition from the initiation to the elongation phase of transcription by a bacterial - type rna polymerase ,  generally including a conformational change from the initiation conformation to the elongation conformation .
any process involved in the assembly of bacterial - type rna polymerase preinitiation complex  ( pic )  at the core promoter region of a dna template ,  resulting in the subsequent synthesis of rna from that promoter .
the process in which the synthesis of an rna molecule by a bacterial - type rna polymerase using a dna template is completed .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins on a bacterial - type rna polymerase promoter dna to form the transcriptional preinitiation complex  ( pic )  ,  the formation of which is a prerequisite for transcription by rna polymerase .
any process involved in the melting of the dna hybrid of the core promoter region within the transcriptional closed complex of an rna polymerase ii preinitiation complex  ( pic )  to produce an open complex where the dna duplex around the transcription initiation site is unwound to form the transcription bubble .
the cellular synthesis of rna on a template of rna .
any process involved in the selection of the specific location within the template strand of a dna - dependent rna polymerase promoter for hybridization of the cognate ribonucleotides and formation of first phosphodiester bond within the nascent transcript .
any process involved in the selection of the specific location within the template strand of a bacterial - type rna polymerase promoter for hybridization of the cognate ribonucleotides and formation of first phosphodiester bond within the nascent transcript .
suppression of the occurrence of transcriptional errors ,  such as substitutions and / or insertions of nucleotides that do not correctly match the template base ,  during the process of transcription elongation on a dna template .
suppression of the occurrence of transcriptional errors ,  such as substitutions and / or insertions of nucleotides that do not correctly match the template base ,  during the process of transcription elongation from a bacterial - type rna polymerase promoter .
formation of a complex between aminoacylated initiator methionine trna ,  gtp ,  and initiation factor 2  ( either eif2 in eukaryotes ,  or if2 in prokaryotes )  .
post - transcriptional addition of the terminal 3' cca sequence to a trna which does not encode this sequence within the primary transcript .
the joining of the small ribosomal subunit ,  ternary complex ,  and mrna .
joining of the large subunit ,  with release of if2 / eif2 and if3 / eif3 .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a protein in the cytoplasm .
the successive addition of amino acid residues to a nascent polypeptide chain during protein biosynthesis in the cytoplasm .
the process preceding formation of the peptide bond between the first two amino acids of a protein in the cytoplasm .
the process resulting in the release of a polypeptide chain from the ribosome in the cytoplasm ,  usually in response to a termination codon .
the part of a cell or its extracellular environment in which a gene product is located .
the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
a structure composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins  ( e .g .
all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
the part of the cytoplasm that does not contain organelles but which does contain other particulate matter ,  such as protein complexes .
an intracellular organelle ,  about 200 a in diameter ,  consisting of rna and protein .
the cellular synthesis of rna on a template of dna .
any process involved in the assembly of the rna polymerase preinitiation complex  ( pic )  at the core promoter region of a dna template ,  resulting in the subsequent synthesis of rna from that promoter .
the cellular process that completes dna - templated transcription ;  the formation of phosphodiester bonds ceases ,  the rna - dna hybrid dissociates ,  and rna polymerase releases the dna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any process involved in the conversion of a primary ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  transcript into one or more mature rrna molecules .
any process involved in the conversion of one or more primary rna transcripts into one or more mature rna molecules .
any process involved in the conversion of a primary mrna transcript into one or more mature mrna ( s )  prior to translation into polypeptide .
the covalent alteration of one or more nucleotides within a trna molecule to produce a trna molecule with a sequence that differs from that coded genetically .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
the cellular metabolic process in which a protein is formed ,  using the sequence of a mature mrna molecule to specify the sequence of amino acids in a polypeptide chain .
the process preceding formation of the peptide bond between the first two amino acids of a protein .
the successive addition of amino acid residues to a nascent polypeptide chain during protein biosynthesis .
the process resulting in the release of a polypeptide chain from the ribosome ,  usually in response to a termination codon  ( uaa ,  uag ,  or uga in the universal genetic code )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna .
the process of coupling alanine to alanyl - trna ,  catalyzed by alanyl - trna synthetase .
the process of coupling arginine to arginyl - trna ,  catalyzed by arginyl - trna synthetase .
the process of coupling asparagine to asparaginyl - trna ,  catalyzed by asparaginyl - trna synthetase .
the process of coupling aspartate to aspartyl - trna ,  catalyzed by aspartyl - trna synthetase .
the process of coupling cysteine to cysteinyl - trna ,  catalyzed by cysteinyl - trna synthetase .
the process of coupling glutamate to glutamyl - trna ,  catalyzed by glutamyl - trna synthetase .
the process of coupling glutamine to glutaminyl - trna ,  catalyzed by glutaminyl - trna synthetase .
the process of coupling glycine to glycyl - trna ,  catalyzed by glycyl - trna synthetase .
the process of coupling histidine to histidyl - trna ,  catalyzed by histidyl - trna synthetase .
the process of coupling isoleucine to isoleucyl - trna ,  catalyzed by isoleucyl - trna synthetase .
the process of coupling leucine to leucyl - trna ,  catalyzed by leucyl - trna synthetase .
the process of coupling lysine to lysyl - trna ,  catalyzed by lysyl - trna synthetase .
the process of coupling methionine to methionyl - trna ,  catalyzed by methionyl - trna synthetase .
the process of coupling phenylalanine to phenylalanyl - trna ,  catalyzed by phenylalanyl - trna synthetase .
the process of coupling proline to prolyl - trna ,  catalyzed by prolyl - trna synthetase .
the process of coupling serine to seryl - trna ,  catalyzed by seryl - trna synthetase .
the process of coupling threonine to threonyl - trna ,  catalyzed by threonyl - trna synthetase .
the process of coupling tryptophan to tryptophanyl - trna ,  catalyzed by tryptophanyl - trna synthetase .
the process of coupling tyrosine to tyrosyl - trna ,  catalyzed by tyrosyl - trna synthetase .
the process of coupling valine to valyl - trna ,  catalyzed by valyl - trna synthetase .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational initiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or accuracy of translational elongation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational termination .
any process that modulates the ability of the translational apparatus to interpret the genetic code .
the process of assisting in the covalent and noncovalent assembly of single chain polypeptides or multisubunit complexes into the correct tertiary structure .
the process of assisting in the folding of a nascent peptide chain into its correct tertiary structure .
the process in which a pre - trna molecule is converted to a mature trna ,  ready for addition of an aminoacyl group .
any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells ,  tissues ,  organs ,  and organisms .
the cellular synthesis of messenger rna  ( mrna )  from a dna template .
the synthesis of ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  ,  any rna that forms part of the ribosomal structure ,  from a dna template .
the synthesis of transfer rna  ( trna )  from a dna template .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
the process in which a gene's sequence is converted into a mature gene product or products  ( proteins or rna )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
the larger of the two subunits of a ribosome .
the smaller of the two subunits of a ribosome .
the covalent alteration of an amino acid charged on a trna before it is incorporated into a protein ,  as in n - formylmethionine ,  selenocysteine or pyrrolysine .
the process of assisting in the covalent and noncovalent assembly of single chain polypeptides or multisubunit complexes into the correct tertiary structure that results in the attainment of the full functional capacity of a protein .
any process involved in the maturation of a precursor small subunit  ( ssu )  ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  molecule into a mature ssu - rrna molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  extent ,  or location of dna - templated transcription termination ,  the process in which transcription is completed ;  the formation of phosphodiester bonds ceases ,  the rna - dna hybrid dissociates ,  and rna polymerase releases the dna .
regulation of transcription through variation in where transcription termination occurs .
a type of transcriptional regulation at the level of early termination .
regulation of transcription by a mechanism that allows rna polymerase to continue transcription beyond a termination site .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription elongation ,  the extension of an rna molecule after transcription initiation and promoter clearance by the addition of ribonucleotides catalyzed by a dna - dependent rna polymerase .
a stable assembly of two or more macromolecules ,  i .e .
a macromolecular complex containing both protein and dna molecules .
any process that results in the conversion of one or more primary non - coding rna  ( ncrna )  transcripts into one or more mature ncrna molecules .
a cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of ribosome subunits ;  includes transport to the sites of protein synthesis .
a cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a large ribosomal subunit ;  includes transport to the sites of protein synthesis .
a cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a small ribosomal subunit ;  includes transport to the sites of protein synthesis .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which the various amino acids become bonded to their corresponding trnas .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an rna polymerase core enzyme ,  containing a specific subunit composition defined as the core enzyme .
a stable macromolecular complex composed  ( only )  of two or more polypeptide subunits along with any covalently attached molecules  ( such as lipid anchors or oligosaccharide )  or non - protein prosthetic groups  ( such as nucleotides or metal ions )  .
modulation of the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from a dna template as a result of a stimulus indicating the organism is under stress .
a ribonucleoprotein complex that contains aminoacylated initiator methionine trna ,  gtp ,  and initiation factor 2  ( either eif2 in eukaryotes ,  or if2 in prokaryotes )  .
either of the two subunits of a ribosome: the ribosomal large subunit or the ribosomal small subunit .
any constituent part of the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
any constituent part of the cytoplasm ,  all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
any constituent part of a cell ,  the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational elongation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational elongation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational initiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational initiation .
the process of assisting in the correct noncovalent assembly of the ribosome - bound nascent chains of a multidomain protein whilst other parts of the protein are still being translated .
the process of assisting in the correct noncovalent folding of newly formed polypeptides or folding intermediates of polypeptides that have exited the ribosome and / or have been stabilized and transferred by other chaperone proteins .
any process leading to the attainment of the full functional capacity of a protein .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of dna - templated transcription termination ,  the process in which transcription is completed ;  the formation of phosphodiester bonds ceases ,  the rna - dna hybrid dissociates ,  and rna polymerase releases the dna .
the process of inhibiting aggregation and assisting in the covalent and noncovalent assembly of single chain polypeptides or multisubunit complexes into the correct tertiary structure that is dependent on interaction with a chaperone .
any process that modulates a measurable attribute of any biological process ,  quality or function .
any process that modulates a qualitative or quantitative trait of a biological quality .
a trna aminoacylation process in which asparaginyl - trnaasn is formed by a trna - dependent two - step pathway .
a trna aminoacylation process in which glutaminyl - trnagln is formed by a trna - dependent two - step pathway .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins on promoter dna to form the transcriptional preinitiation complex  ( pic )  ,  the formation of which is a prerequisite for transcription .
a translational elongation process in which transfer of a translating ribosome from one mrna to another rna template takes place .
a protein modification process in which a polypeptide is added to a nascent polypeptide cotranslationally by trans - translation .
a ribonucleoprotein complex that contains a ribosome ,  mrna ,  and initiator trna ;  the functional ribosome is at the aug ,  with the methionyl / formyl - methionyl - trna positioned at the p site .
a ribonucleoprotein complex that contains the small ribosomal subunit ,  a translation initiation ternary complex  ( i .e .
the set of processes involved in identifying and degrading defective or aberrant rnas .
the modification process that results in the conversion of methionine charged on a trna ( fmet )  to n - formyl - methionine - trna ( fmet )  .
a process of translational elongation that takes place when a ribosome has stalled during translation ,  and results in freeing the ribosome from the stalled translation complex .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of ribosome biogenesis .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of ribosome biogenesis .
a protein - dna - rna complex composed of rna polymerase ,  template dna ,  and an rna transcript .
a protein - dna complex composed of proteins binding promoter dna to form the transcriptional preinitiation complex  ( pic )  ,  the formation of which is a prerequisite for transcription .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of formation of translation initiation ternary complex .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of formation of translation preinitiation complex .
the degradosome is a protein complex playing a key role in mrna degradation and rna processing .
a macromolecular complex containing both protein and rna molecules .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna - templated transcription initiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna - templated transcription initiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna - templated transcription initiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of trna processing .
a sequence_feature with an extent greater than zero .
a regulatory element of an operon to which activators or repressors bind thereby effecting translation of genes in that operon .
any extent of continuous biological sequence .
a primary transcript that ,  at least in part ,  encodes one or more proteins .
region in mrna where ribosome assembles .
a sequence segment located within the five prime end of an mrna that causes premature termination of translation .
the sequence of dna located either at the end of the transcript that causes rna polymerase to terminate transcription .
a regulatory_region composed of the tss ( s )  and binding sites for tf_complexes of the basal transcription machinery .
a region of the gene which is not transcribed .
a transcript that in its initial state requires modification to be functional .
a primary transcript encoding a ribosomal rna .
a primary transcript encoding a transfer rna  ( so:0000253 )  .
a primary transcript encoding alanyl trna .
a primary transcript encoding arginyl trna  ( so:0000255 )  .
a primary transcript encoding asparaginyl trna  ( so:0000256 )  .
a primary transcript encoding aspartyl trna  ( so:0000257 )  .
a primary transcript encoding cysteinyl trna  ( so:0000258 )  .
a primary transcript encoding glutaminyl trna  ( so:0000260 )  .
a primary transcript encoding glutamyl trna  ( so:0000260 )  .
a primary transcript encoding glycyl trna  ( so:0000263 )  .
a primary transcript encoding histidyl trna  ( so:0000262 )  .
a primary transcript encoding isoleucyl trna  ( so:0000263 )  .
a primary transcript encoding leucyl trna  ( so:0000264 )  .
a primary transcript encoding lysyl trna  ( so:0000265 )  .
a primary transcript encoding methionyl trna  ( so:0000266 )  .
a primary transcript encoding phenylalanyl trna  ( so:0000267 )  .
a primary transcript encoding prolyl trna  ( so:0000268 )  .
a primary transcript encoding seryl trna  ( so:000269 )  .
a primary transcript encoding threonyl trna  ( so:000270 )  .
a primary transcript encoding tryptophanyl trna  ( so:000271 )  .
a primary transcript encoding tyrosyl trna  ( so:000272 )  .
a primary transcript encoding valyl trna  ( so:000273 )  .
a transcript which has undergone the necessary modifications ,  if any ,  for its function .
a region of a nucleotide molecule that binds a transcription factor or transcription factor complex  [ go:0005667 ]  .
the first base where rna polymerase begins to synthesize the rna transcript .
a contiguous sequence which begins with ,  and includes ,  a start codon and ends with ,  and includes ,  a stop codon .
first codon to be translated by a ribosome .
in mrna ,  a set of three nucleotides that indicates the end of information for protein synthesis .
the first base to be translated into protein .
the last base to be translated into protein .
a set of  ( usually )  three nucleotide bases in a dna or rna sequence ,  which together code for a unique amino acid or the termination of translation and are contained within the cds .
a small  ( 184 - nt in e . coli )  rna that forms a hairpin type structure .
a primary transcript that is never translated into a protein .
a region in the 5' utr that pairs with the 16s rrna during formation of the preinitiation complex .
a tmrna liberates a mrna from a stalled ribosome .
a primary transcript encoding a tmrna  ( so:0000584 )  .
a dna sequence to which bacterial rna polymerase binds ,  to begin transcription .
a terminator signal for bacterial transcription .
the base where transcription ends .
an mrna with either a single protein product ,  or for which the regions encoding all its protein products overlap .
an mrna that encodes multiple proteins from at least two non - overlapping regions .
ribosomal rna transcript that structures the small subunit of the ribosome .
ribosomal rna transcript that structures the large subunit of the ribosome .
5s ribosomal rna  ( 5s rrna )  is a component of the large ribosomal subunit in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes .
an rna synthesized on a dna or rna template by an rna polymerase .
a gene that encodes a polycistronic transcript .
a region  ( or regions )  that includes all of the sequence elements necessary to encode a functional transcript .
the region of a two - piece tmrna that bears the reading frame encoding the proteolysis tag .
the acceptor region of a two - piece tmrna that when mature is charged at its 3' end with alanine .
a region of a gene .
a region of a transcript .
a region of a mature transcript .
a part of a primary transcript .
a region of an mrna .
a region of a tmrna .
a region of a cds .
structural unit composed of a self - replicating ,  dna molecule .
structural unit composed of a self - replicating ,  double - stranded dna molecule .
structural unit composed of a self - replicating ,  double - stranded ,  circular dna molecule .
a large polynucleotide in bacteria and archaea ,  which functions as the small subunit of the ribosome .
a large polynucleotide in bacteria and archaea ,  which functions as the large subunit of the ribosome .
a regulatory_region that modulates the transcription of a gene or genes .
a region of a trna .
a sequence of three nucleotide bases in trna which recognizes a codon in mrna .
base sequence at the 3' end of a trna .
a primary transcript encoding pyrrolysyl trna  ( so:0000766 )  .
a region  ( dna )  to which rna polymerase binds ,  to begin transcription .
a region defined by its disposition to be involved in a biological process .
a gene that encodes for ribosomal rna .
a regulatory region that is involved in the control of the process of transcription .
a regulatory region that is involved in the control of the process of translation .
transcription pause sites are regions of a gene where rna polymerase may pause during transcription .
a promoter that allows for continual transcription of gene .
a promoter whereby activity is induced by the presence or absence of biotic or abiotic factors .
a region of sequence that is involved in the control of a biological process .
activator of hairpined rbs
