variations in the frequencies of translocations ,  inversions ,  deletions ,  or gene amplifications and variations in chromosome fusion events and or chromosomal loss compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in body posture compared to control animals .
the animal moves or rests with uncharacteristic loss of smooth sinusoidal motion or body posture .
obsolete .
eggs are laid under conditions where egg laying is normally inhibited .
eggs are laid at an earlier stage of development ,  eggs are laid in the presence of inhibitors of egg laying ,  or the inactive phase of the egg - laying cycle is significantly shorter when compared to control .
eggs are not laid ,  laid at a slower rate or eggs are laid at a later stage of development compared to control .
a worm carcass is formed with retained eggs that hatch inside .
animals respond to anesthetic at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of anesthetic that elicits a response in control animals .
animals respond to a specific drug at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of a drug that elicits a response in control animals .
formation of dauer larvae under conditions that do not favor dauer formation .
failure to form dauer larvae under dauer - inducing conditions .
variations in the structure ,  organization or path of axon tracts that grow circumferentially around the animal in a single ,  directed trajectory to bridge the ventral and dorsal cords ,  compared to control animals .
variations in the movement towards typically attractive chemicals .
animals respond to aldicarb at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of aldicarb that elicits a response in control animals .
the contraction and relaxation movements of the pharynx occur at a greater frequency compared to that observed for control animals .
pharyngeal pumping motion occurs at a slower rate than control animals .
pharyngeal pumping motion occurs at intervals that vary from control animals .
squat animals are dumpy as homozygotes ,  but roll as heterozygotes .
animals are longer than control animals at the same developmental stage .
animals respond to serotonin at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of serotonin that elicits a response in control animals .
fluid - filled blisters appear on the cuticle .
animals are unable to take up or store lipids .
variations in the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances compared to control .
variations in the processes involved in the conversion of one or more primary rna transcripts into one or more mature rna molecules compared to control .
animals are defective for rnai introduced by environmental means such as in the cases of rnai triggered by soaking or feeding .
variations in the processes that regulate the change  ( increase )  in size or mass of an integrated living unit  ( a cell ,  tissue ,  organ or organism )  compared to control animals .
any variation that causes a reduction in growth rate compared to control .
animals exhibit some combination of abnormal features relating to size ,  movement ,  body integrity ,  pigmentation ,  viability ,  fertility etc .
the timing of specific developmental events in some tissues is altered relative to the timing of events in other tissues .
contents or structures of an embryonic cell are not restricted / localized to the same positions  ( or poles )  compared with control animals .
any variation in the overall structure or appearance of the animal as it progresses from hatching to adult compared to control animals .
any variation in the overall structure or appearance of the animal after it has completed progression through the larval stages compared to control animals .
any variation in the overall structure or appearance of fertilized oocytes that are laid compared to those laid by control animals .
the animal is ruptured at the vulva and displays an extrusion of internal organs at the site of rupture .
adult life span is either longer or shorter than typical of control animals .
embryos fail to divide and arrest as one - cell embryos .
any variation in the process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of water within an organism ,  compared to control .
the progression through stages between fertilization to hatching are temporally retarded .
variations in the progression time of an animal from pronuclei meeting to adulthood compared to control animals .
egg is smaller or larger compared to eggs of control animals .
the developmental progression of an animal after the embryonic stage ,  over time ,  from its formation to its mature structure is delayed compared to control .
more than five minutes between ab and p1 divisions .
variations in the process by which the germ layers become positioned in an embryo compared to control animals .
variations in the ability of an animal to emerge from the protective egg shell compared to control animals .
any variation in the progression of an animal over time ,  from hatching to adulthood ,  compared to control .
animals die during embryonic development .
the developmental program does not continue past embryogenesis ;  stage of arrest is not consistent from animal to animal .
lethality caused by the perturbation of maternal gene products that are contributed to oogenesis and are required during embryogenesis .
movement and elongation ceases at the two - fold stage .
the animal dies at any time between hatching and onset to adulthood .
larvae arrest during early larval development .
larvae arrest during late larval development .
animals die during early larval development .
animals die during late larval development .
the developmental program of the animals halts at any larval stage and thus fails to reach adulthood .
premature lethality during the adult stage .
the duration of viability in the adult phase of the life - cycle surpasses that of control animals .
animals die prematurely at any stage of the life cycle .
variations that cause developmental progression to cease at different stages of the lifecycle .
animals die prematurely at any stage of the life cycle in a sex dependent manner .
xo - bearing individuals die preferentially over other animals in the population .
xx - bearing individuals die preferentially over other animals in the population .
animals exhibit variations in response to stress stimuli compared to control animals .
any variation in the state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any variation in the progression of the progeny of an animal at any time from its fertilization to adulthood compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the structure or organization of the somatic reproductive components of the posterior segment of the male from that observed in control males .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of any portion of their anterior end  ( which typically includes the anterior sensilla ,  pharynx and all muscles that are innervated by the nerve ring )  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of any portion of their anatomy between the head and the tail compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of any portion of the most posterior region of the body compared to control .
any variation in the set of interactions occurring between a group of genes who depend on each other's individual functions in order to make the aggregate function of the network available to the cell ,  compared to control .
any variation in the attachment of the rigid external coating  ( which is secreted by the hypodermis ,  seam and some interfacial epithelial cells )  to the outer body of an animal compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
variations in the adhesion of the layer of cells that cover the external surface of an organism which serves to protect the animal from external environment compared to control .
animals exhibit defects in the process of shedding ,  part or all of its cuticle ,  during cuticle replacement .
the hypodermal cells ,  which lie along the lateral body wall to form longitudinal stripes of epithelial cells underlying the alae ,  are misplaced such that they are stacked along the dorsal - ventral axis rather than forming a continuous row of adjacent cells  .
the small linear ridges running along the lateral lines of the cuticle of adults are branched as opposed to having an unbiforcated arrangement ,  lengthwise along the body  ( wormatlas )  .
animals lack the anterior portion of the pharynx .
the developmental program of the animals does not continue past the first larval stage  ( l1 )  .
the developmental program of the animals does not continue past the second larval stage  ( l2 )  .
the developmental program of the animals does not continue past the third larval stage  ( l3 )  .
the developmental program of the animals does not continue past the fourth larval stage  ( l4 )  .
the intestinal lumen is expanded and can often be shown to be filled with bacteria .
intestine is shrunken and may appear constricted .
any variation in the progression of a body wall muscle cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell compared to control .
the arrangement of the principal muscle cell type whose contractile activity generates body motion in the nematode differs from that observed in control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of alpha amanitin that elicits a response in control animals .
animals are deficient in the adhesion of the cuticle to the epidermal surface of the animal .
the cell ( s )  whose principal function is to provide contractile forces ,  is separated from the adjacent epidermis .
any variation in the processes that govern the expansion of intestinal cell populations compared to control .
the descendants of a particular precursor cell exhibit variations in developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
any variation in the progression of the caudal opening of the rectum in the tail over time compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
the descendants of the m precursor cell exhibit variations in developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
variations in the progression of the epithelial chamber that links the genital and alimentary tracts to the exterior via the anus  ( cloacal opening )  over time compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
the descendants of the ab blastomere exhibit variations in developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
any variation in the progression of the cells that form a narrow passage connecting the posterior bulb of the pharynx to the anterior intestine over time compared to control .
the descendants of any of the p precursor cells exhibit variations in developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
cells exhibit variations in their response to ultraviolet radiation compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit an increase in the extent of activation of programmed cell death by exposure to the nucleic acid damaging agent ,  uv irradiation ,  compared to control .
animals display variations in the organization ,  accumulation or distribution of transmitter - containing membrane - bound organelles  ( synaptic vesicles )  compared to that observed in control animals .
any variation in the progression of the different inclusions within the intestinal cytoplasm ,  including birefringent crystalline objects and other dark - staining endosomes over time compared to control .
contents or structures of a cell are no longer restricted / localized to their typical positions within the cell .
variations in the progression of a developing oocyte ,  from diakinesis to metaphase  ( meiosis i )  ,  in response to a signal compared to control animals .
variations in the processes that negatively regulate the meiotic progression of oocytes  ( exit from diakinesis )  in the absence of a signal compared to control animals .
any variation that alters the control mechanisms that inhibit oocyte maturation and release of a mature oocyte into the spermatheca  ( for subsequent fertilization )  ,  compared to control .
obsolete .
obsolete .
obsolete .
any variation in the cellular or subcellular distribution of a gene product compared to that observed in control animals .
variations in the biogenesis and stability of protein molecules compared to control .
variations in the biogenesis and stability of any class of rna molecules  ( rrnas ,  mirnas ,  trnas etc )  compared to control .
variations in the biogenesis and stability of messenger rna molecules compared to control .
any variation in the progression of the anterior portion of the pharynx over time compared to control .
animals die in between the early and late larval stages .
animals die at the l1 stage of the life cycle .
l2 lethal: animals die at the l2 stage of the life cycle .
any change that results in higher than normal levels of protein expression compared to control animals .
any change that results in lower than normal levels of protein expression compared to control animals .
variations in the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a protein ,  compared to control .
any variation in the posttranslational modification of a protein  ( which may include cleavage of peptide bonds )  leading to the attainment of the full functional capacity of the protein compared to control .
variations that cause a decrease in the expression level of a biological catalyst ,  compared to control animals .
any variation that results in a decrease in the catalytic activity of an enzyme compared to control .
any variation that results in an increase in the catalytic activity of an enzyme compared to control .
variations in the time from pronuclei meeting to furrow initiation during the first cell division compared to control animals .
characteristic exit from the dauer stage is altered compared to control animals .
animals are more likely to form dauers at temperatures that do not induce dauer entry in control animals .
animals do not enter dauer at a temperature that induces dauer formation in control animals .
animals enter the dauer stage when exposed to lower concentrations or shorter exposure times of chemicals that induce dauer formation compared to that observed in control animals .
animals do not enter dauer when exposed to chemicals that induce dauer formation in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the entry into the dauer stage when exposed to concentrations of chemicals that induce dauer formation in control animals .
the levels of an enzyme involved in the manufacture of lipids are decreased compared to control animals .
animals exhibit a decrease in the intensity of expression of a gene product compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit an increase in the intensity of expression of a gene product compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit elevated levels of messenger rna compared to control .
animals exhibit decreased levels of messenger rna compared to control .
the constituent parts or ratio of elements that make up lipids are altered when compared to that of control animals .
animals exhibit variations in survival when exposed to stress stimuli that induce lethality in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in cessation of development when exposed to stress stimuli that induce developmental arrest in control animals .
animal populations exhibit a further decrease in survival when exposed to stress stimuli compared to the lethality rate observed in control animals .
variations in the activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
animals exhibit variations in their response to ultraviolet radiation compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit an increase in the extent of activation of programmed cell death by exposure to a pathogen or pathogenic cue ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the time of onset or duration of the fertile period ,  or production of new individuals that contain some portion of their genetic material inherited from that organism compared to control .
animals do not respond to changes in temperature or thermal stress in the same manner as control animals .
any variation in the state or activity of an organism as a result of deprivation of nourishment ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the entry into the dauer stage when exposed to nutrient poor conditions that induce dauer formation in control animals .
animals are more likely to form dauers under nutrient conditions that do not induce dauer entry in control animals .
animals do not enter dauer under nutrient - poor conditions that induce dauer formation in control animals .
embryos generate an excess number of anterior derived pharyngeal cells .
one - cell embryos do not form the shallow groove in the cell surface near the old metaphase plate at the onset of cytokinesis .
initiation ,  strength ,  extent or cessation of body wall muscle activity that results in the shortening of the muscle ,  is aberrant compared to control animals .
the characteristic number of offspring produced is lower compared to that of control animals .
contents or structures of the cell are oriented on the opposite side of the cell compared to control animals ;  in c . elegans ,  this can result in the fate pattern of descendants being flipped .
any variation in the time interval between successive contractions of the body wall muscles during the defecation motor program compared to cantrol .
animals exhibit variations in the sustained posterior body muscle contractions that precede the remaining contractions of the defecation cycle compared to control animals .
obsolete .
obsolete: animals exhibit variations in the entry / exit into a state of arrested tissue development during the dauer larval stage in response to harsh environmental conditions ,  compared to control .
embryos do not form a defined shallow groove in the cell surface near the old metaphase plate at the onset of cytokinesis .
any variation in the rotation of centrosomes and associated pronuclei in one - cell embryo ,  occurring as a transition between pronuclear migration and pronuclear fusion compared to control .
larva show deficiencies in chroma resulting in increased translucency .
larva appear unusually transparent when compared to control .
animals exhibit a reduced girth compared to a control animal of the same developmental stage .
variations in the ability of two or more individual cells to form a syncytium  ( a mass of cytoplasm containing several nuclei enclosed within a single plasma membrane )  via the fusion of the plasma membranes .
variations in the ability of seam cells to fuse to form a continuous syncytium along the body wall late larval development ,   ( separate from the hyp 7 syncytium )  ,  compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
seam cells fuse to form a continuous syncytium along the body wall at an earlier stage of development compared to control .
variations in the regulated release of proteins needed for alae formation by epidermal seam cells compared to control .
cells leave the m phase  ( mitosis and cytokinesis )  at an earlier time than sister or other control cells .
formation of alae occurs earlier in development compared to control animals ;  in c . elegans ,  adult lateral alae are typically generated during the late l4 stage .
any aberrancy in the processes that govern expansion of cell populations compared to control animals .
the processes governing the expansion of cell populations are altered compared to control animals ,  such that cell populations are increased .
the processes governing the expansion of cell populations are altered compared to control animals ,  such that cell populations are decreased .
any variation in the progression of the layer of connective tissue over the surface of tissues that serves to separate it from neighboring tissues ,  from its formation to its mature structure compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
excessive and often uncoordinated body wall muscle contraction leading to shortening of the body .
any variation in the specific actions or reactions of an animal after completion of feeding ,  typically after a fast ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
any variation that results in a decrease of acetylcholine esterase levels ,  compared to control .
cells are observed to undergo a dramatic decrease in cell volume ,  collapse of the vacuoles ,  and complete disintegration of the plasma membrane and most organelles .
cells specialized for receiving ,  conducting and transmitting impulses in the nervous system are observed to undergo a dramatic decrease in cell volume ,  collapse of the vacuoles and processes ,  and complete disintegration of the plasma membrane and most organelles .
animals display variations in the structure ,  organization of components ,  or spatial pattern of the projection that conducts signal away from the cell body ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
animals display variations in the directed path taken by the axon compared to the path the nerve fiber follows in the nervous system in control animals .
any perturbation that causes a decrease in the frequency of cell death by apoptosis compared to control animals .
any perturbation that causes an elevation in the frequency of cell death by apoptosis compared to control animals .
cells do not undergo the form of programmed cell death characterized by rounding - up of the cell ,  retraction of pseudopodes ,  reduction of cellular volume  ( pyknosis )  ,  chromatin condensation ,  nuclear fragmentation  ( karyorrhexis )  ,  classically little or no ultrastructural modifications of cytoplasmic organelles ,  plasma membrane blebbing  ( but maintenance of its integrity until the final stages of the process )  and engulfment by resident phagocytes .
animals exhibit a decreased pace of the programmed cell death pathway ,  compared to that observed for control cells .
any aberrancy in the processes that influence the generation and maturation of oocytes compared to control animals .
the overall structure or appearance of fertilized oocytes that are laid has every part of their surface equidistant from the center .
any variation in the 'arm - like' form ,  structure or composition of the specialized tissue of the reproductive tract that produces gametes compared to control .
hypodermal cells fail to be organized in the same manner as observed in control animals .
animals fail to exit from the facultative diapause of the dauer larval stage of nematode development .
animals exhibit variations in their response to a situation when there is too high a density of nematodes to be supported by the available amount of food and space compared to that observed in control animals  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation that results in the misregulation of enzymatic activity such that catalysis occurs at a constant rate regardless of physiological demand or the concentration of a substrate .
any variation within an enzyme that causes it to act antagonistically towards the wild - type enzymatic product .
variations in the placement of the polar body formed in the first division of meiosis of a primary oocyte ,  compared to control .
variations in the migration pattern of distal tip cells compared to control animals .
the morphological appearance of distal tip cells is varied compared to control animals .
variations in a cell's ability to influence the fate of another cell  ( often of different developmental potential or ancestry via short range signaling )  .
obsolete .
any variation in the progression of the finger - like sensory sensilla that project from the tail and embed in the male fan from its formation to the mature structure when compared to control animals .
variations in the progression of structures / tissues surrounding a cell over time from its initial formation to its mature form compared to control .
any variation in the progression of the formation of the rigid external coating  ( which is secreted by the hypodermis ,  seam and some interfacial epithelial cells )  over time compared to control animals  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation in the small linear ridges running along the lateral lines of the cuticle ,  lengthwise along the body compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
animals exhibit variations in the characteristic desensitization to a volatile organic chemo - attractive signal in a time - concentration dependent and reversible manner compared to control animals .
variations in the anterior body muscle contraction  ( aboc )  step of the defecation cycle compared to control animals .
any variation in the expulsion of gut contents compared to control .
a non - sex chromosome fails to segregate away from its homologous chromosome ,  resulting in gametes with no or extra copies of the non - sex homolog .
any variation in the stereotyped sequence of muscle contractions that result in defecation over a fixed time period compared to control  .
the mean time between the onset of the defecation motor program is greater than that observed for control animals .
the mean time between the onset of the defecation motor program is shorter than that observed for control animals .
any variation in the stereotyped muscle contractions that result in defecation compared to control  .
the rhythmic contractions of the muscles coordinating the elimination of gut contents are no longer synchronized compared to control .
animals contain body regions that are more narrow or drawn together than adjacent body regions .
variations in the progression of a zygote from formation  ( gamete fusion )  to just prior to the first cell division compared to control .
animals respond to alpha amanitin at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals lack all germline progenitor cells ,  thereby resulting in the complete absence of a germline .
any variation in the processes that govern acquisition of particular cell fates compared to control animals .
the time in which a muscle contraction event that controls feeding is increased compared to control .
an excess number of vulval precursor cells receive an inductive signal leading to an increased number of vpcs adopting vulval fates compared to control animals .
vulval precursor cells receive a decrease in inductive signal leading to fewer vpcs adopting vulval fates compared to control animals .
any aberrancy in the processes that govern acquisition of vulval cell fates compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any chemical reaction or pathway involving neurotransmitters compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any chemical reaction or pathway involving serotonin  ( 5 - hydroxytryptamine )  ,  a monoamine neurotransmitter ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in any chemical reaction or pathway involving acetylcholine ,  compared to control .
animals do not contain or are unable to maintain a perceivable level of serotonin capable of initiating or maintaining serotonin - dependent cell activity .
animals are unable to carry out the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of serotonin .
animals are unable to carry out any chemical reaction or pathway resulting in the breakdown of serotonin  ( 5 - hydroxytryptamine )  ,  a monoamine neurotransmitter .
the inability of a male to properly turn during mating behavior .
animals accumulate a greater number of genetic lesions than control animals in the absence of an externally controlled mutagen .
animals are shorter and thinner than control animals at the same developmental stage .
the girth of the region posterior to the vulva is reduced compared to that anterior to the vulva  ( the wit phenotype )  .
animals exhibit variations in the physical dimensions of its body compared to control animals of the same developmental stage .
variation in the migration pattern of can neurons .
animals exhibit variations in any chemical reaction or pathway involving dopamine ,  a catecholamine neurotransmitter and a metabolic precursor of noradrenaline and adrenaline ,  compared to control .
animals do not contain or are unable to maintain a the level of dopamine capable of initiating or maintaining dopamine - dependent cell activity compared to control animals .
animals are unable to carry out the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of dopamine .
animals are unable to carry outany chemical reaction or pathway resulting in the breakdown of dopamine ,  a catecholamine neurotransmitter and a metabolic precursor of noradrenaline and adrenaline .
animals extend intensity of roaming and or dwelling activity compared to control animals .
animals decrease intensity or rate of roaming and or dwelling activity compared to control animals .
the descendants of a vulval precursor cell exhibit altered developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
the processes governing the expansion of blast cell populations vary ,  such that cell populations are decreased compared to control .
animals exhibit an increase in the quantity of cells that have undergone programmed cell death but have not been engulfed .
the epidermal cells of the embryo fail to elongate .
removal of cell corpses through a dedicated engulfment pathway is defective .
cells fail to complete the form of programmed cell death characterized by rounding - up of the cell ,  retraction of pseudopodes ,  reduction of cellular volume  ( pyknosis )  ,  chromatin condensation ,  nuclear fragmentation  ( karyorrhexis )  ,  classically little or no ultrastructural modifications of cytoplasmic organelles ,  plasma membrane blebbing  ( but maintenance of its integrity until the final stages of the process )  and engulfment by resident phagocytes .
variations in the movement of sex myoblasts compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variation in the time of onset of the defecation motor program significantly greater than that observed for control animals .
failure to execute the characteristic response to sodium as defined by control animals .
obsolete .
failure to execute the characteristic avoidance response to solutions of high osmotic strength as defined by control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any chemical reaction or pathway involving octopamine ,  1 -  ( p - hydroxyphenyl )  - 2 - aminoethanol ,  compared to control .
animals do not contain or are unable to maintain a perceivable level of octopamine capable of initiating or maintaining dopamine - dependent cell activity .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of caffeine that elicits a response in control animals .
animals exhibit a lack of consistency ,  regularity ,  or uniformity while traveling from one location to another .
failure to execute the characteristic response to chloride .
animals exhibit variations in the quantity ,  structure or organization of the components of the neuronal cells of the amphid and phasmid sensilla from that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the quantity ,  structure or organization of the components of the neuronal cells of the amphid sensillum ,  from that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the quantity ,  structure or organization of the components of the neuronal cells of the phasmid sensillum ,  from that observed in control animals .
variations in the regulated release of substances by a cell compared to control .
variations in the regulated release of substances by nonneuronal cells that enclose or ensheath the tips of the sensory dendrites compared to control .
the regulated release of materials by sheath cells is disrupted .
amphid sheath cells lack the ability to secrete vesicles and their contents within the amphid pocket .
animals exhibit variations in the structure or composition of the microtubule - based fibrillar bundle  ( axoneme )  that makes up the core of the middle part of the cilium  ( in a pattern of nine doublet microtubules attached to the membrane and a variable number of smaller singlet microtubules occupying the center )  .
the microbule - based fibrillar bundle in the core of the cilium is reduced in length compared to axonemes of similar cells in control animals .
failure to execute the characteristic response to camp as defined by control animals .
movement towards typically attractive volatile organic chemicals is altered as defined by control animals .
variations that disrupt stereotypical cleavage patterns  ( such as cleavage rate ,  division axes or asymmetric division )  compared to control .
any variation that causes a delay in the stereotypical cleavage event compared to control .
any variation that causes a delay in the stereotypical cleavage pattern of the p cell compared to control .
obsolete .animals display a phenotype that has not yet been assigned to a current classification .
seemingly unrelated variations that concurrently occur during early embryonic development compared to control animals .
obsolete .
the rate of the intrinsic behavioral program that serves to move fertilized eggs down the uterus ,  through the vulva ,  and out of the worm onto the substrate does not conform to the pattern observed in control animals  ( wormatlas )  .
the number of body thrashes within an aqueous environment in a given period of time are reduced compared with control worms .
animals lay eggs that are inviable .
organisms respond to uv at a lower dose or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to x - ray radiation compared to that observed in control animals .
the timing of a biological cycle that recurs with regularity is delayed compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the accumulation or expression of biochromes or any other substances that alter transparency or translucency of a particular body region .
males exhibit defects in the insertion of the male copulatory spicules into the mating partner .
the small linear ridges running along the lateral lines of the cuticle ,  lengthwise along the body ,  contain gaps as opposed to a continuous arrangement  ( wormatlas )  .
variations in the progression of the muscles of the adult male reproductive system over time form their initial formation to their mature structure compared to control .
variations in the progression of the muscles of the adult hermaphrodite reproductive system over time form their initial formation to their mature structure compared to control .
animals exhibit defects in the continuity of lumen between the vulva and uterus compared to control animals .
any defect in the process whereby a male inseminates his partner by introducing sperm into the genital tract .
the extreme ends of any of the finger - like sensory sensilla that project from the tail and embed in the male fan appear bloated or distended .
embryos fail to be organized in the same manner as observed in control animals .
obsolete .
variations in the progression of the lineages that gives rise to all germ cells ,  lying in the region adjacent to the proximal gonad  ( on the side furthest from the founder cells of the somatic gonad )  ,  over time compared to control animals .
any variation in the form ,  structure or composition of the portion of the somatic gonad which encloses the fertilized eggs after their passage through the spermatheca compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
animals lack fully specialized male gametes that are competent for fertilization .
hermaphrodites lack fully specialized female gametes that are competent for fertilization .
animals exhibit variations in the accumulation or expression of biochromes or any other substances that alter transparency / translucency of a organ system .
animals exhibit variations in the accumulation or expression of biochromes or any other substances that alter transparency / translucency of the alimentary system .
animals exhibit variations in the accumulation or expression of biochromes or any other substances that decrease the transparency / translucency of the intestine .
animals are able to survive for longer periods at temperatures above standard culture temperatures than control animals .
the elongated sclerotized structures covered by a hardened layer of cuticle in the male tail  ( which are actively everted during copulation to fasten the male copulatory fan to the vulva )  are deformed .
any of the finger - like sensory sensilla that project from the tail and embed in the male fan are joined to one another .
any of the finger - like sensory sensilla that project from the tail and embed in the male fan are shifted from their customary place .
animals exhibit variations in the quantity ,  structure or organization of the components of the sense organs comprised of ciliated sensory nerve endings enveloped by sheath and / or socket cells ,  from that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the structure or composition of the amphid sensillum cell that ensheathes the dendrite tips of channel neurons and wing cell dedritic processes ,  from that observed in control animals .
a migrating distal tip cell  ( dtc )  fails to follow the stereotypical path .
failure to execute the characteristic response to benzaldehyde as defined by control animals .
failure to execute the characteristic response to diacetyl as defined by control animals .
failure to execute the characteristic response to isoamyl alcohol as defined by control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any of a series of events in which a pheromone stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal that influences behavior in control animals .
any variation in the characteristic expression of a gene product produced by exogenous dna that has been introduced into the organism compared to control animals .
animals fail to detect a pheromone stimulus that induces dauer formation in control animals .
any variation in the processes that govern development of the dauer larva ,  a developmentally arrested ,  larval stage that is specialized for survival under harsh ,  or otherwise unfavorable ,  environmental conditions .
any variation that decreases the ability of dauer larva to tolerate the exposure to sodium dodecyl sulfate  ( a detergent )  compared to control .
neurons lack the finger - like dendritic projections ,  which are observed extending from similar cells in control animals .
obsolete .
animals are incapable of synthesizing pheromones that induce dauer formation in control animals .
developing oocytes show defects in their initial entry or progression through the meiotic pathway  ( such as failure to exit diakinesis )  .
animals are slight or meager in body size compared to control animals at the same developmental stage .
any variation with respect to perception or response to mechanical stimuli compared to control animals .
failure to execute a characteristic response when struck or stroked in the posterior region .
animals are deficient in the foraging response in which an animal quickly pulls its head away from a stimulus to the nose  ( wormatlas )  .
cells of the animals proceed through their replicative phase at a pace slower than observed for control cells .
animals have increased girth and increased length compared to control animals at the same developmental stage .
animals show a decrease in survivorship after thawing compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of any portion of the extreme anterior part of their body compared to control .
the extreme anterior part of the body appears blunted in shape .
the most anterior portion of the animal appears bloated or distended .
animals exhibit a decreased body length compared to control animals of the same developmental stage .
animals respond to arecoline at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of arecoline that elicits a response in control animals .
any defect in the muscle contractions of the extended anterior region of the pharynx lying just anterior to the isthmus and terminal bulb  ( wormatlas )  .
variations in the rhythmic contractions of the posterior pharynx  ( terminal bulb )  ,  such as timing ,  strength etc .
the rhythmic contractions of pharyngeal compartments are no longer synchronized compared to control .
defects in rhythmic pharyngeal relaxations compared to control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of sodium potassium atpase antagonists that elicits a response in control animals .
animals respond to inhibitors of sodium potassium atpase at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
the time interval of the stereotyped sequence of muscle contractions by individual pharyngeal muscles that act to draw food into the pharynx is shorter compared to that observed in control  ( wormatlas )  .
failure of muscle contractions in the corpus and isthmus to trap and transport bacteria posteriorly in the pharynx .
failure of pharyngeal contractions to trap and transport bacteria posteriorly .
variations in the rhythmic relaxations of the posterior pharynx  ( terminal bulb )  .
failure of the grinder to come to a full relaxed position between pumps compared to control .
swelling in the post anal region compared to control .
worms sporatically appear turgid or swollen as a result of an excess number of eggs being retained in the uterus .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of imipramine that elicits a response in control animals .
animals respond to imipramine at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
any variation in the form ,  structure or composition of the adult male tail including the lateral fan and rays compared to control .
obsolete .
any of the contents that comprise the epithelial chamber that links the genital and alimentary tracts to the exterior via the anus extend into the external environment through the cloacal opening .
any variation that alters the physical partitioning and separation of a vulval precursor cell into daughter cells compared to control .
adult animals exhibit variations in the accumulation or expression of biochromes or any other substances that alter its transparency / translucency compared to control animals .
any variation in the progression of the cuticle - lined sinus opening on the posterior ventral surface of the animal over time from its formation to its mature structure compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
obsolete .
a semi - paralysed body phenotype in which muscle tone is lost and the animal fails to actively control its body shape  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation in the structure or appearance of the thin cuticle specialization found at the extreme posterior end of the hermaphrodite tail compared to control .
animals fail to emerge from an egg shell .
backward movement is not coordinated as in control .
animals spend more time backing compared to control animals .
variations in the processes leading to the specialization of cell .
specialization of hsn precursor cells to mature hsn neurons occurs at an earlier stage of development compared to control .
the progression of immature germ cells to functional sperm is retarded compared to control .
animals lay inactivated oocytes .in c elegans this may be due to perturbations that eliminate spermatogenesis or result in the production of defective sperm .
animals execute supernumerary cell divisions post - hatching .
animals exhibit variations in the response to the addition of tunicamycin compared to that observed in control animals .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of ,  or within the cytoplasm of a cell is impaired .
cessation of development at an intermediate stage in embryogenesis ,  immediately following the completion of gastrulation .
any variation in the progression of the fluid - filled compartment inside the developing embryo at the onset of gastrulation over time from its formation to its mature structure compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation that delays the physical partitioning and separation of a cell into daughter cells compared to control .
the birefringent inclusions typically found in the intestinal cytoplasm accumulate extracellularly in the intestinal lumen .
variations in the ability of an embryo to maintain osmotic balance .
cessation of development that normally occurs in c . elegans 520 - 620min after the first cleavage at 20c ,  the stage between the 2 - fold and fully elongated embryo .
cessation of development during the middle stage in embryogenesis of the worm in which the embryo is slightly folded within the eggshell  ( wormatlas )  .
cessation of development that normally occurs in c . elegans 420 - 460 min after the first embryonic cleavage at 20c ,  the stage between the comma and 2 - fold embryo .
cessation of development during the final two stages in embryogenesis ,  'early pretzel' stage and 'late pretzel' stage ,  just prior to hatching .
the fertilized oocytes have a greater than standard length measured end to end compared to control .
the physical partitioning and separation of a cell into daughter cells is interupted .
animals lack the two small cells produced ,  each during one of the two meiotic cell divisions  ( wormatlas )  .
the overall structure or appearance of fertilized oocytes that are laid exhibit nonconsistent and significant deviation from that of control animals .
the time interval in which early embryonic cell divisions occur is increased compared to control .
the time interval in which late embryonic cell divisions occur is increased compared to control .
animals lack the inner space of the uterus through which the fertilized egg passes on its way out of the nematode via the vulva  ( wormatlas )  .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of the internal space of the excretory canal compared to control animals .
pharyngeal muscle contractions show less displacement than that observed in control animals .
the most anterior portion of the animal contains a v - shaped indentation .
the final step of the defecation motor program does not occur at each cycle ,  but is activated occasionally .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of serotonin reuptake inhibitors that elicit a response in control animals .
animals respond to serotonin reuptake inhibitors at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
the de novo synthesis of any lipid species is reduced compared to that observed in control animals .
variations in the cue - directed extension of an axon towards a specific target site compared to control .
animals produce an increased sperm population compared to control .
programmed cell death of germ cells caused by exposure to dna - damaging chemical agents does not occur to the same extent as it does in control animals .
the mature male gametes lack self - propelled movement .
any variation in the form ,  structure or composition of the mature male gamete ,  which merges with an oocyte to create a fertilized embryo copared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
any perturbation that renders hermaphrodite derived sperm incompetent at fertilizing an oocyte .
spermatids fail to mature into active sperm .
animals lack one or more of the stereotyped muscle contractions that result in defecation compared to control .
animals exhibit an increase in the accumulation or expression of biochromes or any other substances that fluoresce in the intestine .
characteristic movement of cells from one site to another is abolished compared to control .
any variation in the movement of a protein through a gel matrix when an electric field is applied compared to control .
animals are agametic  ( lack mature germ cells )  .
gonadal arms do not bend or curve .
animals do not respond to prodding with a fine platinum wire or similar tool compared to controls .
animals do not respond to stroking to the head or tail with a hair or similar fiber ,  but does respond to stronger mechanical stimuli such as prodding with a fine platinum wire or similar tool compared to controls .
any variation in the progression of the components of the gonad that are separate from the germline proper over time from its formation to its mature structure compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
the developmental progression of the set of precursor cells that later give rise to the somatic tissues of the gonadal tract is impaired  ( wormatlas )  .
animals lack the portion of the somatic gonad which encloses the fertilized eggs after their passage through the spermatheca  ( wormatlas )  .
lawn avoidance refers to behavior in which animals initially enter the bacterial lawn but later exit and remain near the edge of the bacteria .
any defect in the movement of sperm out of the seminal vesicle and into the vas deferens following tonic insertion of spicules into the mating partner compared to control .
the emergence of larvae from their protective egg shells is retarded compared to control animals .
the size of haploid female germ cells  ( oocytes )  are significantly larger compared to control .
animals have protrusions or bumps on their exterior which are not characteristic of control animals .
obsolete .
the process through which a dauer larva reverts to normal developmental programs is blocked .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of any of its parts at different stages of the lifecycle ,  compared to control animals .
animals lack the stereotyped sequence of muscle contractions that result in defecation over a fixed time period compared to control .
animals die as rigid ,  rod - like larva .
failure to execute the characteristic response to 1 - octanol as defined by control animals .
pharyngeal muscle is immobilized resulting in lack of pumping or lack of response to external stimulation .
the cell takes on a different identity from which it was initially committed .
animals exhibit variations in the cell death process that is morphologically characterized by a gain in cell volume  ( oncosis )  ,  swelling of organelles ,  plasma membrane rupture and subsequent loss of intracellular contents ,  compared to control .
variations in the generation of the nutrient protein produced by intestinal cells and secreted by them into the pseudocoelom ,  from which it can be shared with other tissues in the body compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
the process of physical partitioning and separation of a cell into daughter cells is abolished .
the physical partitioning and separation of an intestinal cell into daughter cells is abolished .
animals die at the l3 stage of the life cycle .
animals respond to levamisole at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of levamisole that elicits a response in control animals .
animals exhibit spasmodic muscle twitching superimposed on normal sinusoidal motion .
any variation in the contractions of the muscles in the most anterior body region of the animal compared to control .
any variation in the characteristic expression of a gene product ,  as detected by antibody staining ,  compared to control animals .
any variation that results in a decrease in the characteristic expression of a gene product ,  as detected by antibody staining ,  compared to control animals .
any variation that results in an increase in the characteristic expression of a gene product ,  as detected by antibody staining ,  compared to control animals .
animals lack the rigid external coating which is secreted by the hypodermis ,  seam and some interfacial epithelial cells  ( wormatlas )  .
adult animals lack the rigid external coating which is secreted by the hypodermis ,  seam and some interfacial epithelial cells  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation in the progression of the specialized structures of the animal which allow the successful transfer of sperm from one organism to another ,  compared to control .
any variation in the progression of the specialized structures of the male tail which allow the animal to sense the presence of the hermaphrodite ,  search her body for the vulval opening ,  grasp onto the vulva ,  and to transfer sperm over time from its formation to its mature structure compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation in the progression of the specialized structures of a hermaphrodite which allow the successful transfer of sperm from a male ,  compared to control .
animals lack the specialized structures of the male tail which allow the animal to sense the presence of the hermaphrodite ,  search her body for the vulval opening ,  grasp onto the vulva ,  and to transfer sperm  ( wormatlas )  .
variations in the processes involving the production of new dna strands compared to control .
the developmental process by which a progressive change in the state of some part of an organism specifically contributing to its ability to form offspring is impaired .
obsolete .any change in the subcellular localization of a protein .
any variation in the placement of a protein within in a cell or cellular compartment compared to control .
obsolete .
variations that result in the deceleration of the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of an integrated living unit: an anatomical structure  ( which may be a subcellular structure ,  cell ,  tissue ,  or organ )  ,  or organism over time from an initial condition to a later condition ,  compared to control .
variations that result in the acceleration of the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of an integrated living unit: an anatomical structure  ( which may be a subcellular structure ,  cell ,  tissue ,  or organ )  ,  or organism over time from an initial condition to a later condition ,  compared to control .
the structure made by the processes of the excretory canal cell is increased in size compared to control .
tails change shape and undergo retraction thereby forming a 'peloderan' or 'rounded' adult tail .
the developmental progression of a larva over time ,  from its formation to its mature structure is delayed compared to control .
any variation in the appearance of the elongated sclerotized structures covered by a hardened layer of cuticle in the male tail  ( which are actively everted during copulation to fasten the male copulatory fan to the vulva )  compared to control .
the length of the adult male tail ,  including the lateral fan and rays ,  is extended compared to control .
males generate yolk ,  the nutrient protein ,  normally produced and secreted by hermaphrodite or female intestinal cells .
animals execute extra larval molts compared to control .
variations in the progression of an animal over time from the end of larval stage to a mature adult compared to control animals .
any variation in the progression of the formation of the rigid external coating  ( which is secreted by the hypodermis ,  seam and some interfacial epithelial cells )  over time in adults compared to control animals  ( wormatlas )  .
a duplication of the developmental program that forms the adult - type rigid external coating which is secreted by the hypodermis ,  seam and some interfacial epithelial cells .
obsolete .
any irregular swelling in discrete regions of the head .
any irregular swelling in discrete regions of the tail ,  usually caused by a local defect in the normal smooth tapering of the hypodermis and / or cuticle  ( wormatlas )  .
any irregular swelling in discrete regions of the body region between the head and the tail .
the anterior end  ( which typically includes the anterior sensilla ,  pharynx and all muscles that are innervated by the nerve ring ) of the body appears distorted ,  usually due to uncharacteristic winding .
animals exhibit abrupt transitions while traveling from one location to another .
variations in characteristic response with respect to perception or transmission of a touch stimulus compared to responses in control animals .
animals show enhanced suceptibility to deprivation of nourishment ,  compared to control .
animals show enhanced tolerance to deprivation of nourishment ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in their response to any chemical substance that is used for killing pests ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to paraquat compared to that observed in control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of paraquat that elicits a response in control animals .
animals respond to paraquat at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in processes that are responsible for chemical changes compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to oxygen compared to that observed in control animals .
animals fail to respond to the high concentrations of oxygen that elicit a response in control animals .
animals respond to hyperoxic  ( high oxygen tension )  conditions after a shorter exposure time compared to control .
animals exhibit an increase in the intensity of fluorescence signals in intestinal cells with advancing age ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit a decrease in the intensity of fluorescence signals in intestinal cells with advancing age ,  compared to control .
the daughters of the q neuroblasts exhibit variation in their characteristic movements compared to control animals .
any variation in the normal anterior movement of the hsn motor neurons from their birthplace in the tail to positions near the middle of the embryo compared to control animals .
any variation in the normal posterior movement of the alm mechanosensory neurons from their birthplace  ( anterior to the v1 hypodermal cell )  to positions in between the v2 and v3 cells in the embryo compared to control animals .
animals lack the early blast cells that give rise to the gut tissue  ( wormatlas )  .
animals become increasingly sluggish / immobilized as they age .
any variation in the connection of the cell ( s )  whose principal function is to provide contractile forces with its neighboring cells or tissues compared to control .
animals fail to establish or maintain the connection between cell ( s )  whose principal function is to provide contractile forces and its neighboring cells or tissues .
the connection between cell ( s )  whose principal function is to provide contractile forces and its neighboring cells or tissues diminishes over time .
any variation in the change in direction of a wave of light after passage through the nucleolus compared to control .
variations in the ability of an animal to remain within a defined temperature .
eggs show deficiencies in chroma resulting in increased translucency .
failure to execute the characteristic response to pyrazine as defined by control animals .
any variation in the directed movement of an animal in response to chemical repellants as defined by control animals .
failure to execute the characteristic response to garlic as defined by control animals .
animals lack the different inclusions within the intestinal cytoplasm ,  including birefringent crystalline objects and other dark - staining endosomes .
the organism's size during the embryonic developmental stage is decreased compared to that observed in control .
the survival of animals in the alternative larval stage which they enter when placed under conditions of environmental stress is reduced .
animals respond to colchicine at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of colchicine that elicits a response in control animals .
animals respond to chloroquine at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of chloroquine that elicits a response in control animals .
the components of the feeding organ fail to be arranged in the same manner as control animals .
any observed morphological defects of the isthmus .
any variation in the form ,  structure or composition of the extended anterior region of the pharynx lying just anterior to the isthmus and terminal bulb compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation in the form ,  structure or composition of the first pharyngeal bulb compared to control .
cessation of development that normally occurs in c . elegans 460 - 520 min after the first cleavage at 20c ,  the stage between the 1 .5 - fold and 3 - fold embryo .
animals have finger - like sensory sensilla  ( rays )  that are present in places they are normally not found ,  when compared to the location in control animals .
males lack the specialized sensory papillae that lie along the posterior half of the body .
animals exhibit variations in their response to gamma ray radiation compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to methyl methanesulfonate compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to ethyl methanesulfonate  ( ems )  compared to that observed in control animals .
animals respond to an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
the body of the animal rotates around its long axis as the animal moves ,  causing the animal to move in a circular pattern in the left - handed direction .
the body of the animal rotates around its long axis as the animal moves ,  causing the animal to move in a circular pattern in the right - handed direction .
any variation in the multiple rounds of dna replication that take place without chromosome condensation ,  segregation or cytokinesis compared to control .
any variation in the process by which a cell nucleus is divided into two nuclei ,  with dna and other nuclear contents distributed between the daughter nuclei ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the structure or organization of any of the finger - like sensory sensilla that project from the tail and embed in the male fan compared to control animals .
the adult male tail ,  including the lateral fan and rays ,  appears bloated or distended .
animals exhibit variations in the amount of acetylcholine compared to control animals at a defined stage .
animals exhibit a decrease in the regulated breakdown of mrna transcripts in which an amino - acid codon has changed to a premature stop codon and the 3 prime end is not protected by a poly ( a )  tail .
variation in the morphological appearance or composition of the pseudopod ,  a cellular projection that facilitates motility of the spermatozoa .
the characteristic christmas - tree shaped invagination formed by the terminal vulval cells at the mid - late l4 stage is altered .
variations in the directed movement of the nucleus to a specific location within a cell compared to control .
variations in spacing or location were observed between adjacent ventral cord nuclei or between ventral cord nuclei and another nucleus used as a reference point .
obsolete .
when prodded on the head ,  worm contracts and then relaxes along its entire body without moving backwards ,  compared to a control worm which contracts its anterior end and backs away in response to prodding .
variations in any process whose specific outcome is the development and / or maintenance of the ventral nerve cord .
the longitudinal nerve cord of the midbody region ,  connecting the nerve ring and tail ganglia ,  is not arranged in the same manner as control animals .
variations in the specific actions or reactions in response to external or internal stimuli compared to that observed in control animals .
variations in the progression of an integrated living unit  ( a cell ,  tissue ,  organ or organism )  over time from an initial condition to a later condition compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for the cell ,  tissue ,  organ system or organism to carry out its normal functions and activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of any of its parts compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the accumulation or expression of biochromes or any other substances that alter transparency / translucency .
variations in the specific actions or reactions of a certain defined body area of an animal in response to external or internal stimuli compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to a specific chemical compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to bleach compared to that observed in control animals .
variations in the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli compared to that observed in control organisms .
animals exhibit variations in the accumulation or expression of biochromes or any other substances that alter transparency / translucency of a cell .
animals exhibit variations in the accumulation or expression of biochromes or any other substances that alter transparency / translucency of the organism .
variations in the progression of the overall structure or appearance of a discrete region of an animal's anatomy over time from an initial condition to a later condition compared to control animals .
any variation in the progression of a cell from when it is first formed to when it becomes a mature structure when compared to control animals .
any variation in the progression of an organismal system from its formation to the mature structure when compared to control animals .
any variation in the progression of a worm at any time from its fertilization to adulthood compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of a discrete region of their anatomy compared to control animals .
any variation in the form or composition of the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the structure or organization of any component that is part of the complement of organ tissues that comprise a specific organ system .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of any part of their anatomy compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell ,  in any physical or chemical process required for the cell to carry out its normal functions or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
obsolete .
obsolete .
variations in the progression of the anatomical structures that consist of processes of ventral cord motor neurons that send commissures to the dorsal side ,  as well as processes of certain head and tail neurons ,  over time from initial formation to mature structure compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
variations in the progression of the process extension from the muscle belly by which the muscle cells reach to the nerve cords to obtain innervation over time from initial formation to mature structure compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
axon tracts fail to complete the connection between nerve cords .
animals exhibit an increased girth compared to a control animal of the same developmental stage .
forward movement is often characterized by severe bending motions ,  more sharply angled and / or much deeper than stereotypical sinusoidal body bends of the control .
backward movement is often characterized by severe bending motions ,  more sharply angled and / or much deeper than stereotypical sinusoidal body bends of the control .
eggs are retained in the uterus at a later stage when compared with control animals .
eggs are laid at an earlier stage of development when compared with control animals .
animals exhibit morphological characteristics that are the outcome of nutrient deprivation .
progressive degeneration of muscle .
progressive degeneration of the head muscle .
progressive degeneration of muscle along the body wall .
animals exhibit variations in the rate of sharp head to tail turns compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the amount of gaba compared to control animals at a defined stage .
animals exhibit a weak and abnormal birefringency pattern in muscle fibers when examined using polarized optics .
any variation in the ability to adjust to a decline in ambient solute concentrations ,  thereby causing the body to swell and explode .
animals show variations in their decreased responsiveness after prolonged or repeated exposure to a drug compared to that in control .
animals show variations in their decreased responsiveness after prolonged or repeated exposure to dopamine compared to that in control .
animals do not exhibit decreased responsiveness after prolonged or repeated exposure to dopamine .
animals exhibit variations in their response to specific calcium channel modulators compared to that observed in control animals .
animals respond to a calcium channel modulator at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of calcium channel modulators that elicit a response in control animals .
the heads of animals fail to respond to the concentration of levamisole that elicits a response in control animals .
the bodies of animals fail to respond to the concentration of levamisole that elicits a response in control animals .
the whole body undergoes longitudinal shortening in response to head touch or tail touch  ( wormatlas )  .
muscle contractions that make up the defecation motor program are repeated before the onset of the next cycle unlike in control animals .
the body of an animal assumes a coil - like shape when it attempts to move .
a coiling body that bends ventrally .
a coiling body that bends dorsally .
animals display variations in the structure or organization of the components of the axon ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
animals display markedly swollen areas along their axons ,  which are larger than synaptic varicosities in control animals .
axons of animals contain flattened membrane - bound compartments .
axons of animals exhibit variations in the gross structure or organization of its spherical ,  membrane - bound ,  fluid - filled organelles ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
any variation in the processes that govern the extension of neuronal projections .
obsolete .
the structure made by the processes of the excretory canal cell is reduced in size compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in a physical or chemical process required for organs or tissues to carry out their normal functions or for their ability to perceive and respond to stimuli compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for the organism to carry out its normal function or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli .
variations in the chemical reactions and pathways involved in the maintenance of a steady - state at the level of the organism compared to control .
variations in the progression of a discrete axis of an animal's anatomy over time ,  compared to control animals .
variations in the progression of the overall structure or appearance of any anterior / posterior section of an animal's anatomy over time from an initial condition to a later condition compared to control animals .
variations in the specific actions or reactions of a certain body region of an animal in response to external or internal stimuli compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of a discrete axis  ( dorsal / ventral / anterior / posterior / transverse )  of their anatomy ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of any anterior / posterior section of their anatomy compared to control animals .
worms are shorter and stouter than control animals at the same developmental stage .
any variation in the process of communication across a synapse between a neuron and a target cell  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  compared to control animals .
variations in the chemical reactions and pathways involved in the maintenance of a steady - state at the level of the cell compared to control .
animals respond to bleach at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
obsolete .
obsolete .
obsolete .
animals exhibit differences in the number of cell corpses compared to controls at the same developmental life stage .
animals exhibit variations in their response to a specific metal compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to copper compared to that observed in control animals .
animals respond to copper at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
any variation in the orderly movement of a cell from one site to another .
variations in the specific actions or reactions of the head in response to external or internal stimuli compared to that observed in control animals .
activity characteristic of the body is altered compared to control .
variations in the specific actions or reactions of the tail in response to external or internal stimuli compared to that observed in control animals .
variations in the form ,  structure or composition of the series of related tissues lying within the body cavity and devoted to feeding and digestion compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
any variations in the form ,  structure or composition of a set of interacting or interdependent entities forming the coelomic system ,  compared to control .
variations in the form ,  composition or structure of the epithelial system that serves to protect the organism from the external environment compared to control .
variations in the form ,  structure or composition of related tissues that allow the animal to secrete saline fluid and maintain a proper salt balance compared to control .
obsolete .
any variations in the form ,  structure or composition of a set of interacting or interdependent entities forming the muscle system ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the structure or organization of any component that is part of the complement of organ tissues that serve to detect ,  relay and coordinate information about an animal's internal and external environments and to initiate and integrate its effector responses and activities ,  compared to that in control animals .
any variations in the form ,  structure or composition of a set of interacting or interdependent entities forming the reproductive system ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for cells as a collective unit of the alimentary system to carry out their normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for cells as a collective unit of the coelomic system to carry out their normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for cells as a collective unit of the epithelial system to carry out their normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for cells as a collective unit of the excretory / secretory system to carry out their normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for cells as a collective unit of the secretory system to carry out their normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for cells as a collective unit of the muscle system to carry out their normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for cells as a collective unit of the nervous system to carry out their normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for cells as a collective unit of the reproductive system to carry out their normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
any variation in the progression of the glr accessory cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the structure or organization of the microtubule - based dendritic projections extending from the cell body ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
animals display variations in the appearance of the subcellular junctional structure composed of a presynaptic terminal directly opposite the post - synaptic target and separated by a synaptic cleft .
any variation in the progression of the alimentary system over time ,  from its formation to its mature state compared to control .
any variation in the progression of the coelomic system over time ,  from its formation to its mature state compared to control .
any variation in the progression of the epithelial system over time ,  from its formation to its mature state compared to control .
any variation in the progression of the excretory secretory system over time ,  from its formation to its mature state compared to control .
variations in the progression of the excretory system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any variation in the progression of the muscle system over time ,  from its formation to its mature state compared to control .
any variation in the progression of nervous tissue over time ,  from its formation to its mature state compared to control .
any variation in the progression of the reproductive system over time ,  from its formation to its mature state compared to control .
any variation in the biosynthesis of a synapse compared to control .
any variation in the decrease in a behavioral response to a repeated stimulus compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in their response to a specific anesthetic compared to that observed in control animals .
early embryos exhibit defects in the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle ,  the array of microtubules and associated molecules that serves to move duplicated chromosomes apart .
any variation that causes an increase in the frequency of neurite  ( axon or dendrite )  outgrowth .
failure to execute the characteristic response to the bitter tastant quinine ,  as defined by control animals .
any variation in the characteristic response ( s )  to drug ( s )  as defined by control animals .
the ability of axons to converge and form a bundle of nerve fibres  ( fascicle )  is compromised .
animals display variations in the number or pattern of axonal tracts stemming from the neuron cell body ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
any variation in the contraction and relaxation movements of the pharyngeal muscle that mediate feeding in nematodes compared to control .
any variation in the directed movement of an animal in response to chemical attractants as defined by control animals .
any variation in the ability of neurons to undergo a dramatic decrease in cell volume ,  collapse of the vacuoles and processes ,  and complete disintegration of the plasma membrane and most organelles under conditions that ellicit this response in control animals .
characteristic entry into the dauer stage is altered compared to control animals .
animals exhibit defects in the process of periodic shedding ,  of part or all of its cuticle ,  during cuticle replacement that punctuates each larval stage .
animals exhibit variations in the entry into the dauer stage when exposed to temperatures that induce dauer formation in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the stage of eggs laid ,  egg laying cycle ,  number of eggs or egg laying in response to stimuli compared to control .
any variation in the degree of movement compared to control animals .
worms move forward or backward with an increased rate of body bends per minute compared to control animals .
animals exhibit deviations in self - propelled movement on a solid medium compared to control animals .
animals do not move and are not responsive to external mechanical stimulation .
the body of the animal rotates around its long axis as the animal moves ,  causing the animal to move in a circular pattern .
animals move more slowly compared with control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any processes that lead to the successful transfer of sperm from one organism to another .
any variation in the specific actions or reactions of the male that are associated with reproduction compared to control .
any variation in the male's ability to locate his partner's vulva when backing along the ventral side of the partner during mating compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the processes involved in eliminating gut contents compared to control animals .
animals exhibit delayed or infrequent passage and / or expulsion of fecal matter .
variations in the progression of a set of interacting or interdependent entities forming the sensory system over time from an initial condition to a later condition compared to control animals .
variations in the progression of a set of interacting or interdependent entities forming the mechanosensory system over time from an initial condition to a later condition compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the fusion of intracellular neurotransmitter - filled membrane - bound vesicles with the pre - synaptic membrane of the neuronal cell compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the process of gaba neurotransmitter - based communication from a neuron to a target cell across a synapse compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the process of acetylcholine neurotransmitter - based communication from a neuron to a target cell across a synapse compared to control .
any variation in the process of information transfer between two neurons ;  usually in reference to chemical synapses ,  but can also be used to refer to electrical synapses compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation in the process of communication across a synapse between a neuron and a target muscle cell compared to control animals .
behavior associated with the intake of food is altered compared to control .
worms are found in clumps and / or crowded at the border of the bacterial lawn more frequently than control animals .
animals disperse across a bacterial lawn and feed alone .
variations in the behavior by which an organism locates food compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the avoidance response to solutions of a particular osmotic strength compared to control .
the maximum ventral and dorsal flex of the animal is greater than that observed for control animals .
any variation that disrupts the connectivity between the somatic gonad and the adjoining tissues compared to control .
any variation that disrupts the release of a mature oocyte into the spermatheca  ( for subsequent fertilization )  ,  compared to control .
the specialized tissue of the reproductive tract that produces gamete is shifted from its customary place as defined by control .
any variation that results in the presence of mature oocytes with distended polyploid nuclei .
variations in the progression of the muscles of the adult reproductive system over time form their initial formation to their mature structure compared to control .
any variation in the processes that influence the generation and maturation of spermatozoa  ( motile sperm )  compared to control .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of copper that elicits a response in control animals .
animals display variations in the distribution of transmitter - filled vesicles in relation to the electron - dense membrane specialization of the neuron , compared to that observed in control animals .
the number of offspring produced is altered compared to that of control animals .
the developmental progression of an animal ,  from its formation to its mature structure occurs over a longer time period compared to control .
animals die after fusion of gametes without dividing .
the increase in size or mass of an organism over time during the lifespan of the organism or over any developmental stage ( s )  is not similar to that observed for control animals .
animals fail to receive ,  process or recognize a sensory chemical stimulus in the same manner as control animals .
obsolete .
any variation in the subcellular localization of a gene product produced by dna coded for by exogenous genetic material that has been introduced into the organism compared to its expression in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to aldicarb compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to dmpp compared to that observed in control animals .
hermaphrodites are transformed into fertile females ;  in c . elegans ,  xo fog animals are somatically male but produce oocytes instead of ,  or in addition to ,  sperm .
the germ line is sexually transformed from hermaphrodite to male .
germ cell populations are reduced compared to control animals .
any variation that causes a reduction in growth rate during larval stages compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in their response ionizing radiation compared to that observed in control animals .
both hermaphrodites and males develop into fertile females .
animals generate defective gametes ,  are otherwise unable to reproduce or they generate progeny that are unable to reproduce .
animals produce no or very few embryos as a result of experimental treatment .
variations in the gross movement of the whole structure of the gonad along the body wall ,  behind the gonadal leader cell and away from the developing vulva compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
variations in the progression of the organ that produces gametes over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure compared to control .
x0 animals fail to generate viable cross - progeny .
any perturbation that renders male derived sperm ineffective at fertilizing an oocyte .
hermaphrodites fail to generate viable self - progeny and / or cross - progeny .
animals exhibit variations in the gross structure or organization of the reproductive organ required for depositing eggs and for influencing male mating behavior compared to control .
the eversion process ,  in which the vulval invagination is turned inside out during the final molt ,  is disrupted .
animals undergo incomplete vulval morphogenesis ,  resulting in the formation of a single protrusion at the site of the vulva .
no vulval tissue is produced .
variations in the progression of the egg - laying organ of female and hermaphrodite nematodes over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure compared to control .
multiple vulva - like protrusions are present along the ventral side of the animal .
any variation in the progression of the epithelia over time ,  from its formation to its mature state compared to control .
any perturbation that renders epithelial cells incompetent at undergoing membrane fusion during development .
variations in the form ,  composition or structure of the layer of cells that cover the external surface of an organism and form the inner lining between the tissues and organs of that organism and the external environment compared to control .
variations in the form or composition of structures made by the processes of the excretory canal cell compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation in the progression of an intestinal cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell compared to control .
animals lack birefringent containing compartments in embryonic intestinal cells ;  however ,  these compartments appear in adult stages .
variations in the progression of the pharynx  ( feeding organ )  over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure compared to control .
variations in the progression of the intestine over time from its initial formation to its mature structure compared to control .
variations in the form or composition of the mouthparts at the anterior end of the digestive tract which contain a series of radial muscles ,  related neurons and epithelial cells ,  and several gland cells which may aid in digestion compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of the chain of cuboidal cells which form a central lumen lined by microvilli that allow the passage of food ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit increased sensitivity to the effects of ion producing radiation compared to control animals .
germ cells exhibit variations in their response to ionizing radiation compared to that observed in control animals .
obsolete .
obsolete .
animals exhibit a greater number of embryonic muscle cells compared to control .
any variation in the connection of a cell whose principal function is to provide contractile forces with its neighboring cells or tissues compared to control .
variations in the processes that convert a gene's sequence into a mature gene product or products  ( proteins or rna )  ,  compared to control .
variations in the process of normalizing the expression level of x - linked genes between xx and xo animals compared to control .
obsolete .
obsolete .
obsolete .
animals exhibit variations in the appearance of nucleoli compared to control animals .
obsolete .
variations in the regulated release of proteins from a cell or group of cells compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in any process that involves the maintenance ,  biosynthesis or accumulation of an internal store of lipid within the organism or cell compared to control .
any variation of the specific binding of a molecule to its partner ,  which typically results in a change in cell activity ,  compared to control .
any variation in the function of naturally occurring macromolecular substances known as enzymes compared to control .
variations in the process of secretion by a cell that results in the release of intracellular molecules  ( e .g .
animals exhibit variations in any of the processes that lead to the termination of vital functions of a cell .
animals exhibit variations in any processes that influence the programmed cell death pathway .
germ cells exhibit increased sensitivity to the effects of ion producing radiation compared to control animals .
variations in any process that involves the maintenance ,  biosynthesis or accumulation of dna in the organism compared to control .
any variation in the catalysis of a biochemical reaction compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for cells as a collective unit of the hypodermal system to carry out their normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
any variation in the regulated re - replication of dna in the hypodermal cells during a single cell cycle ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the process by which their cells digest parts of their own cytoplasm ,  compared to control .
germ cells fail to respond to the dosage of ion producing radiation that elicits a response in control animals .
the response to a change in the environment is altered compared to control .
variations in the activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
cells of the animals exhibit variations in the initiation ,  progression or exit from the biochemical and morphological processes that occur during successive replication or nuclear replication events from that observed for control animals .
mitotic cells exhibit variations in the execution of cell - cycle arrest in response to dna damage .
variations in the process by which a new genotype is formed by reassortment of genes resulting in gene combinations different from those that were present in the parents ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in their response to gene silencing triggered by double stranded rna  ( rnai )  ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the silencing of endogenous genes after introduction of repetitive exogenous cognate dna compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the activity of endogenous transposons compared to control .
any variation that alters the physical partitioning and separation of a cell into daughter cells compared to control .
any defects in the muscle contractions that control feeding .
symmetric  ( par - like )  divisions or excessive posterior displacement  ( zyg - 8 like phenotypes )  .
variations in the progression of an embryo over time ,  from zygote formation to hatching compared to control .
variations in the progression of a larva over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure compared to control .
variations in the progression of a newly hatched animal through the first larval molt compared to control .
variations in the progression of the second larval stage compared to control .
variations in the progression of the third larval stage compared to control .
variations in the progression of the fourth larval stage compared to control .
animals exhibit defects in the process of shedding ,  part or all of its cuticle ,  during cuticle replacement that punctuates l1 to l2 transition .
animals exhibit defects in the process of shedding ,  part or all of its cuticle ,  during cuticle replacement that punctuates l2 to l3 transition .
animals exhibit defects in the process of shedding ,  part or all of its cuticle ,  during cuticle replacement that punctuates l3 to l4 transition .
animals exhibit defects in the process of shedding ,  part or all of its cuticle ,  during cuticle replacement that punctuates l4 to adult transition .
early embryos exhibit defects in the assembly ,  disassembly ,  arrangement ,  elongation or stabilization of the microtubules and associated molecules that form between opposite poles of a eukaryotic cell during a cell cycle .
the alignment of the spindle relative to other cellular structures in the cells of an embryo varies from that observed in control animals .
early embryos exhibit defects in the placement or the alignment of the array of microtubules and associated molecules that form between opposite poles of a eukaryotic cell during mitosis or meiosis .
early embryos exhibit defects in the placement of the array of microtubules and associated molecules that form between opposite poles of a eukaryotic cell during mitosis or meiosis .
animals exhibit deviations at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell ,  in any physical or chemical process required for an embryonic cell to carry out its normal function and activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli .
variations in the processes that are carried out at in the embryo which results in its formation or the arrangement of constituent parts ,  compared to control .
the embryos exhibit defects in the cell cycle process whereby the distance is lengthened between poles of the spindle .
any variation in the rotation of the centrosome - pronuclear complex after its migration toward the center of the embryo ,  compared to control .
sparse or enlarged yolk granules .
areas devoid of yolk granules throughout the embryo .
embryos exhibit defects in the form ,  structure or composition of any cellular contents  ( excluding plasma membrane and nucleus )  ,  compared to control embryos .
animals exhibit variations in the appearance of embryonic cells compared to control .
centrosomes detach from the male pronucleus .
daughter nuclei are deformed and stay close to central cortex ,  cytokinesis defects .
any variation in the processes that regulate the apportionment of chromosomes to each of two daughter cells compared to control .
any variation in the processes that govern the generation and maintenance of gametes compared to control .
variations in the specialized nuclear and cytoplasmic divisions of a single diploid cell ,  whose specific outcome is the formation of four haploid daughter cells compared to control .
male and female pns not visible ;  embryo often fills egg shell completely .
unextruded or resorbed polar body ( ies )  leading to an extra pns in p0 and / or extra karyomeres in ab / p1 .
animals are unable to ingest nutrients at a rate similar to control animals .
cessation of development during the final stages of embryogenesis .
animals rotate back and forth around their longitudinal axes .
any variation in the extremely thin elongated cytoplasmic filament ,  usually composed principally of actin protein to form a myofilament lattice ,  as in muscle cells compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of a robust elongated cytoplasmic filament composed principally of myosin protein compared to control animals .
animals lack the planar structure within the muscle sarcomere which lies midway within the thick filament  ( a )  band ,  attaching to the plasma membrane at its base and running up towards the inward surface of the myofilament lattice ,  compared to control animals  ( wormatlas )  .
males exhibit variations in the time of onset or duration of the fertile period owing to differences in sperm competence and / or function compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the accumulation or expression of biochromes or any other substances that alter transparency / translucency of a particular body part compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the accumulation or expression of biochromes or any other substances that alter transparency / translucency along a particular body axis compared to control .
animals have decreased accumulation or expression of biochromes or any other substances that causes increased translucency of the posterior body axis compared to control .
animals have decreased accumulation or expression of biochromes or any other substances that causes increased translucency of the anterior body axis compared to control .
animals respond to fluoxetine at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of fluoxetine that elicits a response in control animals .
the nose of an animal fails to respond to the concentration of fluoxetine that elicits a response in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of the anatomy contained in the anterior region ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of the anatomy contained in the posterior region ,  compared to control animals .
the posterior part of the worm exhibits a reduced girth compared to a control animal of the same developmental stage .
variations in the specific actions or reactions of one of the longitudinal axes of the extended body of the worm in response to external or internal stimuli compared to that observed in control animals  ( wormatlas )  .
the movement of the posterior part of the worm is not coordinated with the rest of the body .
variations in the specific actions or reactions of the longitudinal axis that spans from the midpoint to the tip of the tail of an animal in response to external or internal stimuli compared to that observed in control animals  ( wormatlas )  .
variations in the specific actions or reactions of the longitudinal axis that spans from the midpoint to the tip of the head of an animal in response to external or internal stimuli compared to that observed in control animals  ( wormatlas )  .
variations in the progression of an animal's anatomy contained in the anterior region over time ,  compared to control animals .
variations in the progression of an animal's anatomy contained in the posterior region over time ,  compared to control animals .
variations in the progression of an animal's anatomy contained in the ventral region over time ,  compared to control animals .
variations in the progression of an animal's anatomy contained in the dorsal region over time ,  compared to control animals .
variations in the progression of the anterior end of the animal over time from an initial condition to a later condition compared to control animals .
variations in the progression of the overall structure or appearance of the animal over time from an initial condition to a later condition compared to control animals .
any variation in the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the tail over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure ,  compared to control .
hermaphrodites exhibit variations in the time of onset or duration of the fertile period ,  or variations in the production of viable offspring ,  including number and state of fertilized eggs laid ,  compared to controls .
the descendants of the g1 or g2 exhibit altered developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
the descendants of the k precursor cell exhibit altered developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
the descendants of a male specific precursor cell exhibit altered developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
any variation in the progression of a blast cell  ( precursor cell )  over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell compared to control .
any variation in the progression of an epithelial cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell compared to control .
variations in the progression of the immature germ cell over time ,  from its formation from precursors to the mature structure  ( gamete )  compared to control .
any variation in the progression of a gland cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell compared to control .
any variation in the progression of a marginal cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell compared to control .
any variation in the progression of a muscle cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell compared to control .
variations in the progression of a neuron over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell compared to control .
variations in the progression of the epithelial cells that form the interface between the uterus and the vulva  ( likely via a multilayered set of flaps )  over time from an initial condition to a later condition compared to control animals  ( wormatlas )  .
activity characteristic of an adult worm is altered compared to control .
behavior characteristic of postembryonic stage ( s )  is altered compared to control .
activity characteristic of an embryo is altered compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in sex - specific behaviors compared to control .
any variation in the processes that govern the sexually dimorphic development of germline or somatic tissue compared to control .
nuclear divisions in the germ line are either expanded are reduced compared to control .
the descendants of an embryonic precursor cell exhibit altered developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
the descendants of a postembryonic precursor cell exhibit altered developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
the descendants of h1 or h2 cells exhibit altered developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
the descendants of any of the v precursor cells  ( v1 - v6 )  exhibit altered developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
the descendants of tl or tr cells exhibit altered developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
the descendants of q l or qr cells exhibit altered developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
the descendants of the b cell  ( which divides only in the males )  exhibit altered developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
the descendants of the y cell  ( which divides only in the males )  exhibit altered developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
the descendants of the c blastomere exhibit altered developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
the descendants of the u cell  ( which divides only in the males )  exhibit altered developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
the descendants of the e blastomere exhibit altered developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
the descendants of the f cell  ( which divides only in the males )  exhibit altered developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
the descendants of a gonadal precursor cell exhibit altered developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
the descendants of a gonadal precursor cell exhibit altered developmental programs in the hermaphrodite compared to their counterparts in control animals .
the descendants of a gonadal precursor cell exhibit altered developmental programs in the male compared to their counterparts in control animals .
z1 descendants exhibit altered developmental programs in the hermaphrodite compared to their counterparts in control animals .
z4 descendants exhibit altered developmental programs in the hermaphrodite compared to their counterparts in control animals .
z1 descendents exhibit altered developmental programs in the male compared to their counterparts in control animals .
z4 descendants exhibit altered developmental programs in the male compared to their counterparts in control animals .
the number of cross progeny sired by males is reduced compared to control .
pharyngeal pumping is not influenced by serotonin treatment in the same manner as control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the response to the addition of levamisole compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process in the region of the vesicle - filled varicosities of the synapse compared to control .
animals display variations in the distribution of the constituents that make up the synaptic machinery such as those required for priming ,  docking or fusion of vesicles at the active zone ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
the developmental progression of an animal over time ,  from its formation to its mature structure is delayed compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for an amphid to carry out its normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
animal does not respond to stroking in the anterior body region with a hair or similar fiber compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for the ciliated neuron to carry out its normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
variations in the progression of a free - floating spherical cell lying in the pseudocoelomic cavity of animals that can endocytose many compounds ,  possibly for immune surveillance ,  over time from an initial condition to a later condition compared to control animals .
variations in the bidirectional movement of large protein complexes  ( mediated by motor proteins )  along microtubules within a cilium or flagellum ,  compared to control .
bidirectional movement of large protein complexes  ( mediated by motor proteins )  along microtubules within a cilium or flagellum is disrupted .
variations in the progression of the fluid - filled space which separates the body wall from internal organs over time from its initial formation to its mature form compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation in the progression of a gland cell of the secretory - excretory system over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell compared to control .
variations in the progression of a protokidney cell with an internal lumen that is suggested to collect and secrete salt solutions outward via the excretory sinus ,  over time from an initial condition to a later condition compared to control animals .
variations in the progression of an interfacial epithelial cell which forms a lumen to receive the outflow of the excretory gland and excretory canal cells ,  over time from an initial condition to a later condition compared to control animals .
variations in the progression of an interfacial epithelial cell which links excretory duct to hypodermis ,  over time from an initial condition to a later condition compared to control animals .
variations in the progression of muscle cells that lack transverse striations in its constituent fibers and are almost always involuntary ,  over time from an initial condition to a later condition compared to control animals .
any variation in the progression of the principal muscle cell type whose contractile activity generates body motion in the nematode over time compared to control .
worms appears turgid or swollen as a result of an excess number of eggs being retained in the uterus .
males exhibit a reduction in the production of new individuals owing to defects in sperm competence and / or function compared to control animals .
cessation of development during the initial period of elongation .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for a amphid sheath cell to carry out its normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
germ cells fail to undergo meiotic differentiation to form mature gametes .
cessation of development during any stage occurring after fertilization and until hatching compared to control .
all parts of the animal are immobilized except for the head .
obsolete .
obsolete .
obsolete .
obsolete .
mitotic cells exhibit variations during the passage through a cell cycle control point late in the g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle just before entry into s phase ,  compared to control cells .
mitotic cells exhibit variations during the passage through a cell cycle control point late in the g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle just before entry into m phase ,  nuclear division ,  compared to control cells .
mitotic cells exhibit variations during the passage through a cell cycle control point late in the s phase of the mitotic cell cycle ,  which ensures dna replication is complete ,  compared to control cells .
animals exhibit variations in their response to osmotic stress compared to that observed in control animals .
any variation in the progression of a sheath cell of the amphid sensillum over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell compared to control .
any variation in the progression of a chemosensory neuron over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the processes that are required to maintain the length of telomeric dna from generation to generation compared to control .
any variation in the processes that influence the generation of neuronal extensions ,  that carry efferent  ( outgoing )  action potentials from the cell body towards target cells compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the placement of the microtuble - based dendritic projections in relation to the sensillum neuron ,  from that observed in control animals .
any variation in the processes that influence the generation of neuronal extensions ,  that carry afferent  ( incoming )  action potentials towards the cell body compared to control .
variations in the progression of the major zone of overlapping axons in the head ,  which encircles the isthmus of the pharynx to form a tightly packed ring - like structure on the outside of the pharynx ,  over time from an initial condition to a later condition compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the structure or organization of either of a set of two ciliated wing neurons ,  awbl or awbr ,  of the amphid sensilla ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
any variation in the removal of a cell corpse ,  by a neighboring cell or a phagocyte compared to control .
animals exhibit variations compared to a given control .
animals exhibit variations in hermaphrodite - specific behaviors compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in male - specific behaviors compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required to carry out sex - specific activities or to be able to perceive and respond to sex - specific stimuli compared to control .
larva exhibit variations in the accumulation or expression of biochromes or any other substances that alter its transparency / translucency compared to control animals .
adult animals appear unusually transparent when compared to control .
nuclear divisions in the germ line of hermaphrodites are either expanded are reduced compared to control .
nuclear divisions in the germ line of male animals are either expanded are reduced compared to control .
variations in the ability of a relatively unspecialized cell to acquire the specialized features of a mature gamete compared to control .
obsolete .
obsolete .
variations in the material made up of fibers forming a framework and support structure for body tissues and organs compared to control .
any variation in the morphological appearance of blast cells compared to control animals .
any variation in the morphological appearance of epithelial cells compared to control animals .
any variation in the morphological appearance of germ cells compared to control animals .
any variation in the morphological appearance of gland cells compared to control animals .
any variation in the morphological appearance of intestinal cells compared to control animals .
any variation in the morphological appearance of marginal cells compared to control animals .
any variation in the morphological appearance of muscle cells compared to control animals .
animals display variations in the structure or organization of components of the neuronal cell internal to the cell itself or in relation to the cellular environment compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of the epithelial cells that form the interface between the uterus and the vulva  ( likely via a multilayered set of flaps )  compared to control animals  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation in the structural appearance of the caudal opening of the rectum in the tail compared to control animals .
any variation in the structural appearance of the epithelial chamber that links the genital and alimentary tracts to the exterior via the anus  ( cloacal opening )  compared to control animals .
any variation in the structure or appearance of the cells that form a narrow passage connecting the posterior bulb of the pharynx to the anterior intestine compared to control .
any variation in the morphological appearance of the rectum compared to control animals .
any variation in the morphological appearance of coelomocytes compared to control animals .
any variation in the morphological appearance of pericellular components compared to control animals .
any variation in the morphological appearance of the basal lamina compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of a pair of large cells in the head that fuse to form a single gland whose contents are released into the excretory duct through a specialized secretory membrane ,  compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
adults show deficiencies in chroma resulting in increased translucency .
any variation in the morphological appearance of the excretory cell compared to control animals .
any variation in the morphological appearance of the excretory duct cell compared to control animals .
any variation in the morphological appearance of the excretory socket cell compared to control animals .
any variation in the progression of the region of a body wall muscle cell that contains the myofilament lattice  ( adjacent to the hypodermis )  over time ,  from its initial state to the fully differentiated state compared to control .
obsolete .
variations in the progression of muscle cells that contain fibers that are divided by transverse bands into striations ,  over time from an initial condition to a later condition compared to control animals .
any variation in the progression of somatic  ( striated )  muscles that run longitudinally in males over time from its initial formation to its mature form compared to control .
any variation in the morphological appearance of the nonstriated muscle compared to control animals .
any variation in the morphological appearance of the striated muscle compared to control animals .
any variation in the morphological appearance of the sex muscles compared to control animals .
any variation in the morphological appearance of the body wall muscle compared to control animals .
any variation in the morphological appearance of the male longitudinal muscle compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required to carry out male - specific activities or to be able to perceive and respond to male - specific stimuli compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required to carry out hermaphrodite - specific activities or to be able to perceive and respond to hermaphrodite - specific stimuli compared to control .
variations in the progression of morphogenic processes required for formation or proper placement of sex - specific structures that distinguish the animal as one sex or the other in the population ,  over time from an initial condition to a later condition compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to bisphenol a compared to that observed in control animals .
animals respond to bisphenol a at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure time compared to control animals .
the descendants of the ms blastomere exhibit any variation in developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of any of its parts during a given developmental stage compared to control animals .
the descendants of the d blastomere exhibit any variation in developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
the descendants of the p4 blastomere exhibit any variation in developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
the descendants of the w precursor cell exhibit any variation in developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
the descendants of any of the v precursor cells  ( v1 - v6 )  in male animals ,  exhibit any variation in developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
the descendants of tl or tr cells in male animals exhibit any variation in developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
the descendants of any of the p precursor cells  ( p1 - p12 )  in male animals exhibit any variation in developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
the descendants of the m precursor cell in male animals ,  exhibit any variation in developmental programs compared to their counterparts in control animals .
any variation in the progression of an accessory cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell compared to control .
any variation in the progression of a cluster of neuron cell bodies  ( somata )  over time from its initial formation to its mature form compared to control .
variations in the progression of a neuronal extension  ( such as axons or dendrites )  over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure compared to control .
any variation in the progression of a dense feltwork of interwoven cytoplasmic processes of nerve cells  ( dendrites and axons )  and support cells ,  over time from an initial condition to a later condition ,  compared to control .
variations in the progression of a set of interacting or interdependent entities forming the pharyngeal nervous system over time from an initial condition to a later condition compared to control animals .
variations in the form ,  structure or composition of the material made up of fibers forming a framework and support structure for body tissues and organs compared to control .
any variation in the appearance or structure of the rigid external coating which is secreted by the hypodermis ,  seam and some interfacial epithelial cells compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation in the appearance of the body cavity compared to control .
any variation in the progression of a neuronal sheath cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell compared to control .
any variation in the progression of a socket cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell compared to control .
any variation in the progression of a cluster of neuron somata located close to the nerve ring over time from its initial formation to its mature form compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation in the progression of the ganglion that lies dorsally beside the nerve ring in the head over time from its initial formation to its mature form compared to control .
any variation in the progression of the ganglion which lies above and behind the rectum in the tail ,  in close continuity with the anal hypodermal ridge over time from its initial formation to its mature form compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation in the progression of the left and right lateral ganglia which lie beside the nerve ring in the head over time from its initial formation to its mature form compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation in the progression of the left and right lumbar ganglia which lie behind the pre - anal ganglion in the tail ,  in lateral positions over time from its initial formation to its mature form compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation in the progression of the neuron somata associated with the post - deirid over time from its initial formation to its mature form compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation in the progression of the ganglion which lies at the posterior limit of the ventral nerve cord in the tail over time from its initial formation to its mature form compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation in the progression of the ganglion which lies at the anterior limit of the ventral nerve cord ,  near the ventral ganglion and nerve ring in the head posterior to the excretory pore over time from its initial formation to its mature form compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation in the progression of the ganglion which lies ventrally beside the nerve ring in the head ,  just anterior of the retrovesicular ganglion over time from its initial formation to its mature form compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation in the cellular or subcellular pattern of expression of a gene product produced by exogenous dna that has been introduced into the organism compared to its expression in control animals .
any variation in the measured expression of a gene product produced by exogenous dna that has been introduced into the organism compared to its expression in control animals .
males exhibit variations in the accumulation or expression of biochromes or any other substances that alter transparency / translucency of the organism compared to control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of dmpp that elicits a response in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the programmed cell death pathway that is triggered in cells other than germ cells and that is not subject to upstream checkpoint regulation .
progressive decrease in brood size culminating ,  over generations ,  in the loss of reproductive ability and thus becoming effectively sterile .
obsolete .
any variation in the structure or appearance of the thin cuticle specialization found at the extreme posterior end of the tail compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the structure ,  organization or placement of the cells that support sensory neurons ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
embryos exhibit variations in the accumulation or expression of biochromes or any other substances that alter its transparency / translucency compared to control animals  .
animals exhibit variations in the accumulation or expression of biochromes or any other substances that alter transparency / translucency of the anterior body axis compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the structure or composition of the glia - like support cell of neuronal sensilla that ensheathes the dendrite tips and or processes of neurons ,  from that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit an increased frequency of exchange of genetic material between non - sister chromatids of a pair of homologues .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required by a subset of interfacial cells to carry out its normal function or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for a neuronal sheath cell to carry out its normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
any variation in the developmental process that results in the creation of defined areas or spaces within the ventral cord to which cells respond and eventually are instructed to differentiate compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of the components of the gonad that are separate from the germline proper compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for cells as a collective unit of the spermatheca to carry out their normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit defects in any physical or chemical process involved in the dilation of the distal spermatheca which is required for the oocyte exit from the gonad arm .
any variation in the muscle contractions that control feeding compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the meiotic divisions undergone by the primary and secondary spermatocytes to produce haploid spermatids  ( non - motile sperm )  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the ability of a relatively unspecialized spermatocyte to acquire the properties of a spermatid cell compared to control .
any perturbation that disrupts the fusion of male and female gametes  ( sperm and oocyte )  during sexual reproduction .
animals exhibit variations in the accumulation or expression of biochromes or any other substances that alter transparency of the posterior body axis compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for the blast cell to carry out its normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to cues ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for the epithelial cell to carry out its normal functions or activities ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for the germ cell to carry out its normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to cues ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for the gland cell to carry out its normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to signals ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit deviations at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell ,  in any physical or chemical process required for a marginal cell to carry out its normal function and activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for the muscle cell to carry out its normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
obsolete: activity of the neuron varies from that observed for control animals or neurons .
failure to execute the characteristic response to high concentrations of sodium chloride solution .
animals fail to contract the anal depressor muscle .
any variations in the contraction of the enteric muscles that are involved in defecation motor program compared to control .
animals exhibit defects in the expulsion of gut contents .
animals tend to track and stay within low temperature environments .
animals tend to track and stay within high temperature environments .
the responses of an animal towards temperature are not influenced by its cultivation temperature .
any variation in the behavior characteristic during certain developmental stage ( s )  compared to control .
variations in the specific actions or reactions of dauer stage animals in response to external or internal stimuli compared to that observed in control animals .
variations in the specific actions or reactions of the head muscles in response to external or internal stimuli compared to that observed in control animals .
animals die at the l4 stage of the life cycle .
any variation in the relaxation of pharyngeal muscles after contraction events compared to control .
variations in the spontaneous or induced backward crawling locomotion of an animal compared to control .
the number of coordinated contraction - relaxation cycles  ( pumps )  exhibited by the pharyngeal muscle deviates from that observed for control animals .
unclassified abnormality in the inviable one -  to four - cell embryo .
variations in the progression of a set of interacting or interdependent entities forming the male nervous system over time from an initial condition to a later condition compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the accumulation or expression of biochromes or any other substances that alter transparency / translucency of a particular developmental stage of the amimal compared to control animals .
animals appear unusually transparent when compared to control .
population of unhatched eggs exhibit a complex combination of defects that do not match other class definitions .
animals exhibit variations in their response to disease causing agents ,  compared to control .
animals are more prone to infection compared to control .
animals are less prone to infection compared to control .
variations in the processes that regulate the change  ( increase )  in size or mass of an integrated living unit  ( a cell ,  tissue ,  organ or organism )  during any development stages compared to control animals .
variations in the processes that regulate the change  ( increase )  in size or mass of an integrated living unit  ( a cell ,  tissue ,  organ or organism )  during the larval stages compared to control animals .
variations in the processes that regulate the change  ( increase )  in size or mass of an integrated living unit  ( a cell ,  tissue ,  organ or organism )  during the adult stage compared to control animals .
any variation that disrupts the cytoplasmic division of a cell during embryonic development compared to control .
animals arrest during the stage between early and late larval development .
animals die during the final stages of embryogenesis .
genetically male animals exhibit deviations in the sexual program specific to males .
genetically hermaphrodite animals exhibit deviations in the sexual program specific to hermaphrodites .
animals exhibit variations in the outcome of morphogenic processes required for formation or proper placement of sex - specific structures that distinguish the animal as one sex or the other in the population ,  from that observed for control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the outcome of morphogenic processes required for formation or proper placement of sex - specific structures that distinguish the animal as a male in the population ,  from that observed for control males .
animals exhibit variations in the outcome of morphogenic processes required for formation or proper placement of sex - specific structures that distinguish the animal as a hermaphrodite in the population ,  from that observed for control hermaphrodites .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of the membrane enclosed organelle which contains most of the cell's genetic material during the early embryonic stage compared to control animals  ( wormatlas )  .
embryos show defects in the placement of the nucleus to a specific location within the cell .
the morphological appearance of nuclei differs from control animals .
animals exhibit an uneven distribution of biochromes or any other substances that cause disparate transparency / translucency compared to control animals .
any deficiency in the lipid bilayer ,  the equivalent of the nuclear envelope ,  that surrounds each pronucleus within gametes and within the early zygote after pronuclear reformation  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation in the movement / fusion of pronuclei in the fertilized oocyte compared to control .
variations in the specific actions or reactions of a larvae in response to external or internal stimuli compared to that observed in control animals .
any variation in the spatial pattern of proliferation and differentiation in the germ line compared to control .
the morphology of pronuclei and nuclei are defective in the early embryo .
the size ,  number and organization of the components of the nuclei in the early embryo deviate from control  .
any variation that compromises the reproductive ability of an f1 generation animal .
any variation that compromises the reproductive ability of the progeny of an animal .
germ cells do not exit the mitotic cycle ,  resulting in a expansion of the unspecialized germ cell population compared to control .
variations in the processes that regulate the change  ( increase )  in size or mass of an integrated living unit  ( a cell ,  tissue ,  organ or organism )  during the embryonic stage compared to control animals .
variations in the state or activity of an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
animals exhibit defects in the progression of meiosis which ultimately result in embryonic lethality .
neurons show impaired ability in the detection ,  transmission ,  coordination or their response to information about an animal's internal and external environments .
embryos do not enter or take longer to enter first interphase compared to control .
little / no cortical ruffling or pseudocleavage furrow ,  or excessive cortical activity .
pharyngeal pumping contractions are brief and occur arhythmically in response to stimulus compared to control .
any variations associated with the characteristic morphology of the pharyngeal muscle such as shape ,  birefringence etc compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the movement towards typically attractive water - soluble chemicals compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the chemosensory response to volatile organic compounds compared to control .
variations in behavior that is dependent upon the sensation of chemicals ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in any of a series of events in which an organism receives a sensory chemical stimulus ,  converts it to a molecular signal ,  and recognizes and characterizes the signal ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the characteristic movement towards typically attractive cations compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the characteristic movement towards typically attractive anions compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the characteristic movement towards cyclic nucleotides compared to control .
animals fail to exhibit the same taxis behavior as control animals in response to cgmp .
animals fail to exhibit the same taxis behavior as control animals in response to bromide .
animals fail to exhibit the same taxis behavior as control animals in response to iodide .
animals fail to exhibit the same taxis behavior as control animals in response to lithium .
animals fail to exhibit the same taxis behavior as control animals in response to potassium .
animals fail to exhibit the same taxis behavior as control animals in response to magnesium .
in c . elegans ,  this is characterized by the failure to move towards typically attractive volatile organic molecules sensed by the awc compared to control .
in c . elegans ,  this is characterized by the failure to move towards typically attractive volatile organic molecules sensed by the awa compared to control .
in c . elegans ,  movement and elongation stop nearly simultaneously soon after the twofold stage of elongation .
fluctuation pattern between inactive ,  active ,  and egg - laying states is atypical ,  based on the analysis of the distribution of the log intervals of egg - laying events compared to control .
animals display uncharacteristically long periods during which they do not lay eggs compared to control ,  usually based on the analysis of the distribution of the log intervals of egg - laying events .
fewer egg - laying events occur within the active phase of egg laying ,  based on the analysis of the distribution of the log intervals of egg - laying events ,  compared to control .
the period during which the animal is less likely to lay eggs is not typical compared with control animals ,  based on the analysis of the distribution of the log intervals of egg - laying events .
the active phase of egg - laying ,  the period during which animals are more likely to display multiple egg - laying events ,  is atypical compared with control animals ,  based on the analysis of the distribution of the log intervals of egg - laying events .
animals are not induced to lay eggs in reponse to exogenous serotonin .
more eggs are laid during the active phase compared with control animals ,  based on the analysis of the distribution of the log intervals of egg - laying events .
the period during which a worm usually does not lay eggs is short compared with control animals ,  based on the analysis of the distribution of the log intervals of egg - laying events .
activation of the active phase of egg laying is defective ,  leading to an abnormally long inactive phase ,  based on the analysis of the distribution of the log intervals of egg - laying events .
any variation in the state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
animals exhibit variations in egg - laying behavior in response to food compared to control .
the vulval muscle does not respond to serotonin in the same manner as control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for cells as a collective unit of the vulva muscle system to carry out their normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
variations in the chemical reactions and pathways involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium within the vulval muscles compared to control .
karyomeres in ab or p1 often accompanied by weak / thin wobbly spindle .
cytokinesis is abnormal in the first or second stages of cell division .
cytoplasmic movements are atypical .
excessive shaking and movements are seen in the cell membrane or cytoplasm of one - cell or two - cell embryos .
morphology of the cytoplasm differs from control animals .
abnormally large granules are observed in the cytoplasm of p0 .
multiple vesicles ,  vacuoles ,  or cavities are seen during early embryogenesis .
failure to execute characteristic response to sodium chloride compared to control .
failure to execute characteristic response to butanone compared to control .
failure to execute characteristic response to trimethylthiazole compared to control .
failure to execute characteristic response to acetone compared to control .
failure to execute characteristic response to pentanol compared to control .
failure to execute characteristic response to hexanol compared to control .
animals are not able to survive at temperatures above standard cultivation temperatures to the same extent as control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the elimination of fecal matter during the larval stage compared to control animals .
animals fail to expel fecal matter during the larval stage .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for the intestine to carry out its normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
obsolete .organismal response to nacl differs from control animals .
animals respond to sodium chloride at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
large protrusion at the normal position of the vulva ,  as seen in c . elegans lin - 12 null animals .
unspecialized male germ cells  ( spermatocytes )  prematurely acquire the specialized properties of functional sperm .
animals lack the passage connecting the posterior intestine to the rectal valve .
the extreme anterior part of the body appears distorted ,  usually due to uncharacteristic winding .
animal dies prior to the gastrulation stage of embryogenesis .
characteristic response to drugs with respect to egg - laying behavior varies compared to control .
early embryos exhibit defects in the assembly ,  disassembly ,  arrangement ,  elongation or stabilization of the microtubule spindle during a mitotic cell cycle .
early embryos lack the array of microtubules and associated molecules that form between opposite poles of a eukaryotic cell during mitosis or meiosis .
no mitotic spindle is seen in p0 .
altered p0 spindle placement causes either a symmetric first division ,  a division in which p1 is larger than ab ,  or a division in which the asymmetry is exaggerated such that ab is much larger than normal .
the orientation of the spindle is aberrant in either the ab or the p1 cell .
rotation of the embryonic spindle is aberrant .
p0 spindle fails to rotate and extends perpendicular to the long axis of the embryo .
p0 spindle rotates late in the inviable one -  to four - cell embryo .
early embryos exhibit defects in the array of microtubules emanating from a spindle pole that do not connect to kinetochores .
early embryos exhibit defects in the array of microtubules emanating from a spindle pole that do not connect to kinetochores in the ab cell .
the morphology of the ab aster resembles that of the p1 aster in the inviable one -  to four - cell embryo .
early embryos exhibit defects in the array of microtubules emanating from a spindle pole that do not connect to kinetochores in the p1 cell .
the progression of biochemical and morphological processes that occur during successive replication or nuclear replication events is disrupted during the early embryonic stage .
cell cycle timing is abnormal during the first four cell divisions .
absolute cell cycle timing during the first four cell divisions is aberrant .
cell - cell contacts are abnormal in the early embryo .
cell position is abnormal in the early embryo .
embryos take longer to divide during the first and second cell divisions .
relative cell cycle timing during the first four cell divisions is aberrant .
asynchrony of the second division is exaggerated and p1 divides more slowly than normal .
p1 divides before ab .
ab and p1 divide synchronously .
ems divides at the same time that aba and abp divide .
p2 and ems divide synchronously .
aba ,  abp ,  ems ,  or p1 contacts fewer of its sister cells than in control embryos .
the ems blastomere fails to extend anteriorly and make extensive contact  ( hug )  with the aba blastomere .
ems extends too far anteriorly at the four cell stage .
embryos exhibit defects in the formation ,  maintenance or termination of the groove in the cell surface near the old metaphase plate during cytokinesis .
cells of the embryo attempt to divide but fail to form two daughter cells .
once formed ,  the mitotic furrow can  \ "slide \ "laterally .
one or more extra cleavage furrows are seen in one or more cells of a one - cell to four - cell embryo
the cell division axis is not normal .
aba or abp divide in the wrong orientation .
animals exhibit defects in the form ,  structure or composition of any of its parts during the early embryonic stage .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of any of its parts during any developmental stage ranging from zygote formation to hatching compared to control .
embryos are produced that are less than fifty percent of the size of control embryos .
nucleus is abnormal in the inviable one -  to four - cell embryo .
nuclear envelope does not reassemble properly .
any variation in the normal orderly movement of neurons from one site to another compared to control .
after division of either one - cell or two - cell embryos ,  the nuclei reappear next to the cell division remnant .
nuclear number is abnormal in the inviable one -  to four - cell embryo .
embryos contain more than one nucleus per cell in the inviable one -  to four - cell embryo .
defects are either seen in the number or size of the polar bodies in the inviable one -  to four - cell embryo .
polar body number is abnormal in the inviable one -  to four - cell embryo .
polar body size is abnormal in the inviable one -  to four - cell embryo .
polar bodies are abnormal in the inviable one -  to four - cell embryo .
polar body is reabsorbed in the one -  to four - cell embryo .
obsolete .
a polar body is reabsorbed in either the one cell -  or the two - cell embryo .
pronucleus is abnormal in the inviable embryo .
pronucleus migration is abnormal in the inviable embryo .
neither of the pronuclei migrate and they never meet .
instead of the maternal pronucleus migrating to the posterior end of the one - cell embryo ,  the paternal pronucleus migrates to meet the maternal pronucleus in the anterior end .
the maternal and paternal pronuclei meet more centrally instead of meeting in the posterior end of the embryo .
maternal or paternal pronucleus is either too small or too large .
pronuclear breakdown is atypical in the inviable embryo .
instead of breaking down synchronously ,  the two pronuclei break down asynchronously in the inviable one - cell embryo .
pronucleus morphology is atypical in the inviable embryo .
morphology of the pronuclear envelope is atypical in the inviable embryo .
maternal pronucleus has a blurry appearance .
there are more than two pronuclei in the inviable embryo .
either the maternal or paternal pronucleus is absent .
there is either more than one maternal or paternal pronucleus in the inviable embryo .
one - cell embryos have two or more maternal pronuclei .
more than one paternal pronucleus is present in the inviable one - cell embryo or there is a defect in centrosome structure .
pseudocleavage is atypical in the inviable one - cell embryo .
no pseudocleavage is observed before or during pronuclear migration .
embryos have more pronounced pseudocleavage than normal .
injected worm stops producing embryos 48 hours after rnai injection and contains no live / developing embryos at this time .
the duration of viability in the adult phase of the life - cycle is less than that of control animals .
developmentally regulated termination of a cell or cell group does not occur as in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the specific activation or halting of processes within a cell that occur through necrosis or programmed cell death pathways different from apoptosis ,  so that its vital functions markedly cease ,  rather than simply deteriorating gradually over time ,  which culminates in cell death ,  compared to control .
chromosomes fail to segregate away from their homolog ,  resulting in gametes with no or extra copies of the chromosome .
higher numbers of male progeny occur in the population compared to control populations .
one - cell embryos have an altered shape .
embryos rupture when placed on a 2% agar pad and covered with a coverslip .
the structure of the egg is impaired ,  flawed or no longer intact .
obsolete .phenotypic examination of worms did not reveal an obvious abnormality compared with control animals .
animals exhibit an increase in the quantity of germ line cells that have undergone programmed cell death but have not been engulfed .
animals exhibit an increase in the quantity of non - germ line cells that have undergone programmed cell death but have not been engulfed .
animals exhibit variations in the amount of fat or lipids present in the organism compared to control animals .
animals exhibit less fat or lipid than observed in control animals .
animals exhibit a greater amount of fat or lipids than observed in control animals .
the developmental progression of an early embryo over time ,  from its formation to its mature structure is delayed compared to control .
embryos are either delayed or arrested at pronuclear contact .
ems divides before p2 .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of radial arrangement of actin within the pharyngeal muscle compared to control animals .
any variation in the cell junctions of the pharyngeal muscle at which the cytoplasmic face of the plasma membrane is attached to actin filaments compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for the pharynx to carry out its normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for muscles in the pharynx to carry out their normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
any variation in the series of molecular signals in which a pharyngeal cell uses calcium ions to convert an extracellular signal into a response ,  compared to control .
electropharyngeograms do not show a similar pattern as control animals .
animals have one or more extra neurons ,  which are present in places they are normally not found ,  when compared to the number and location of these neurons in control animals .
rhythmic calcium increases in the pharynx are observed less often than in control animals .
calcium spikes lack synchrony in the musculature of the corpus and the terminal bulb as seen in control .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for cells as a collective unit of the somatic gonad to carry out their normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for cells as a collective unit of the somatic sheath system to carry out their normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for the contraction of a thin continuous tube surrounding the proximal portions of the ovary and covering the maturing oocytes to the near portion of the distal gonad arm ,  compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
basal contraction rate and or peak contraction rate of the gonadal sheath is reduced relative to control animals .
animals lack the stereotyped muscle contractions that result in the opening of anus .
animals respond to nicotine at lower concentrations or shorter exposure compared to control .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of nicotine that elicits a response in control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of muscimol that elicits a response in control animals .
animals respond to muscimol at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
variations in the process by which an organism travels from one location to another compared to control .
any variation in a series of protein mediated signals that help relay information within the cell ,  and thereby affecting changes in the functioning of the cell ,  compared to control .
animals show reduced susceptibility to gene silencing triggered by double stranded rna  ( rnai )  ,  compared to control .
apparently normal sinusoidal movement ,  but appear to have poor traction on the agar surface of a culture plate .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process taking place in extracellular spaces within or associated with the organism ,  from that observed for control animals .
the physical strength or function of the cuticle is varies from that observed for control animals .
the strength of the cuticle is less robust than that observed for control animals .
animals exhibit a decrease in any parameter used to measure locomotion compared to control animals .
obsolete .
variations in the mitotic expansion of germ cell populations or in the appearance of nuclei during development in the premeiotic region of the germline compared to control .
oocyte chromosomes arrest in metaphase of meiosis i without transitioning to anaphase or producing polar bodies .
germ line cells exhibit variations in the process whereby a cell progresses from metaphase to anaphase during mitosis ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the rate or extent of programmed cell death as it pertains to a sex - specific feature ,  compared to control populations .
animals exhibit a decrease in the rate or extent of programmed cell death and thus an increase in cell survival ,  as it pertains to a sex - specific feature ,  compared to control populations .
animals exhibit in increase in the rate or extent of programmed cell death as it pertains to a sex - specific feature ,  compared to control populations .
animal fails to exhibit characteristic response after a nose - on collision with an object compared to control .
animals exhibit an increase in frequency of transposition events  ( dna movement to different positions within the genome of a single cell )  causing an accumulation of lesions within the genome ,  compared to control .
animals show reduced susceptibility to gene silencing in the germline triggered by double stranded rna  ( rnai )  ,  compared to control .
any variation in the processes that govern the extension of axons compared to control .
animals are missing the interfacial hypodermal cell  ( socket cell )  of the phasmid sensillum pore .
animals display variations in the structure ,  organization or path of the part of the axon that forms a bridge between body regions ,  compared to that in control animals .
animals are missing any one of its commissures ,  an axon tract that connects one body part to another .
animals lack the small linear ridges running along the lateral lines of the cuticle ,  lengthwise along the body  ( wormatlas )  .
the orderly movement of neurons along the anterior axis of the animal is abolished ,  misdirected or incomplete compared to control .
the orderly movement of cells along the anterior axis of the animal is abolished ,  misdirected or incomplete compared to control .
the rate ,  frequency or extent of bidirectional movement of large protein complexes  ( mediated by motor proteins )  along microtubules within a cilium or flagellum is increased compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the response to the addition of serotonin compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the pattern of a chemical nuclear stain which is commonly used in fixed specimens and produces a bright blue label ,  compared to control .
failure to execute the characteristic response to nonanone compared to control .
any variation in the orientation of the physical partitioning and separation of a cell into daughter cells compared to control .
any increase in the intensity of expression of a gene product produced by exogenous dna that has been introduced into the organism compared to its expression in control animals .
any perturbation that causes an increase in the frequency of axon outgrowth compared to control .
any variation in the length of time required for a male to find a mate and initiate the search for the vulva .
any increase in the length of time required for a male to find a mate and initiate the search for the vulva .
variations in the processes leading to the specialization of the finger - like sensory sensilla that project from the tail and embed in the male fan compared to control .
obsolete .
the rate ,  frequency or extent of bidirectional movement of large protein complexes  ( mediated by motor proteins )  along microtubules within a cilium or flagellum is lower compared to control .
the bidirectional transport of molecules  ( cargo )  along axonemal microtubules is reduced compared to control .
bidirectional movement of large protein complexes  ( mediated by motor proteins )  along microtubules within a cilium or flagellum is completely abolished .
the bidirectional transport of molecules along the middle segment of axonemal microtubules of the cilia is absent .
the bidirectional transport of molecules along the distal segment of axonemal microtubules of the cilia is absent .
the directed movement of organelles or molecules along microtubules from the cell body toward the cell periphery in nerve cell axons is disrupted .
animals exhibit variations in the structure or organization of the microtuble - based projections that in control animals invaginate individually into the sheath cell of the neuronal sensillum rather than projecting through the socket cell to the outside .
animals exhibit variations in the structure or composition of the dendritic projections of the amphid sensory neurons that traverse the sensillum pore to connect with the outside of the animal ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the structure or composition of the microtuble - based fibrillar core ,  axoneme ,  of the cilia of the neurons that project through the sensillum pore to the outside of the animal ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
the microtuble - based fibrillar - bundles of the amphid sensory cilia are reduced in length compared to those in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the structure or organization of the microtubule - based fibrillar section ,  axoneme ,  of the cilia of the flat sheet - like cells associated with sensory function ,  from that observed in control animals .
the microtuble - based fibrillar - bundle ,  axoneme ,  of the wing cell cilia are reduced in length and do not extend into the sheath cell as far as they do in control animals .
the dendritic processes that normally extend through the amphid sensillum pore to the outside are truncated and have swollen ends as opposed to the extended and finger - like tips of channel cilia in control animals .
animals exhibit wing cell sensory cilia that are truncated and swollen unlike that observed in control animals .
variations in the aggregation of molecules at the site of dna strand breakage or damage compared to control .
variations in the generation of foci that mark sites of aberrant bonding of molecules to the dna strand ,  compared to control .
animals show increased susceptibility to gene silencing triggered by double stranded rna  ( rnai )  ,  compared to control .
hermaphrodites exhibit a reduction in the production of new individuals owing to defects in gamete competence and / or function compared to control animals .
haploid female germ cells  ( oocytes )  exhibit variations in their overall structure ,  appearance or contents compared to control .
animals show deficiencies in chroma resulting in increased translucency .
the developmental progression of the egg - laying organ of female and hermaphrodite nematodes is halted prior to the formation of the mature structure .
the morphological appearance of peroxisomes is variant compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for the peroxisome to carry out its normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
the anterior portion of the animal exhibits variations in its movement compared to control .
any variation in triggering of the set of interactions occurring between a group of genes who depend on each other's individual functions in order to make the aggregate function of the network available to the cell ,  compared to control .
any variation in the frequency of gonad sheath contractions triggered by internal or external stimuli compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the extent of activation of programmed cell death ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the extent of activation of programmed cell death by exposure to a pathogen or pathogenic cue ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit a decrease in the extent of activation of programmed cell death by exposure to a pathogen or pathogenic cue ,  compared to control .
animals are more prone to lethality as a result of infection compared to control .
vulval precursor cells inappropriately adopt fates that are normally restricted to other vulval precursor cells compared to control .
any variation in the state or activity of an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
animals respond to heat at a lower temperature or a shorter exposure time compared to control animals .
any variation that increases the magnitude of a signal generated by a set of gene interactions in a given pathway ,  compared to control .
any variation in the cellular expression of a gene product produced by exogenous dna that has been introduced into the organism such that it now expresses in cells / tissues not seen when compared to the expression of that gene product in control animals .
xx animals are transformed into males or pseudomales  .
any decrease in the intensity of expression of a gene product produced by exogenous dna that has been introduced into the organism compared to its expression in control animals .
any decrease in the intensity of expression of a gene product produced by exogenous dna ,  exclusively in the male ,  that has been introduced into the organism compared to its expression in control animals .
any decrease in the intensity of expression of a gene product produced by exogenous dna ,  exclusively in the hermaphrodite ,  that has been introduced into the organism compared to its expression in control animals .
pharynx becomes clogged with food .
variations in the chemical reactions and pathways of the mitochondria compared to control .
variations in the chemical reactions and pathways of an organelle compared to control .
animals contain a lower level of coenzyme q ,  an oil - soluble vitamin - like substance present in most eukaryotic cells ,  primarily in the mitochondria ,  compared to control .
pharyngeal pumping is not influenced by treatment with specific compounds  ( eg: serotonin )  in the same manner as control animals .
exposure to food does not reduce pharyngeal pumping to the same extent as observed in control animals .
animals do not exhibit a decrease in pumping rate when treated with specific compounds  ( such as pheromones )  as is observed for control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of acetylcholinesterase inhibitor that elicits a response in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to a specific acetylcholinesterase inhibitor compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in actions and responses that occurs predominantly ,  or only ,  in individuals that are part of a group ,  from that observed for animals in a control group .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for cells as a collective unit of the body wall muscle system to carry out their normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for the larva to carry out its normal metabolic functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
the most anterior portion of the animal is not aligned with the axis of the body .
any portion of the animal ,  between the head and the tail ,  appears distorted ,  usually due to uncharacteristic winding .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of lannate that elicits a response in control animals .
any variation in the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the male tail over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of the more posterior portion of the intestine ,  just anterior to the sphincter valve ,  which is subject to squeezing by the somatal - intestinal muscles compared to control animals  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation that alters the physical partitioning and separation of a cell into daughter cells in male animals compared to control .
any variation in the composition or structure of the contents within a germ cell ,  excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  compared to control .
localization or structural appearance of p - granules is altered compared to control .
the restricted localization of p granules to germ cells or germ cell precursors is altered compared to control .
animals have one or more extra cells of a particular type ,  which are present in places they are normally not found ,  when compared to the number and location of these cells in control animals .
the terminal portion of the intestine exhibits structural defects such as scarring or blockage .
any variation in the form or composition of the structure that lies on the ventral surface just anterior and central to the base of the spicule openings  ( small lump on the gubernaculum of the male tail )  and contains a sensory structure called the hook sensillum ,  compared to control .
any variations in the form ,  structure or composition of a set of interacting or interdependent entities forming the male reproductive system compared to control .
the maximum ventral and dorsal flex of the animal is reduced compared to that observed for control animals .
the contraction and relaxation movements of the pharyngeal muscle that mediate feeding is not as robust as compared to control animals .
animals exhibit a decrease in the extent of a vibratory movement  ( as a worm bend )  measured from the mean position to an extreme position compared to control .
the placement of neuronal cells ,  as a whole or of a specific class of neuron in the animal ,  deviates from that observed in control animals .
variations that result in a decrease in protein expression in hermaphrodites compared to that observed in control animals .
the quantity of neuronal cells ,  as a whole or of a specific class of neuron in the animal deviates from that observed in control animals .
any variation in the progression of the sex - specific muscles of the hermaphrodite ,  over time ,  whose contractions squeeze on the uterus to help move eggs towards the vulval opening compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation in the progression of the sex - specific muscles in the hermaphrodite ,  over time ,  that are specialized for egg - laying compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the electrical properties of any of its cells or tissues compared to control .
variations in the synaptic currents that are elicited by firing an action potential in a population of axons ,  compared to control .
the amplitudes of synaptic currents that are elicited by firing an action potential in a population of axons are decreased ,  compared to those observed in control animals .
any variation in the currents observed in the absence of presynaptic action potentials and that are elicited by fusion of a single endogenous vesicle of transmitter compared to control .
the rate  ( frequency )  of currents elicited by fusion of a single endogenous vesicle of transmitter in the absence of presynaptic action potentials is decreased compared to control .
the amplitude  ( magnitude )  of currents elicited by fusion of a single endogenous vesicle of transmitter in the absence of presynaptic action potentials is altered compared to control .
animals display variations in the structure ,  configuration ,  distribution or ratio of the components of the vesicle - filled varicosities of the synapse compared to control .
obsolete .total presynaptic vesicle number is reduced ,  possibly refecting a defect in the replenishment of synaptic vesicles compared to control .
animals display variations in the shape or size of their vesicles ,  which are spherical ,  membrane - bound fluid - filled organelles ,  compared to vesicles observed in control animals .
cells exhibit variations in their response to ionizing radiation compared to that observed in control animals .
animals initiate but do not continue backward movement ,  similar to control animals .
cells exhibit variations in their response to gamma ray radiation compared to that observed in control animals .
cells respond to a lower dosage of gamma rays or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
the posterior part of the worm is shorter and stouter compared to control animals .
animals exhibit a greater number of bends in their body compared to control .
the rate of the intrinsic behavioral program that serves to move fertilized eggs down the uterus ,  through the vulva ,  and out of the worm onto the substrate is reduced compared to that observed in control animals  ( wormatlas )  .
animals display variations in the structure or organization of components of the motor neuron ,  internal to the cell itself or in relation to the cellular environment compared to that observed in control animals .
animals display variations in the number of spherical membrane - bound fluid - filled organelles ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
the body of a neuron is not where it should be when compared to control animals ;  it is absent or misplaced .
any variation in the form ,  structure or composition of the muscles of the adult hermaphrodite reproductive system compared to control .
any variations in the form ,  structure or composition of a set of interacting or interdependent entities forming the hermaphrodite reproductive system ,  compared to control .
males sire no cross progeny .
animals exhibit variations in their response to a specific adrenergic receptor antagonist compared to that observed in control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of phentolamine that elicits a response in control animals .
animals are not induced to lay eggs in reponse to exogenous levamisole .
animals are not induced to lay eggs in reponse to exogenous imipramine .
animals are not induced to lay eggs in reponse to exogenous phentolamine .
animals respond to exogenous imipramine at a lower concentration or within a shorter time period than control animals under the same conditions .
early embryos exhibit defects in the assembly ,  disassembly ,  arrangement ,  elongation or stabilization of the microtubule spindle during a meiotic cell cycle .
intracellular membrane bound compartments vary in shape or size from that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure ,  composition or arrangement of any of the various filamentous elements that form the internal framework of cells ,  compared to control .
any variation in the dynamic structural changes to the arrangement of constituent parts of cytoskeletal structures comprising actin filaments and their associated proteins compared to control .
any variation in the series of molecular signals in which an intestinal cell uses calcium ions to convert an extracellular signal into a response ,  compared to control .
variations in the form or composition of a structure in the cell nucleus which contains the genetic material encoded as dna and surrounded by histone proteins and other regulatory elements compared to control .
variations in the processes that incorporate phosphate groups to one or more amino acids within a protein ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit higher levels of protein phosphorylation compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit decreased levels of protein phosphorylation compared to that observed in control animals .
variations in the chemical reactions and pathways of the endoplasmic reticulum compared to control .
the coordinated movement during prophase of the two centrosomes and the two pronuclei towards the center of the one cell embryo is abolished .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure ,  composition or arrangement of actin ,  an abundant cytoskeletal protein in most cells ,  often linked to the plasma membrane and concentrated at cell junctions compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
variations in the form or composition of a specialized tissue of the reproductive tract that produces the male or female gametes compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation in the form ,  structure or composition of the muscles of the adult male reproductive system compared to control .
variations in the form or composition of a specialized tissue of the reproductive tract that produces the male gametes compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
male animals exhibit variations in the structure or organization of any component that is part of the complement of organ tissues that serve to detect ,  relay and coordinate information about an animal's internal and external environments and to initiate and integrate its effector responses and activities ,  compared to that in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the structure and organization of the chamber in the male tail that extends from the termination of four canals  ( vas deferens ,  gut ,  and left and right spicule channels )  to just before the cloaca ,  from that observed in control animals .
hermaphrodites fail to produce any viable progeny via self - fertilization .
any variation in the progressive compaction of dispersed interphase chromatin into threadlike chromosomes prior to mitotic or meiotic nuclear division ,  or during apoptosis ,  in eukaryotic cells compared to control .
the progressive compaction of dispersed interphase chromatin into threadlike chromosomes prior to mitotic or meiotic nuclear division ,  or during apoptosis in eukaryotic cells is abolished .
the head contains cavities ,  possibly indicative of inappropriate cell death .
any variation in the form ,  structure or composition of the flattened structure extending laterally at the extreme tip of the adult male consisting of nine pairs of sensory rays that lie within a web - like cuticle compared to control .
any variation in the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the male bursa over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure ,  compared to control .
any variation in the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the male fan over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure ,  compared to control .
any variation in the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the male proctodeum over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure ,  compared to control .
animals lack the somatic gonad structure that connects the distal gonad arm to the uterus .
variations in the selective and non - covalent physical association between two or more proteins ,  or a protein and nucleic acid / macromolecular complex ,  compared to control .
variations in the selective and non - covalent physical association between two or more proteins ,  compared to control .
variations in the selective and non - covalent physical association between a protein and a specific rna sequence ,  compared to control .
variations in the selective and non - covalent physical association between a protein and a specific dna sequence ,  compared to control .
animals lack a specific protein - rna interaction observed in control animals .
the shape and size of nuclei as well as the distribution of nucleoporins are strongly affected .
the expression of a gene product produced by dna coded for by exogenous genetic material that has been introduced into the organism is reduced below the threshold of detection .
the expression of a gene product produced by dna coded for by exogenous genetic material that has been introduced into the organism is reduced below the threshold of detection in specific cells .
variations in the generation of foci that mark crossover recombination events ,  compared to control .
any variation in the cell cycle process whereby replicated homologous chromosomes are organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two sets during the mitotic cell cycle compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to a specific toxic chemical compared to that observed in control animals .
animals respond to anoxic  ( trace oxygen levels )  stress after a shorter exposure time compared to control .
animals fail to respond to trace amounts of oxygen that elicit a response in control animals .
variations in the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  ,  compared to control .
variations in the processes that incorporate methyl groups to one or more amino acids within a protein ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit a reduction in the production of new individuals that contain some portion of their genetic material inherited from that organism as a result of defective gametes .
relatively unspecialized germ cells prematurely acquire the specialized properties of mature oocytes .
any perturbation that disrupts the fusion of male and female gametes  ( sperm and oocyte )  in adult hermaphrodites during sexual reproduction .
failure of male - derived sperm to fuse with an oocyte during sexual reproduction .
organisms respond to a lower dosage of gamma rays or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
cells fail to respond to the dosage of gamma irradiation that elicits a response in control animals .
cells respond to a lower dosage of uv or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals exhibit an increase in the extent of activation of programmed cell death by exposure to the nucleic acid damaging agent ,  gamma irradiation ,  compared to control .
cells of the animals cease during one of its replicative phases  ( g1 ,  s ,  g2 ,  m )  .
variations in the processes that reduce the internal ph of a cell  ( measured by the concentration of the hydrogen ion )  ,  compared to control .
animals lack the capacity to reduce the internal ph of a cell .
vacuoles accumulate in the body .
animals completely lack any pharyngeal pumping motion .
animals exhibit an increase in the cell death process that is morphologically characterized by a gain in cell volume  ( oncosis )  ,  swelling of organelles ,  plasma membrane rupture and subsequent loss of intracellular contents ,  compared to control .
animals display variations in the structure ,  organization of components ,  or spatial pattern of any projection stemming from a neuronal cell ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
any variation in the structure ,  form or composition of the semipermeable lipid bilayer that creates a boundary between the interior and exterior environment for cells ,  cellular organelles and tissues ,  within an organism compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the measured expression of a protein compared to that observed in control animals .
the morphological appearance of mitochondria is varied compared to control animals .
mitochondria are interconnected by thin tubules of mitochondrial inner or outer membrane .
any variation in the placement of a protein ,  as detected by antibody staining ,  within in a cell or cellular compartment compared to control .
any variation that results in the detection of protein expression in cells / tissues through antibody staining ,  that is otherwise not observed in control animals .
variations that result in the accumulation of soluble / insoluble protein aggregates in a particular cell or tissue ,  compared to control .
variations that result in a decrease in protein expression in male animals compared to that observed in control animals .
variations that result in a decrease in protein expression in specific cells compared to that observed in control animals .
any variation in the cellular or subcellular distribution of a protein compared to that observed in control animals .
any variation that results in the cellular expression of a protein in cells / tissues ,  that is otherwise not observed in control animals .
animals fail to express a given protein or class of proteins .
animals exhibit an altered display of glycosylated proteins or lipids or altered access to glycosylated moieties along their surface from that observed in control animals of the same developmental stage .
animals exhibit variations in the organization of the longitudinal ridges on the cuticle along the length of the animal ,  from that observed for control animals of the same developmental stage .
animals do not exhibit tail - swelling in response to infection by a bacterial pathogen  ( such as microbacterium nematophilum )  compared to control .
males exhibit defects in the specific actions or reactions that are associated with reproduction .
animals exhibit variations that result in variations in the ability of or extent to which pathogens adhere to the surface of animals ,  compared to control .
pathogens are unable to adhere / colonize the surface of host animals .
any variation in the state or activity of an organism in response to extreme dryness or drought - like conditions ,  compared to control  .
animals respond to less severe drought - like conditions or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals respond to emetine at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals can move thorough a lawn of bacterially produced biofilm without accumulating an enormous amount of biofilm on its nose .
animals exhibit variations in the directed movement of substances into ,  out of or mediated by the endosome ,  a membrane - bound organelle that trafficks material to different compartments of the cell or back to the plasma membrane for recycling compared to control .
animals exhibit defects in the directed movement of substances into ,  out of or mediated by the endosome ,  a membrane - bound organelle that trafficks material to different compartments of the cell or back to the plasma membrane for recycling .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for the coelomocyte to carry out its normal functions or activities ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for the oocyte to carry out its normal functions or activities ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit defects in the cell - mediated uptake of external materials via receptor activity .
fluid - phase endocytosis by coelomocytes is less frequent or efficient compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of any cellular contents  ( excluding plasma membrane and nucleus )  ,  compared to control animals .
vacuoles accumulate in the intestine .
animals accumulate an excess of vesicle - like structures in cells .
variations in the processes that are carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a lysosome ,  compared to control .
male tails fail to undergo tip retraction thereby forming a 'leptoderan' or 'pointed' adult tail .
adult males exhibit a truncated tail ,  often without a fan or have well - developed fans but squarish ,  truncated back ends compared to control .
two or more individual cells form a syncytium  ( a mass of cytoplasm containing several nuclei enclosed within a single plasma membrane )  via the fusion of the plasma membranes at an earlier stage of development compared to comparable cells in control animals .
any variation in the directed movement of a worm in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient compared to control .
failure in directed movement in response to ammonium chloride compared to control .
animals tend to initiate a response more often ,  compared to control ,  after nose - on collisions with an object .
animals execute a response ,  via directed movement to octanol at a lower concentration or shorter exposure time compared to control .
animals fail to move towards attractive volatile organic molecules .
animals fail to move towards attractive anions .
animals fail to move towards attractive cations .
animals fail to move towards attractive water - soluble chemicals .
failure in directed movement in response to sodium acetate .
animals exhibit variations in response to water - soluble chemicals ,  compared to control .
animals do not exhibit characteristic desensitization to a water - soluble chemo - attractive signal in a time - concentration dependent and reversible manner compared to control .
animals do not exhibit characteristic chemoattractive desensitization to sodium acetate in a time - concentration dependent and reversible manner compared to control .
animals do not exhibit characteristic chemoattractive desensitization to sodium chloride in a time - concentration dependent and reversible manner compared to control .
animals do not exhibit characteristic chemoattractive desensitization to ammonium chloride in a time - concentration dependent and reversible manner compared to control .
animals fail to move away from repellant volatile organic chemicals .
animals fail to move away from repellent water soluble chemicals .
animals exhibit variations through directed movement ,  in response to repellant water soluble chemicals ,  compared to control .
any variation in the directed movement of a worm in response to a specific concentration gradient of garlic compared to control .
any variation in the directed movement of a worm in response to a specific concentration gradient of octanol .
animals exhibit variations in their avoidance response to high concentrations of sodium chloride solution compared to control .
any variation in the directed movement of a worm in response to a specific concentration gradient of the bitter tastant quinine ,  a water soluble molecule .
animals exhibit variations through directed movement ,  in response to repellant volatile organic chemicals ,  compared to control .
any variation in the directed movement of a worm in response to a specific concentration gradient of nonanone .
any variation in the directed movement of a worm in response to a specific concentration gradient of bromide .
any variation in the directed movement of a worm in response to a specific concentration gradient of chloride .
any variation in the directed movement of a worm in response to a specific concentration gradient of iodide .
any variation in the directed movement of a worm in response to a specific concentration gradient of ammonium chloride .
any variation in the directed movement of a worm in response to a specific concentration gradient of sodium acetate .
any variation in the directed movement of a worm in response to a specific concentration gradient of sodium chloride .
any variation in the directed movement of a worm in response to a specific concentration gradient of camp .
any variation in the directed movement of a worm in response to a specific concentration gradient of cgmp .
any variation in the directed movement of a worm in response to a specific concentration gradient of acetone .
any variation in the directed movement of an animal in response to a volatile chemical stimulus that is usually received and processed by the awa sensory neuron in control animals .
any variation in the directed movement of an animal in response to a volatile chemical stimulus that is usually received and processed by the awc sensory neuron in control animals .
any variation in the directed movement of a worm in response to a specific concentration gradient of benzaldehyde .
any variation in the directed movement of a worm in response to a specific concentration gradient of butanone .
any variation in the directed movement of a worm in response to a specific concentration gradient of diacetyl .
any variation in the directed movement of a worm in response to a specific concentration gradient of hexanol .
any variation in the directed movement of a worm in response to a specific concentration gradient of isoamyl alcohol .
any variation in the directed movement of a worm in response to a specific concentration gradient of pentanol .
any variation in the directed movement of a worm in response to a specific concentration gradient of pyrazine .
any variation in the directed movement of a worm in response to a specific concentration gradient of trimethylthiazole .
any variation in the defecation motor program that involves the contraction of the anterior body wall muscles compared to control .
any variation in the directed movement of organelles or molecules along microtubules from the cell body toward the cell periphery in nerve cell axons ,  compared to control .
any variation in the elongation of embryonic epidermal cells compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in any of a series of events in which a pheromone stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal that induces dauer formation in control animals .
variations in the rhythmic relaxations of the a highly specialized cuticle region of the pharynx inside the lumen of the second bulb ,  compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
the number of body thrashes within an aqueous environment in a given period of time is increased ,  compared with control worms .
animals exhibit a reduction in the frequency of oscillations between adjacent body segments from that observed for control animals .
the eggs being deposited by adults are of a later developmental stage ,  compared to control .
animals fail to execute directed movement in response to ammonium acetate .
animals exhibit variations in their response to the presence of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  or to other er - related stressors compared to control .
animals accumulate unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  and or the mitochondria .
animals exhibit variations in the development of the male elongated sclerotized structures covered by a hardened layer of cuticle in the tail  ( which are actively everted during copulation to fasten the male copulatory fan to the vulva )  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the development of the sclerotic cuticle that forms the roof of the proctodeum  ( gubernaculum )  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the structure or composition of the sclerotic cuticle that forms the roof of the proctodeum ,  from that observed in control animals .
obsolete .
obsolete .
animals lack a properly developed posterior region compared to control .
vpcs  ( vulval precursor cells )  divide at an earlier stage of development compared to control animals ;  in c . elegans ,  vpcs divide in the mid - l3 stage to generate the 22 cells that comprise the vulva .
dtcs migrate at an earlier stage of development ,  compared to control .
cells divide at an earlier stage of development compared to control animals .
cells exhibit variations in the process whereby a cell progresses from metaphase to anaphase ,  compared to control .
cells exhibit variations in the process whereby a cell progresses from metaphase to anaphase during mitosis ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for the pseudopod of the sperm to carry out its normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to stimuli ,  compared to control animals .
variations in the process by which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets during the meiotic cell cycle ,  compared to control .
any variation in the directed movement of a worm in response to a specific concentration gradient of pentanedione .
animals fail to discriminate between distinct odorants .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of a specific chemical that elicits a response in control animals .
any variation in the mechanisms used to ensure that axons in the ventral nerve cord maintain their correct positioning after termination of axonal outgrowth and target recognition compared to control .
sterility caused by aberrant maternal components required for normal postembryonic development and / or function of the germ line .
any variation in the processes that govern spontaneous backward locomotion compared to control .
any variation in the processes that govern the rate at which spontaneous backward locomotion is initiated compared to control .
animals fail to be affected by toxins produced by bacillus thuringiensis  ( bt toxins )  in the same manner as control animals .
any perturbation that disrupts the fusion between the anchor cell and the surrounding utse syncytium .
any of the finger - like sensory sensilla that project from the tail and embed in the male fan are absent .
any variation in the processes that govern acquisition of neuronal cell fates compared to control .
variations in the stereotypical migration pattern of the linker cell in a developing male compared to control .
bilaterally symmetric cell fail to acquire specific left - right asymmetric properties such as l / r specific cell position ,  cell death or gene expression .
variations in the process of secretion of a class of membrane - bound vesicles found inside neurons ,  gland cells ,  and some epithelial cells in which the central core appears darkly stained when viewed in thin section by electron microscopy ,  compared to control .
variations in the uptake of a small membrane - bound organelle ,  filled with neurotransmitter ( s )  and / or neuropeptides ,  by the invagination of small region of the plasma membrane to form a new membrane - bounded vesicle compared to control ( wormatlas )  .
animals exhibit variations in the quantity or patterning of electron - dense columnar structures that join the basal and cortical cuticle layers ,  from that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit a helically twisted cuticle .
animals exhibit variations in the circumferential pattern of ridges in the outer cortical layer of the cuticle ,  compared to that observed in control animals of the same developmental stage .
any variation in the levels and / or localization of biogenic amines compared to control animals .
any variation in the orderly movement of cells along the posterior axis of the animal  ( abolished ,  misdirected or incomplete )  compared to control .
any variation in the orderly movement of neurons along the posterior axis of the animal ( abolished ,  misdirected or incomplete )  compared to control .
embryos retract after the embryonic elongation process .
the elongated sclerotized structures covered by a hardened layer of cuticle in the male tail  ( which are actively everted during copulation to fasten the male copulatory fan to the vulva )  constitutively extend into the external environment through the cloacal opening .
any variation in the makeup ,  density or area of the ecm compared to control .
exhibition of quiescent behavior under inappropriate conditions and improper recovery from quiescent state .
animals exhibit variations in the structure or organization of the posterior region of the pharynx compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the structure or organization of any one of the specialized sensory receptor cells of the nervous system that compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the quantity ,  structure or organization of any component of any specialized chemosensory organs located on the head or along the tail ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the quantity ,  structure or organization of any component of the sensillum channel including the sheath and or socket cells ,  their junctions with each other ,  channel neurons or surrounding epithelia compared to control .
obsolete: any variation in the form ,  structure or composition of an interfacial epithelial cell which forms a specialized environment surrounding the ciliated sensory ending ( s )  of one or more neurons and is often accompanied by a more distal socket cell compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
animals exhibit variations in the quantity ,  structure or organization of any component of a specialized sensory organ in the head that contains a cep receptor neuron ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the quantity ,  structure or organization of the sensilla of the mouth compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the quantity ,  structure or organization of the components of the inner labial ring compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the quantity ,  structure or organization of the components of the outer labial ring compared to control .
any variation in makeup ,  density or area of the ecm lending structure to neurons compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the quantity ,  structure or organization of the components of the sensilla situated laterally in the anterior  ( ade )  or the posterior  ( pde )  of the animal compared to control .
embryos exhibit variations in the patterning of differentiated cell types ,  compared to control .
any variation in the ability of cells to monitor the quality of their mrnas and degrade any transcripts that are poorly or incompletely translated compared to control .
defects in the cellular machinery that targets aberrant mrnas species  ( nonsense codons ,  splice errors ,  altered untranslated regions etc . ) 
animals exhibit variations in the entry into the dauer stage when exposed to conditions that induce dauer formation in control animals .
the life span of dauer - staged animals is either longer or shorter than that observed in control dauer animals .
variations in the execution of the developmentally - regulated cell cycle arrest in the gonad during the dauer stage ,  compared to control .
any variation in the inhibition of feeding which is induced / occurs during the dauer stage compared to control .
dauer stage animals exhibit a decrease in self - propelled movement on a solid medium compared to control animals .
variations in the state or activity of a dauer stage organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any variation in the overall structure or appearance of an animal progressing through an alternative larval stage in response to environmental stresses compared to control animals .
variations which lead to the decreased ability of dauer larva to survive at extreme conditions ,  such as high or low temperatures ,  the presence of dilute acids ,  detergents ,  anesthetics ,  or even fixatives ,  compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
animals exhibit variations in the chemical reactions and pathways that occur during the dauer life stage ,  compared to control .
any variation in the ratio of the body length to body width in a dauer stage animal ,  compared to control .
dauer stage animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of the chain of cuboidal cells which form a central lumen lined by microvilli that allow the passage of food ,  compared to control .
variations in the form or composition of the cuticle - lined lumenal region which lies just behind the lips at the entrance to the pharyngeal lumen in dauer stage animals compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation in the progression of the formation of the rigid external coating  ( which is secreted by the hypodermis ,  seam and some interfacial epithelial cells )  during the dauer larva stage ,  compared to control animals  ( wormatlas )  .
variations in the form or composition of the mouthparts at the anterior end of the digestive tract during the dauer stage ,  compared to control .
dauer stage animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of a pair of large cells in the head that fuse to form a single gland whose contents are released into the excretory duct through a specialized secretory membrane ,  compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
dauer stage animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of any portion of the extreme anterior part of their body compared to control .
any variations in the form ,  structure or composition of a set of interacting or interdependent entities forming the dauer sensory system ,  compared to control .
dauer stage animals exhibit variations in the quantity ,  structure or organization of the components of the sense organs comprised of ciliated sensory nerve endings enveloped by sheath and / or socket cells ,  from that observed in control animals .
dauer stage animals exhibit variations in the quantity ,  structure or organization of the sensilla of the mouth compared to control .
dauer stage animals exhibit variations in the quantity ,  structure or organization of any component of any specialized chemosensory organs located on the head ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
dauer stage animals exhibit variations in the quantity ,  structure or organization of the components of the sensilla situated laterally in the anterior  ( ade )  or the posterior  ( pde )  of the animal compared to control .
obsolete .
dauer stage animals exhibit variations in the quantity ,  structure or organization of the components of the inner labial ring compared to control .
dauer stage animals exhibit variations in the quantity ,  structure or organization of the components of the outer labial ring compared to control .
dauer stage animals exhibit variations in the quantity ,  structure or organization of any component of a specialized sensory organ in the head that contains a cep receptor neuron ,  compared to control .
the window of production of self - fertilized eggs exceeds or does not extend to the same length as control .
failure to execute characteristic response to lysine as defined by control animals .
any variation in the process that regulates the migration of ventral epidermal cells toward the ventral midline  ( to encase underlying cells in an epithelial monolayer )  in developing embryos compared to control .
nuclei of specific cells are larger compared to control animals .
any variation in the export of mrna from the cell nucleus compared to control .
the characteristic organization of myosin filaments into discrete a - bands within the muscle cells is disrupted .
the characteristic organization of actin filaments into i - bands is disrupted .
variations in the accumulation of muscle proteins at membranes where adjacent muscle cells contact each other and the hypodermis compared to control .
animals that are not ordinarily male ,  exhibit male - specific attributes .
animals exhibit variations in the response to the addition of nicotine compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the cellular levels of adenosine - 5' - triphosphate  ( atp )  ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit a decrease in the cellular levels of adenosine - 5' - triphosphate  ( atp )  ,  compared to control .
variations in the spatial distribution of the mitochondria within the cell compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the parallel arrangement of mitochondria within a cell compared to control .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of cholinergic agonist that elicits a response in control animals .
animals respond to a cholinergic agonist at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
any variation in the progression of the controlled breakdown of the nuclear envelope ,  compared to control .
levels of transcripts associated with genes on the x chromosome are increased compared to control .
levels of transcripts associated with genes on the x chromosome are decreased compared to control .
animals segregate progeny with 3 x chromosomes .
any variation in the movement of chromosomes to the spindle equator during mitosis compared to control animals .
any variation in a cell's ability to divide asymmetrically to produce two daughter cells with different developmental potentials compared to control .
animals contain more than one anchor cell .
animals exhibit variations in the formation and / or arrangement of actin ,  an abundant cytoskeletal protein in most cells ,  often linked to the plasma membrane and concentrated at cell junctions compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure ,  composition or arrangement of a robust macromolecular array ,  composed primarily of tubulin ,  which forms long extended cytoskeletal elements compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation that alters the characteristic de novo formation of a microtubule compared to control .
any variation that alters the characteristic removal of tubulin heterodimers from one or both ends of a microtubule compared to control .
any variation that alters the characteristic addition of tubulin heterodimers to one or both ends of a microtubule compared to control .
alternating periods of stopping and moving ;  motion is interrupted by periods of inactivity lasting several seconds .
animals exhibit variations in the homology - dependent transcriptional level silencing of the expression of exogenous dna that has been introduced into the organism ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the homology - dependent transcriptional level silencing of the expression of exogenous dna that has been introduced into the organism ,  in the germline ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the homology - dependent transcriptional level silencing of the expression of exogenous dna that has been introduced into the organism ,  in the soma ,  compared to control .
swelling of the tail hypodermis resulting in a prematurely - truncated and thickened appearance of the tail .
any variation that results in a fewer than control number of muscle cells .
treatment with inhibitors of serotonin reuptake does not elicit the same response as observed for control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of ouabain that elicits a response in control animals .
animals require increased concentration or longer exposure to ouabain to elicit the rapid muscular contractions seen in control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of biogenic amine receptor antagonist that elicits a response in control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of methiothepin that elicits a response in control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of cyproheptadine that elicits a response in control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of mianserin that elicits a response in control animals .
animals do not live longer in response to mianserin compared to control .
animals respond to ethanol at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals become paralyzed in response to ethanol at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals respond to the anesthetic enflurane at lower concentrations or shorter exposure times than control animals .
animals respond to the anesthetic isoflurane at lower concentrations or shorter response times than control animals .
animals respond to the anesthetic ether at lower concentrations or shorter response times than control animals .
animals respond to the lipid - soluble anesthetic halothane at lower concentrations or shorter response times compared to control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of ethanol that elicits a response in control animals .
animals in the presence of ethanol continue to respond to touch under conditions when control worms have stopped responding to stimuli .
animals exhibit variations in their response to a specific anticonvulsant compared to that observed in control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of compounds that act as anticonvulsants that elicit a response in control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of trimethadione ,  which acts as an anticonvulsant ,  that elicits a response in control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of ethosuximide ,  which acts as an anticonvulsant ,  that elicits a response in control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of the anesthetic halothane that elicits a response in control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of the volatile anesthetic isoflurane that elicits a response in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to oxidative stress compared to that observed in control animals .
animals respond to a lower concentration of reactive oxygen species or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals lay eggs at a greater rate in response to exogenous serotonin compared to control animals .
any variation in the posture of the male tail after application of exogenous serotonin compared to control .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of serotonin that elicits a male tail curling response in control animals .
males respond to serotonin by curling their tails at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
any variation in the locomotion rate after application of exogenous serotonin compared to control .
the decrease in locomotion rate in the presence of serotonin is greater than control animals .
animals fail to decrease their locomotion rate in response the concentration of serotonin that elicits a response in control animals .
any variation in egg laying behavior after application of exogenous serotonin compared to control .
any variation in the developmental progression of the intestine that leads to a blockage in the alimentary canal .
animals produce ova / sperm that contain no x chromosome in a nonmendelian segregation pattern .
animals produce ova / sperm that contain 2 x chromosomes .
animals produce ova / sperm that contain lethal factors as a result of chromosomal disjunction defects .
animals respond to compounds that elicit electrophilic stress at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals contain an excess number of pharyngeal cells compared to control .
animals contain an excess number of intestinal cells compared to control .
embryos fail to generate cells that exhibit intestinal specification .
obsolete: animals are deficient in the formation or disassembly of lysosomes .
animals exhibit a decrease in their high - speed movement in the forward direction with brief backward movement compared to control .
animals are unable to acidify compartments to the same level as that observed in control animals given the same stimulus .
animals lack or exhibit defects in the posterior body muscle contractions during the defecation cycle .
variations that disrupt stereotypical embryonic cleavage patterns  ( such as cleavage rate ,  division axes or asymmetric division )  .
embryos generate an excess number of hypodermal cells compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in any process that involves the maintenance ,  biosynthesis or accumulation of proteins in the organism compared to control .
variations in the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the directed breakdown of a protein  ( via the destruction of its native ,  active configuration )  compared to control .
embryos fail to generate cells that exhibit pharyngeal specification .
any variation in the progression of the posterior portion of the pharynx over time compared to control .
embryos fail to generate cells that give rise to the posterior portion of the pharynx .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of fluorouracil  ( 5 - fu )  that elicits a response in control animals .
germ cell death fails in response to the concentration of 5 - fu that elicits a response in control animals .
animals grow well during or after exposure to 5 - fu under conditions where control animals are growth inhibited .
any variation in the process by which the gonad anchor cell makes contact with vulval cells in order to create a uterine - vulval connection .
animals exhibit variations in their response to cadmium compared to that observed in control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of cadmium that elicits a response in control animals .
animals respond to cadmium at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
any variation in the progression of the leader cell that guides and shapes the outgrowth of the gonad while crawling along the body wall to force the germline to extend into a long tubular shape over time from its formation to its mature structure compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the specialized region of connection between two cells or between a cell and the extracellular matrix compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the specialized region of connection between two cells compared to control .
any variation in the form ,  structure or composition of the somatic gonad structure that connects the distal gonad arm to the uterus compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
the two morphologically bilaterally symmetric gustatory neurons ase left  ( asel )  and ase right  ( aser )  fail to undergo a left / right asymmetric diversification in cell fate .
the two morphologically bilaterally symmetric olfactory neurons awc left  ( awcl )  and awc right  ( awcr )  fail to undergo a left / right asymmetric diversification in cell fate .
any variation in the progression of the somatic gonad structure that connects the distal gonad arm to the uterus over time from an initial condition to a later condition compared to control animals .
animals fail to respond to the levels of reactive oxygen species that elicit a response in control animals .
the frequency of sex chromosome segregation is perturbed ,  resulting in the production of exceptional gametes  ( e .g .
lower numbers of male progeny occur in the population compared to control populations .
animals respond to iononizing radiation at a lower dose or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals respond to the chemical mutagen methyl methanesulfonate  ( mms )  a methanesulfonate ester and alkylating agent at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
an increased number of oocytes are retained in the gonad without becoming endomitotic ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit a variation in the ratio of synaptic vesicles per synapse of a neuron ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit an overall decrease in the quantity of synaptic vesicles at the synapse compared to control animals .
animals display variations in the distribution of spherical membrane - bound fluid - filled organelles ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the extension of the part of the axon that forms a bridge between body regions ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the processes that affect and monitor the activity of telomeric proteins and the length of telomeric dna ,  which allow the chromosome to persist from generation to generation ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the sequence or organization of the components of the terminal region of its chromosome ,   ( i .e .
males exhibit variations in the reproductive system ,  from its formation to the mature structure compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the structure or composition of any neuron within the class of sensory neurons responsible for relaying mechanical stimuli to the animal compared to control .
animals display cuticle components displayed by animals of a different developmental stage ,  compared to control .
animals produce cuticles that vary in components such as proteins or carbohydrates ,  observed in control animals of the same developmental stage and raised under the same conditions .
neurons have more than one process extending from the cell body .
vulval precursor cells forgo further cell division and fuse to the hypodermis instead of adopting their intended fate  ( becoming primary ,  secondary or tertiary vulval cells )  .
the alignment of the spindle relative to other cellular structures varies from that observed in control animals .
organisms respond to uv at a higer dose or a longer exposure compared to control animals .
variations that specifically disrupt sperm production in xx hermaphrodites .
the rates of synaptic vesicle exocytosis and endocytosis vary from that observed in control animals .
the region opposite to the presynaptic region deviates in the structure ,  configuration or ratio of its components specific for receiving signals from the other side of the synapse compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process in the region ,  opposite to the presynaptic region ,  which is required for receiving signals from the other side of the synapse compared to control .
cuticles of animals or cuticular extracts exhibit an altered pattern of antibody binding compared to bristol n2 animals of the same developmental stage .
the electron dense ,  amorphous envelope that comprises the outermost layer of the cuticle varies in composition from that observed in control animals of the same developmental stage .
cuticles or cuticular extracts do not bind antibodies that are observed to bind the surfaces or cuticular extracts of bristol n2 animals of the same developmental stage .
animals display surface antigens throughout all larval stages ,  unlike bristol n2 worms ,  which display the antigens only during one larval stage .
germ nuclei are misplaced in the gonad and are observed in the rachis .
animals are not induced to display surface antigens by exposure to pheromone as observed for bristol n2 animals .
males have alae that extend into the tail region .
hermaphrodites continue to produce sperm past the time at which the transition to oogenesis normally occurs .
animals exhibit variations in their catalytic ability the transfer glycolsyl groups from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  often measured by a reduction in the amount of glycosylated products compared to that observed in control animals of the same developmental stage .
animals exhibit variations in the energy - requiring part of metabolism in which simpler substances are transformed into more complex ones compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of chondroitin sulfate compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of the heparan sulfate proteoglycan compared to control .
specific body regions of an animal display variations in movement compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in movement in liquid from that observed for control animals .
animals exhibit uncharacteristic muscle contractions during the process by which they travel from one location to another .
animals exhibit variations in the directional changes that separate consecutive runs ,  from that observed for control animals .
any variation in the maximum ventral and dorsal flex of the animal compared to control animals .
alae contain more cuticular ridges than control animals .
the directed movement of molecules between the nucleus and the cytoplasm is impaired .
the directed movement of substances out of the nucleus is impaired .
the directed movement of substances into the nucleus is impaired .
the directed movement of a protein from the nucleus into the cytoplasm is impaired .
animals exhibit variations in light / dark cycle recurrence of reactions to stress conditions compared to that observed for control animals .
animals exhibit variations in light / dark cycle recurrence of reactions to osmotic stress compared to that observed for control animals .
animals exhibit variations in actions or responses that occur with measurable periodicity ,  from that observed for control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the actions or reactions that recur with a periodicity associated with light / dark cycles ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in locomotor activity during its light / dark cycle from that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in turning bouts ,  consisting of one or more sharp turning events separating consecutive runs ,  which serve to orient the animal within a gradient ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the number of directional changes over time from that observed for control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the velocity of forward translocation of any point along the animal's track from that observed for control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the translocation of the mean position of the rear two - thirds  ( centroid position )  of the animal over time ,  from that observed for control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the mean translocation of the points along the animal's track compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in any of the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of the presence of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  and or the mitochondria ,  compared to control .
spermatozoa do not crawl back into the spermatheca after being swept into the uterus by passing oocytes .
animals exhibit variations in the extent of pathogen invasion into the pharynx compared to control .
animals exhibit a greater extent of pathogen invasion into the pharynx compared to control .
animals exhibit a lesser extent of pathogen invasion into the pharynx compared to control .
animals respond to tunicamycin at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
cells exhibit variations in the response to osmotic stress compared to control .
animals vary in the distance between anterior and posterior ends of the animal from that observed in control animals .
animals vary in the distance between dorsal and ventral sides when measured across the body at right angles to the length ,  from that observed in control animals .
males differ from control animals in their ability to form copulatory plugs or their placement of these plugs .
males form copulatory mating plugs .
males do not form copulatory mating plug .
animals exhibit variations in the duration of the trajectory of the forward track in a thermal gradient compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in their response and ability to survive over a range of ph conditions compared to control .
animals treated with pheromone do not exhibit a decrease in pumping rate similar to that observed for control animals .
animals deprived of food do not exhibit a decrease in pumping rate similar to that observed for control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle contraction compared to control animals .
failure to execute the characteristic response to acetate compared to control animals .
animals are unable to locate the gradient peak of a water soluble compound ,  which was generated on a uniform concentration of another compound .
failure to execute the characteristic response to ammonium compared to control animals .
any variation in an organism's decline over time from its optimal fertility and viability compared to control animals .
any variation in the preprogrammed process that occurs in an organism that is associated with the dismantling of an organ and an overall decline in metabolic function compared to control animals .
males exhibit spicule - muscle seizures leading to inappropriately timed protraction compared to control .
the endogenous anabolism of any lipid species has been increased compared to that observed in control animals .
any variation in the division of the eukaryotic cell nucleus to produce two daughter nuclei that contain the identical chromosome complement of their mother compared to control .
any variation in the attachment of a cell ,  either to another cell or to an underlying substrate such as the extracellular matrix compared to control .
any variation in a cell junction at which the cytoplasmic face of the plasma membrane is attached to actin filaments compared to control .
any perturbation in the belt - like region of very close contact between the plasma membranes of adjacent cells that results in the complete occlusion of the intercellular space .
animals exhibit variations in the change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the pharynx or pharyngeal muscle does not form a functional connection to the mouth or buccal cavity .
the toxic response to zinc occurs at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals fail to exhibit toxicity to the concentration of zinc that elicits a response in control animals .
animals exhibit increased lethality as a result of exposure to environments with a higher solute concentration than their own internal environment ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in vesicle - based directed movement of substances into ,  out of ,  or within a cell compared to control .
animals exhibit intensified accumulation of fluids or fluorescent markers etc .
contents of endosomes fail to be transported to lysosomal compartments .
animals do not arrest mitotic germ cell division ,  as control animals ,  when treated with uv radiation .
programmed cell death caused by uv radiation is reduced compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any process that involves the maintenance ,  biosynthesis or accumulation of signalling peptides in the organism compared to control .
variations in the chemical reactions and pathways involved in the formation and maturation of specialized peptidergic neurotransmitters encoded as preproproteins that are posttranslationally processed to yield bioactive neuropeptides compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
variations in the biogenesis or stability of the 21u - rna class of molecules compared to control .
animals exhibit an increase in the rate of deletion events in mono - g or g - rich tracts within the genome compared to control .
regulated ventral midline crossing by axons vary either in the frequency of crossing events or the maintenance through development of process positions compared to control .
yolk is not taken up by oocytes in the same manner or to the same degree as observed for control animals .
uptake of subtances from the intestine is altered from that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to carbon dioxide compared to control .
variations in the characteristic movement away from specific co2 levels compared to control .
animals are more sensitive to the reduction of cholesterol in the environment compared to control animals .
outgrowth of the commissure occurs on the side of the body different from that observed in control animals .
variations in the quantity of circumferential axonal tracts from the number observed in control animals .
animals fail to silence cytoplasmic - localized rnas .
animals exhibit variations in their selective interactions with small interfering rna molecules compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the length or amount of any endogenous small interfering rna molecule populations compared to control .
animals exhibit an increase in the levels of transposase mrna ,  from endogenous transposons ,  over that measured in control animals .
animals do not exhibit an increase in speed when placed in an environment that relies on a combination of swimming and crawling behaviors compared to control .
an epidermal enclosure defect that results in internal organs lying on the outside of the embryo .
pre - treatment with stress - inducing temperatures does not result in a life - span extension as it does in control animals .
variations in the biogenesis and stability of the small interfering class of rna molecules compared to control .
animals exhibit an increase in the levels of nuclear mrna species compared to control .
animals fail to silence nuclear - localized rnas .
variations in the biogenesis or stability of the microrna class of molecules compared to control .
variations in the behavioral plasticity induced by the integration of two sensory signals compared to control .
animals are more susceptible than control animals to the effects of a nucleic acid damaging agent .
response to trace levels of oxygen is reduced or weakened compared to the response of control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the actions of a channel that catalyses the transmembrane transfer of a cation when acetylcholine has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts compared to control animals .
obsolete: animals are deficient in the formation or disassembly of lysosomes .
animals are deficient in their recalled and repeated responses to stimuli they are exposed to during learning and memory paradigms .
animals exhibit variations in the targeting ,  clustering and or maintenance of ion channels in distinct subcellular domains of the neuron compared to control animals .
animals do not respond via directed movement to light stimuli in the same manner as control animals .
animals survive longer than control animals after or during exposure to dna damaging agents .
life span of the animal is not influenced by changes in temperature in the same manner as control animals .
cooling or warming evoked changes in membrane currents are not observed .
animals exhibit variations in temperature dependent differences in the length of their defecation cycle .
nuclei of specific cells are smaller compared to control animals .
the anterior body contraction and expulsion steps of the defecation cycle are absent ;  posterior body contractions are still present .
discrete foci within the cytoplasm containing congregations of mrna translational suppression and degradation mechanisms vary in their arrangement ,  clustering or are otherwise not well - defined compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in repeat lengths of microsatellite genomic sequences compared to control .
animals exhibit increased sensitivity to interstrand cross - linking agents ,  such as hn2  ( nitrogen mustard )  and cddp  ( cisplatin )  compared to control .
germline nuclei do not progress through pachytene to diplotene .
the processes that inhibit the location or frequency of formation of synapses are downregulated resulting in the formation of synapses or synapse - like structures in areas of the neuron that are typically devoid of synapses in control animals .
the processes that inhibit the location or frequency of formation of synapses are upregulated compared to control .
changes in the levels of innate immune gene products in response to pathogen exposure are significantly different from that observed in control animals .
animals fail to establish or maintain characteristics that delineate the dendrite from the axon .
animals fail to relax their body wall muscles to the same extent as muscles in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the formation or disassembly of membrane bound organelles that traffic material between the plasma membrane and internal compartments of the cell ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit a decrease in the number of fat containing organelles compared to control .
inner membrane of mitochondria are disconnected and form vesicular bodies .
any variation in the ability of a protein to resist disintegration via chemical or physical modifications compared to control .
any variation in the process of generating multiple mrna molecules from a given set of exons by differential use of exons from the primary transcript ( s )  to form multiple mature mrnas that vary in their exon composition compared to control .
the degradation of genomic and or cellular material of the corpse does not occur at the same rate or under the same conditions as observed in control animals undergoing cell death .
the formation of mature intracellular compartments via membrane fusion is disrupted .
animals exhibit variations in the partitioning of oocytes from each other compared to control animals .
animals retain a significantly greater proportion of their fat upon serotonin treatment ,  compared to control .
during development of the embryo ,  the epidermis loses integrity and the contents of the embryo are expelled .
animals exhibit defects in the stabilization of homologue pairing ,  which occurs through the initiation and formation of the synaptonemal complex ,  during meiosis .
animals exhibit defects in the number or extent of connections between chromatids that occur during the process of genetic material exchange between homologous segments of non - sister chromatids .
animals exhibit defects in the asymmetric diassembly of the synaptonemal complex during progression through meiosis .
neuromuscular signaling between neurons and egg laying musculature varies from that observed for control animals .
the conditioned aversion to a specific chemical compound as a result of that compound being coupled with an unfavorable condition ,  such as starvation ,  does not increase to the same extent as observed for control animals .
activity of the neuron varies from that observed for control animals or neurons .
the number of pathogens associated with the animal vary from that associated with control animals .
animals tend to accumulate at the thickest part of the bacterial lawn .
animals do not accumulate at the thickest part of the bacterial lawn .
animals produce pheromone but it does not undergo controlled release into the environment .
any variation in the mechanism by which sperm find their correct target destinations  ( spermatheca )  .
animals exhibit variations in any process necessary for the progression through prophase during meiosis compared to control animals .
animals have very few or no germline nuclei and gonad arms that are very small or missing .
variations in the regulated breakdown of rna species via the action of cellular enzymes  ( rnases )  compared to control .
variations in any process that involves the maintenance ,  biosynthesis or accumulation of rna in the organism compared to control .
variations in the persistence of an rnai induced phenotype compared to control .
any variation that results in the premature differentiation of spermatids into motile spermatozoa compared to control .
any variation in an animal's response to exposure to multiple stressors occuring simultaneously or during an overlapping temporal window compared to control .
any variation in the formation of intestinal microvilli .
any variation that disrupts the assembly ,  distribution ,  localization or organization of any of the numerous similar discrete openings in the nuclear envelope ,  where the inner and outer nuclear membranes are joined .
any variation in the directed movement of substances in a cell ,  from one side of a membrane to another ,  compared to control .
variations in the processes regulating the excision of intervening introns from the primary mrna transcript ,  compared to control .
variations in the amount of energy consumed by an organism compared to control .
any variation in the overall structure or appearance of the protective barrier which isolates the embryo from the external environment ,  compared to control  .
life span of the animal is not influenced by changes in diet in the same manner as control animals .
gene expression of an animal is not influenced by drug treatment in the same manner as control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of phorbol esters that elicit a response in control animals .
variations in the processes that restore integrity to a damaged tissue following an injury ,  compared to control .
any variation in a series of molecular signals that help relay a receptor mediated signal within the cell ,  compared to control .
any variation in the state or activity of an organism as a result of abrupt discontinuation or decreased dosage of a drug ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in any process that involves the degradation ,  biosynthesis or accumulation of hormones within the organism compared to control .
variations in the process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of lipids ,  compared to control .
variations in the covalent alteration of one or more components  ( eg: fatty acids ,  sterols etc . ) 
early phagosomes fail to undergo the maturation process following the ingestion of particulate material by phagocytosis ;  during maturation ,  phagosomes acquire markers of late endosomes and lysosomes .
variations in the processes that facilitate / permit dauer entry when exposed to specific sterol molecules ,  compared to control .
variations in the process by which the anatomical structures of a tube are generated and organized ,  compared to control .
variations in the regulation of levels ,  transport ,  and metabolism of zinc ions within an organism compared to control .
programmed cell death of germ cells caused by exposure to ionizing energy does not occur to the same extent as it does in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in radiation induced non - apoptotic death of multipotential precursor cells or tissues  ( clonogens )  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in their response to an agent that destroys or causes the expulsion of parasitic intestinal worms compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to the amino - acetonitrile derivatives  ( aads )  class of synthetic anthelmintics ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to the microtubule - depolymerizing drug benomyl ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of fluoride ions that elicits a response in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to ivermectin ,  an agonist of glutamate - gated chloride channels ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
gene expression of an animal is not influenced by the exposure to disease causing agents in the same manner as control animals .
animals fail to suppress head oscillations in response to anterior touch .
any variation in the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins on dna or rna to form the complex that mediates dosage compensation on one or more x chromosomes ,  compared to control .
variations in the directed movement of membrane - bounded vesicles from recycling endosomes back to the plasma membrane where they are recycled for further rounds of transport ,  compared to control .
gene expression of an animal is not influenced by environmental changes in the same manner as control animals .
variations in the regulation of levels ,  transport ,  and metabolism of manganese ions within an organism compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in their response to manganese compared to that observed in control animals .
any variation in the processes that modulate the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of ,  within or between cells by means of some external agent such as a transporter or pore compared to control .
variations in the process by which one or more ubiquitin moieties are added to a protein ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit a reduction in pathogen accumulation ,  persistent colonization ,  and luminal distension of the intestine .
early embryos exhibit defects in the assembly ,  disassembly ,  arrangement ,  elongation or stabilization of the microtubule spindle asters during a mitotic cell cycle .
cells undergoing meiosis exhibit defects in the overall function or activity of the meiotic spindle .
cells undergoing meiosis exhibit defects in the positioning of the meiotic spindle .
cells undergoing meiosis exhibit defects in the rotation of the meiotic spindle .
life span of the animal is not influenced by drug exposure in the same manner as control animals .
locomotion of the animal is not influenced by drug exposure in the same manner as control animals .
early embryos exhibit defects in the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the meiotic spindle ,  the array of microtubules and associated molecules that serves to move duplicated and / or homologous chromosomes apart .
any variation in the conjugation of the ubiquitin - like protein nedd8 to another protein compared to control .
chromosomal masses fail to fully separate and remained linked during anaphase .
any variation in the formation or disassembly of the cylindrical structures that are composed of groupings of microtubules found close to the nucleus  ( centrioles )  compared to control .
any variation in the structure ,  form or composition of the membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the response to the addition of hydroxyurea compared to that observed in control animals .
animals respond to hydroxyurea at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
any variation in the form ,  structure or composition of the endoplasmic reticulum compared to control .
any variation in the normally asymmetric distribution of the endoplasmic reticulum during cell divisions of the early embryo .
any variation in the number of chromosomes in a cell compared to control .
embryos exhibit defects in the formation of the groove in the cell surface near the old metaphase plate at the onset of cytokinesis .
embryos exhibit defects in the maintenance or termination of the groove in the cell surface near the old metaphase plate during cytokinesis .
animals execute supernumerary cell divisions during the development of the lateral ,  alae - producing epithelial cells ,  resulting in a larger number of these cells than control animals .
animals exhibit an increase in the number of fat containing organelles compared to control .
any variation in the form ,  structure or composition of the repeating units of a myofibrils in a muscle cell that are composed of an array of overlapping thick and thin filaments ,  compared to control .
any variation in the attachment plaque for thin filaments onto the cell membrane .
animals exhibit variations in the form ,  structure or composition of a planar structure within the muscle sarcomere which lies midway within the thick filament  ( a )  band ,  attaching to the plasma membrane at its base and running up towards the inward surface of the myofilament lattice ,  compared to control animals  ( wormatlas )  .
any variation in the levels of the polymerized form of glucose throughout the body of the animal as compared to controls .
any reduction in the membrane potential  ( voltage gradient )  across the inner mitochondrial membrane compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the number of nuclei contained in a particular cell type compared to control .
parental chromosomes fail to undergo appropriate mixing upon pronuclear fusion resulting in a zygotic nucleus in which parental genomes remain segregated .
animals exhibit a decrease in the extent of activation of programmed cell death by exposure to the nucleic acid damaging agent ,  gamma irradiation ,  compared to control .
variations in the state or activity of an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
variations in the process by which sister chromatids ,  identical chromosomes resulting from dna replication ,  are physically separated during the meiotic cell cycle ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the amount of glutathione compared to control animals at a defined stage .
animals exhibit a decrease in the cellular levels of reduced glutathione  ( gsh )  ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the formation or disassembly of fat containing organelles compared to control .
animals exhibit an increase in the size of fat containing organelles compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the formation ,  maturation or disassembly of the centrosome  ( a subcellular body consisting of two centrioles embedded in a protein matrix )  .
animals fail to exhibit toxicity to the concentration of manganese that elicits a response in control animals .
animals lay fewer total number of eggs over the lifetime of the animal .
during epidermal morphogenesis ,  hypodermal cells do not properly undergo the characteristic cell shape changes necessary for the embryo to elongate .
animals exhibit defects in the generation of the dorsal epithelial sheet ,  which entails distinct cell shape changes and movements to affect the interdigitation of two rows of dorsal cells resulting in a single row of cells across the dorsal midline .
the animal displays defects in any step of the ventral enclosure process resulting an embryo that is not enclosed and or with interior cells protruding out of the embryo .
obsolete .any variation in the prevention of mrna translation that normally occurs in certain cells ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the assembly ,  arrangement ,  orientation ,  or disassembly of the kinetochore ,  a multisubunit protein complex on chromosomes where the spindle fibers attach during cell division to pull the chromosomes apart .
animals do not regrow axons following axon loss or damage ,  to the same extent ,  or in the same manner as observed in control animals .
the number of coelomocytes are reduced compared to control animals .
the number of coelomocytes are increased compared to control animals .
animals contain fewer pharyngeal cells compared to control animals .
any variation that results in the cellular expression of an mrna in cells / tissues ,  that is otherwise not observed in control animals .
pathogens internally associated with the animal exhibit an increase in survival compared to control animals .
variations in the processes that incorporate acetyl groups to one or more amino acids within a protein ,  compared to control .
animals respond to a specific chemical at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals exhibit larger inclusions within the intestinal cytoplasm ,  including birefringent crystalline objects and other dark - staining endosomes .
the growth of pharyngeal components occurs in a radial fashion around the longitudinal axis of the worm as demonstrated by bent radial contractile arrays within the pharyngeal muscle cells .
any variation in the creation of double - strand breaks that occur during meiosis that may result in the initiation of meiotic recombination .
any variation in the directed movement of organelles or molecules along microtubules in nerve cell axons .
the population of the lateral ,  alae - producing epithelial cells  ( seam cells )  is reduced compared to control animals .
oocytes are found one on top of the other in the dorsal to ventral orientation in the gonad .
oocytes are no longer arranged in the gonad in the same manner as control animals .
basal contraction rate and or peak contraction rate of the gonadal sheath is increased relative to control animals .
animals produce an excess number of distal tip cells compared to controls .
animals produce an excess number of gonad arms compared to controls .
the gonads of male animals do not produce the linker cell involved in guiding the developing male gonad to the sex organs in the male tail .
animals extend altered or fewer numbers of dorsal and or ventral muscle arms compared to control animals .
the morphology or number of connections between muscle arms and commissural motor axons varies from control animals .
animals exhibit ectopic plasma membrane extensions from muscle ,  these extensions are random projections that are thinner than the typical muscle arm .
the pattern of localization of presynaptic markers is disrupted compared to control animals .
any variation in the extension of vulval muscles compared to control .
animals become paralyzed in response to aggregation of proteins like poly - glutamine or beta - amyloid .
animals fail to respond to the aggregation of proteins that elicits a paralysis response in control animals .
animals respond to protein aggregation at a lower concentration of aggregates or in less time compared to control animals .
any variation in the process of restoring dna after damage .
animals are not repelled by bitter tastants such as quinine ,  primaquine quinacrine etc . ,  to the same extent as control animals .
any variation in the form ,  structure or composition of the nucleus - free core of germ line cytoplasm in the gonad compared to control animals .
the nucleus - free core of germline cytoplasm in the gonad is not as wide as control animals .
the nucleus - free core of germline cytoplasm in the gonad is missing .
the width of the nucleus - free core of germline cytoplasm in the gonad is larger compared to control animals .
a decreased number of celullarized haploid female germ cells  ( oocytes )  are present in the gonad compared to control .
the size of haploid female germ cells  ( oocytes )  are significantly smaller compared to control .
developing oocytes show defects in their entry ,  progression through or exit from the pachytene stage compared to control animals .
developing oocytes show defects in their entry ,  progression through or exit from the diplotene stage compared to control animals .
developing oocytes show defects in their entry ,  progression through or exit from the diakinesis stage compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations from control animals in the organization of the germ cell nuclei in the gonad that are in the diakinesis stage .
animals exhibit variations from control animals in the organization of the germ cell nuclei in the gonad that are in the diplotene stage .
animals exhibit variations from control animals in the organization of the germ cell nuclei in the pachytene stage region of the gonad .
variations in the directed movement / or positioning of a nucleus to a specific location within the germline compartment compared to control .
nuclei have fallen out of developing germ cell compartments into the rachis .
the diplotene stage is not observed in developing oocytes .
haploid female germ cells  ( oocytes )  contain more than one nucleus .
haploid female germ cells  ( oocytes )  lack a nucleus .
a decrease in size of the specialized tissue of the reproductive tract that produces the male or female gametes compared to control  ( wormatlas )  .
animals contain a gonad that initially functioned ,  but subsequently stopped .
pulling forces on the astral microtubules at the spindle poles vary from that observed for control spindles .
the spindle in the early embryo is aberrant in the characteristic posterior aster oscillations that occur along the transverse longitudinal axis of the spindle .
animals continue to produce progeny significantly past the time reproduction stops in control animals .
animals produce less distal tip cells compared to controls .
the association of homologs during diakinesis and the maintenance of their association through meiosis i as well as the preservation of centromeric cohesin between sister chromatids does not proceed as it does in control animals .
animals exhibit differential regulation of the dopaminergic fate among the various classes of dopaminergic neurons .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for the composition ,  component distribution ,  or other aspect of membranes of the cell ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for the composition ,  component distribution ,  or other aspect of membranes of within the cell ,  compared to control animals .
animals differ from control animals in the length of or mechanics of the steps that culminate in the preservation and subsequent disassembly of the synaptonemal complex ,  the specification of bivalent arms ,  and proper cohesion of sister chromatids .
all somatic gonad precursor  ( sgp )  daughters adopt a proximal fate resulting in an increase in the number of ac precursor cells at the expense of distal tip cells  ( dtc )  ,  which are thereby absent .
any variation in the form or composition of the compartments in the germline of females / hermaphrodites compared to control animals .
germ cell compartments contain an an atypical number on nuclei compared to control .
germ cell compartments do not contain a nucleus .
germ cell compartments contain multiple nuclei .
any variation in germ cell compartment size compared to control .
germ cell compartments are smaller than that of control animals .
germ cell compartments are larger than that of control animals .
any variation in the form or composition of the compartment partitions in the germline of females / hermaphrodites that exist when nuclei are still connected to a common cytoplasm  ( rachis )  ,  compared to control animals .
animals lack germ cell partitions  ( germ cell compartments )  .
animals contain small ,  fluid - filled ,  anucleate ,  spherical membrane - bound structures within the gonad .
animals exhibit variations in the increase in size of compartments of the germline .
the compartments of the germline do not increase in size .
variations in the process ( es )  involved in the assembly ,  transport ,  arrangement or disassembly of cell membrane structures or components compared to control .
variation of the time an individual spent on a patch of food  ( bacterial lawn )  before leaving ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit axons with migration behaviors that differ from those observed in control animals after the axons cross a half - way point between opposing neural cords .
animals exhibit axons with migration behaviors that differ from those observed in control animals before the axons reach a half - way point between opposing neural cords .
animals undergo an irreversible high temperature - induced developmental arrest during the first larval stage .
any variation in the measured levels of acetylcholinesterase  ( ache )  activity compared to control animals .
animals respond to a detergent at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals respond to hypoxic  ( low oxygen levels )  stress after a shorter exposure time compared to control .
animals fail to respond to low amounts of oxygen that elicit a response in control animals .
response to low levels of oxygen is reduced or weakened compared to the response of control animals .
animals exhibit an increase in the number of somatic sheath cells surrounding each gonad arm compared to controls .
animals exhibit fewer somatic sheath cells surrounding each gonad arm ,  compared to controls .
any variation in the establishment of left - right asymmetry of the body axis compared to controls .
cells of the animals exhibit variations in the progression or exit from the biochemical and morphological processes that occur during successive replication or nuclear replication events from that observed for control animals .
any variation in the cell cycle arrest process that results in arrest during g1 phase ,  whereupon the cell enters a specialized resting state known as g0 or quiescence before entering the s phase ,  compared to control .
the nucleus or nuclei are not positioned in a similar manner or pattern in the cell or syncytium to that observed in controls .
animals respond more severely to laser ablation than control animals subjected to the same laser ablation conditions .
animals behave differently from control animals in assays testing for the ability to resolve or respond to conflicting sensory inputs .
animals that exhibit an increase in locomotion activity do not return to basal level locomotion activity at the same rate as that of control animals .
the number of synapses per unit area of a neuron differs in the animal compared to that observed for control animals .
a cell or cell of the animal exhibits extra centrosomes  ( a subcellular body consisting of two centrioles embedded in a protein matrix )  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in steady - state levels of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  compared to control .
animals exhibit defects in the flow rate or targeting of the cortical actomyosin network ,  which occurs during polarization as well as contraction of the contractile ring ,  compared to control animals .
the tension of the cytoskeleton comprised of the actomyosin network differs from controls .
compared to controls ,  embryos exhibit variations in the part meiosis i in which homologous chromosomes separate and migrate away from each other .
embryos display cortical protusions during cytokinesis .
animals exhibit variations in the non - enzymatic glycosylation process of attaching a protein or lipid to a sugar molecule ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations from controls in their protein degradation machinery ,  which functions through the hydrolysis of internal ,  alpha - peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain .
the dynamics of the replacement of old proteins by newly synthesized or modified proteins varies from that of control animals .
animals exhibit a secondary vulval invagination that is anterior or posterior to the primary opening depending on the the inappropriate placement of daughter cells along the anterior / posterior axis during vulval development .
any variation in the process of chromosome organization that is involved in meiosis ,  compared to control .
chromosomes fails to pair with homologous chromosomes during the prophase stage of meiosis .
any observed variation in the measurement of current across the cell membrane compared to measurements in control animals .
any observed variation in the measurement of voltage across the cell membrane compared to measurements in control animals .
failure to execute the characteristic response to biotin as defined by control animals .
any variation in the ability of multipotent vulval precursor cells to respond to signals compared to control animals .
seam cells fuse to form a continuous syncytium along the body wall at a later stage of development compared to control .
adult animals display a smaller number of eggs inside the uterus compared to controls
transmission of the signal along the neuron varies from control .
animals exhibit variations in the autonomously initiated periodic trains of calcium transients observed at the synapse ,  which are independent of presynaptic inputs .
calcium transients at presynaptic regions do not occur .
animals exhibit variations in the autonomously initiated periodic trains of calcium transients observed either at the cell body or the synaptic region ,  which are independent of presynaptic inputs .
animals exhibit variations in the autonomously initiated periodic trains of calcium transients observed in cell bodies ,  which are independent of presynaptic inputs .
the diameter ,  volume ,  or area taken up by a cell differs from that measured in control animals .
animals differ from control animals in response to mechanical stimulation targeting different parts of the same cell .
vpcs differentiate in the absence of inductive signals coming from the gonad .
animals differ from controls in their electrical response to mechanical stimulus .
variations in the regulation of levels ,  transport ,  and metabolism of metal ions within an organism compared to control .
variations in the regulation of levels ,  transport ,  and metabolism of magnesium ions within an organism compared to control .
exposure to carbohydrate binding gene products result in an altered action in comparison to controls .
animals differ from controls in the range ,  specificity ,  or presence of targets for exogenously applied lectins .
animals contain targets for exogenously applied lectins .
animals are not observed to contain targets for exogenously applied lectins .
exposure to lectin has no affect on the behavior ,  growth ,  or development of the animal compared to controls .
exposure to lectin results in altered behavior ,  growth ,  or development of the animal compared to controls .
the appearance and association of components along the double lipid bilayer enclosing the nucleus differs from controls .
proteins show defects in their localization in the cilia compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variation in the directed movement of organelles or molecules along microtubules from the cell periphery in nerve cell axons to the cell body ,  compared to control .
chromosomes are not segregated symmetrically during mitosis .
animals exhibit variation in timing or ability to molt .
molting cycles do not occur in a temporally controlled manner and cannot be synchronized across a population .
the number of cross progeny produced by hermaphrodites is reduced compared to control hermaphrodites .
hermaphrodites do not produce cross progeny .
animals exhibit fewer cell corpses compared to controls at the same developmental life stage .
variations in the regulation of levels ,  transport ,  and metabolism of iron within an organism compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in their response to muscimol compared to that observed in control animals .
animals survive longer ,  or do not respond to the same degree as control animals under similar conditions of abamectin exposure .
animals are not affected to the same degree as control animals under similar conditions of abamectin exposure .
animals are do not survive ,  or become paralyzed in the presence of abamectin .
the production or regulation of ascaroside molecule populations differs from that of control animals .
animals lack the ability to produce ascarosides that are capable of being produced in control animals .
animals fail to respond to or exhibit an attenuated response to ivermectin under conditions that elicits a response in control animals .
animals exhibit an exaggerated response to magnesium compared to control animals exposed to similar concentrations .
animals do not exhibit light - induced currrents to the same extent or with the same quality as control animals .
any variation in the specific actions or reactions of an organism causing an alteration in the ingestion of food compared to control animals .
animals respond to bacillus thuringiensis toxins  ( bt toxins )  at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals are not affected to the same degree as control animals under similar conditions of pore forming toxin exposure .
animals respond to pore forming toxins at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of pore forming toxins that elicits a response in control animals .
any variation in the progressive decompaction of chromatin that changes chromosome structure from the condensed form to a relaxed disperse form .
the process of decompaction of chromatin that changes chromosome structure from the condensed form to a relaxed disperse form is abolished .
animals differ from controls in the expression of genes targeted for silencing  ( gene inactivation )  in subsequent generations via transcriptional or post - transcriptional processes .
animals express genes that had been targeted for heritable silencing in previous generations .
animals display variations in the manner in which the basement membrane  ( a thin ,  dense ,  sheet - like structure built on a network of polymeric laminin and type iv collagen )  is remodeled ,  compared to control animals .
animals display variations in the manner in which an opening in the basement membrane  ( a thin ,  dense ,  sheet - like structure built on a network of polymeric laminin and type iv collagen )  expands to make way for intertissue connections ,  compared to control animals .
animals differ from control animals in cortical actomyocin dynamics leading to internalization of endodermal precursor cells during gastrulation .
there is significantly less difference between the number of astral microtubles or other component ( s )  of the spindle microtuble organizing center at the anterior versus posterior poles of the spindle ,  than observed in control animals .
axons in animals do not end in the same manner as they do in control animals .
animals do not mimic control animals in their egg - laying response to muscimol exposure .
the length of the animal does not increase to the same extent as observed for control animals ,  in response to exposure to muscimol .
animals exhibit variations in any process that involves the maintenance ,  biosynthesis or accumulation of an internal store of carbohydrates within the organism or cell compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the regulation of levels ,  transport ,  and metabolism of cations within a cell or between a cell and its external environment ,  compared to control .
animals vary in the directed or coordinated movement of their centrosomes during cell division ,  compared to the pattern of movement observed in control animals .
embryos exhibit variations in the processes that lead to the construction of the eggshell ,  a protective structure that minimizes water loss whilst allowing gas exchanges essential for embryonic respiration ,  compared to controls
the process of secretion by a cell that results in the release of intracellular molecules contained within a specialized secretory vesicle that fuses with the plasma membrane during egg activation .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of a dopamine that elicits a response in control animals .
the pattern or state of methyl modifications of histone varies from that of controls .
the animal's ability to reproduce ,  or start of reproduction occurs later than that observed for control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the degree to which or manner in which an intestinal cell is able to uptake peptides  ( for example ,  di -  or tripeptides )  from the intestinal lumen ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit an increase in the degree to which an intestinal cell is able to uptake peptides  ( for example ,  di -  or tripeptides )  from the intestinal lumen ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit a decrease in the degree to which an intestinal cell is able to uptake peptides  ( for example ,  di -  or tripeptides )  from the intestinal lumen ,  compared to control animals .
the frequency and distribution of crossover events differs from that observed for controls .
animals differ from controls in respect to the frequency of expected double crossover events observed .
the number of crossover events differs from that of observed in control animals .
the location - specific frequency of crossover events differs from that of observed in control animals ,  while the total number of crossover events does not significantly differ .
animals respond to hydrogen sulfide at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals respond to dauer pheromone at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
any variation in the form or composition of the basic structural and functional components of cells compared to control .
any variation in the form or composition of membrane bound organelles ,  known as endosomes ,   that traffic material between the plasma membrane and internal compartments of the cell ,  compared to control .
any variation in the form or composition of membrane bound organelles ,  known as late endosomes ,   that traffic material from early endosomes to internal compartments of the cell ,  such as lysosomes or the golgi apparatus ,  compared to control .
any variation in the form or composition of membrane bound organelles ,  known as early endosomes ,   that traffic material from endocytic vesicles  ( having recently internalized portions of the cell's plasma membrane )  to internal compartments of the cell ,  such as recycling endosomes ,  late endosomes ,  or the golgi apparatus ,  compared to control .
any variation in the form or composition of membrane bound organelles ,  known as recycling endosomes ,   that traffic material from early endosomes back to the plasma membrane of the cell ,  thereby recycling recently endocytosed material to be reused at the plasma membrane .
any variation in the form or composition of membrane bound organelles ,  known as recycling endosomes ,  positive for the rab protein rab - 11 ,  that traffic material from early endosomes back to the plasma membrane of the cell ,  thereby recycling recently endocytosed material to be reused at the plasma membrane .
any variation in the form or composition of membrane bound organelles ,  known as lysosome - related organelles  ( lros )  that ,  like lysosomes ,  have an acidic interior and generally act to digest components of the cell but are distinct in function ,  composition ,  and morphology ,  compared to control .
any variation in the form or composition of membrane bound organelles ,  known as the golgi apparatus ,  that traffic material from the endoplasmic reticulum or various endosomes ,  and process proteins for secretion ,  compared to control .
any variation in the form or composition of membrane bound organelles ,  known as lysosomes ,  that have an acidic interior and generally act to digest components of the cell ,  compared to control .
any variation in the subcellular localization of the basic structural and functional components of cells compared to control .
any variation in the subcellular localization of membrane bound organelles ,  known as lysosome - related organelles  ( lros )  that ,  like lysosomes ,  have an acidic interior and generally act to digest components of the cell but are distinct in function ,  composition ,  and morphology ,  compared to control .
any variation in the subcellular localization of membrane bound organelles ,  known as endosomes ,   that traffic material between the plasma membrane and internal compartments of the cell ,  compared to control .
any variation in the subcellular localization of the endoplasmic reticulum compared to control .
any variation in the subcellular localization of membrane bound organelles ,  known as the golgi apparatus ,  that traffic material from the endoplasmic reticulum or various endosomes ,  and process proteins for secretion ,  compared to control .
any variation in the subcellular localization of membrane bound organelles ,  known as lysosomes ,  that have an acidic interior and generally act to digest components of the cell ,  compared to control .
any variation in the subcellular localization of membrane bound organelles ,  known as recycling endosomes ,   that traffic material from early endosomes back to the plasma membrane of the cell ,  thereby recycling recently endocytosed material to be reused at the plasma membrane .
any variation in the subcellular localization of membrane bound organelles ,  known as late endosomes ,   that traffic material from early endosomes to internal compartments of the cell ,  such as lysosomes or the golgi apparatus ,  compared to control .
any variation in the subcellular localization of membrane bound organelles ,  known as early endosomes ,   that traffic material from endocytic vesicles  ( having recently internalized portions of the cell's plasma membrane )  to internal compartments of the cell ,  such as recycling endosomes ,  late endosomes ,  or the golgi apparatus ,  compared to control .
any variation in the subcellular localization of membrane bound organelles ,  known as recycling endosomes ,  positive for the rab protein rab - 11 ,  that traffic material from early endosomes back to the plasma membrane of the cell ,  thereby recycling recently endocytosed material to be reused at the plasma membrane .
any variation in the form or composition of specialized cell types ,  compared to control .
animals are affected by exposure to the drug .
any variation in the form or composition of membrane bound organelles ,  known as recycling endosomes ,  positive for the endocytosis protein rme - 1 ,  that traffic material from early endosomes back to the plasma membrane of the cell ,  thereby recycling recently endocytosed material to be reused at the plasma membrane .
any variation in the subcellular localization of membrane bound organelles ,  known as recycling endosomes ,  positive for the endocytosis protein rme - 1 ,  that traffic material from early endosomes back to the plasma membrane of the cell ,  thereby recycling recently endocytosed material to be reused at the plasma membrane .
animals are unable to maintain paired chromosome throughout pachytene .
animals differ from controls in respect to the formation of paired chromosome loci .
animals become paralyzed after a measured amount of time swimming .
animals do not avoid ,  and perhaps seek ,  environments that result in their death .
animals are barely alive ,  but not entirely dead .
animals exhibit constrictions in the anterior portion of the head that result in decapitation .
populations exhibit variations in the ability to survive ,  grow and reproduce ,  thus affecting the contribution to the gene pool over generations compared to control populations .
the process of generating multiple mrna molecules from differential use of exons in a primary transcript ( s )  does not occur or occurs with outcomes not observed in control animals .
any variation in the process of restoring mitochondrial dna after damage .
the presence of a mixture of more than one type of an organellar genome  ( mitochondrial dna  ( mtdna )  or plastid dna )  within a cell or individual .
mitochondria from spermatazoa persist in the developing embryo and animal as a result of bypassing the degradation mechanism that normally destroys paternal mitochondria immediately after fertilization .
the pattern or state of acetylation modifications of histones varies from that of controls .
the distribution or presence of actin in circumferential actin bundles  ( cfb )  differs from that observed in control animals .
animals do not grow fast or the quality of growth is decreased when exposed to a specific chemical compound when compared to control animals .
animals exhibit a decrease in the accumulation or expression of biochromes or any other substances that fluoresce in the intestine .
animals exhibit variation rate of directed movement of organelles or molecules along microtubules in nerve cell axons ,  compared to control .
males remain on food in the absence of mates ,  a defect in male mate - searching behavior observed in control males .
relative levels of mtdna differ from that observed for control animals .
males exhibit variations of the behaviors observed in control animals that follow the completion of mating .
animals display variations in the structure or organization of the components of the muscle ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
the formation ,  organization ,  or stability of a protein complex is altered in comparison to corresponding complexes in control animals .
the bulk flow of cytoplasm in the egg ,  that facilitates mixing of ooplasm ,  occurs at a reduced rate compared to that measured for controls .
animals are less successful than controls in evading predators during predator - prey interactions .
predator - prey interactions differ from that observed in control interactions .
animals are missing the anchor cell .
the rate of the process preceding formation of the peptide bond between the first two amino acids of a protein is reduced .
animals are altered in their capacity to survive a normally lethal temperature treatment as a consequence of pretreatment at an elevated but sublethal temperature .
any variation in the morphological appearance of the linker cell compared to control animals .
males do not respond to small molecules or compounds that have been shown to attract control males .
variations in the process of gaseous oxygen intake between an organism and its environment compared to control animals .
the activity ,  composition ,  or organization of the complexes of the electron transport chain ,  embedded in the inner mitochondrial membrane ,  differ from controls .
the part of the respiratory chain that catalyzes the oxidation of succinate and connects the tca cycle with the respiratory chain ,  differs in activity ,  composition ,  or organization ,  from that of controls .
the protein complex located in the mitochondrial inner membrane that is the first entry point for electrons into the electron transport chain and catalyzes proton translocation coupled to the oxidation of nadh by ubiquinone ,  differs in activity ,  composition ,  or organization from that of controls .
animals are unable to produce or maintain short interfering rna  ( sirna )  from double stranded rna  ( dsrna )  .
animals exhibit variations from controls in the expression ,  biogenesis ,  processing ,  or stability of any class of small rna species in the germline .
animals exhibit variations from controls in the expression ,  biogenesis ,  processing ,  or stability of any class of small rna species in somatic cells .
animals show reduced susceptibility to gene silencing in somatic cells triggered by double stranded rna  ( dsrna )  ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations from controls in the expression ,  biogenesis ,  processing ,  or stability of the small x - chromosome derived rnas  ( x cluster )  species of small rna .
rnai silencing mechanisms triggered by exogenously introduced  ( foreign )  dsrna ,  do not work to the same degree as in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the extent to which polyadenylated mrna transcripts become deadenylated
programmed cell death of germ cells caused by exposure to physical or chemical dna - damaging agents does not occur to the same extent as it does in control animals .
the production of silencing rna from dsrna is significantly deficient compared to controls .
the extent of mrna ribosome associations varies from controls .
the production of mature mirna from pre - mirna is significantly deficient compared to controls .
wild - type animals will exhibit an altered temperature preference based on food / temperature conditioning .
the extent of translational repression varies from controls .
the selective elimination of p granule components and subsequent aggregation of degraded components into pgl granules is disrupted .
animals exhibit an increase in pathogen accumulation ,  persistent colonization ,  and luminal distension of the intestine .
the intracellular complex of proteins that participates in bidirectional transport of molecules  ( cargo )  along axonemal microtubules is not made up of or does not maintain the proper number or ratio of components as found in control animals .
animals exhibit variations from controls in the organization of chromatin ,  including in relation to associated complexes ,  that occur during the mitotic cell division cycle .
cells exhibit mitotic spindles with more than two poles .
animals exhibit a decreased rate of oxygen utilization compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their defense responses that are mediated by germline encoded components that directly recognize components of potential pathogens .
the extent or other quality of the excitatory postsynaptic potential  ( epsp )  induced by in vitro stimuli differs from that of controls .
the difference in electrical potential between the interior and the exterior of the muscle cell either in the resting state or during evoked stimulation differs from controls .
the amount of histone methylation ,  for example as measured by the amount of h3k4me2 ,  increases over successive generations
animals exhibit a decline in fertility over generations .
animals stop producing progeny significantly before the time reproduction stops in control animals .
any variation in the series of molecular signals in which a cell or tissue uses calcium ions to convert a signal into a response ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the characteristic movement towards typically attractive alkaline ph  ( ph higher than 7 )  compared to control .
infected animals exhibit variations in the process of releasing pathogens back into the environment ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the number of cells that make up the organism compared to control animals .
the number of cells in the organism is reduced compared to control animals .
the number of cells in the organism is increased compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the structure ,  organization or placement of the population of the lateral ,  alae - producing epithelial cells  ( seam cells )  ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
any variation in the components that make up the semipermeable bilayer surrounding a cell that separates the cell from its external environment compared to control .
any variation in the components that make up either of the two leaflets of the semipermeable bilayer surrounding a cell that separates the cell from its external environment compared to control .
animals do not arrest mitotic germ cell division ,  as control animals ,  when treated with x - ray radiation .
animals exhibit variations in the process by which cells having undergone programmed cell death are shed or extruded into the extracellular environment .
animals produce an excess number of excretory cells compared to controls .
animals exhibit variations in endogenous levels of reactive oxygen species  ( chemically reactive molecules containing oxygen )  compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in levels of dna damage caused by oxidative stress .
any variation in the amount of cells undergoing apoptosis in organism as a result of deprivation of nourishment ,  compared to control .
animals develop endodermal cells / tissue from precursor cells that do not normally produce endodermal cells / tissue .
animals develop pharyngeal muscles from precursor cells that do not normally produce pharyngeal muscles .
animals develop body wall muscle from precursor cells that do not normally produce body wall muscle .
any variation in the progression of the components of the male gonad that are separate from the germline proper over time ,  from its formation to its mature structure compared to control .
animals produce an excess number of linker cells compared to controls .
the population of hypodermal cells is reduced compared to control animals .
animals produce a reduced number of sex myoblasts compared to controls .
animals produce an excess number of sex myoblasts compared to controls .
the orientation of the progeny of p7 .p mimic those of p5 .p and face towards the posterior of the worm ,  a phenotype referred to as posterior - reversed vulval lineage  ( p - rvl )  .
animals do not differ in size when grown on different food sources to the same extent as that measured for control animals .
animals exhibit variations in growth rate or the outcome of growth in response to food compared to control .
the driving force of the outward flow of ions does not exceed the inward flow for the opposite driving force or is otherwise altered when compared to that measured for control animals .
catalysis of the transmembrane transfer of a solute by a channel whose open state is dependent on the voltage across the membrane in which it is embedded is altered from that observed for controls .
the proper localization and assembly of components at the junction of a neuron with a muscle cell varies from that observed in control animals .
the degree of stimulus - evoked calcium concentration changes differs from that of controls .
variations in the progression of the muscles of the adult hermaphrodite oviduct over time from their initial formation to their mature structure compared to control .
dying animals cells exhibit defects in the fragmentation of chromosomal dna into oligonucleosomal - length fragments compared to control animals .
embryos exhibit defects in the extension of pharyngeal cells toward the buccal opening during embryogenesis compared to controls .
corpses resulting from programmed cell death appear different in size or shape from those of corpses in control animals .
animals exhibit defects in the muscle contractions of the anterior region of corpus ,  the area responsible for allowing food to enter the corpus .
animals exhibit negative effects on growth ,  development ,  or metabolism when exposed to a galactose - rich diet ,  compared to control animals .
animals process dietary galactose differently than control animals ,  these differences can result in increased and or decreased levels of intermediary galactose metabolites .
animals are missing one or both gonad arms ,  the normally u - shaped projections of the gonad that extend into the anterior or posterior of the animal and bends back towards the center of the animal .
the expression of a protein ,  as determined by antibody staining ,  varied from controls with respect to timing such that the protein was observed to be expressed at earlier timepoints or later timepoints than controls .
any variation in the development of the structure that lies on the ventral surface just anterior and central to the base of the spicule openings  ( small lump on the gubernaculum of the male tail )  and contains a sensory structure called the hook sensillum ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit an extra number of the finger - like sensory sensilla that project from the tail and embed in the male fan .
animals exhibit defects in dye - filling of the neuronal cells of the phasmid sensilla .
animals exhibit defects in dye - filling of the neuronal cells of the amphid sensilla .
any variation that results in a decrease in the catalytic phosphorylation activity of a kinase enzyme compared to control .
animals contain an excess number of pharyngeal muscle cells compared to control .
any variation that results in a fewer than control number of body wall muscle cells .
any variation in the cellular or subcellular distribution of a gene product ,  as detected by antibody staining ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
animals respond to antimony at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals respond to arsenite at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals respond to fluoranthene at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals respond to antimonite at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
the pharynx contains cavities ,  possibly indicative of inappropriate cell death .
the uterus contains cavities ,  possibly indicative of inappropriate cell death .
animals respond at a faster rate or to lower concentrations of manganese that that observed for control animals .
animals respond to mercury at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals respond to lead at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals respond to cobalt at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to lead compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to aluminum compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to chromium compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibited higher amounts of internal metal concentrations compared to control animals .
oxidative stress induced by manganese differs from that of control worms .
the polarity reversal process by which synaptic components are removed from one side of the synapse and then reformed on the opposite cell does not occur or occurs in a different manner than in controls .
the swimming behavior of animals are influenced or modulate by the osmolarity of the swimming buffer .
animals contain excess acidified intracellular compartments .
animals are unable to grow on media depleted of phosphate .
the degradation of endocytosed and intracellular material does not occur to the same extent as it does in control animals .
animals exhibit disruptions in tubular or tubulo - vesicular structures that function in endocytic transport from early to recycling endosomes .
animals exhibit increased endogenous levels of reactive oxygen species  ( chemically reactive molecules containing oxygen )  compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit reduced endogenous levels of reactive oxygen species  ( chemically reactive molecules containing oxygen )  compared to that observed in control animals .
any variation in the morphology of the different inclusions within the intestinal cytoplasm ,  including birefringent crystalline objects and other dark - staining endosomes compared to control .
animals consume less food than control animals
animals exhibit detrimental responses to iron deficiency more readily than control animals .
animals do not produce the same amount of functional phytochelatins as measured in control worms .
animals respond to arsenic at a lower concentration or at a shorter exposure time compared to control animals .
animals exhibit reduced levels of endogenous zinc compared to control animals .
animals exhibit increased levels of endogenous zinc compared to control animals .
variations in the regulation of levels ,  transport ,  and metabolism of copper ions within an organism compared to control .
animals exhibit detrimental responses to zinc deficiency more readily than control animals
protein oxidation levels ,  as measured by carbonylated protein levels for example ,  are reduced compared to controls .
animals respond to silver at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals respond to silver nanoparticles  ( agnps )  at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals are more prone to infection by virus compared to control animals .
animals exhibit lowered levels of any or all of the clades of 22g rna molecules ,  compared to control .
three - prime  ( 3' )  uridylation of mrna targeted for silencing does not occur at the same rate or extent of targeted mrna in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in any process that involves the maintenance ,  biosynthesis or accumulation of amino acids within the organism or cell compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in their response to selenium compared to that observed in control animals .
animals respond to iron at a lower concentration or a shorter exposure compared to control animals .
animals fail to exhibit toxicity to the concentration of nickel that elicits a response in control animals .
the number of terminal regions of a neuron's dendrite is less that that observed for control animals .
ooctyes and or sperm appear vacuolated and degenerated compared to gametes in control animals .
an effective connection between reciprocal target neurons is not established properly .
animals display variations in the distribution of the constituents of the postsynaptic side of the active zone ,  compared to control animals ,  that are required for receiving signals from the presynaptic side .
any increase in the membrane potential  ( voltage gradient )  across the inner mitochondrial membrane compared to control .
animals exhibit an increase in the cellular levels of adenosine - 5' - triphosphate  ( atp )  ,  compared to control .
variations in the processes that are carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of membrane bound organelles ,  known as lysosome - related organelles  ( lros )  that ,  like lysosomes ,  have an acidic interior and generally act to digest components of the cell but are distinct in function ,  composition ,  and morphology ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the overall amount of mitochondria present in the animal ,  as determined by ,  for example ,  mitotracker staining .
animals exhibit increases in the overall amount of mitochondria present in the animal ,  as determined by ,  for example ,  mitotracker staining .
animals exhibit decreases in the overall amount of mitochondria present in the animal ,  as determined by ,  for example ,  mitotracker staining .
animals exhibit an increased rate of oxygen utilization compared to control animals .
animals exhibit a decrease in the quantity of metabolites ,  small molecule products or intermediates required for the metabolic functioning of the cell or organism
animals exhibit variations in the rate at which food is absorbed by the intestine ,  as determined by a time - course recording of fat staining  ( by c1 - bodipy - c12 ,  for example )  normalized to controls
animals exhibit variations in the covalent modification of one or more native amino acid side chains in proteins to carbonyl derivatives such as an aldehyde or ketone .
animals exhibit enhanced negative effects on growth ,  health ,  development or metabolism ,  in response to dietary sugar - rich diets ,  compared to controls .
males receive copulatory plugs from other males ,  deposited elsewhere on their bodies ,  in the absence of any orifice .
males receive copulatory plugs from other males ,  deposited on their excretory pores .
the life span of dauer - staged animals is shorter than that observed in control dauer animals .
the life span of dauer - staged animals is longer than that observed in control dauer animals .
animals do not develop acute functional tolerance to alcohol after a short exposure ,  unlike that observed in control animals
animals exhibit a decrease in the size of fat containing organelles compared to control .
animals exhibit resistance to osmotic stress compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit hypersensitivty to osmotic stress compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit increased levels of the process by which their cells digest parts of their own cytoplasm ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit reduced levels of the process by which their cells digest parts of their own cytoplasm ,  compared to control .
any variation in the extent of the maximum flex of the most anterior portion of the animal compared to control animals .
animals exhibit a decrease in the extent of the maximum flex of the most anterior portion of the animal compared to control animals .
animals exhibit an increase in the extent of the maximum flex of the most anterior portion of the animal compared to control animals .
the most posterior portion of the animal exhibits variations in its movement compared to control .
any variation in the extent of the maximum flex of the most posterior portion of the animal compared to control animals .
animals exhibit an increase in the extent of the maximum flex of the most posterior portion of the animal compared to control animals .
animals exhibit a decrease in the extent of the maximum flex of the most posterior portion of the animal compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in body posture with regard to the extent of displacement measured from the mean position to an extreme position compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in body posture caused by a decrease in the extent of displacement measured from the mean position to an extreme position compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in body posture caused by an increase in the extent of displacement measured from the mean position to an extreme position compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in body posture with regard to the distance between repeating units of a wave pattern compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in body posture caused by a decrease in the distance between repeating units of a wave pattern compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in body posture caused by an increase in the distance between repeating units of a wave pattern compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the occurrence of a coil - like body posture compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the amount of time spent with its body posture in a coil or the frequency with which they form coils compared to control animals .
animals spend less time with their body posture in a coil or they decrease the frequency with which they form coils compared to control animals .
animals spend more time with their body posture in a coil or they increase the frequency with which they form coils compared to control animals .
the extreme anterior of the animal exhibits variations in its movement compared to control .
animals exhibit a decrease in the movement of the extreme anterior portion of the body to a new location compared to control .
animals exhibit an increase in the movement of the extreme anterior portion of the body to a new location compared to control .
animals exhibit a decrease in the movement of the most anterior portion of the body to a new location compared to control .
animals exhibit an increase in the movement of the most anterior portion of the body to a new location compared to control .
animals exhibit a decrease in the movement of the most posterior portion of the body to a new location compared to control .
animals exhibit an increase in the movement of the most posterior portion of the body to a new location compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the amount of time spent in a paused state ,  which is neither moving forward or backward ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit a decrease in the amount of time spent in a paused state ,  which is neither moving forward or backward ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit an increase in the amount of time spent in a paused state ,  which is neither moving forward or backward ,  compared to control animals .
variations in the behavior by which an organism alters its trajectory of movement compared to control ,  excluding shifts from forward to backward movements  ( this is reversal )  .
animals exhibit variations in the frequency of execution of the behavior by which the animal alters its trajectory of movement compared to control ,  excluding shifts from forward to backward movements  ( this is reversal )  .
animals exhibit an increase in the frequency of execution of the behavior by which the animal alters its trajectory of movement compared to control ,  excluding shifts from forward to backward movements  ( this is reversal )  .
animals exhibit a decrease in the frequency of execution of the behavior by which the animal alters its trajectory of movement compared to control ,  excluding shifts from forward to backward movements  ( this is reversal )  .
animals exhibit variations in their movement at high - speed in the forward direction with brief backward movement compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the low - speed / high turning movement that restricts them to a confined region compared to control .
animals exhibit an increase in the low - speed / high turning movement that usually restricts them to a confined region compared to control .
animals exhibit a decrease in the low - speed / high turning movement that usually restricts them to a confined region compared to control .
animals exhibit an increase in their high - speed movement in the forward direction with brief backward movement compared to control .
variations in the behavior by which an organism shifts from forward to backward movements .
animals exhibit decreased velocity of forward translocation of any point along the animal's track from that observed for control animals .
animals exhibit increased velocity of forward translocation of any point along the animal's track from that observed for control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the velocity of backward translocation of any point along the animal's track from that observed for control animals .
animals exhibit decreased velocity of backward translocation of any point along the animal's track from that observed for control animals .
animals exhibit increased velocity of backward translocation of any point along the animal's track from that observed for control animals .
animals exhibit a decrease in the net velocity of an animal .
animals exhibit an increase in the net velocity of an animal
animals exhibit an increase in the extent of a vibratory movement  ( as a worm bend )  measured from the mean position to an extreme position compared to control .
obsolete .
obsolete .
obsolete .
animals exhibit variations in the length of the minimum enclosing rectangle surrounding the worm body on a solid medium ,  as viewed through the microscope .
animals exhibit increased length of the minimum enclosing rectangle surrounding the worm body on a solid medium ,  as viewed through the microscope .
animals exhibit decreased length of the minimum enclosing rectangle surrounding the worm body on a solid medium ,  as viewed through the microscope .
animals exhibit variations in the extent to which the overall path of movement is curved ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit increases in the extent to which the overall path of movement is curved ,  producing tighter and more frequent curves compared to control animals .
animals exhibit decreases in the extent to which the overall path of movement is curved ,  producing shallower ,  less frequent curves and an overall straighter path ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the body - area - to - length ratio and / or the width - to - length ratio ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit increases in the body - area - to - length ratio and / or the width - to - length ratio ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit decreases in the body - area - to - length ratio and / or the width - to - length ratio ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in instantaneous posture with regards to eccentricity  ( measure of circularity )  or the mean number  ( and / or standard deviation )  of instantaneous body bends .
animals exhibit increased posture eccentricity  ( measure of circularity )  or the mean number  ( and / or standard deviation )  of instantaneous body bends .
animals exhibit decreased posture eccentricity  ( measure of circularity )  or the mean number  ( and / or standard deviation )  of instantaneous body bends .
animals spend less time backing compared to control animals .
variations in the spontaneous or induced forward crawling locomotion of an animal compared to control .
animals spend more time in forward locomotion ,  compared to control animals .
animals spend less time in forward locomotion ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit an increase in the frequency of oscillations between adjacent body segments from that observed for control animals .
the levels of phosphatidylinositol 3 - phosphate  ( a .k .a .
animals exhibit increases in steady - state levels of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  compared to control .
animals exhibit reductions in steady - state levels of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  compared to control .
animals exhibit elevated levels of transfer rna compared to control .
animals exhibit reduced levels of transfer rna compared to control .
animals are more prone to infection from fungal pathogens compared to control animals .
animals are more prone to infection by bacterial pathogens compared to control animals .
animals are negatively affected by bacteria that is nonpathogenic to control animals .
animals exhibit an increase in the quantity of metabolites ,  small molecule products or intermediates required for the metabolic functioning of the cell or organism .
the conversion of one differentiated cell type into another does not occur as it does in control animals .
animals exhibit an increase in the covalent modification of one or more native amino acid side chains in proteins to carbonyl derivatives such as an aldehyde or ketone .
animals respond more severely to cold than control animals subjected to the same cold conditions .
animals exhibit increased fluidity of cell membranes ,  compared to control animals .
variations in the process by which one or more sumo moieties are added to a protein ,  compared to control .
animals are more resistant to the reduction of cholesterol in the environment compared to control animals .
spontaneous axon breaks leading to degeneration of separated segments .
following axon damage ,  animals do not undergo axonal fusion after reconnection between the regrowing axon and its separated segment to the same extent as observed in control animals .
animals do not suppress exploratory head movements in response to anterior touch stimuli ,  unlike control animals .
animals are less successful than controls in extracting themselves from mesh or other non - living obstructing obstacles .
lysosomal refractile bodies are apoptotic - like cell corpse ;  however ,  they differ in size and shape and can be described as resembling irregular cell corpses .
animals exhibit sister cells that have lost otherwise normal asynchrony of cell division timing ,  compared to control animals .
animals fail to execute their characteristic movements to avoid noxious heat in a manner consistent with controls .
vesicles ,  including those in cells ,  cell bodies ,  or synaptic terminals ,  do not properly form or maintain an intermediate state ,  such as remain coated with a clathrin coat .
vesicles in the presynaptic terminal differ in size ,  shape ,  or composition from those observed in control animals .
animals show a stronger preference for a particular bacterium that has been grown under conditions that differ from a control lawn .
animals are deficient in the transport of silencing rnas between cells during the systemic rnai response process .
animals that exhibit paralysis  ( reduced thrashing )  revert back to normal swimming behavior that can be tabulated as a reversion index  ( number revertants / number paralysis )  and reversion probability  ( time in reversion / time after paralysis )  .
animals exhibit one or more mrnas with decreased length of the 3' polyadenine tail ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit one or more mrnas with increased length of the 3' polyadenine tail ,  compared to control .
variations in the characteristic movement away from specific disease causing agents  ( pathogens )  compared to control animals .
the subcellular localization of mitochondrial organelles differ from that observed in control cells .
neurons undergo a dramatic decrease in cell volume ,  collapse of the vacuoles and processes ,  and complete disintegration of the plasma membrane and most organelles at a faster rate or greater extent than those under conditions that elicit this response in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the amount and / or quality of pheromone produced compared to control animals at a defined stage .
animals fail to respond to the concentration of a bioactive compound that elicits a response in control animals .
any variation in the decreased behavioral response to repeated light head or tail touch compared to control .
animals are resistant to the toxicity of an anti - infective xenobiotic such as r24 .
animals fail to avoid a high ph  ( alkaline )  environment as compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the assembly of the fibrous body - membranous organelle  ( fb - mo )  ,  a nematode sperm - specific organelle involved in cytoplasmic partitioning during spermatogenesis ,  compared to control animals .
dividing cells exhibit additional arrays of microtubules emanating from a spindle pole that do not connect to kinetochores ,  compared to control .
any variation in the second stage of cell division ,  between prophase and anaphase ,  during which the chromosomes become attached to the spindle fibers .
any variation in the stage of meiotic or mitotic cell division in which the chromosomes move away from one another to opposite poles of the spindle .
animals exhibit larger variations in cell division timing events than in controls .
cells attempt to divide but fail to form two daughter cells .
a depletion of somatic ,  but not germline ,  lipid stores are observed near the end of the reproductive period .
any variation in the processes that govern the directed extension of neurite projections along the anteroposterior  axis of the animal compared to controls .
the closure of a phagosome does not occur and it remains connected with the plasma membrane ,  leaving the lumen open to the outside .
animals exhibit variations in recognition of cell corpses and initiation of corpse engulfment ,  compared to controls .
animals with a tumorous germline exhibit a decreased frequency of the presence of a tumor prolapse ,  a protrusion of tumor cells from the vulva ,  compared to control .
animals with a tumorous germline exhibit an increased frequency of the presence of a tumor prolapse ,  a protrusion of tumor cells from the vulva ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the aggregation behavior of starved l1 larvae ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit variations in their response to a specific neurotransmitter compared to that observed in control animals .
animals do not live or live poorly in the presence of glucose concentrations that normally do not have an effect on control animals .
the concentration of fatty acids in the animal are greater than that observed for control animals .
a cell  ( or group of cells )  is not found in the correct body position compared the placement in control animals .
ventral midline blastomeres  ( p cells )  are misaligned  ( not properly paired )  along the ventral midline of larval animals .
cell - cell contacts are abnormal ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the behavioral response to pheromones ,  compared to control .
any neurite that is extended towards the posterior of the animal from neurons that in wild - type animals make only anterior projections  ( e .g .
any variation in the overall size of fertilized oocytes that are laid compared to those laid by control animals .
any variation that disrupts the cytoplasmic division of a cell during development compared to control .
one or more extra cleavage furrows are observed in a cell about to undergo division .
cells exhibit defects in the formation ,  maintenance or termination of the groove in the cell surface near the old metaphase plate during cytokinesis .
cells exhibit defects in the formation of the groove in the cell surface near the old metaphase plate at the onset of cytokinesis .
cells exhibit defects in the maintenance or termination of the groove in the cell surface near the old metaphase plate during cytokinesis .
animals have more than one nucleus in a particular cell type .
any variation in the assembly ,  disassembly ,  arrangement ,  elongation or stabilization of the array of microtubules and associated molecules that forms between opposite poles of a eukaryotic cell during mitosis or meiosis and serves to move the duplicated chromosomes apart compared to control .
cells exhibit defects in the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle ,  the array of microtubules and associated molecules that serves to move duplicated chromosomes apart .
any variation in the placement of the array of microtubules and associated molecules that form between opposite poles of a eukaryotic cell during mitosis or meiosis compared to control .
any variation in the rotation of the spindle compared to control .
cells lack the array of microtubules and associated molecules that form between opposite poles of a eukaryotic cell during mitosis or meiosis .
any variation in the assembly ,  disassembly ,  arrangement ,  elongation or stabilization of the microtubule spindle asters during a cell cycle .
animals exhibit variations in the nature and / or extent of chromatin modification ,  including but not limited to acetylation and / or methylation of histones ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit increased ability to survive at low temperatures compared to controls .
animals respond to tunicamycin at a higher concentration or a longer exposure compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in response to hypoxia ,  low oxygen conditions ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit variations in response to anoxia ,  trace oxygen conditions ,  compared to controls .
variations in the specific actions or reactions in response to external or internal stimuli in response to the aggregation of proteins .
the duration of viability in the adult phase of the life - cycle is lowered in response to the aggregation of proteins .
variations in the behavioral plasticity induced by the integration of two sensory signals in response to the aggregation of proteins .
animals exhibit degeneration of the intestine ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the degree to which some proteins are glycosylated ,  compared to controls .
any variation in the extent of mitochondrial dna damage observed compared to controls .
a telomerase - independent telomere maintenance pathway that allows for strains to survive in the absence of telomerase .
animals do not respond with sleeping behavior induced through the egf pathway .
animals respond with sleeping behavior induced through the egf pathway ,  more rigorously than control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to mitochondrial stress ,  compared to controls .
nematodes exposed to dna damaging agents or conditions exhibit lower susceptibility to dna damage than other animals .
nematodes exposed to dna damaging agents or conditions exhibit greater susceptibility to dna damage than other animals .
animals exhibit variations in the expression of repetitive exogenous dna compared to control .
animals exhibit reduced expression of repetitive exogenous dna compared to control .
animals exhibit increased expression of repetitive exogenous dna compared to control .
any perturbation that renders sperm incompetent at fertilizing an oocyte .
the time between two pumps of the pharynx is increased compared to control animals .
the duration of the contraction of the pharyngeal muscle during pumping is increased compared to controls .
any variation in the specific actions or reactions of the male that are associated with the protraction of the male copulatory spicules compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of pyrimidine nucleobases ,  1 , 3 - diazine ,  organic nitrogenous bases .
animals have one or more extra hypodermal cells ,  which are present in places they are normally not found ,  when compared to the number and location of these cells in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in pharyngeal pumping rate in response to light ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit variations in the acute pharyngeal pumping response to light ,  during which the pharyngeal pumping rate initially  ( 0 - 5 seconds after light exposure onset )  decreases in response to light ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit an enhanced acute pharyngeal pumping response to light ,  such that pharyngeal pumping rate decreases in response to light to a greater extent than in controls during the first 0 - 5 seconds after light exposure onset .
animals exhibit a reduced acute pharyngeal pumping response to light ,  such that pharyngeal pumping rate decreases in response to light to a lesser extent than in controls during the first 0 - 5 seconds after light exposure onset .
animals exhibit variations in the burst pharyngeal pumping response to light ,  during which the pharyngeal pumping rate slightly increases during the5 - 10 seconds after light exposure onset ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit an enhanced burst pharyngeal pumping response to light ,  such that during the5 - 10 seconds after light exposure onset the pharyngeal pumping rate increases to a greater extent than in controls .
animals exhibit a reduced burst pharyngeal pumping response to light ,  such that during the5 - 10 seconds after light exposure onset the pharyngeal pumping rate increases to a lesser extent than in controls .
animals exhibit variations in the recovery pharyngeal pumping response to light ,  during which the pharyngeal pumping rate slowly increases during the 0 - 10 seconds afterremoval of light exposure ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit an enhanced recovery pharyngeal pumping response to light ,  such that during the 0 - 10 seconds after removal of light exposure the pharyngeal pumping rate increases to a greater extent than in controls .
animals exhibit a reduced recovery pharyngeal pumping response to light ,  such that during the 0 - 10 seconds after removal of light exposure the pharyngeal pumping rate increasesto a lesser extent than in controls .
animals exhibit variations in the changes in calcium levels in response to light compared to controls .
formation in the male of the egg - laying organ of female and hermaphrodite nematodes .
any variation in the form ,  structure or composition of any part of an animal caused by the perturbation of maternal gene products that are contributed to oogenesis and are required during embryogenesis .
animals exhibit hyperinduction of expression of an antimicrobial peptide after an infection ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit no induction of expression of an antimicrobial peptide after an infection ,  unlike control animals .
pathogens exhibit decreased adherence to the surface of host animals .
pathogens exhibit increased adherence to the surface of host animals .
male animals lack a copulatory hook .
male animals exhibit multiple copulatory hooks .
the pattern or state of ubiquitin modifications of histones varies from that of controls .
variations in the processes that incorporate methyl groups to one or more bases within rna ,  compared to control .
males continue to sire progeny significantly past the time reproduction stops in control animals or show a slower decline in mating efficiency compared to age - matched control males .
animals exhibit a reduction in the rate of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a protein ,  compared to control .
any variation in the decrease in a behavioral response to a repeated plate tap stimulus compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the length of the microtubule - based dendritic projections extending from the cell body ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit an increase in the length of the microtubule - based dendritic projections extending from the cell body ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
animals exhibit a reduction in the length of the microtubule - based dendritic projections extending from the cell body ,  compared to that observed in control animals .
animals fail to undergo the cellular catabolic process in which cells digest parts of their own cytoplasm .
animals are less prone to infection by virus compared to control .
animals vary in the distance between most anterior and the most posterior ends of the pharynx from that observed in control animals .
animals have an increase in the distance between most anterior and the most posterior ends of the pharynx from that observed in control animals .
any variation in the subcellular localization of the ribosome compared to control .
any variation in the cellular and molecular pathways in a neuron in response to having its axon severed compared to severing in control animals .
any increase in regenerative regrowth of axons compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the amount of heme compared to control animals .
animals exhibit a decrease in the amount of heme compared to control animals .
animals exhibit an increase in the amount of heme compared to control animals .
animals are less prone to infection by a fungus compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in fluidity of cell membranes ,  compared to control animals .
any variation in the morphological appearance of germline precursor cells compared to control animals .
animals exhibit persistent cellular lobes of the primordial germ cells z2 and / or z3 at the l1 larval stage or later ,  in contrast to wild type animals
animals exhibit variations in the integrity of the intestine ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit an increase in the integrity of the intestine ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit a reduction in the integrity of the intestine ,  compared to controls .
neurons exhibit axon outgrowth in locations not normally found in controls .
neurons exhibit neurite outgrowth in locations not normally found in controls .
animals exhibit one or more body wall muscle cells in locations not normally found in controls .
animals exhibit one or more cells of a particular type in locations not normally found in controls .
animals exhibit one or more endodermal cells in locations not normally found in controls .
animals exhibit one or more hypodermal cells in locations not normally found in controls .
animals exhibit one or more neurons in locations not normally found in controls .
animals exhibit one or more pharyngeal muscle cells in locations not normally found in controls .
animals exhibit one or more organs of a particular type in locations not normally found in controls .
animals exhibit one or more vulvae in locations not normally found in controls .
one or more cells exhibit one or more cleavage furrows in locations not normally found in control cells .
one or more cells of the early embryo  ( one - cell stage to four - cell stage )  exhibit one or more cleavage furrows in locations not normally found in control cells .
animals exhibit an increase in the covalent addition of an acetyl group to one or more native amino acid side chains in proteins .
animals exhibit an increase the creation of double - strand breaks that occur during meiosis that may result in the initiation of meiotic recombination .
infected animals exhibit a reduction in the release of pathogens back into the environment ,  compared to control .
infected animals exhibit variations in the clearance of pathogen infection compared to controls .
infected animals exhibit an increased rate of clearance of pathogen infection compared to controls .
infected animals exhibit a decreased rate of clearance of pathogen infection compared to controls .
animals produce an excess number of neurons compared to controls .
animals produce an excess number of dopaminergic neurons compared to controls .
animals exhibit fewer neurons compared to control animals .
animals exhibit fewer glutamatergic neurons compared to control animals .
variations in behavior that is dependent upon the sensation of temperature ,  compared to control .
any variation in the directed movement of a worm in response to a specific temperature gradient compared to control .
animals do not exhibit backward locomotion under conditions that induce backward locomotion in control animals .
animals exhibit a defective response to pathogens .
animals exhibit variations ,  compared to control ,  in the distance traveled in a burrowing assay ,  in which animals are placed in a tube ,  separated from an attractant by solid medium through which the worms can burrow .
animals exhibit a reduction ,  compared to control ,  in the distance traveled in a burrowing assay ,  in which animals are placed in a tube ,  separated from an attractant by solid medium through which the worms can burrow .
the length of one or more axons is abnormal compared to the length of the corresponding axon ( s )  in control animals .
the length of one or more axons is reduced compared to the length of the corresponding axon ( s )  in control animals .
one or more cells exhibit variations in the morphology of one or more gap junction plaques ,  sets of associated gap junctions ,  compared to controls .
one or more cells exhibit an increase in number of gap junction plaques ,  sets of associated gap junctions ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit variations in the recovery from l1 larvae developmental arrest in response to a lack of food  ( starvation )  available in the environment .
animals exhibit a slow recovery from starvation - induced l1 arrest ,  compared to controls .
animals are more sensitive to the depletion of molybdenum cofactor from the diet compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to diet ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit variations in the response to the depletion of molybdenum cofactor from the diet compared to control animals .
animals in the dauer larval stage exhibit variations in their physiology  ( any biological process including but not limited to development ,  behavior ,  or metabolism )  compared to controls .
animals  ( or cells )  exhibit defects in the ability to produce mature micrornas  ( mirnas )  from a mirna locus .
animals exhibit defects or impairments in the functioning of the proteasome .
the level of phosphatidylserine exposed on the external axonal membrane following transection  ( axotomy )  is changed compared to controls .
animals exhibit variations in allogenic  ( non - self )  organelle autophagy ,  or allophagy ,  a macroautophagy process whereby organelles of non - self origin ,  like paternal mitochondria from sperm in a newly fertilized oocyte ,  are selectively degraded .
animals exhibit defects in allogenic  ( non - self )  organelle autophagy ,  or allophagy ,  a macroautophagy process whereby organelles of non - self origin ,  like paternal mitochondria from sperm in a newly fertilized oocyte ,  are selectively degraded .
animals exhibit variations in the expression of one or more known ,  endogenous ,  antimicrobial genes ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit variations in the extent to which one or more sensory neurons associated with sensilla  ( typically one or more amphids and / or phasmids )  take up dye from the environment ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit germ cells with a number of p granules that differs from control animals .
animals exhibit germ cells with a reduced number of p granules compared to control animals .
any variation in the series of molecular signals in which the spermatheca uses calcium ions to convert an extracellular signal into a response ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit an increase in the expression of one or more known ,  endogenous ,  antimicrobial genes ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit a reduced rate of lawn / food leaving events ,  compared to controls .
programmed cell death of germ cells caused by exposure to ionizing energy occurs to a lesser extent than it does in control animals .
cells exhibit specific regions of chromatin  ( e .g .
animals accumulate a greater number of mitochondrial genetic lesions than control animals in the absence of an externally controlled mutagen .
normally beneficial  ( or otherwise harmless ,  non - pathogenic )  commensal enterobacter bacteria ,  for example enterobacter cloacae ,  become pathogenic to animals ,  unlike in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to bacteria  ( pathogenic or non - pathogenic )  ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit variations in the load of bacteria ,  of a particular clade or in general ,  in the gut ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit a greater abundance of bacteria of the enterobacteriaceae family in the gut ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit a kinker phenotype that is due to conflicting ,  simultaneous forward and backward propagating bending waves .
animals exhibit an increase in the rate at which spontaneous backward locomotion is initiated compared to control .
animals exhibit a kinker phenotype that is due to conflicting ,  simultaneous forward and backward propagating bending waves ,  and over time has a tendency to move slowly backward due to a dominating reversal neural circuit .
a phenotype affecting a particular anatomical entity .
a phenotype affecting a particular cell .
a phenotype affecting a particular organ .
a phenotype affecting a particular organ system .
a phenotype affecting the whole organism .
a phenotype affecting a particular tissue .
a phenotype affecting a particular body region .
a phenotype affecting a particular extracellular component .
animals exhibit abnormalities in their burrowing behavior ,  in which animals burrow into a solid medium ,  such as agar ,  compared to control animals .
greater quantities of worms burrow into and stay below the surface of the agar when high densities of nematodes are maintained on agar compared to controls  ( hodgkin and doniach ,  1997 )  .
cells exhibit defects in the homotypic fusion of endosomes .
cells exhibit variations or abnormalities in their maintenance of lysosome function ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit variations in any physical or chemical process required for the neuron to carry out its normal functions or activities or be able to perceive and respond to cues ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their recalled and repeated responses to stimuli they are exposed to during learning and memory paradigms ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit variations in their recalled and repeated responses to olfactory stimuli they are exposed to during learning and memory paradigms ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit variations in their recalled and repeated responses to olfactory stimuli they are exposed to during learning and memory paradigms over the long term ,  compared to controls .
animals are deficient in their recalled and repeated responses to olfactory stimuli they are exposed to during learning and memory paradigms over the long term ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit variations in their recalled and repeated responses to stimuli they are exposed to during learning and memory paradigms over the long term ,  compared to controls .
any variation in the progression of the hypodermis over time ,  from its formation to its mature state compared to control .
cessation of development during the gastrulation stage of embryonic development .
embryos exhibit a failure to enclose the anterior embryo region with hypodermis during the comma to early elongation stage of embryonic development .
animals exhibit variations in mitophagy ,  the selective autophagy process in which a mitochondrion is degraded by macroautophagy ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit reduced levels of mitophagy ,  the selective autophagy process in which a mitochondrion is degraded by macroautophagy ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit abnormal amounts of variation in gene expression level between individual animals ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit abnormal gene expression levels ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit reduced amounts of variation in gene expression level between individual animals ,  compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the composition of basement membranes ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the amount of laminin in basement membranes ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit variations in the amount of type iv collagen in basement membranes ,  compared to control animals .
one or more cells exhibit changes in the variability of cell position ,  compared to controls .
one or more cells exhibit increases in the variability of cell position ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit variations in miniature inhibitory post - synaptic currents  ( mipsc )  ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit increased amplitude of miniature inhibitory post - synaptic currents  ( mipsc )  ,  compared to controls .
animals survive longer ,  or do not respond to the same degree as control animals under similar conditions of bisphenol a exposure .
 ( pristionchus pacificus )  animals exhibit abnormal predatory behavior ,  compared to controls .
 ( pristionchus pacificus )  animals exhibit reduced predatory feeding behavior ,  indicated by reduced predation success ,  compared to controls .
animals are impaired in their burrowing ability compared to control animals in a pluronic gel - based burrowing assay .
animals exhibit variations or abnormalities in the structure ,  integrity ,  function ,  or quality of basement membranes ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit a reduction in neuron degeneration ,  compared to control animals .
the linker cell of male animals becomes detached from the rest of the male gonad .
one or more neurons of the animal exhibit one or more dendrites with reduced length compared to the corresponding dendrites in control animals .
animals exhibit variations in their response to changes in gravitational force ,  compared to control animals .
any variation in the decrease in a behavioral response to a repeated plate tap stimulus compared to control ,  over the short term .
any variation in the decrease in a behavioral response to a repeated plate tap stimulus compared to control ,  over the long term .
the reduction in brood size caused by sleep deprivation is enhanced ,  compared to controls .
the reduction in brood size caused by sleep deprivation is suppressed ,  compared to controls .
variations in the behavioral plasticity induced by the integration of two sensory signals  ( one of which is gustation  ( taste )  )  compared to control .
variations in the aversion of animals to substances sensed by gustation  ( taste )  previously associated with an aversive stimuli during a gustation training protocol ,  compared to control .
any variation in the decrease in a behavioral response to a repeated stimulus compared to control ,  over the long term .
any variation in the decrease in a behavioral response to a repeated stimulus compared to control ,  over the short term .
animals exhibit variations in their recalled and repeated responses to stimuli they are exposed to during learning and memory paradigms over the short term ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit a decrease in the rate at which spontaneous backward locomotion is initiated compared to control .
animals exhibit an abnormal response to toxic proteins ,  either via exposure in the environment or expressed within the organism ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit an abnormal response to toxic dipeptide repeat proteins ,  either via exposure in the environment or expressed within the organism ,  compared to controls .
normally toxic dipeptide repeat proteins appear to be less toxic to animals ,  compared to control animals .
animals exhibit reduced necrotic cell death ,  compared to controls .
one or more cellular nuclei exhibit an abnormal size ,  compared to controls .
a body elongation defect in which embryos develop abnormally bulged dorsal surfaces .
an anterior enclosure defect in which the anterior portion of the embryo ,  unenclosed by the hypodermis ,  bulges to form a hammerhead shape .
apoptosis occurs in cells or cell types that do not undergo apoptosis in controls .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of ,  or within the cytoplasm of a cell undergoing meiosis is impaired .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of ,  or within the cytoplasm of a cell is abnormal compared to control .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of ,  or within the cytoplasm of a cell undergoing meiosis is abnormal compared to control .
any variation in the specific actions or reactions of a hermaphrodite during mating compared to control .
animals exhibit defects in the production of the sensory signal to attract males .
males exhibit defects in their response to the mate - finding cue .
the inability of a male to respond properly to a potential mate after contact .
males exhibit variations in mating behavior prior to contacting its mate compared to control .
males exhibit variations in mating behavior after contacting its mate compared to control .
males exhibit defects in the continuous prodding of spicule tips at the vulva prior to prolonged spicule insertion .
males exhibit defects in the prolonged ,  tonic ,  spicule extrusion through the vulva prior to sperm transfer .
any variation in the mating process that includes the male stopping at the vulva  ( usually after backing )  compared to control .
any variation in the mating process that includes the male positioning his tail precisely over the vulva so that he may insert his spicules and ejaculate compared to control .
any variation in the retraction of spicules after all sperm that exit the seminal vesicle have been released compared to control .
any variation in the continued movement of sperm through the vas deferens ,  exiting the cloaca ,  compared to control .
any variation in the initial movement of sperm through the vas deferens ,  exiting the cloaca ,  compared to control .
any variation in the specific actions or reactions of a hermaphrodite after male contact during mating compared to control .
any variation in the specific actions or reactions of a hermaphrodite prior to male contact during mating compared to control .
any variation in the behavior exhibited by dauer larva in which they crawl up upon the substrate and wave back and forth while standing on their tail compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in their ability to maintain characteristic and effective locomotion compared to control .
any variation in the propagation of the contraction sine wave along the body while an animal travels from one location to another ,  compared to control .
obsolete .
any variation in the extent of a vibratory movement  ( as a worm bend )  measured from the mean position to an extreme position compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the frequency of oscillations between adjacent body segments from that observed for control animals .
any variation in the distance in the line of advance of a body wave from any one point to the next point of corresponding phase compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in the net velocity of an animal ,  that is ,  the maximum distance an animal traverses over an extended period of time ,  from that observed for control animals .
variations in the ability of an animal to respond with characteristic backward movement after a nose - on collision with an object compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in their response to substrate vibration compared to control .
animals exhibit variations in modulating their locomotory rate in response to its food  ,  compared to control .
any variation with respect to perception or response to mechanical stimuli in a sex dependent manner compared to control animals .
any variation in the response by the male to a hermaphrodite after initial contact following mate finding compared to control .
any variation in the ability of an animal to search for a mate compared to control .
the apparent partial collapse of the vulval invagination and the elongation of central vulva cells often leading to a flattened appearance .
any variation in the processes that govern acquisition of particular cell fates in the embryo ,  from the time of zygote formation until hatching compared to control .
any variation in the processes that govern acquisition of somatic cell fates in the embryo ,  from the time of zygote formation until hatching compared to control .
any variation in a learned olfactory response whereby exposure of animals to odorants during specific developmental times or physiological states results in a lasting memory compared to control .
variations in the process ( es )  by which a cell irreversibly increases in size over time by accretion and biosynthetic production of matter compared to control .
variations in the process ( es )  involved in the assembly and arrangement of cell structures compared to control .
animals exhibit a decreased rate programmed cell death pathway leading to the destruction of the cell ,  viewable in its terminally dismanteled form of a cell corpse ,  compared to that observed for control cells .
p results in the developmental progression of s iff p is a developmental process and s is an anatomical structure and p causes s to undergo a change in state at some point along its natural developmental cycle  ( this cycle starts with its formation ,  through the mature structure ,  and ends with its loss )  .
an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
b is an independent continuant = def .
an occurrent that has temporal proper parts and for some time t ,  p s - depends_on some material entity at t .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
elementary particle not affected by the strong force having a spin 1 / 2 ,  a negative elementary charge and a rest mass of 0 .000548579903 ( 13 )  u ,  or 0 .51099906 ( 15 )  mev .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mycoplasma genitalium .
a reagent that lightens or whitens a substrate through chemical reaction .
a drug that makes increases the sensitivity of tumour cells to radiation therapy .
any organic compound having an initial boiling point less than or equal to 250 degreec  ( 482 degreef )  measured at a standard atmospheric pressure of 101 .3 kpa .
an alkanesulfonate in which the carbon at position 1 is attached to r ,  which can represent hydrogens ,  a carbon chain ,  or other groups .
a compound that ,  on administration ,  undergoes conversion by biochemical  ( enzymatic )  ,  chemical  ( possibly following an enzymatic step )  ,  or physical  ( e .g .
any steroid that has beta - configuration at position 5 .
the monoprotonated form of quinine ,  the predominant species at ph7 .3 .
an atom of an element that exhibits properties that are between those of metals and nonmetals ,  or that has a mixture of them .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the amino group of any tertiary amino compound .
an n - alkylpyrrolidine that consists of n - methylpyrrolidine bearing a pyridin - 3 - yl substituent at position 2 .
any compound that can disrupt the functions of the endocrine  ( hormone )  system
a bronsted acid derived from one or more inorganic compounds .
any main group molecular entity that is gaseous at standard temperature and pressure  ( stp ;  0degreec and 100 kpa )  .
an alpha - oxyketone that has a hydroxy group as the alpha - oxy moiety .
an alpha - hydroxy ketone in which the carbonyl group and the hydroxy group are linked by a carbon bearing two organyl groups .
any saturated fatty acid containing 4 carbons .
a purine ribonucleoside that is a purine derivative attached to a beta - d - ribofuranosyl residue at position 9 via a glycosidic  ( n - glycosyl )  linkage .
a organic ion resulting from the deprotonation of the hydroxy group of any oxime .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of ouabain resulting from the deprotonation of the furanone moiety ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any substance that produces or enhances dream - like states of consciousness .
a quinolinium ion obtained by protonation of the quinoline nitrogen and tertiary amino group of the antimalarial drug chloroquine .
an ammonium ion derivative obtained from protonation of the nitrogens of emetine .
any agent that induces nausea and vomiting .
any antiviral agent which inhibits the activity of coronaviruses .
a divalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of both protons from hydrogen sulfide .
a purine nucleobase found in humans and other organisms .
a molecular entity that can accept an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group from another molecular entity .
a methyl ketone that consists of propane bearing an oxo group at c2 .
actylcholine is an ester of acetic acid and choline ,  which acts as a neurotransmitter .
a sulfur - containing amino acid that is propanoic acid with an amino group at position 2 and a sulfanyl group at position 3 .
a simple monocarboxylic acid containing two carbons .
an adenosine 5' - phosphate in which the 5' - phosphate is a triphosphate group .
a peptide zwitterion obtained from the tranfer of a proton from the carboxy group to the amino group of any tripeptide .
aldehydic parent sugars  ( polyhydroxy aldehydes h [ ch ( oh )  ] nc ( =o ) h ,  n  > = 2 )  and their intramolecular hemiacetals .
any alpha - amino acid having l - configuration at the alpha - carbon .
a primary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has either three hydrogen atoms attached to it or only one other carbon atom and two hydrogen atoms attached to it .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of formic acid .
an primary alcohol that is butan - 1 - ol in which a hydrogen at position 3 has been replaced by a methyl group .
a cinchona alkaloid that is cinchonidine in which the hydrogen at the 6 - position of the quinoline ring is substituted by methoxy .
a nucleobase - containing molecular entity with a polymeric structure comprised of a linear sequence of 13 or more nucleotide residues .
a monoatomic monoanion resulting from the addition of an electron to any halogen atom .
the simplest member of the class of  cyclopentanols bearing a single hydroxy substituent .
an azane that consists of a single nitrogen atom covelently bonded to three hydrogen atoms .
a sulfur hydride consisting of a single sulfur atom bonded to two hydrogen atoms .
a one - carbon compound in which the carbon is attached by single bonds to four hydrogen atoms .
a carbonyl group with two c - bound amine groups .
a 2 - aminopurine carrying a 6 - oxo substituent .
a primary alcohol that is ethane in which one of the hydrogens is substituted by a hydroxy group .
an inorganic peroxide consisting of two hydroxy groups joined by a covalent oxygen - oxygen single bond .
a lipid containing phosphoric acid as a mono -  or di - ester .
a ribonucleoside composed of a molecule of adenine attached to a ribofuranose moiety via a beta - n ( 9 )  - glycosidic bond .
an optically active form of cysteine having d - configuration .
compounds having the structure rsr  ( r = / = h )  .
a one - carbon compound with formula co2 in which the carbon is attached to each oxygen atom by a double bond .
a thioacetic acid that is acetic acid in which the oxygen atom of the hydroxy group has been replaced by a sulfur atom .
an alpha - diketone that is butane substituted by oxo groups at positions 2 and 3 .
any member of the class of organooxygen compounds that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone or a lactol resulting from their intramolecular condensation  ( monosaccharides )  ;  substances derived from these by reduction of the carbonyl group  ( alditols )  ,  by oxidation of one or more hydroxy groups to afford the corresponding aldehydes ,  ketones ,  or carboxylic acids ,  or by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by a hydrogen atom ;  and polymeric products arising by intermolecular acetal formation between two or more such molecules  ( disaccharides ,  polysaccharides and oligosaccharides )  .
amide derived from two or more amino carboxylic acid molecules  ( the same or different )  by formation of a covalent bond from the carbonyl carbon of one to the nitrogen atom of another with formal loss of water .
a ribosyl or deoxyribosyl derivative of a pyrimidine or purine base in which c - 5 of the ribose ring is mono -  ,  di -  ,  tri -  or tetra - phosphorylated .
the parent compound of the 6 - aminopurines ,  composed of a purine having an amino group at c - 6 .
any oligosaccharide ,  polysaccharide or their derivatives consisting of monosaccharides or monosaccharide derivatives linked by glycosidic bonds .
an aminoalkylindole consisting of indole having a 2 - aminoethyl group at the 3 - position .
a tripeptide compound consisting of glutamic acid attached via its side chain to the n - terminus of cysteinylglycine .
a gamma - amino acid that is butanoic acid with the amino substituent located at c - 4 .
a ribose in which the chiral carbon atom furthest away from the aldehyde group  ( c4' )  has the same configuration as in d - glyceraldehyde .
a compound in which a carbonyl group is bonded to two carbon atoms: r2c=o  ( neither r may be h )  .
a short - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of hexanoic acid  ( also known as caproic acid )  .
a member of the class of phenylethanolamines that is phenol which is substituted at the para -  position by a 2 - amino - 1 - hydroxyethyl group .
the 7h - tautomer of purine .
a sulfur oxoanion that is the conjugate base of hydrogen sulfite  ( h2so3 )  .
a compound rc ( =o ) h ,  in which a carbonyl group is bonded to one hydrogen atom and to one r group .
a 3' , 5' - cyclic purine nucleotide having having adenine as the nucleobase .
a carbohydrate that is an acyclic polyol having the general formula hoch2 [ ch ( oh )  ] nch2oh  ( formally derivable from an aldose by reduction of the carbonyl group )  .
the carbon oxoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from carbonic acid .
an optically active form of cysteine having l - configuration .
a common and naturally occurring pyrimidine nucleobase in which the pyrimidine ring is substituted with two oxo groups at positions 2 and 4 .
a straight chain alkane composed of 8 carbon atoms .
a 3 -  ( 1 - methylpyrrolidin - 2 - yl ) pyridine in which the chiral centre has s - configuration .
a triol with a structure of propane substituted at positions 1 ,  2 and 3 by hydroxy groups .
the primary alcohol that is the simplest aliphatic alcohol ,  comprising a methyl and an alcohol group .
a compound containing at least one carbon - halogen bond  ( where x is a halogen atom )  .
a mononuclear parent hydride consisting of covalently bonded hydrogen and chlorine atoms .
a molecular entity that can transfer  ( "donate" )  an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group to another molecular entity .
a short - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of butyric acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a halide anion formed when chlorine picks up an electron to form an an anion .
'lipids' is a loosely defined term for substances of biological origin that are soluble in nonpolar solvents .
an alcohol that consists of cyclohexane bearing a single hydroxy substituent .
any six - carbon monosaccharide which in its linear form contains either an aldehyde group at position 1  ( aldohexose )  or a ketone group at position 2  ( ketohexose )  .
a biomacromolecule consisting of large numbers of monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically .
any phosphatidylinositol that is phosphorylated at one or more of the hydroxy groups of inositol .
catechol in which the hydrogen at position 4 is substituted by a 2 - aminoethyl group .
an iron group element atom that has atomic number 26 .
any nucleoside where the sugar component is d - ribose .
that part of dna or rna that may be involved in pairing .
an acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon having the general formula cnh2n + 2 ,  and therefore consisting entirely of hydrogen atoms and saturated carbon atoms .
a phosphate ion that is the conjugate base of hydrogenphosphate .
a ribosyl or deoxyribosyl derivative of a pyrimidine or purine base in which c - 3 and c - 5 of the ribose ring are engaged in formation of a cyclic mono -  ,  di -  ,  tri -  or tetra - phosphate .
a racemate composed of equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - nicotine .
any aminopurine having the amino substituent at the 2 - position .
any compound having 6 - aminopurine  ( adenine )  as part of its structure .
a glycosyl compound arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and an h atom bound to a nitrogen atom ,  thus creating a c - n bond .
a substance used to destroy pests of the subclass acari  ( mites and ticks )  .
compounds with the general formula rnhc ( =o ) ch3 .
an organic group formed by removing one or more hydroxy groups from an oxoacid that has the general structure rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  .
any purine ribonucleoside that is a derivative of adenosine .
oximes of aldehydes rch=noh .
any of the naturally occurring ,  basic nitrogen compounds  ( mostly heterocyclic )  occurring mostly in the plant kingdom ,  but also found in bacteria ,  fungi ,  and animals .
a univalent group  - cnh2n + 1 derived from an alkane by removal of a hydrogen atom from any carbon atom .
highly reactive chemical that introduces alkyl radicals into biologically active molecules and thereby prevents their proper functioning .
an alcohol containing an amino functional group in addition to the alcohol - defining hydroxy group .
any purine having at least one amino substituent .
any  aromatic amine that is benzene carrying at least one amino substituent and its substituted derivatives .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the electron .
a substance that opposes oxidation or inhibits reactions brought about by dioxygen or peroxides .
a substance that destroys or inhibits replication of viruses .
an arsenic oxoanion resulting from the removal of one or more protons from arsenous acid .
a molecular entity having an available pair of electrons capable of forming a covalent bond with a hydron  ( bronsted base )  or with the vacant orbital of some other molecular entity  ( lewis base )  .
any arenecarbaldehyde that consists of a formyl substituted benzene ring and its substituted derivatives thereof .
any benzenoid aromatic compound consisting of the benzene skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
by usage ,  the methylenediphenols ,  hoc6h4ch2c6h4oh ,  commonly p , p - methylenediphenol ,  and their substitution products  ( generally derived from condensation of two equivalent amounts of a phenol with an aldehyde or ketone )  .
an insecticide compound naturally occurring in plants .
any  ketone that is butane substituted by an oxo group at unspecified position .
any ester of carbamic acid or its n - substituted derivatives .
the univalent carboacyl group formed by loss of  - oh from the carboxy group of carbamic acid .
a halogen molecular entity containing one or more atoms of chlorine .
an organic molecule or ion  ( usually a metal ion )  that is required by an enzyme for its activity .
an  alkaloid that is a carbotricyclic compound comprising 5 , 6 , 7 , 9 - tetrahydrobenzo [ a ] heptalene having four methoxy substituents at the 1 -  ,  2 -  ,  3 -  and 10 - positions as well as an oxo group at the 9 - position and an acetamido group at the 7 - position .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
a polyol consisting of a cycloalkane containing at least three hydroxy groups ,  each attached to a different ring carbon atom .
an alcohol in which one or more hydroxy groups are attached to a cyclohexane skeleton .
cyclopentane and its derivatives formed by substitution .
an alcohol in which one or more hydroxy groups are attached to a cyclopentane skeleton .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of cysteine at the amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or thiol group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of cysteine by a heteroatom .
an azole that is either one of a pair of heterocyclic organic compounds comprising three carbon atoms and two nitrogen atoms arranged in a ring .
any terpenoid derived from a diterpene .
any substance which when absorbed into a living organism may modify one or more of its functions .
a compound or agent that combines with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate - enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction .
any primary alcohol based on an ethanol skeleton .
a methanesulfonate ester resulting from the formal condensation of methanesulfonic acid with ethanol .
an aliphatic alcohol consisting of a chain of 3 to greater than 27 carbon atoms .
a haloalkane that is an alkane in which at least one hydrogen atom has been replaced by a fluorine atom .
compounds containing at least one furan ring .
a glycosyl compound resulting from the attachment of a glycosyl group to a non - acyl group ro -  ,  rs -  ,  rse -  ,  etc .
a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biological context .
a defined linked collection of atoms or a single atom within a molecular entity .
a halohydrocarbon that is an alkane in which at least one hydrogen atom has been replaced by with a halogen atom .
a compound derived from a hydrocarbon by replacing a hydrogen atom with a halogen atom .
a substance used to destroy plant pests .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of carbon and at least of one other element .
a heterodetic cyclic peptide is a peptide consisting only of amino - acid residues ,  but in which the linkages forming the ring are not solely peptide bonds ;  one or more is an isopeptide ,  disulfide ,  ester ,  or other bond .
originally referring to an endogenous compound that is formed in specialized organ or group of cells and carried to another organ or group of cells ,  in the same organism ,  upon which it has a specific regulatory function ,  the term is now commonly used to include non - endogenous ,  semi - synthetic and fully synthetic analogues of such compounds .
a compound consisting of carbon and hydrogen only .
hydroxides are chemical compounds containing a hydroxy group or salts containing hydroxide  ( oh (  -  )  )  .
a chlorine oxoacid with formula hocl ;  a weak ,  unstable acid ,  it is the active form of chlorine in water .
a five - membered organic heterocycle containing two nitrogen atoms at positions 1 and 3 ,  or any of its derivatives ;  compounds containing an imidazole skeleton .
any compound containing an indole skeleton .
a compound which contains oxygen ,  at least one other element ,  and at least one hydrogen bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
a molecular entity that contains no carbon .
compounds of structure roor' in which r and r' are inorganic groups .
any cyclohexane - 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 - hexol .
strictly ,  a substance intended to kill members of the class insecta .
chemical element with atomic number 53 .
a salt is an assembly of cations and anions .
a molecular entity having a net electric charge .
any lipid formally derived from isoprene  ( 2 - methylbuta - 1 , 3 - diene )  ,  the skeleton of which can generally be discerned in repeated occurrence in the molecule .
any alkaloid that has a structure based on an isoquinoline nucleus .
a class of organic heteropolycyclic compound consisting of isoquinoline and its substitution derivatives .
any cyclic carboxylic ester containing a 1 - oxacycloalkan - 2 - one structure ,  or an analogue having unsaturation or heteroatoms replacing one or more carbon atoms of the ring .
a diamino acid that is caproic  ( hexanoic )  acid bearing two amino substituents at positions 2 and 6 .
a macrocyclic lactone with a ring of twelve or more members which exhibits antibiotic activity .
a macrocyclic lactone with a ring of twelve or more members derived from a polyketide .
any intermediate or product resulting from metabolism .
an organosulfonic ester resulting from the formal condensation of methanesulfonic acid with the hydroxy group of an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol .
a 1 , 1 - diunsubstituted alkanesulfonate that is the conjugate base of methanesulfonic acid .
any carboxylic ester resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxy group with methanol .
a methanesulfonate ester resulting from the formal condensation of methanesulfonic acid with methanol .
any polyatomic entity that is an electrically neutral entity consisting of more than one atom .
a group of neurotransmitters and neuromodulators that contain one amino group that is connected to an aromatic ring by ethylene group   (  - ch2 - ch2 -  )  .
an oxoacid containing a single carboxy group .
any fatty acid with one double or triple bond in the fatty acid chain and singly bonded carbon atoms in the rest of the chain .
an agent that increases the frequency of mutations above the normal background level ,  usually by interacting directly with dna and causing it damage ,  including base substitution .
poisonous substance produced by fungi .
a substance used to destroy pests of the phylum nematoda  ( roundworms )  .
an endogenous compound that is used to transmit information across the synapse between a neuron and another cell .
the oxime carbamate resulting from the addition of 2 - methyl - 2 -  ( methylsulfanyl ) propanaldoxime to methyl isocyanate .
any ketone that is nonane substituted by an oxo group at unspecified position .
a nucleobase - containing molecular entity that is a nucleoside in which one or more of the sugar hydroxy groups has been converted into a mono -  or poly - phosphate .
a peptide containing a relatively small number of amino acids .
any organic ion with a net negative charge .
any organic ion with a net positive charge .
an organooxygen compound with formula ror ,  where r is not hydrogen .
an oxide in which the oxygen atom is bonded to a carbon atom .
an  alcohol derived from an aliphatic compound .
an organophosphorus compound is formally a compound containing at least one carbon - phosphorus bond ,  but the term is often extended to include esters and thioesters .
a solute used by a cell under water stress to maintain cell volume .
an oxide is a chemical compound of oxygen with other chemical elements .
compounds of structure r2c=noh derived from condensation of aldehydes or ketones with hydroxylamine .
any fatty acid anion containing at least one c - c unsaturated bond ;  formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid moiety .
any c5 ,  straight - chain ,  monounsaturated fatty acid .
a five - carbon monosaccharide which in its linear form contains either an aldehyde group at position 1  ( aldopentose )  or a ketone group at position 2  ( ketopentose )  .
compounds of structure roor' .
strictly ,  a substance intended to kill pests .
an ethanolamine compound having a phenyl  ( substituted or unsubstituted )  group on the carbon bearing the hydroxy substituent .
salts and esters of phosphoric and oligophosphoric acids and their chalcogen analogues .
a phosphatidylinositol monophosphate carrying the phosphate group at the 3 - position .
a phosphorus oxoacid that consists of one oxo and three hydroxy groups joined covalently to a central phosphorus atom .
any amino acid whose side chain is capable of forming one or more hydrogen bonds .
natural and synthetic compounds containing alternating carbonyl and methylene groups  ( 'beta - polyketones' )  ,  biogenetically derived from repeated condensation of acetyl coenzyme a  ( via malonyl coenzyme a )  ,  and usually the compounds derived from them by further condensations ,  etc .
a compound that contains two or more hydroxy groups .
natural pigments containing a fundamental skeleton of four pyrrole nuclei united through the alpha - positions by four methine groups to form a macrocyclic structure .
a ketone that is propane carrying at least one oxo substituent .
a tightly bound ,  specific nonpolypeptide unit in a protein determining and involved in its biological activity .
a nucleobase whose skeleton is derived from purine .
any nucleotide that has a purine nucleobase .
a ribonucleoside that has a purine moiety as the nucleobase  ( the r group in the illustration )  .
any ribonucleotide that has a purine nucleobase .
a class of imidazopyrimidines that consists of purine and its substituted derivatives .
any organonitrogen heterocyclic compound based on a pyridine skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a nucleobase whose skeleton is derived from pyrimidine .
a nitrogen molecular entity that is electronically neutral but which contains a quaternary nitrogen .
a class of aromatic heterocyclic compounds each of which contains a benzene ring ortho fused to carbons 2 and 3 of a pyridine ring .
molecules or ions formed by the incomplete one - electron reduction of oxygen .
any fatty acid containing no carbon to carbon multiple bonds .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is biosynthesised from 3 - phosphoglycerate  ( i .e .
an aliphatic monocarboxylic acid with a chain length of less than c6 .
an inorganic chloride salt having sodium ( 1 +  )  as the counterion .
any alkali metal salt having sodium ( 1 +  )  as the cation .
any steroid that acts as hormone .
any sulfur molecular entity that involves either covalently bonded or anionic sulfur .
any isoprenoid that is a natural product or related compound formally derived from isoprene units .
a tertiary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has three other carbon atoms attached to it .
any oxacycle having an oxolane  ( tetrahydrofuran )  skeleton .
a natural pigment containing four pyrrole rings joined by one - carbon units linking position 2 of one pyrrole ring to position 5 of the next .
an ester in which one or both oxygens of an ester group have been replaced by divalent sulfur .
an organic tricyclic compound in which at least one of the rings of the tricyclic skeleton contains one or more heteroatoms .
poisonous substance produced by a biological organism such as a microbe ,  animal or plant .
any nutrient required in small quantities by organisms throughout their life in order to orchestrate a range of physiological functions .
an element whose atom has an incomplete d sub - shell ,  or which can give rise to cations with an incomplete d sub - shell .
a chemical compound containing three hydroxy groups .
tryptamine and its substitution derivatives .
aralkylamino compounds which contain a tyramine skeleton .
a univalent carboacyl group is a group formed by loss of oh from the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid .
any fatty acid containing at least one c=c or c#c bond .
a neutral compound having formal unit electrical charges of opposite sign on non - adjacent atoms .
an alkanesulfonic acid in which the alkyl group directly linked to the sulfo functionality is methyl .
a cobalt group element atom that has atomic number 27 .
a trimethylxanthine in which the three methyl groups are located at positions 1 ,  3 ,  and 7 .
a surfactant  ( or a mixture containing one or more surfactants )  having cleaning properties in dilute solutions .
a colchicine that has  ( s )  - configuration .
a polydisperse ,  highly branched glucan composed of chains of d - glucopyranose residues in alpha ( 1 -  > 4 )  glycosidic linkage ,  joined together by alpha ( 1 -  > 6 )  glycosidic linkages .
chemical element  ( nickel group element atom )  with atomic number 28 .
a tetrahydropyridine that is 1 , 2 , 5 , 6 - tetrahydropyridine with a methyl group at position 1 ,  and a methoxycarbonyl group at position 3 .
an aldohexose that is the c - 4 epimer of glucose .
a one - carbon compound that is ammonia in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by a carboxy group .
any member of the phosphoinositide family of compounds ,  of which seven occur naturally .
a primary amino compound that is the 5 - hydroxy derivative of tryptamine .
the conjugate base of a fatty acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group of the corresponding fatty acid .
any glycerophosphoinositol having one phosphatidyl group esterified to one of the hydroxy groups of inositol .
an onium cation obtained by protonation of ammonia .
the conjugate base formed when the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid is deprotonated .
a monoatomic monocation obtained from sodium .
a colourless ,  volatile ,  poisonous inorganic compound with the formula hnco ;  the simplest stable chemical compound that contains carbon ,  hydrogen ,  nitrogen ,  and oxygen ,  the four most commonly - found elements in organic chemistry and biology .
a diatomic molecule containing covalently bonded hydrogen and fluorine atoms .
an organosulfur compound in which a thiol group ,   - sh ,  is attached to a carbon atom of any aliphatic or aromatic moiety .
a divalent inorganic anion resulting from the removal of two protons from ammonia .
a carboxamide derived from a monocarboxylic acid .
a mixture of antiviral nucleoside antibiotics produced by streptomyces lysosuperificus .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of acetic acid .
a trivalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of all three protons from antimonous acid .
an alkane that is butane substituted by a methyl group at position 2 .
a heme is any tetrapyrrolic chelate of iron .
an gamma - amino acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of gamma - aminobutyric acid .
a nucleoside triphosphate ( 4 -  )  obtained by global deprotonation of the triphosphate oh groups of atp ;  major species present at ph 7 .3 .
the simplest carboxylic acid ,  containing a single carbon .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid that is butane in which one of the terminal methyl groups has been oxidised to a carboxy group .
a c6 ,  straight - chain saturated fatty acid .
a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom .
a diazine that is benzene in which the carbon atoms at positions 1 and 4 have been replaced by nitrogen atoms .
a  bipyridine in which the two pyridine moieties are linked by a bond between positions c - 4 and c - 4' .
an inorganic chloride having ammonium as the counterion .
the l - enantiomer of cysteinate ( 1 -  )  .
the l - enantiomer of cysteinate ( 2 -  )  .
the l - enantiomer of cysteinium .
the d - enantiomer of cysteinate ( 1 -  )  .
the d - enantiomer of cysteinate ( 2 -  )  .
the d - enantiomer of cysteinium .
a sulfur - containing amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of cysteine ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of lysine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of lysine ,  having two cationic amino groups and an anionic carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation obtained by protonation of both amino groups of lysine .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing three hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by a hydrocarbyl group .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
an amide is a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
an ortho -  and peri - fused polycyclic arene consisting of a naphthalene and benzene unit connected by a five - membered ring .
a bisphenol that is 4 , 4' - methanediyldiphenol in which the methylene hydrogens are replaced by two methyl groups .
intended use of the molecular entity or part thereof by humans .
a particle not known to have substructure .
a monoatomic entity is a molecular entity consisting of a single atom .
an assembly consisting of a central atom  ( usually metallic )  to which is attached a surrounding array of other groups of atoms  ( ligands )  .
an organic fundamental parent is a structure used as a basis for substitutive names in organic nomenclature ,  containing ,  in addition to one or more hydrogen atoms ,  a single atom of an element ,  a number of atoms  ( alike or different )  linked together to form an unbranched chain ,  a monocyclic or polycyclic ring system ,  or a ring assembly or ring / chain system .
any substituent group which does not contain carbon .
any substituent group or skeleton containing carbon .
a univalent group formed by removing a hydrogen atom from a hydrocarbon .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having one free valence at a carbon atom .
a chemical entity constituting the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element .
a nucleus is the positively charged central portion of an atom ,  excluding the orbital electrons .
heavy nuclear particle: proton or neutron .
a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
a derivative of two oxoacids rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which two acyl groups are attached to the amino or substituted amino group .
a molecular entity all atoms of which have the same atomic number .
an organosulfur compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - sulfur bond .
an anion consisting of more than one atom .
a substance that kills or slows the growth of microorganisms ,  including bacteria ,  viruses ,  fungi and protozoans .
a substance  ( or active part thereof )  that kills or slows the growth of bacteria .
a nutrient is a food component that an organism uses to survive and grow .
a heteroorganic entity is an organic molecular entity in which carbon atoms or organic groups are bonded directly to one or more heteroatoms .
an agrochemical is a substance that is used in agriculture or horticulture .
a fertilizer is any substance that is added to soil or water to assist the growth of plants .
a physiological role played by any substance of either plant ,  animal or artificial origin which contains essential body nutrients that can be ingested by an organism to provide energy ,  promote growth ,  and maintain the processes of life .
an energy - rich substance that can be transformed with release of usable energy .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an alkali metal .
an alkaline earth molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an alkaline earth metal .
any p - block element atom that is in group 15 of the periodic table: nitrogen ,  phosphorus ,  arsenic ,  antimony and bismuth .
a p - block molecular entity containing any pnictogen .
any p - block element belonging to the group 16 family of the periodic table .
any p - block molecular entity containing a chalcogen .
an organic acid in which one or both oxygens of a carboxy group have been replaced by divalent sulfur .
an ester of a carboxylic acid ,  r ( 1 ) c ( =o ) or ( 2 )  ,  where r ( 1 )  = h or organyl and r ( 2 )  = organyl .
an atom belonging to one of the main groups  ( found in the s -  and p -  blocks )  of the periodic table .
a hydracid is a compound which contains hydrogen that is not bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
any monosaccharide containing an alcoholic hydroxy group esterified with phosphoric acid .
a pnictogen oxoacid which contains phosphorus and oxygen ,  at least one hydrogen atom bound to oxygen ,  and forms an ion by the loss of one or more protons .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a transition element .
an atom of an element that exhibits typical metallic properties ,  being typically shiny ,  with high electrical and thermal conductivity .
the sulfur oxoanion formed by deprotonation of sulfonic acid .
an organic derivative of sulfonic acid in which the sulfo group is linked directly to carbon .
an organic anion obtained by deprotonation of the sufonate group ( s )  of any organosulfonic acid .
an amino - acid anion obtained by deprotonation of any alpha - amino acid .
any main group element atom belonging to the p - block of the periodic table .
any compound containing an o - diphenol component .
4 -  ( 2 - aminoethyl ) pyrocatechol  [ 4 -  ( 2 - aminoethyl ) benzene - 1 , 2 - diol ]  and derivatives formed by substitution .
a carbon oxoacid acid carrying at least one  - c ( =o ) oh group and having the structure rc ( =o ) oh ,  where r is any any monovalent functional group .
any carboxylic acid having a sulfur substituent .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms from any of groups 1 ,  2 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  and 18 of the periodic table .
any molecule that consists of a series of atoms joined together to form a ring .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of the same element only .
a homocyclic compound in which all of the ring members are carbon atoms .
a compound having one atom as the only common member of two rings .
a molecule that features two fused rings .
a polycyclic compound in which one ring contains two ,  and only two ,  atoms in common with each of two or more rings of a contiguous series of rings .
any acyclic or cyclic ,  saturated or unsaturated carbon compound ,  excluding aromatic compounds .
a cyclically conjugated molecular entity with a stability  ( due to delocalization )  significantly greater than that of a hypothetical localized structure  ( e .g .
any monocyclic or polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
a polycyclic compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one non - carbon atom .
a bicyclic compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one skeletal heteroatom .
an s - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an s - block element .
a main group molecular entity that contains one or more atoms of a p - block element .
a d - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a d - block element .
hydrides are chemical compounds of hydrogen with other chemical elements .
a macromolecule formed by a living organism .
a macromolecule made up of nucleotide units and hydrolysable into certain pyrimidine or purine bases  ( usually adenine ,  cytosine ,  guanine ,  thymine ,  uracil )  ,  d - ribose or 2 - deoxy - d - ribose and phosphoric acid .
high molecular weight ,  linear polymers ,  composed of nucleotides containing ribose and linked by phosphodiester bonds ;  rna is central to the synthesis of proteins .
an rna molecule that transfers the coding information for protein synthesis from the chromosomes to the ribosomes mrna is formed from a dna template by transcription .
a cation consisting of more than one atom .
an amino acid in which the amino group is located on the carbon atom at the position alpha to the carboxy group .
a non - proteinogenic amino - acid in which the amino group is located on the carbon atom at the position gamma to the carboxy group .
when two or more amino acids combine to form a peptide ,  the elements of water are removed ,  and what remains of each amino acid is called an amino - acid residue .
a carboxylic acid containing one or more amino groups .
an organic compound having at least one hydroxy group attached to a carbon atom .
any organic molecule that consists of atoms connected in the form of a ring .
a heterocyclic compound formally derived from an arene by replacement of one or more methine  (  - c= )  and / or vinylene  (  - ch=ch -  )  groups by trivalent or divalent heteroatoms ,  respectively ,  in such a way as to maintain the continuous pi - electron system characteristic of aromatic systems and a number of out - of - plane pi - electrons corresponding to the hueckel rule  ( 4n + 2 )  .
an n - glycosyl compound that has both a nucleobase ,  normally adenine ,  guanine ,  xanthine ,  thymine ,  cytosine or uracil ,  and either a ribose or deoxyribose as functional parents .
a macromolecule is a molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
organic aromatic compounds having one or more hydroxy groups attached to a benzene or other arene ring .
any aldehyde in which the carbonyl group is attached to an aromatic moiety .
an amino compound in which the amino group is linked directly to an aromatic system .
a substance used in a chemical reaction to detect ,  measure ,  examine ,  or produce other substances .
a pentose with a  ( potential )  aldehyde group at one end .
a hexose with a  ( potential )  aldehyde group at one end .
any nutrient required in large quantities by organisms throughout their life in order to orchestrate a range of physiological functions .
any aldopentose where the open - chain form has all the hydroxy groups on the same side in the fischer projection .
an organic cation that consists of 4 , 4' - bipyridine bearing two n - methyl substituents loctated at the 1 -  and 1' - positions .
an ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of serotonin ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
saturated acyclic nitrogen hydrides having the general formula nnhn + 2 .
a hydrocarbon of biological origin having carbon skeleton formally derived from isoprene  [ ch2=c ( ch3 ) ch=ch2 ]  .
a c20 terpene .
a substance which lowers the surface tension of the medium in which it is dissolved ,  and / or the interfacial tension with other phases ,  and ,  accordingly ,  is positively adsorbed at the liquid / vapour and / or at other interfaces .
a substance which is structurally similar to a metabolite but which competes with it or replaces it ,  and so prevents or reduces its normal utilization .
a substance that diminishes the rate of a chemical reaction .
a fuel such as coal ,  oil and natural gas which has formed over many years through the decomposition of deposited vegetation which was under extreme pressure of an overburden of earth .
the zwitterionic form of an amino acid having a negatively charged carboxyl group and a positively charged amino group .
a derivative of ammonium ,  nh4 (  +  )  ,  in which all four of the hydrogens bonded to nitrogen have been replaced with univalent  ( usually organyl )  groups .
derivatives of ammonium compounds ,   ( nh4 (  +  )  ) y (  -  )  ,  in which all four of the hydrogens bonded to nitrogen have been replaced with univalent  ( usually organyl )  groups .
a derivative of ammonium ,  nh4 (  +  )  ,  in which one  ( or more )  of the hydrogens bonded to the nitrogen have been replaced with univalent organyl groups .
compounds  ( nh4 (  +  )  ) y (  -  )  and derivatives ,  in which one or more of the hydrogens bonded to nitrogen have been replaced with univalent groups .
a choline ester formed from choline and a carboxylic acid .
a polyclic compound in which all of the ring members are carbon atoms .
a pyridoisoquinoline comprising emetam having a hydroxy group at the 6' - position and methoxy substituents at the 7' -  ,  10 -  and 11 - positions .
any drug that enhances the activity of the central nervous system .
any of naturally occurring compounds and synthetic analogues ,  based on the cyclopenta [ a ] phenanthrene carbon skeleton ,  partially or completely hydrogenated ;  there are usually methyl groups at c - 10 and c - 13 ,  and often an alkyl group at c - 17 .
any heteroorganic entity containing at least one carbon - nitrogen bond .
an imide in which the two acyl substituents on nitrogen are carboacyl groups .
any aliphatic monocarboxylic acid derived from or contained in esterified form in an animal or vegetable fat ,  oil or wax .
parent monosaccharides are polyhydroxy aldehydes h [ ch ( oh )  ] nc ( =o ) h or polyhydroxy ketones h -  [ choh ] n - c ( =o )  [ choh ] m - h with three or more carbon atoms .
an oxoanion is an anion derived from an oxoacid by loss of hydron ( s )  bound to oxygen .
a substance used in the prophylaxis or therapy of infectious diseases .
a substance used to treat or prevent parasitic infections .
substance intended to kill parasitic worms  ( helminths )  .
a substance used in the treatment or control of nematode infestations .
antidepressants are mood - stimulating drugs used primarily in the treatment of affective disorders and related conditions .
a class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms involving the central nervous system .
a loosely defined grouping of drugs that have effects on psychological function .
a traditional grouping of drugs said to have a soothing or calming effect on mood ,  thought or behaviour .
anxiolytic drugs are agents that alleviate anxiety ,  tension ,  and anxiety disorders ,  promote sedation ,  and have a calming effect without affecting clarity of consciousness or neurologic conditions .
antipsychotic drugs are agents that control agitated psychotic behaviour ,  alleviate acute psychotic states ,  reduce psychotic symptoms ,  and exert a quieting effect .
an agent capable of relieving pain without the loss of consciousness or without producing anaesthesia .
a drug that has principally analgesic ,  antipyretic and anti - inflammatory actions .
a loosely defined group of drugs that tend to reduce the activity of the central nervous system .
an agent that promotes the excretion of urine through its effects on kidney function .
an agent that selectively binds to and activates beta - adrenergic receptors .
a drug that mimics the effects of stimulating postganglionic adrenergic sympathetic nerves .
a drug that affects the rate or intensity of cardiac contraction ,  blood vessel diameter or blood volume .
any molecular entity that consists of a ring having  ( formally )  the maximum number of noncumulative double bonds .
a heterobicyclic aromatic organic compound comprising a pyrimidine ring fused to an imidazole ring ;  the parent compound of the purines .
the 1h - tautomer of purine .
the 3h - tautomer of purine .
the 9h - tautomer of purine .
a negative ion consisting solely of carbon and oxygen  atoms ,  and therefore having the general formula cxoy ( n -  )  for some integers x ,  y and n .
a substance that inhibits or prevents the proliferation of neoplasms .
any ether in which the oxygen is attached to at least one aryl substituent .
a drug used to cause dilation of the blood vessels .
a drug used to prevent seizures or reduce their severity .
adrenergic uptake inhibitors are drugs that block the transport of adrenergic transmitters into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals .
a drug that binds to and activates histamine receptors .
a secondary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has two other carbon atoms attached to it .
any organic sulfide in which the sulfur is attached to at least one aromatic group .
a compound formally derived from an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l  >  0 )  and an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol by linking with formal loss of water from an acidic hydroxy group of the former and a hydroxy group of the latter .
an ether in which the oxygen atom is linked to two ethyl groups .
a xenobiotic  ( greek ,  xenos "foreign" ;  bios "life" )  is a compound that is foreign to a living organism .
an agent that suppresses immune function by one of several mechanisms of action .
a central nervous system depressant used to induce drowsiness or sleep or to reduce psychological excitement or anxiety .
an  antimicrobial agent that destroys fungi by suppressing their ability to grow or reproduce .
compounds in which one oxygen of a carboxy group has been replaced by divalent sulfur ;  rc ( =o ) sh or rc ( =s ) oh .
any member of the group of lipids containing a common glycerol backbone to which at least one fatty acid - derived group is attached .
a carboxylic acid anion formed when the carboxy group of a monocarboxylic acid is deprotonated .
a phosphorus oxoanion that is the conjugate base of phosphoric acid .
an azole based on a five - membered heterocyclic aromatic skeleton containing one n and one o atom .
any antimicrobial drug which is used to treat or prevent protozoal infections .
a drug used to treat rheumatoid arthritis .
a drug that increases uric acid excretion by the kidney  ( uricosuric drug )  ,  decreases uric acid production  ( antihyperuricemic )  ,  or alleviates the pain and inflammation of acute attacks of gout .
a pentenoic acid having the double bond at position 2 .
a substance used for its pharmacological action on any aspect of neurotransmitter systems .
any amino acid carrying two amino groups .
a drug used to treat or prevent microbial infections .
any glycerophospholipid having the polar alcohol inositol esterified to the phosphate group at the sn - 3 position of the glycerol backbone .
lepton is a fermion that does not experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
baryon is a fermion that does experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
particle of half - integer spin quantum number following fermi - dirac statistics .
a particle smaller than an atom .
a subatomic particle known to have substructure  ( i .e .
hadron is a subatomic particle which experiences the strong force .
a nucleus or any of its constituents in any of their energy states .
any molecular entity consisting of more than one atom .
an ion consisting of more than one atom .
an aminoquinoline that is quinoline which is substituted at position 4 by a  [ 5 -  ( diethylamino ) pentan - 2 - yl ] amino group at at position 7 by chlorine .
any compound containing the carbonyl group ,  c=o .
organic compounds containing an oxygen atom ,  =o ,  doubly bonded to carbon or another element .
an organochlorine compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chlorine bond .
any member of the class of quinolines in which the quinoline skeleton is substituted by one or more amino or substituted - amino groups .
a fluorohydrocarbon that is fluoroform in which the hydrogen is substituted by a phenyl group .
two or more cyclic systems  ( single rings or fused systems )  which are directly joined to each other by double or single bonds are named ring assemblies when the number of such direct ring junctions is one less than the number of cyclic systems involved .
a 14 - hydroxy steroid in which the hydroxy group has a beta - configuration .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the proton .
an organochalcogen compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chalcogen bond .
an organochalcogen compound containing at least one carbon - oxygen bond .
a nucleotide is a nucleoside phosphate resulting from the condensation of the 3 or 5 hydroxy group of a nucleoside with phosphoric acid .
a compound containing at least one carbon - bromine bond .
an organofluorine compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - fluorine bond .
a polysaccharide composed of glucose residues .
glycans composed of a single type of monosaccharide residue .
a polyol that contains 6 hydroxy groups .
a heterodetic cyclic peptide consisting of eight amino acid residues and containing a thioether bridge between a cysteine and a tryptophan residue .
an ec 2 .7 .7 .*  ( nucleotidyltransferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of rna polymerase  ( ec 2 .7 .7 .6 )  .
an acid is a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron  ( bronsted acid )  or capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron pair  ( lewis acid )  .
esters of phorbol ,  originally found in croton oil  ( from croton tiglium ,  of the family euphorbiaceae )  .
a molecular entity consisting of two or more chemical elements .
any heteroatomic molecular entity that is a chemical compound of halogen with other chemical elements .
a lactone having a five - membered lactone ring .
an amide of a carboxylic acid ,  having the structure rc ( =o ) nr2 .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of protein kinases .
an ec 3 .1 .1 .*  ( carboxylic ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of cholinesterase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .8 )  .
any glycerolipid having a phosphate group ester - linked to a terminal carbon of the glycerol backbone .
a carboacyl group is a group formed by loss of at least one oh from the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid .
a fatty alcohol consisting of a hydroxy function at any position of an unbranched saturated chain of eight carbon atoms .
an agent that selectively binds to and activates adrenergic receptors .
an agent that binds to but does not activate adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists .
an agent that binds to but does not activate alpha - adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous alpha - adrenergic agonists .
a spiro compound in which at least one of the cyclic components is an oxygen heterocyle .
h1 - receptor antagonists are the drugs that selectively bind to but do not activate histamine h1 receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of endogenous histamine .
histamine antagonists are the drugs that bind to but do not activate histamine receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of histamine or histamine agonists .
drugs used for their actions on histaminergic systems .
any agent that acts on an adrenergic receptor or affects the life cycle of an adrenergic transmitter .
a carbopolyclic compound comprising of three carbocyclic rings .
a drug used in the treatment of malaria .
a drug used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias .
a compound composed of two or more pyrrole units .
any member of the class of cardenolides with glycosyl residues attached to position 3 .
any organonitrogen compound containing a cyclic component with nitrogen and at least one other element as ring member atoms .
any organic heterocyclic compound containing at least one ring oxygen atom .
a drug that has a strengthening effect on the heart or that can increase cardiac output .
one of a class of drugs that acts by selective inhibition of calcium influx through cell membranes or on the release and binding of calcium in intracellular pools .
any of a class of heterocyclic amines having a saturated five - membered ring .
any organic heterocyclic compound containing a benzene ring in which two of the c - h fragments have been replaced by isolobal nitrogens  ( the diazine parent structure )  .
any drug used for its actions on cholinergic systems .
any drug that binds to and activates cholinergic receptors .
any drug that binds to and activates a muscarinic cholinergic receptor .
a pyrimidine carrying one or more oxo substituents .
a pent - 3 - enoic acid in trans -  configuration .
derivatives of carbamic acid with insecticidal properties of general formula roc ( =o ) nr ( 1 ) r ( 2 )  ,  where roh is an alcohol ,  oxime ,  or phenol and r ( 1 )  is hydrogen or methyl .
an ec 3 .1 .1 .*  ( carboxylic ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of enzyme acetylcholinesterase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .7 )  ,  which helps breaking down of acetylcholine into choline and acetic acid .
the parent structure of the diazines .
any agent that affects the transport of molecular entities across a biological membrane .
a membrane transport modulator that is able to regulate intracellular calcium levels .
compounds consisting wholly of fluorine and carbon .
substance which produces loss of feeling or sensation .
substance that produces loss of consciousness .
an alkaloid containing an indole skeleton .
a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron to an acceptor  ( bronsted base )  .
a molecular entity capable of accepting a hydron from a donor  ( bronsted acid )  .
a molecular entity able to provide a pair of electrons and thus capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron - pair acceptor  ( lewis acid )  ,  thereby producing a lewis adduct .
a 3 -  ( 1 - methylpyrrolidin - 2 - yl ) pyridine in which the chiral centre has r - configuration .
mixture of 80% avermectin b1a and 20% avermectin b1b .
a haloalkane that is methane in which one  ( or more )  of the hydrogens have been replaced by a halogen atom / halogen atoms .
a halomethane that is methane in which one or more hydrogens has been replaced by fluorine .
any saturated fatty acid lacking a side - chain .
any compound having a pyrimidine as part of its structure .
a monovalent inorganic anion that consists of phosphoric acid in which one of the three oh groups has been deprotonated .
an ether that is the methyl ether derivative of ethanol .
the product resulting from the formal oxidative coupling of position 5 of 5h - dibenzo [ a , d ] cycloheptene with position 4 of 1 - methylpiperidine resulting in the formation of a double bond between the two fragments .
a diatomic molecule containing covalently bonded hydrogen and iodine atoms .
a phosphate ion that is the conjugate base of dihydrogenphosphate .
a primary aliphatic amine that is butane substituted by an amino group at position 1 .
a member of the class of ureas that is urea in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by a hydroxy group .
an amino acid consisting of carbamic acid having an n - methyl substituent .
a nucleobase analogue that is uracil in which the hydrogen at position 5 is replaced by fluorine .
a compound that contains two ketone functionalities .
a compound derived from a hydrocarbon by replacing one or more hydrogen atoms with fluorine atoms .
a liquid that can dissolve other substances  ( solutes )  without any change in their chemical composition .
a ribose in which the chiral carbon atom furthest away from the aldehyde group  ( c4' )  has the same configuration as in l - glyceraldehyde .
a cyclic ribose having a 5 - membered tetrahydrofuran ring ;  the predominant  ( c3' - endo )  form of the two cyclic structures  ( the other is the "c2' - endo" form ,  having a 6 - membered ring )  adopted by ribose in aqueous solution .
a ribofuranose having d - configuration .
a diatomic molecule containing covalently bonded hydrogen and bromine atoms .
a steroid hormone that is a multi - hydroxylated alpha - l - rhamnosyl cardenoloide .
a dibenzoazepine that is 5h - dibenzo [ b , f ] azepine substituted by a 3 -  ( dimethylamino ) propyl group at the nitrogen atom .
any carboxylic ester where the carboxylic acid component is acetic acid .
a  mancude organic heterotricyclic parent that consists of a seven - membered nitrogen hetrocycle fused with two benzene rings .
a pyridoisoquinoline comprising emetam having methoxy substituents at the 6' -  ,  7' -  ,  10 -  and 11 - positions .
anything used in a scientific experiment to indicate the presence of a substance or quality ,  change in a body ,  etc .
organic derivatives of sulfonic acid in which the sulfo group is linked directly to carbon of an alkyl group .
an ether in which the oxygen atom is connected to 2 - chloro - 1 , 1 , 2 - trifluoroethyl and difluoromethyl groups .
any oligopeptide that consists of three amino - acid residues connected by peptide linkages .
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates a nicotinic acetylcholine receptor .
a compound ,  usually an anti - bacterial agent or a toxin ,  which inhibits the synthesis of a protein .
a substance used locally on humans and other animals to destroy harmful microorganisms or to inhibit their activity  ( cf .
an antimicrobial agent that is applied to non - living objects to destroy harmful microorganisms or to inhibit their activity .
drugs that bind to but do not activate serotonin receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of serotonin or serotonergic agonists .
a solvent that is composed of polar molecules .
a polar solvent that is capable of acting as a hydron  ( proton )  donor .
a solvent with a comparatively high relative permittivity  ( or dielectric constant )  ,  greater than ca .
solvent that is capable of acting as a hydron  ( proton )  acceptor .
self - ionizing solvent possessing both characteristics of bronsted acids and bases .
compounds derived from oxoacids rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  by replacing =o by =nr ;  thus tautomers of amides .
a carboximidic acid that is the imidic acid tautomer of urea ,  h2nc ( =nh ) oh ,  and its hydrocarbyl derivatives .
any drug that acts on an alpha - adrenergic receptor .
any of the drugs that act on beta - adrenergic receptors .
esters or salts of methanesulfonic acid .
a drug used for its effects on dopamine receptors ,  on the life cycle of dopamine ,  or on the survival of dopaminergic neurons .
a drug that binds to but does not activate dopamine receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of dopamine or exogenous agonists .
a role played by a substance that can react readily with ,  and thereby eliminate ,  radicals .
substance which binds to cell receptors normally responding to naturally occurring substances and which produces a response of its own .
substance that attaches to and blocks cell receptors that normally bind naturally occurring substances .
a  dicarboximide that is pyrrolidine - 2 , 5 - dione in which the hydrogens at position 3 are substituted by one methyl and one ethyl group .
a drug that acts principally at one or more sites within the peripheral neuroeffector systems ,  the autonomic system ,  and motor nerve - skeletal system .
an ec 3 .6 .3 .*  ( acid anhydride hydrolase catalysing transmembrane movement of substances )  inhibitor that inhibits h (  +  )  / k (  +  )  - exchanging atpase ,  ec 3 .6 .3 .10 .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
any hormone that is responsible for controlling sexual characteristics and reproductive function .
a hormone that stimulates or controls the development and maintenance of female sex characteristics in mammals by binding to oestrogen receptors .
a drug used to treat or prevent skin disorders or for the routine care of skin .
a compound which inhibits the movement of an ion across an energy - transducing cell membrane .
an ec 3 .1 .*  ( ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a phosphoric diester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .4 .
a compound that ,  on administration ,  must undergo chemical conversion by metabolic processes before becoming the pharmacologically active drug for which it is a prodrug .
synthetic or natural substance which is given to prevent a disease or disorder or are used in the process of treating a disease or injury due to a poisonous agent .
mononuclear cations derived by addition of a hydron to a mononuclear parent hydride of the pnictogen ,  chalcogen and halogen families .
a univalent organyl group obtained by cleaving the bond from c - 2 to the side chain of a proteinogenic amino - acid .
any of the macrolides obtained as fermentation products from the bacterium streptomyces avermitilis and consisting of a 16 - membered macrocyclic backbone that is fused both benzofuran and spiroketal functions and contains a disaccharide substituent .
a group derived from a haloalkane by removal of a hydrogen atom .
compounds containing a bipyridine group .
a gamma - lactone that consists of a 2 - furanone skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
an aliphatic alcohol in which the aliphatic alkane chain is substituted by a hydroxy group at unspecified position .
a product in capsule ,  tablet or liquid form that provide essential nutrients ,  such as a vitamin ,  an essential mineral ,  a protein ,  an herb ,  or similar nutritional substance .
a nanometre sized object .
a nanosized spherical or capsule - shaped structure .
a nanoparticle consisting of silver atoms .
biologically active substance whose activity affects or plays a role in the functioning of the immune system .
a substance that augments ,  stimulates ,  activates ,  potentiates ,  or modulates the immune response at either the cellular or humoral level .
a drug used to treat allergic reactions .
any molecular entity that contains carbon .
a role played by a chemical compound to induce direct or indirect dna damage .
a role played by a chemical compound which is known to  induce a process of carcinogenesis  by corrupting  normal cellular pathways ,  leading to the acquistion of tumoral capabilities .
a chemical compound ,  or part thereof ,  which causes the onset of an allergic reaction by interacting with any of the molecular pathways involved in an allergy .
a role played by a chemical compound  in biological systems with adverse consequences in embryo developments ,  leading to birth defects ,  embryo death or altered development ,  growth retardation and functional defect .
a role is particular behaviour which a material entity may exhibit .
a poison that interferes with the functions of the nervous system .
an ec 2 .7 .11 .*  ( protein - serine / threonine kinase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of non - specific serine / threonine protein kinase  ( ec 2 .7 .11 .1 )  ,  a kinase enzyme involved in phosphorylation of hydroxy group of serine or threonine .
a compound that specifically inhibits the reuptake of serotonin in the brain .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by an organyl group .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing two hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
a cyclic compound containing nine or more atoms as part of the cyclic system .
a drug that modulates the function of the endocrine glands ,  the biosynthesis of their secreted hormones ,  or the action of hormones upon their specific sites .
a colchicine that has  ( r )  - configuration .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a chemical context .
a dibenzoazepine  ( specifically 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 10 , 14b - hexahydrodibenzo [ c , f ] pyrazino [ 1 , 2 - a ] azepine )  methyl - substituted on n - 2 .
an  organic molecule that is electrically neutral carrying a positive and a negative charge in one of its major canonical descriptions .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - fluoxetine .
a compound of general formula rc ( =o ) sr' .
an alkaloid based on a cinchonan skeleton .
a drug used to produce muscle relaxation  ( excepting neuromuscular blocking agents )  .
a drug used for its actions on skeletal muscle .
a drug that binds to and activates gamma - aminobutyric acid receptors .
a substance ,  such as agonists ,  antagonists ,  degradation or uptake inhibitors ,  depleters ,  precursors ,  and modulators of receptor function ,  used for its pharmacological actions on gabaergic systems .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having two free valences at carbon atom ( s )  .
an alpha , beta - unsaturated ketone of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) r ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  in which the c=o function is conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
an alpha , beta - unsaturated carboxylic ester of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) or ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  in which the ester c=o function is conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
a ketone of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) r ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  or r ( 1 ) c#c - c ( =o ) r ( 2 )   ( r ( 2 )  = / = h )  in which the ketonic c=o function is conjugated to an unsaturated c - c bond at the alpha , beta position .
a carboxylic ester of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) or ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  or r ( 1 ) c#c - c ( =o ) or ( 2 )   ( r ( 2 )  = / = h )  in which the ester c=o function is conjugated to an unsaturated c - c bond at the alpha , beta position .
a ketone of formula rc ( =o ) ch3  ( r = / = h )  .
a diketone that has its two ketone functionalities on adjacent atoms .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of methanol .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of ethanol .
a biological role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biochemical context .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof which causes the development of a pathological process .
a biological role which describes how a drug interacts within a biological system and how the interactions affect its medicinal properties .
any substance introduced into a living organism with therapeutic or diagnostic purpose .
a chemical substance that encourages a cell to commence cell division ,  triggering mitosis .
a compound with the general formula r2c=o  ( r= / =h )  where one or more of the r groups contains an oxy  (  - o -  )  group .
an oxyketone with the general formula r2c ( =o )   ( r= / =h )  where one or more of the r groups contains an oxy  (  - o -  )  group and the oxy and carbonyl groups are bonded to the same carbon atom .
a diterpenoid with a tetracyclic skeleton .
an organic group that consists of a closed ring .
a nanoparticle that contains no carbon .
the biological role played by a material entity when bound by a receptor of the adaptive immune system .
an antagonist at the a2a receptor .
organonitrogen compounds that are derivatives of isocyanic acid ;  compounds containing the isocyanate functional group  - n=c=o  ( as opposed to the cyanate group ,   - o - c#n )  .
a drug used for its effects on the gastrointestinal system ,  e .g .
oxazoles in which the n and o atoms are adjacent .
an oxazolidine containing one or more oxo groups .
a haloalkane comprising ethane having three flouro substituents at the 1 - position as well as bromo -  and chloro substituents at the 2 - position .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of at least two different elements .
a ribonucleoside triphosphate oxoanion that is the trianion of adenosine 5' - triphosphate arising from deprotonation of three of the four free triphosphate oh groups .
the conjugate base of a nucleoside 5' - phosphate .
an  ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of tryptamine arising from protonation of the primary amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a peptide anion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups and protonation of the glutamyl amino group of glutathione ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the conjugate acid of a primary aliphatic amine .
the conjugate acid of octopamine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
trianion of nucleoside triphosphate arising from deprotonation of three of the four free triphosphate oh groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an organophosphate oxoanion that is the conjugate base of 3' , 5' - cyclic amp arising from deprotonation of the free phosphate oh group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the conjugate base of a nucleoside 3' , 5' - cyclic phosphate .
an organic phosphoric acid derivative in which one or more oxygen atoms of the phosphate group ( s )  has been deprotonated .
any fatty acid anion obtained by removal of a proton from the carboxy group of a short - chain fatty acid  ( chain length of less than c6 )  .
any fatty acid anion in which there is no c - c unsaturation .
any saturated fatty acid anion lacking a carbon side - chain .
the isocyanate that is methane modified by a single isocyanato substituent .
cinchonan or its  ( 8s )  - epimer .
the  ( 8s )  - epimer of cinchonan .
a substance used as an indicator  of a biological state .
any fatty acid whose skeletal carbon atoms form an unbranched open chain .
a fatty acid anion formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid functional group of a straight - chain fatty acid .
any ec 3 .4 .*  ( hydrolases acting on peptide bond )  inhibitor that inhibits the activity of a serine endopeptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .21 .
any substance that inhibits the synthesis of dna .
any fatty acid with a chain length of between c6 and c12 .
a fatty acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxylic acid moiety of a medium - chain fatty acid .
an  organic anion that is the conjugate base of diamino acid .
a drug ,  usually applied topically ,  that relieves pruritus  ( itching )  .
compounds containing one or more phosphoric acid units .
an organophosphate anion resulting from deprotonation of at least one of the acidic hydroxy groups from the triphosphate moiety of a nucleoside triphosphate .
a reagent that forms a bond to its reaction partner  ( the electrophile )  by donating both bonding electrons .
an organooxygen compound having the structure rr'c ( or'' )  ( or''' )   ( r'' ,  r''' = / = h )  .
an acetal of formula r2c ( or ) 2  ( r = / = h )  derived from a ketone by replacement of the oxo group by two hydrocarbyloxy groups .
a ketal in the molecule of which the ketal carbon and one or both oxygen atoms thereon are members of a ring .
the conjugate acid of  ( s )  - nicotine arising from selective protonation of the tertiary amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
conjugate base of an l - alpha - amino acid arising from deprotonation of the c - 1 carboxy group .
zwitterionic form of an l - alpha - amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
zwitterionic form of a d - alpha - amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
zwitterionic form of gamma - aminobutyric acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
an ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of dopamine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a chemical substance is a portion of matter of constant composition ,  composed of molecular entities of the same type or of different types .
a mixture is a chemical substance composed of multiple molecules ,  at least two of which are of a different kind .
a metal cation with a valence of two .
an atom or small molecule with a positive charge that does not contain carbon in covalent linkage ,  with a valency of one .
a hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any hydrolase acting on peptide bonds  ( peptidase )  ,  ec 3 .4 .* .
the oxime resulting from the formal condensation of 2 - methyl - 2 -  ( methylsulfanyl ) propanal with hydroxylamine .
an anion formed by deprotonation of at least one peptide carboxy group .
zwitterionic form of any peptide where ,  in general ,  the amino terminus is positively charged and the carboxy terminus is negatively charged .
any substance that inhibits the action of n - methyl - d - aspartate  ( nmda )  receptors .
a mixture consisting of  > = 90% 22 , 23 - dihydroavermectin b1a  ( r = me )  and  < = 10% 22 , 23 - dihydroavermectin b1b  ( r = h )  .
any substance which inhibits the action of receptors for excitatory amino acids .
any pharmacological or immunological agent that modifies the effect of other agents such as drugs or vaccines while having few if any direct effects when given by itself .
any substance that interacts with tubulin to inhibit or promote polymerisation of microtubules .
any alpha - amino acid anion in which the parent amino acid has d - configuration .
a racemate is an equimolar mixture of a pair of enantiomers .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the function of histone deacetylase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .98 )  .
any compound that has a nucleobase as a part .
a  nucleotide having adenine as the base .
a purine riboncleotide where adenine is the purine .
a ribonucleoside triphosphate oxoanion arising from global deprotonation of the  triphosphate group of any nucleoside triphosphate .
an organic heterotricyclic compound with a skeleton derived from a pyridine ring fused to an isoquinoline .
any organic molecular entity derived from a fatty acid .
any substance that interacts with tubulin to inhibit polymerisation of microtubules .
zwitterionic form of a polar amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
an alkanesulfonate in which the carbon at position 1 is attached to at least two hydrogens .
a molecular messenger in which the molecule is specifically involved in transmitting information between cells .
any organophosphate oxoanion that is a negatively charged phospholipid ,  e .g .
the chemical role played by a substance that stabilizes an emulsion by increasing its kinetic stability .
a carbohydrate derivative arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and an h atom bound to an oxygen ,  carbon ,  nitrogen or sulfur atom of a separate entity .
a substance that removes electrons from another reactant in a redox reaction .
any organooxygen compound derived from a carbohydrate by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by an amino group ,  a thiol group or similar heteroatomic groups .
an ec 3 .1 .3 .*  ( phosphoric monoester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of alkaline phosphatase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .1 )  .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from a monosaccharide .
a monosaccharide derivative that is formally obtained from a pentose .
a sulfur - containing amino acid whose alpha - carboxylic acid group is ionized  ( not protonated )  .
a substance capable of undergoing rapid and highly exothermic decomposition .
an ec 3 .6 .3 .*  ( acid anhydride hydrolase catalysing transmembrane movement of substances )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of  na (  +  )  / k (  +  )  - transporting atpase  ( ec 3 .6 .3 .9 )  .
an aralylamino compound which contains one amino group connected to an aromatic ring by a two - carbon chain .
any compound that can be used for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders .
a macrocyclic lactone that is avermectin b1a in which the double bond present in the spirocyclic ring system has been reduced to a single bond .
a macrocyclic lactone that is avermectin b1b in which the double bond present in the spirocyclic ring system has been reduced to a single bond .
any lactone in which the cyclic carboxylic ester group forms a part of a cyclic macromolecule .
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates a protein kinase c receptor
any substance which is added to food to preserve or enhance its flavour and / or appearance .
a food additive that is used to change or otherwise control the acidity or alkalinity of foods .
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates a protein kinase receptor .
a dibenzothiepine that is 10 , 11 - dihydrodibenzo [ b , f ] thiepine bearing additional methylthio and 4 - methylpiperazin - 1 - yl substituents at positions 8 and 10 respectively .
a doubly - charged organic cation arising from protonation of the two tertiary amino functions of methiothepin .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by an 11 - methyldodec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
an ec 2 .7 .8 .*  ( transferases for other substituted phosphate groups )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any udp - n - acetylglucosamine -  - dolichyl - phosphate n - acetylglucosaminephosphotransferase  ( ec 2 .7 .8 .15 )  ,  preventing formation of n - acetylglucosamine lipid intermediates and glycosylation of newly synthesised glycoproteins .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a 12 - methyltridec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a tetradec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a pentadec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a 13 - methyltetradec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by an 13 - methyltetradecanoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a 14 - methylpentadec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a hexadec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a heptadec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a 15 - methylhexadec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a 6 - phenyl - 2 , 3 , 5 , 6 - tetrahydroimidazo [ 2 , 1 - b ]  [ 1 , 3 ] thiazole that has s configuration .
an organic amino compound in which an aminoalkyl group is linked to an arene .
an organic aromatic compound whose structure contains two aromatic rings or ring systems ,  joined to each other by a single bond .
a food additive which is added to flour or dough to improve baking quality and / or colour .
an inorganic cation with a valency of two .
an organic molecular entity containing a single carbon atom  ( c1 )  .
any organic molecular entity that is acidic and contains carbon in covalent linkage .
the role played by a substance in enhancing the appearance or odour of the human body ;  a name given to the substance itself or to a component of it .
any substance that causes disturbance to organisms by chemical reaction or other activity on the molecular scale ,  when a sufficient quantity is absorbed by the organism .
any compound that inhibits cell division  ( mitosis )  .
an antiparasitic drug which is effective against apicomplexan parasites in the genus plasmodium .
substances which are added to food in order to prevent decomposition caused by  microbial growth or by undesirable chemical changes .
a food preservative which prevents decomposition of food by preventing the growth of fungi or bacteria .
a compound that inhibits the action of gamma - aminobutyric acid .
an ammonium ion derivative resulting from the protonation of the nitrogen atom of a primary amino compound .
any compound that has anti - inflammatory effects .
a ryanodine receptor modulator which activates the receptor .
a molecule that can substitute for a normal nucleobase in nucleic acids .
a carbamate ester obtained by the formal condensation of  methylcarbamic acid with the hydroxy group of  1 -  ( methylsulfanyl ) acetaldoxime .
any monocyclic heteroarene consisting of a five - membered ring containing nitrogen .
any substance that induces the process of apoptosis  ( programmed cell death )  in multi - celled organisms .
a member of the class of isoxazoles that is 1 , 2 - oxazol - 3 ( 2h )  - one substituted by an aminomethyl group at position 5 .
an antagonist at any adenosine receptor .
an enzyme inhibitor that inhibits the action of a transferase  ( ec 2 .
an amino - acid anion in which the amino group is situated gamma -  to the carboxylate group .
a cyclic ketal in which the ketal carbon is the only common atom of two rings .
any molecule that consists of at least one carbon atom as part of the electrically neutral entity .
any hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase which acts on acid anhydrides  ( ec 3 .6 .* .
an acaricide that kills mites of the genus sarcoptes .
a mancude heterobicyclic organic group consisting of a benzene ring fused to a pyrrole ring .
a bicyclic organic group that contains both carbon and hetero atoms .
a carbonyl compound produced as a water - soluble byproduct when fatty acids are broken down for energy in the liver .
an  ec 1 .17 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on ch or ch2 )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of ribonucleoside - diphosphate reductase  ( ec 1 .17 .4 .1 )  .
any steroid lactone that is a  c23 steroid with a five - membered lactone ring at c - 17 and its substituted derivatives .
a compound that causes the contraction of body tissues ,  typically used to reduce bleeding from minor abrasions .
any  metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in eukaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of the fungi ,  plantae and animalia kingdoms .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in animals that include diverse creatures from sponges ,  insects to mammals .
any animal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mammals .
any mammalian metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in a mouse  ( mus musculus )  .
any  fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in baker's yeast  ( saccharomyces cerevisiae )  .
any metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in prokaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of domains such as the bacteria and archaea .
any metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound .
a gas in an atmosphere that absorbs and emits radiation within the thermal infrared range ,  so contributing to the 'greenhouse effect' .
a compressed gas or liquid with a boiling point lower than room temperature which to used to propel and dispense liquids such as deodorants ,  insecticides ,  paints ,  etc .
any metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in marine macro -  and microorganisms .
a transferase inhibitor that interferes with the action of an acyltransferase  ( ec 2 .3 .* .
a transferase inhibitor that inhibits the transfer of an alkyl  ( other than methyl )  or aryl group  ( ec 2 .5 .1 .
a transferase inhibitor that inhibits the action of a phosphorus - containing group transferase  ( ec 2 .7 .* .
an enzyme inhibitor which interferes with the action of a lyase  ( ec 4 .* .* .* )  .
a lyase inhibitor which inhibits the action of a c - n lyase  ( ec 4 .3 .* .
an enzyme inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase  ( ec 1 .* .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on ch or ch2  ( ec 1 .17 .* .
any enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase  ( ec 3 .* .* .
a hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any ester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .* .
any hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase acting on c - n bonds ,  other than peptide bonds  ( ec 3 .5 .* .
an ec 3 .1 .*  ( ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a carboxylic ester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .
an ec 3 .1 .*  ( ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any phosphoric monoester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .
any ec 3 .4 .21 .*  ( serine endopeptidase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of prolyl oligopeptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .21 .26 )  .
an ec 2 .5 .1 .*  ( non - methyl - alkyl or aryl transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a glutathione transferase  ( ec 2 .5 .1 .18 )  .
an ec 3 .5 .*  ( hydrolases acting on non - peptide c - n bonds )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any protein - serine / threonine kinase  ( ec 2 .7 .11 .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any nucleotidyltransferase  ( ec 2 .7 .7 .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with any enzyme in the ec 2 .7 .8 .
an ec 4 .3 .*  ( c - n lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any ammonia - lyase  ( ec 4 .3 .1 .
an ec 2 .5 .*  ( transferase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of any transferase that transfers an alkyl  ( other than methyl )  or aryl group  ( ec 2 .5 .
an ec 1 .17 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on ch or ch2 )  inhibitor that interferes with the activity of any such enzyme that uses a disulfide as acceptor  ( ec 1 .17 .4 .
an ec 3 .6 .*  ( hydrolases acting on acid anhydrides )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme that catalyses transmembrane movement of substances  ( ec 3 .6 .3 .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in plants ,  the kingdom that include flowering plants ,  conifers and other gymnosperms .
an enzyme inhibitor that interferes with one or more steps in a metabolic pathway .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in fungi ,  the kingdom that includes microorganisms such as the yeasts and moulds .
any human metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound in humans .
any prokaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in bacteria .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in escherichia coli .
a synthetic or semi - synthetic compound that has oestrogenic activity .
an ec 2 .3 .*  ( acyltransferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of an acyltransferase which converts the acyl group to an alkyl group on transfer  ( ec 2 .3 .3 .
an ec 2 .3 .3 .*  ( acyltransferase converting acyl to alkyl group on transfer )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of citrate  ( si )  - synthase ,  ec 2 .3 .3 .1 .
an ec 3 .1 .3 .*  ( phosphoric monoester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of 4 - nitrophenylphosphatase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .41 )  .
compounds that are considered to increase the volume of secretions in the respiratory tract ,  so facilitating their removal by ciliary action and coughing .
an imidazothiazole that is imidazo [ 2 , 1 - b ]  [ 1 , 3 ] thiazole in which the double bonds at the 2 - 3 and 5 - 6 positions have been reduced to single bonds and in which one of the hydrogens at position 6 is replaced by a phenyl group .
a 6 - phenyl - 2 , 3 , 5 , 6 - tetrahydroimidazo [ 2 , 1 - b ]  [ 1 , 3 ] thiazole that has r configuration .
any protective agent that is able to prevent damage to the heart .
an ec 4 .3 .1 .*  ( ammonia - lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of histidine ammonia - lyase  ( ec 4 .3 .1 .3 )  .
any mammalian metabolite  produced during a metabolic reaction in humans  ( homo sapiens )  .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of amidase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .4 )  .
a food additive that is a  ( generally inert )  gas which is used to envelop foodstuffs during packing and so protect them from unwanted chemical reactions such as food spoilage or oxidation during subsequent transport and storage .
a propellant that is used to expel foods from an aerosol container .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 4 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 6 carbons .
a physiological role played by any substance that is distributed in foodstuffs .
any minor or unwanted substance introduced into the environment that can have undesired effects .
a substance used in a thermodynamic heat pump cycle or refrigeration cycle that undergoes a phase change from a gas to a liquid and back .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of any alpha - amino acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any organooxygen compound that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone ,  or a compound derived from one .
any metabolite produced by all living cells .
any organic molecular entity that contains at least one c=c bond .
the conjugate acid of  ( r )  - nicotine arising from selective protonation of the tertiary amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a monocarboxylic acid in which the carbon of the carboxy group is directly attached to a c=c or c#c bond .
any compound that is added to manufactured materials to inhibit ,  suppress ,  or delay the production of flames and so prevent the spread of fire .
any inorganic anion with a valency of three .
any inorganic anion with a valency of two .
any inorganic anion with a valency of one .
a substituted aniline that is 3 - aminophenol in which the hydrogens of the amino group are replaced by 4 - methylphenyl and 4 , 5 - dihydro - 1h - imidazol - 2 - ylmethyl groups respectively .
a diterpenoid with the structure of tigliane hydroxylated at c - 4 ,   - 9 ,   - 12 ( beta )  ,   - 13 and  - 20 ,  with an oxo group at c - 3 and unsaturation at the 1 -  and 6 - positions .
any unsaturated fatty acid anion with one double or triple bond in the fatty acid chain .
any aldoxime derived from an aliphatic aldehyde .
an animal metabolite produced by arthropods such as crabs ,  lobsters ,  crayfish ,  shrimps and krill .
a daphnia metabolite produced by the species daphnia magna .
a crustacean metabolite produced by the genus of small planktonic arthropods ,  daphnia
an ester resulting from the formal condensation of the hydroxy group of an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol with an organosulfonic acid .
any metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound in marine macro -  and microorganisms .
an organofluorine compound that is  ( trifluoromethyl ) benzene and derivatives arising from substitution of one or more of the phenyl hydrogens .
any derivative of a proteinogenic amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or a side - chain functional group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
any of the 23 alpha - amino acids that are precursors to proteins ,  and are incorporated into proteins during translation .
any amino - acid that is not naturally encoded in the genetic code of any organism .
any derivative of an amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group ,  carboxy group ,  side - chain functional group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from the formal reaction of l - cysteine at the amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or thiol group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - cysteine by a heteroatom .
any  alpha - amino acid which is not a member of the group of 23 proteinogenic amino acids .
steroid lactones containing sugar residues that act on the contractile force of the cardiac muscles .
any phospho sugar that is the phosphate derivative of pentose .
any metabolite  ( endogenous or exogenous )  found in human urine samples .
any member of the class of  indoles carrying at least one hydroxy group .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in algae including unicellular organisms like chlorella and diatoms to multicellular organisms like giant kelps and brown algae .
any cosmetic used to lighten the colour of skin by reducing the concentration of melanin .
any metabolite  ( endogenous or exogenous )  found in human blood serum samples .
any aliphatic sulfide in which at least one of the organyl groups attached to the sulfur is a methyl group .
an aromatic ether consisting of 4 - trifluoromethylphenol in which the hydrogen of the phenolic hydroxy group is replaced by a 3 -  ( methylamino )  - 1 - phenylpropyl group .
an n - methyl - 3 - phenyl - 3 -  [ 4 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) phenoxy ] propan - 1 - amine that has r configuration .
an n - methyl - 3 - phenyl - 3 -  [ 4 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) phenoxy ] propan - 1 - amine that has s configuration .
an organic cation resulting from the protonation of the amino group of  ( r )  - fluoxetine .
an organic cation resulting from the protonation of the amino group of  ( s )  - fluoxetine .
any metal which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
any drug which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
any compound that inhibits the process of autophagy  ( the self - digestion of one or more components of a cell through the action of enzymes originating within the same cell )  .
a drug that acts as an antagonist ,  agonist ,  reverse agonist ,  or in some other fashion when interacting with cellular receptors .
a cellular object that consists of subcellular components ,  expresses genes or functions .
a cell that is found in a natural setting ,  which includes multicellular organism cells 'in vivo'  ( i .e .
a cell found in the embryo before the formation of all the gem layers is complete .
male germ cell is a germ cell that supports male gamete production .
female germ cell is a germ cell that supports female gamete production .
a female haploid germ cell .
an undifferentiated germ cell that proliferates rapidly and gives rise to oocytes .
a female gamete where meiosis has progressed to metaphase ii and is able to participate in fertilization .
a cell that is within the developmental lineage of gametes and is able to pass along its genetic material to offspring .
a cell that has a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
cell of epithelium ,  the layer of cells that cover the external surface of an organism as well as forming an inner lining between the tissues and organs of that organism and the external environment .
an epithelial cell that has a cilia .
an epithelial cell that is part of a duct .
an endothelial cell that lines the vasculature .
a columnar / cuboidal epithelial cell is a cell usually found in a two dimensional sheet with a free surface .
a cell which moves among different tissues of the body ,  via blood ,  lymph ,  or other medium .
an epithelial cell of the lung .
an endothelial cell comprises the outermost layer or lining of anatomical structures and can be squamous or cuboidal .
a cell that specializes in controlled release of one or more substances .
a cell of an exocrine gland ;  i .e .
a cell whose function is determined by the generation or the reception of an electric signal .
a cell within an epithelial cell sheet whose main function is to act as an internal or external covering for a tissue or an organism .
a cell whose primary function is to prevent the transport of stuff across compartments .
a cell that moves by its own activities .
a cell of the outer of the three germ layers of the embryo .
a cell of the middle germ layer of the embryo .
a cell of the inner of the three germ layers of the embryo .
a cell that lacks a nucleus .
a cell with a single nucleus .
a cell with more than one nucleus .
a mature sexual reproductive cell having a single set of unpaired chromosomes .
a cell that is specialised to accumulate a particular substance ( s )  .
an epithelial cell of the integument  ( the outer layer of an organism )  .
diploid cell produced by the fusion of sperm cell nucleus and egg cell .
a cell whose function is determined by its response to an electric signal .
a cell that initiates an electrical signal and passes that signal to another cell .
an epithelial cell of the hypodermis of flatworms .
a cell whose nucleus contains a single haploid genome .
major cell type of nervous tissue ,  specialized for transmission of information in the form of patterns of impulses .
an epithelial cell of the cornea .
a cell ,  of either sex ,  directly concerned in the production of a new organism .
a cell whose primary function is to support other cell types .
a primordial germ cell is a diploid germ cell precursors that transiently exist in the embryo before they enter into close association with the somatic cells of the gonad and become irreversibly committed as germ cells .
a mature sexual reproductive cell of the female germline .
a cell found in an organism or derived from an organism exhibiting a phenotype that deviates from the expected phenotype of any native cell type of that organism .
an epithelial cell derived from endoderm .
an epithelial cell derived from ectoderm .
epithelial cell derived from mesoderm or mesenchyme .
an endothelial cell of the vascular tree ,  which includes blood vessels and lymphatic vessels .
an endothelial cell found in capillaries .
epithelial cells derived from general body ectoderm and ectoderm placodes .
a cell comprising the transparent ,  biconvex body separating the posterior chamber and vitreous body ,  and constituting part of the refracting mechanism of the mammalian eye .
a cell of the cuboidal epithelium that covers the lens .
a cell containing at least one nucleus .
an epithelial cell of the musculomembranous digestive tube extending from the mouth to the anus .
an epithelial cell of a skin gland .
a cell that is part of the nervous system .
a cell of the supporting or framework tissue of the body ,  arising chiefly from the embryonic mesoderm and including adipose tissue ,  cartilage ,  and bone .
a cell of the embryo .
an endothelial cell that lines the intracavitary lumen of the heart ,  separating the circulating blood from the underlying myocardium .
an endo - epithelial cell of the respiratory tract .
a cell of an organism that does not pass on its genetic material to the organism's offspring  ( i .e .
a cell located in the heart ,  including both muscle and non muscle cells .
a cell of the adventitial layer of ductal structures such as the uterer ,  defent duct ,  biliary duct ,  etc
an endothelial cell that is part of the vein .
an endothelial progenitor cell that participates in angiogenesis during development .
a blood vessel endothelial cell that is part of the retina .
any cell in the retina ,  the innermost layer or coating at the back of the eyeball ,  which is sensitive to light and in which the optic nerve terminates .
a zygote in a plant or an animal .
a cell in the area of mesoderm in the neurulating embryo that flanks and forms simultaneously with the neural tube .
a cell that ,  by division or terminal differentiation ,  can give rise to other cell types .
an endothelial cell that is part of the arteriole .
a blood vessel endothelial cell that is part of an arterial endothelium .
an endothelial cell that is part of the venule .
squamous cell of oral epithelium .
any blood vessel endothelial cell that is part of a dermis .
any native cell that is part of a cardiac septum .
any neuron that is part of a central nervous system .
any neuron that is part of a peripheral nervous system .
a nucleus size quality which is relatively high compared to the amount of cytoplasm present in the same cell .
the maintenance of the structure and integrity of the mitochondrial genome ;  includes replication and segregation of the mitochondrial chromosome .
the production of new individuals that contain some portion of genetic material inherited from one or more parent organisms .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna recombination ,  a dna metabolic process in which a new genotype is formed by reassortment of genes resulting in gene combinations different from those that were present in the parents .
the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the mitotic spindle .
the cell cycle process in which replicated homologous chromosomes are organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two sets during the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell cycle process that controls cell cycle progression by monitoring the integrity of specific cell cycle events .
a cell cycle checkpoint that regulates progression through the cell cycle in response to dna damage .
the mitotic cell cycle transition by which a cell in g1 commits to s phase .
any process that regulates transcription such that the target genes are involved in the transition between g1 and s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
the mitotic cell cycle transition by which a cell in g2 commits to m phase .
a cell cycle phase during which nuclear division occurs ,  and which is comprises the phases: prophase ,  metaphase ,  anaphase and telophase and occurs as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
any process that regulates transcription such that the target genes are transcribed as part of the g2 / m transition of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription mediated by rna polymerase ii .
a cell cycle process that sets the alignment of mitotic spindle relative to other cellular structures .
the nonsense - mediated decay pathway for nuclear - transcribed mrnas degrades mrnas in which an amino - acid codon has changed to a nonsense codon ;  this prevents the translation of such mrnas into truncated ,  and potentially harmful ,  proteins .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the microtubule spindle during a meiotic cell cycle .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
a chromosome that encodes the nuclear genome and is found in the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell during the cell cycle phases when the nucleus is intact .
a chromosome found in the cytoplasm .
any of the spindle microtubules that radiate in all directions from the spindle poles and are thought to contribute to the forces that separate the poles and position them in relation to the rest of the cell .
a chromosome found in the mitochondrion of a eukaryotic cell .
progression through the phases of the mitotic cell cycle ,  the most common eukaryotic cell cycle ,  which canonically comprises four successive phases called g1 ,  s ,  g2 ,  and m and includes replication of the genome and the subsequent segregation of chromosomes into daughter cells .
a cell cycle phase during which nuclear division occurs ,  and which is comprises the phases: prophase ,  metaphase ,  anaphase and telophase .
the division of a cell nucleus into two nuclei ,  with dna and other nuclear contents distributed between the daughter nuclei .
a cell cycle process that results in the division of the cytoplasm of a cell after mitosis ,  resulting in the separation of the original cell into two daughter cells .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a vacuole that is maintained at an acidic ph and which contains degradative enzymes ,  including a wide variety of acid hydrolases .
the splicing of group iii introns .
splicing of rna via a series of two transesterification reactions .
splicing of rna via a series of two transesterification reactions with a bulged adenosine residue from the intron branch point as the initiating nucleophile .
the joining together of exons from one or more primary transcripts of messenger rna  ( mrna )  and the excision of intron sequences ,  via a spliceosomal mechanism ,  so that mrna consisting only of the joined exons is produced .
the autophagic process in which mitochondria are delivered to a type of vacuole and degraded in response to changing cellular conditions .
the selective autophagy process in which a mitochondrion is degraded by macroautophagy .
any process that contributes to the maintenance of proper telomeric length and structure by affecting and monitoring the activity of telomeric proteins ,  the length of telomeric dna and the replication and repair of the dna .
the formation of a syncytium ,  a mass of cytoplasm containing several nuclei enclosed within a single plasma membrane ,  by the fusion of the plasma membranes of two or more individual cells .
the end of a linear chromosome ,  required for the integrity and maintenance of the end .
a highly compacted molecule of dna and associated proteins resulting in a cytologically distinct structure .
a highly compacted molecule of dna and associated proteins resulting in a cytologically distinct nuclear chromosome .
the cell cycle process in which sister chromatids are organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
the developmental process in which the size or shape of a cell is generated and organized .
the change in form  ( cell shape and size )  that occurs when relatively unspecialized cells ,  e .g .
the division of the cytoplasm and the plasma membrane of a cell and its partitioning into two daughter cells .
a focus in the cytoplasm where mrnas may become inactivated by decapping or some other mechanism .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of nuclear - transcribed mrnas in eukaryotic cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of rna transcribed from the mitochondrial genome and occurring in the mitochondrion .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of mrna transcribed from the mitochondrial genome and occurring in the mitochondrion .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna transcribed from the mitochondrial genome and occurring in the mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving catabolism in the mitochondrion of rna transcribed from the mitochondrial genome .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving catabolism in the mitochondrion of rna transcribed from the mitochondrial genome .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving catabolism in the mitochondrion of rna transcribed from the mitochondrial genome .
the conversion of a primary rna molecule transcribed from a mitochondrial genome into one or more mature rna molecules ;  occurs in the mitochondrion .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates levels of neurotransmitter .
a process in which membrane potential cycles through a depolarizing spike ,  triggered in response to depolarization above some threshold ,  followed by repolarization .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for an oocyte to attain its fully functional state .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or direction of cell growth .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
cell migration that is accomplished by extension and retraction of a pseudopodium .
the formation of the ectoderm ,  mesoderm and endoderm during gastrulation .
the formation of ectoderm during gastrulation .
the formation of the endoderm during gastrulation .
the process that gives rise to the mesoderm .
the process involved in the specification of cell identity .
the characteristic movement of an immature neuron from germinal zones to specific positions where they will reside as they mature .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups into an amino acid in a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate of addition of phosphate groups to amino acids within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups to amino acids within a protein .
the pronucleus originating from the ovum that is being fertilized .
the pronucleus originating from the spermatozoa that was involved in fertilization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a neurotransmitter .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to touch .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an epithelial cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the nematode larva over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the larva over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process involved in the development or functioning of the immune system ,  an organismal system for calibrated responses to potential internal or invasive threats .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organismal system whose objective is to provide calibrated responses by an organism to a potential internal or invasive threat ,  over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
the controlled release of a peptide from a cell or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
a developmental process in which a progressive change in the state of some part of an organism specifically contributes to its ability to form offspring .
a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
a organ system process carried out at the level of a muscle .
the specification and formation of anisotropic intracellular organization that contributes to the self - propelled directed movement of an ameboid cell .
the specification and formation of anisotropic intracellular organization that contributes to the self - propelled directed movement of an ameboid cell taking part in gastrulation .
a molecular process that can be carried out by the action of a single macromolecular machine ,  usually via direct physical interactions with other molecular entities .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any nucleic acid .
any molecular function by which a gene product interacts selectively and non - covalently with dna  ( deoxyribonucleic acid )  .
catalysis of a biochemical reaction at physiological temperatures .
catalysis of the reaction: acetylcholine  +  h2o = choline  +  acetate .
catalysis of the reaction: an acylcholine  +  h2o = choline  +  a carboxylic acid anion .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with one or more specific sites on a receptor molecule ,  a macromolecule that undergoes combination with a hormone ,  neurotransmitter ,  drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function .
the selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric ,  interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein or protein complex  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  .
the part of a cell or its extracellular environment in which a gene product is located .
a collagen - containing extracellular matrix consisting of a thin layer of dense material found in various animal tissues interposed between the cells and the adjacent connective tissue .
the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
obsolete .the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
the double lipid bilayer enclosing the nucleus and separating its contents from the rest of the cytoplasm ;  includes the intermembrane space ,  a gap of width 20 - 40 nm  ( also called the perinuclear space )  .
a protein complex providing a discrete opening in the nuclear envelope of a eukaryotic cell ,  where the inner and outer nuclear membranes are joined .
a structure composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins  ( e .g .
a connection formed between chromatids ,  visible during meiosis ,  thought to be the point of the interchange involved in crossing - over .
a small ,  dense body one or more of which are present in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells .
all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
a semiautonomous ,  self replicating organelle that occurs in varying numbers ,  shapes ,  and sizes in the cytoplasm of virtually all eukaryotic cells .
the gel - like material ,  with considerable fine structure ,  that lies in the matrix space ,  or lumen ,  of a mitochondrion .
a small lytic vacuole that has cell cycle - independent morphology and is found in most animal cells and that contains a variety of hydrolases ,  most of which have their maximal activities in the ph range 5 - 6 .
a vacuole to which materials ingested by endocytosis are delivered .
a membrane - bounded organelle that receives incoming material from primary endocytic vesicles that have been generated by clathrin - dependent and clathrin - independent endocytosis ;  vesicles fuse with the early endosome to deliver cargo for sorting into recycling or degradation pathways .
a prelysosomal endocytic organelle differentiated from early endosomes by lower lumenal ph and different protein composition .
a closed structure ,  found only in eukaryotic cells ,  that is completely surrounded by unit membrane and contains liquid material .
the volume enclosed within the vacuolar membrane .
a small organelle enclosed by a single membrane ,  and found in most eukaryotic cells .
the irregular network of unit membranes ,  visible only by electron microscopy ,  that occurs in the cytoplasm of many eukaryotic cells .
the volume enclosed by the membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum .
a membrane - bound cytoplasmic organelle of the endomembrane system that further processes the core oligosaccharides  ( e .g .
an array of microtubules emanating from a spindle pole mtoc that do not connect to kinetochores .
the array of microtubules and associated molecules that forms between opposite poles of a eukaryotic cell during mitosis or meiosis and serves to move the duplicated chromosomes apart .
the part of the cytoplasm that does not contain organelles but which does contain other particulate matter ,  such as protein complexes .
any of the various filamentous elements that form the internal framework of cells ,  and typically remain after treatment of the cells with mild detergent to remove membrane constituents and soluble components of the cytoplasm .
a filament of myosin found in a muscle cell of any type .
bipolar filaments formed of polymers of a muscle - specific myosin ii isoform ,  found in the middle of sarcomeres in myofibrils .
any of the long ,  generally straight ,  hollow tubes of internal diameter 12 - 15 nm and external diameter 24 nm found in a wide variety of eukaryotic cells ;  each consists  ( usually )  of 13 protofilaments of polymeric tubulin ,  staggered in such a manner that the tubulin monomers are arranged in a helical pattern on the microtubular surface ,  and with the alpha / beta axes of the tubulin subunits parallel to the long axis of the tubule ;  exist in equilibrium with pool of tubulin monomers and can be rapidly assembled or disassembled in response to physiological stimuli ;  concerned with force generation ,  e .g .
any microtubule that is part of a mitotic or meiotic spindle ;  anchored at one spindle pole .
a microtubule in the axoneme of a eukaryotic cilium or flagellum ;  an axoneme contains nine modified doublet microtubules ,  which may or may not surround a pair of single microtubules .
any microtubule in the nucleus of a cell .
any microtubule in the cytoplasm of a cell .
a filamentous structure formed of a two - stranded helical polymer of the protein actin and associated proteins .
the membrane surrounding a cell that separates the cell from its external environment .
a cell junction that forms a connection between two or more cells in a multicellular organism ;  excludes direct cytoplasmic intercellular bridges ,  such as ring canals in insects .
a cell - cell junction composed of the epithelial cadherin - catenin complex .
an occluding cell - cell junction that is composed of a branching network of sealing strands that completely encircles the apical end of each cell in an epithelial sheet ;  the outer leaflets of the two interacting plasma membranes are seen to be tightly apposed where sealing strands are present .
a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface and of some cytoplasmic parts .
the bundle of microtubules and associated proteins that forms the core of cilia  ( also called flagella )  in eukaryotic cells and is responsible for their movements .
the region of a cell that lies just beneath the plasma membrane and often ,  but not always ,  contains a network of actin filaments and associated proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving alcohols ,  any of a class of compounds containing one or more hydroxyl groups attached to a saturated carbon atom .
any cellular metabolic process involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any cellular metabolic process involving deoxyribonucleic acid .
the cellular metabolic process in which a cell duplicates one or more molecules of dna .
a dna replication process that uses parental dna as a template for the dna - dependent dna polymerases that synthesize the new strands .
the process in which new strands of dna are synthesized in the mitochondrion .
the process in which dna - dependent dna replication is started ;  this begins with the atp dependent loading of an initiator complex onto the dna ,  this is followed by dna melting and helicase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna replication .
the replication of dna that precedes meiotic cell division .
any process in which a new genotype is formed by reassortment of genes resulting in gene combinations different from those that were present in the parents .
any process in which dna and associated proteins are formed into a compact ,  orderly structure .
the cellular synthesis of rna on a template of dna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription mediated by rna polymerase ii .
the synthesis of rna from a dna template by rna polymerase ii  ( rnap ii )  ,  originating at an rna polymerase ii promoter .
the synthesis of rna from a mitochondrial dna template ,  usually by a specific mitochondrial rna polymerase .
any process involved in the conversion of one or more primary rna transcripts into one or more mature rna molecules .
any process involved in the conversion of a primary mrna transcript into one or more mature mrna ( s )  prior to translation into polypeptide .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of mrna ,  messenger rna ,  which is responsible for carrying the coded genetic 'message' ,  transcribed from dna ,  to sites of protein assembly at the ribosomes .
a process in which rna is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the directed movement of rna from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
the directed movement of mrna from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
the cellular metabolic process in which a protein is formed ,  using the sequence of a mature mrna or circrna molecule to specify the sequence of amino acids in a polypeptide chain .
the successive addition of amino acid residues to a nascent polypeptide chain during protein biosynthesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna or circrna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or accuracy of translational elongation .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the process of introducing a phosphate group on to a protein .
the addition of a methyl group to a protein amino acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another .
the chemical reactions and pathways occurring at the level of individual cells involving any of a group of naturally occurring ,  biologically active amines ,  such as norepinephrine ,  histamine ,  and serotonin ,  many of which act as neurotransmitters .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a group of physiologically important biogenic amines that possess a catechol  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl )  nucleus and are derivatives of 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylethylamine .
the directed movement of a protein from the nucleus into the cytoplasm .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aromatic compounds ,  any organic compound characterized by one or more planar rings ,  each of which contains conjugated double bonds and delocalized pi electrons ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element phosphorus or compounds that contain phosphorus ,  usually in the form of a phosphate group  ( po4 )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the phosphate group ,  the anion or salt of any phosphoric acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic or inorganic compounds that contain nitrogen .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  or cellular components  ( such as complexes and organelles )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter ,  pore or motor protein .
the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of anions ,  atoms or small molecules with a net negative charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of ions at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of hydrogen ions ,  thereby modulating the internal ph ,  within an organism or cell .
the directed movement of proteins in a cell ,  including the movement of proteins between specific compartments or structures within a cell ,  such as organelles of a eukaryotic cell .
a process of secretion by a cell that results in the release of intracellular molecules  ( e .g .
a vesicle - mediated transport process in which cells take up external materials or membrane constituents by the invagination of a small region of the plasma membrane to form a new membrane - bounded vesicle .
an endocytosis process in which cell surface receptors ensure specificity of transport .
the evagination of a membrane ,  resulting in formation of a vesicle .
fusion of the membrane of a transport vesicle with its target membrane .
a vesicle - mediated transport process that results in the engulfment of external particulate material by phagocytes and their delivery to the lysosome .
the initial step in phagocytosis involving adhesion to bacteria ,  immune complexes and other particulate matter ,  or an apoptotic cell and based on recognition of factors such as bacterial cell wall components ,  opsonins like complement and antibody or protein receptors and lipids like phosphatidyl serine ,  and leading to intracellular signaling in the phagocytosing cell .
the internalization of bacteria ,  immune complexes and other particulate matter or of an apoptotic cell by phagocytosis ,  including the membrane and cytoskeletal processes required ,  which involves one of three mechanisms: zippering of pseudopods around a target via repeated receptor - ligand interactions ,  sinking of the target directly into plasma membrane of the phagocytosing cell ,  or induced uptake via an enhanced membrane ruffling of the phagocytosing cell similar to macropinocytosis .
the directed movement of molecules between the nucleus and the cytoplasm .
the cellular catabolic process in which cells digest parts of their own cytoplasm ;  allows for both recycling of macromolecular constituents under conditions of cellular stress and remodeling the intracellular structure for cell differentiation .
a programmed cell death process which begins when a cell receives an internal  ( e .g .
the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cell or subcellular component without the involvement of an external agent such as a transporter or a pore .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism ,  or the directed growth of a cell guided by a specific chemical concentration gradient .
a process in which force is generated within muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle contraction .
the formation of a syncytium ,  a mass of cytoplasm containing several nuclei enclosed within a single plasma membrane .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
reactions ,  triggered in response to the presence of a foreign body or the occurrence of an injury ,  which result in restriction of damage to the organism attacked or prevention / recovery from the infection caused by the attack .
any immune system process that functions in the calibrated response of an organism to a potential internal or invasive threat .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the series of molecular signals generated by the accumulation of normal or misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum and leading to activation of transcription by nf - kappab .
any series of molecular signals that conveys information from the endoplasmic reticulum to the nucleus ,  usually resulting in a change in transcriptional regulation .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the activation of genes whose promoters contain a specific sequence elements such as the unfolded protein response element  ( upre ;  consensus cagcgtg )  or the er stress - response element  ( erse ;  ccaan ( n ) 9ccacg )  ,  as a result of signaling via the unfolded protein response .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle within a cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the nucleus .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the nuclear envelope .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion ;  includes mitochondrial morphogenesis and distribution ,  and replication of the mitochondrial genome as well as synthesis of new mitochondrial components .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrial membrane ,  either of the lipid bilayer surrounding a mitochondrion .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising actin filaments .
any cellular process that depends upon or alters the microtubule cytoskeleton ,  that part of the cytoskeleton comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
a microtubule - based process that results in the movement of organelles ,  other microtubules ,  or other cellular components .
the removal of tubulin heterodimers from one or both ends of a microtubule .
the process in which tubulin alpha - beta heterodimers begin aggregation to form an oligomeric tubulin structure  ( a microtubule seed )  .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule depolymerization ;  prevention of depolymerization of a microtubule can result from binding by 'capping' at the plus end  ( e .g .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the depolymerization of the specialized microtubules of the axoneme .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the cytoplasm .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a peroxisome .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vacuole .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein in the vacuole ,  usually by the action of vacuolar proteases .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a lysosome .
the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the spindle ,  the array of microtubules and associated molecules that forms between opposite poles of a eukaryotic cell during dna segregation and serves to move the duplicated chromosomes apart .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the microtubule spindle during a mitotic cell cycle .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle during a meiotic cell cycle in males .
the formation of the spindle during meiosis i of a meiotic cell cycle in males .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle during a meiotic cell cycle in females .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle during meiosis i of a meiotic cell cycle in females .
the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
the cell cycle process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets during the meiotic cell cycle in a male .
the cell cycle process in which chromatin structure is compacted prior to and during mitosis in eukaryotic cells .
the mitotic cell cycle process in which the controlled partial or complete breakdown of the nuclear envelope during occurs during mitosis .
the cell cycle process in which chromosomes are aligned at the metaphase plate ,  a plane halfway between the poles of the mitotic spindle ,  during mitosis .
the mitotic cell cycle process involving escrtiii that results in reformation of the nuclear envelope after mitotic nuclear division .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitosis .
the cell cycle process in which a cell progresses from metaphase to anaphase during mitosis ,  triggered by the activation of the anaphase promoting complex by cdc20 / sleepy homolog which results in the degradation of securin .
a cell cycle checkpoint that ensures accurate chromosome replication and segregation by preventing progression through a mitotic cell cycle until conditions are suitable for the cell to proceed to the next stage .
a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition of a mitotic nuclear division until the spindle is correctly assembled and chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
the directed movement of the nucleus to a specific location within a cell .
a cell cycle process that occurs as part of the male meiotic cell cycle and results in the division of the cytoplasm of a cell to produce two daughter cells .
the first meiotic nuclear division in which homologous chromosomes are paired and segregated from each other ,  producing two haploid daughter nuclei .
the meiotic cell cycle process where side by side pairing and physical juxtaposition of homologous chromosomes is created during meiotic prophase .
the cell cycle phase which follows anaphase i of meiosis and during which the chromosomes arrive at the poles of the cell and the division of the cytoplasm starts .
a cell cycle process by which the cell nucleus divides as part of a meiotic cell cycle in the male germline .
a cell cycle process comprising the steps by which a cell progresses through male meiosis i ,  the first meiotic division in the male germline .
a cell cycle process by which the cell nucleus divides as part of a meiotic cell cycle in the female germline .
the cell cycle process in which the first meiotic division occurs in the female germline .
any process that mediates interactions between a cell and its surroundings .
the attachment of a cell ,  either to another cell or to an underlying substrate such as the extracellular matrix ,  via cell adhesion molecules .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell adhesion .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of anisotropic intracellular organization or cell growth patterns .
the cellular process in which a signal is conveyed to trigger a change in the activity or state of a cell .
any process that mediates the transfer of information from one cell to another .
the vesicular release of classical neurotransmitter molecules from a presynapse ,  across a chemical synapse ,  the subsequent activation of neurotransmitter receptors at the postsynapse of a target cell  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  and the effects of this activation on the postsynaptic membrane potential and ionic composition of the postsynaptic cytosol .
the regulated release of neurotransmitter from the presynapse into the synaptic cleft via calcium - regulated exocytosis during synaptic transmission .
the vesicular release of acetylcholine from a presynapse ,  across a chemical synapse ,  the subsequent activation of dopamine receptors at the postsynapse of a target cell  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  and the effects of this activation on the postsynaptic membrane potential and ionic composition of the postsynaptic cytosol .
the process of synaptic transmission from a neuron to a muscle ,  across a synapse .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
the generation and maintenance of gametes in a multicellular organism .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an immature germ cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure  ( gamete )  .
the developmental process by which male germ line stem cells self renew or give rise to successive cell types resulting in the development of a spermatozoa .
the phase of growth and gene expression that male germ cells undergo as they enter the spermatocyte stage .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a spermatid over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the specialization of the spermatid nucleus during the development of a spermatid into a mature male gamete competent for fertilization .
generation of the female gamete ;  specialised haploid cells produced by meiosis and along with a male gamete takes part in sexual reproduction .
the production of yolk .yolk is a mixture of materials used for embryonic nutrition .
the introduction of semen or sperm into the genital tract of a female .
the union of male and female gametes to form a zygote .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progress through the mitotic cell cycle .
a complex and coordinated series of cellular movements that occurs at the end of cleavage during embryonic development of most animals .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the ectoderm over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of nervous tissue over time ,  from its formation to its mature state .
de novo generation of a long process of a neuron ,  including the terminal branched region .
the chemotaxis process that directs the migration of an axon growth cone to a specific target site in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
the collection of axons into a bundle of rods ,  known as a fascicle .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a synapse .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the endoderm over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the mesoderm over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the muscle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that establishes and transmits the specification of sexual status of an individual organism .
the establishment of the sex of an organism by physical differentiation .
compensating for the variation in the unpaired sex chromosome:autosome chromosome ratios between sexes by activation or inactivation of genes on one or both of the sex chromosomes .
a developmental process that is a deterioration and loss of function over time .
the elimination by an organism of the waste products that arise as a result of metabolic activity .
the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of animals  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli ,  via a mechanism that involves nervous system activity .
the acquisition and processing of information and / or the storage and retrieval of this information over time .
any process in an organism in which a relatively long - lasting adaptive behavioral change occurs as the result of experience .
the activities involved in the mental information processing system that receives  ( registers )  ,  modifies ,  stores ,  and retrieves informational stimuli .
the behavioral interactions between organisms for the purpose of mating ,  or sexual reproduction resulting in the formation of zygotes .
the pairwise union of individuals for the purpose of sexual reproduction ,  ultimately resulting in the formation of zygotes .
the act of sexual union between male and female ,  involving the transfer of sperm .
the specific behavior of an organism that recur with measured regularity .
any biological process in an organism that recurs with a regularity of approximately 24 hours .
the specific actions or reactions of an organism that recur with a regularity more frequent than every 24 hours .
the specific movement from place to place of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli .
behavior associated with the intake of food .
behavior that is dependent upon the sensation of chemicals .
a secretory organelle ,  typically 50 nm in diameter ,  of presynaptic nerve terminals ;  accumulates in high concentrations of neurotransmitters and secretes these into the synaptic cleft by fusion with the 'active zone' of the presynaptic plasma membrane .
the process in which a cell in an organism interprets its surroundings .
the process in which a neuronal cell in a multicellular organism interprets its surroundings .
the directed movement of organelles or molecules along microtubules in neuron projections .
the directed movement of organelles or molecules along microtubules from the cell body toward the cell periphery in nerve cell axons .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna replication .
the addition of an alkyl group to a protein amino acid .
any biological process that results in permanent cessation of all vital functions of a cell .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of cell proliferation .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving acetylcholine ,  the acetic acid ester of the organic base choline .
the activity of binding selectively and non - covalently to and distorting the original structure of dna ,  typically a straight helix ,  into a bend ,  or increasing the bend if the original structure was intrinsically bent due to its sequence .
learning by associating a stimulus  ( the cause )  with a particular outcome  ( the effect )  .
the orderly movement of a cell specialized to produce haploid gametes through the embryo from its site of production to the place where the gonads will form .
the asymmetric division of cells to produce two daughter cells with different developmental potentials .
any process that modulates the size of a cell .
the process of removing sections of the primary rna transcript to remove sequences not present in the mature form of the rna and joining the remaining sections to form the mature form of the rna .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the gonad over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the male gonad over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
a series of molecular signals in which an intracellular signal is conveyed to trigger the apoptotic death of a cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  including the breakdown of carbon compounds with the liberation of energy for use by the cell or organism .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ;  typically the energy - requiring part of metabolism in which simpler substances are transformed into more complex ones .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the region of a virus ,  bacterial cell ,  mitochondrion or chloroplast to which the nucleic acid is confined .
the cellular synthesis of messenger rna  ( mrna )  from a dna template .
the controlled release of proteins from a cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to physical parameters involved in energy generation ,  such as light ,  oxygen ,  and oxidizable substrates .
the union of gametes of opposite sexes during the process of sexual reproduction to form a zygote .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which anatomical structures are generated and organized .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a compound containing a pyrocatechol  ( 1 , 2 - benzenediol )  nucleus or substituent .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of catechol - containing compounds .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of asymmetric cell division .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an embryo from its formation until the end of its embryonic life stage .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the organism over time ,  from the completion of embryonic development to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a tissue over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which a relatively unspecialized immature germ cell acquires the specialized features of a mature female gamete .
any process that restricts ,  stops or prevents a cell from adopting a specific cell fate .
compaction of chromatin structure prior to meiosis in eukaryotic cells .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the endomembrane system .
the process that occurs in an animal organ near the end of its active life that is associated with the dismantling of cell components and membranes ,  and an overall decline in metabolism .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the infolding of a membrane .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any signalling pathway that modulates the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g2 phase to m phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell fate commitment .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency or rate of cell fate commitment .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency or rate of cell fate commitment .
the process in which a gene's sequence is converted into a mature gene product or products  ( proteins or rna )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of gastrulation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagy .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagy .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of autophagy .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane disassembly .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that modulates a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the dna - dependent dna replication that occurs in the nucleus of eukaryotic organisms as part of the cell cycle .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression after the production of an rna transcript .
the activation of endogenous cellular processes that result in the death of a cell as part of its development .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell morphogenesis contributing to cell differentiation .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell morphogenesis contributing to cell differentiation .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell morphogenesis contributing to cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of mrna from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
any process that modulates the levels of hormone within an organism or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion .
any process that contributes to the maintenance of proper telomeric length and structure by affecting and monitoring the activity of telomeric proteins and lengthening the telomeric dna .
the cellular component assembly that is part of the initial shaping of the component during its developmental progression .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic microtubule depolymerization .
the removal of tubulin heterodimers from one or both ends of a cytoplasmic microtubule .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of necrotic cell death .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of necrotic cell death .
any process that modulates the rate or frequency of cell death .
any process that increases the rate or frequency of cell death .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic sister chromatid separation .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of microtubule nucleation .
the movement of organelles or other particles from one location in the cell to another along microtubules ,  driven by motor activity .
any signalling pathway that activates or increases the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g2 phase to m phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
any signalling pathway that decreases or inhibits the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g2 phase to m phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of neuron projection development .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of neuron projection development .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of neuron projection development .
a process which begins when a cell receives an internal or external signal and activates a series of biochemical events  ( signaling pathway )  .
a collection of membranous structures involved in transport within the cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron maturation ,  the process leading to the attainment of the full functional capacity of a neuron .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron maturation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron maturation .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the directed movement of proteins into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the part of the cytoskeleton  ( the internal framework of a cell )  composed of actin and associated proteins .
the part of the cytoskeleton  ( the internal framework of a cell )  composed of microtubules and associated proteins .
the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
a lipid bilayer along with all the proteins and protein complexes embedded in it an attached to it .
a process that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
the process in which a cell irreversibly increases in size over time by accretion and biosynthetic production of matter similar to that already present .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vesicle .
the cellular chemical reactions and pathways involving rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving mrna ,  messenger rna ,  which is responsible for carrying the coded genetic 'message' ,  transcribed from dna ,  to sites of protein assembly at the ribosomes .
fusion of intracellular membrane - bounded vesicles with the pre - synaptic membrane of the neuronal cell resulting in release of neurotransmitter into the synaptic cleft .
a cellular transport process in which transported substances are moved in membrane - bounded vesicles ;  transported substances are enclosed in the vesicle lumen or located in the vesicle membrane .
the developmental process in which a skeletal muscle attaches to its target  ( such as bone or body wall )  .
the major inducible pathway for the general turnover of cytoplasmic constituents in eukaryotic cells ,  it is also responsible for the degradation of active cytoplasmic enzymes and organelles during nutrient starvation .
any process ,  such as recognition of nutrient depletion ,  that activates or increases the rate of macroautophagy to bring cytosolic macromolecules to the vacuole / lysosome for degradation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of macroautophagy .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of macroautophagy .
the process in which double - stranded rnas silence cognate genes .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into a molecule ,  usually with the formation of a phosphoric ester ,  a phosphoric anhydride or a phosphoric amide .
the cell cycle process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets during the meiotic cell cycle in a female .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the dendrite over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the inactivation of gene expression by a posttranscriptional mechanism .
any process carried out at the cellular level that results in either long - term transcriptional repression via action on chromatin structure or rna mediated ,  post - transcriptional repression of gene expression .
a protein complex ,  formed of one or more myosin heavy chains plus associated light chains and other proteins ,  that functions as a molecular motor ;  uses the energy of atp hydrolysis to move actin filaments or to move vesicles or other cargo on fixed actin filaments ;  has magnesium - atpase activity and binds actin .
a myosin complex containing two class ii myosin heavy chains ,  two myosin essential light chains and two myosin regulatory light chains .
the controlled self - propelled movement of a cell from one site to a destination guided by molecular cues .
the directed movement of substances or organelles within the cytosol .
catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
catalysis of the transfer of a glycosyl group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any ester bond .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna or circrna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of exocytosis .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a phenol ,  any compound containing one or more hydroxyl groups directly attached to an aromatic carbon ring .
synthesis and ordering of the envelope of pronuclei .
the deposition of eggs  ( either fertilized or not )  upon a surface or into a medium such as water .
the determination of sex and sexual phenotype in an organism's germ line .
the periodic shedding of part or all of a collagen and cuticulin - based cuticle ,  which is then replaced by a new collagen and cuticulin - based cuticle .
any process in which mitochondrial rna is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the specific behavior of an organism that is associated with reproduction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any cellular process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
the neurological system process in which a signal is transmitted through the nervous system by a combination of action potential propagation and synaptic transmission .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a phenol ,  any compound containing one or more hydroxyl groups directly attached to an aromatic carbon ring .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of aromatic compounds ,  any substance containing an aromatic carbon ring .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of aromatic compounds ,  any substance containing an aromatic carbon ring .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of catechol - containing compounds .
any intracellular signal transduction in which the signal is passed on within the cell via calcium ions .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state at the level of the cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in many of the chemical changes of compounds that are not necessarily required for growth and maintenance of cells ,  and are often unique to a taxon .
any intracellular signal transduction in which the signal is passed on within the cell via a second messenger ;  a small molecule or ion that can be quickly generated or released from intracellular stores ,  and can diffuse within the cell .
a reproduction process that creates a new organism by combining the genetic material of two gametes ,  which may come from two organisms or from a single organism ,  in the case of self - fertilizing hermaphrodites ,  e .g .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for an anatomical structure ,  cell or cellular component to attain its fully functional state .
generation of cells within the nervous system .
the cellular process that ensures successive accurate and complete genome replication and chromosome segregation .
one of the distinct periods or stages into which the cell cycle is divided .
a multicellular organismal process involved in the periodic casting off and regeneration of an outer covering of cuticle ,  feathers ,  hair ,  horns ,  skin .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of a cell to another cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of cell adhesion to another cell .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of cell adhesion to another cell .
a cellular process that results in the breakdown of a cellular component .
a process ,  occurring at the cellular level ,  that is involved in the reproductive function of a multicellular organism .
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals by one or two organisms .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of anatomical structure morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell morphogenesis .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a cellular component .
the attachment of a cell or organism to a substrate ,  another cell ,  or other organism .
a developmental process in which dormancy  ( sometimes called a dormant state )  is induced ,  maintained or broken .
a cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a complex containing rna and proteins .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins and rna molecules to form a ribonucleoprotein complex .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression as a consequence of a process in which a signal is released and / or conveyed from one location to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the entirety of a process in which information is transmitted within a biological system .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the process in which a signal is secreted or discharged into the extracellular medium from a cellular source .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of cations at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of monovalent inorganic cations at the level of a cell .
the specification and formation of anisotropic intracellular organization or cell growth patterns .
the contractile element of skeletal and cardiac muscle ;  a long ,  highly organized bundle of actin ,  myosin ,  and other proteins that contracts by a sliding filament mechanism .
the repeating unit of a myofibril in a muscle cell ,  composed of an array of overlapping thick and thin filaments between two adjacent z discs .
any cellular process that depends upon or alters the actin cytoskeleton ,  that part of the cytoskeleton comprising actin filaments and their associated proteins .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising actin filaments and their associated proteins .
the cell cycle process in which rearrangement of the spatial distribution of actin filaments and associated proteins occurs .
a cellular component that forms a specialized region of connection between two or more cells ,  or between a cell and the extracellular matrix ,  or between two membrane - bound components of a cell ,  such as flagella .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which a cell progresses from metaphase to anaphase during mitosis ,  triggered by the activation of the anaphase promoting complex by cdc20 / sleepy homolog which results in the degradation of securin .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocytosis .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of water within an organism or cell .
any of the vesicles of the constitutive secretory pathway ,  which carry cargo from the endoplasmic reticulum to the golgi ,  between golgi cisternae ,  from the golgi to the er  ( retrograde transport )  or to destinations within or outside the cell .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of a cell to another cell or to the extracellular matrix .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by the destruction of the native ,  active configuration ,  with or without the hydrolysis of peptide bonds .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of initiation of dna - dependent dna replication ;  the process in which dna becomes competent to replicate .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a neuron .
the progressive compaction of dispersed interphase chromatin into threadlike chromosomes prior to mitotic or meiotic nuclear division ,  or during apoptosis ,  in eukaryotic cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or direction of cell growth .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or direction of cell growth .
a structure that lies outside the plasma membrane and surrounds the entire cell or cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell migration .
the controlled breakdown of any cell membrane in the context of a normal process such as autophagy .
the expulsion of feces from the rectum .
the long process of a neuron that conducts nerve impulses ,  usually away from the cell body to the terminals and varicosities ,  which are sites of storage and release of neurotransmitter .
a neuron projection that has a short ,  tapering ,  morphology .
any process that modulates the rate ,  direction or extent of axon extension .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon outgrowth .
behavior in a fully developed and mature organism .
behavior in a larval form of an organism ,  an immature organism that must undergo metamorphosis to assume adult characteristics .
partial constriction of the cytoplasm of a cell to form a furrow that resembles a cleavage furrow but does not complete cytokinesis .
a process that occurs during the first cell cycle in an embryo ,  in which anterior cortical contractions culminate in a single partial constriction of the embryo called the pseudocleavage furrow .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of hydrogen ions  ( protons )  within a cell or between a cell and its external environment .
the directed movement of substances along cytoskeletal fibers such as microfilaments or microtubules within a cell .
the release of a mature ovum / oocyte from an ovary .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an epithelial cell ,  any of the cells making up an epithelium .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell differentiation .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of the presence of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  or other er - related stress ;  results in changes in the regulation of transcription and translation .
a nonmembrane - bound oligomeric protein complex that participates in bidirectional transport of molecules  ( cargo )  along axonemal microtubules .
a structure lying external to one or more cells ,  which provides structural support ,  biochemical or biomechanical cues for cells or tissues .
any process in which rna molecules inactivate expression of target genes .
a membrane that is one of the two lipid bilayers of an organelle envelope or the outermost membrane of single membrane bound organelle .
assembly or disassembly of microtubules by the addition or removal of tubulin heterodimers from a microtubule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule polymerization or depolymerization by the addition or removal of tubulin heterodimers from a microtubule .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule polymerization or depolymerization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule polymerization or depolymerization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule polymerization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule depolymerization .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule polymerization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule polymerization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule depolymerization .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of structures formed of microtubules and associated proteins in the cytoplasm of a cell .
a developmental process involving two tissues in which one tissue  ( the inducer )  produces a signal that directs cell fate commitment of cells in the second tissue  ( the responder )  .
signaling at short range between cells of different ancestry and developmental potential that results in one cell or group of cells effecting a developmental change in the other .
a temporary protrusion or retractile process of a cell ,  associated with flowing movements of the protoplasm ,  and serving for locomotion and feeding .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a neuron projection over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vesicle fusion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vesicle fusion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vesicle fusion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell projections .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell projections .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell projections .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
a vesicle found in the cytoplasm of a cell .
the midline of aligned thick filaments in a sarcomere ;  location of specific proteins that link thick filaments .
the reformation of the nuclear envelope following its breakdown in the context of a normal process .
a localization process that acts on a protein complex ;  the complex is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in dynamic structural changes to the arrangement of constituent parts of cytoskeletal structures comprising actin filaments and their associated proteins .
the mitotic cell cycle checkpoint that delays or arrests cell cycle progression until cells have reached a critical size .
a mitotic cell cycle checkpoint that monitors cell size ,  and negatively regulates cell cycle progression between g1 and s phase until a critical size is reached .
a cell cycle process that controls cell cycle progression in response to changes in dna structure by monitoring the integrity of the dna .
a mitotic cell cycle checkpoint that slows dna synthesis in response to dna damage by the prevention of new origin firing and the stabilization of slow replication fork progression .
a cell cycle checkpoint that originates from the mitotic or meiotic spindle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a neurophysiological process ,  an organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the nervous system .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a neurophysiological process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a neurophysiological process .
any process that affects the structure and integrity of a protein ,  altering the likelihood of its degradation or aggregation .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the dark - staining region of a sarcomere ,  in which myosin thick filaments are present ;  the center is traversed by the paler h zone ,  which in turn contains the m line .
either of the lipid bilayers that surround the nucleus and form the nuclear envelope ;  excludes the intermembrane space .
a double membrane structure enclosing an organelle ,  including two lipid bilayers and the region between them .
the enclosed volume within a sealed membrane or between two sealed membranes .
a multilayered structure surrounding all or part of a cell ;  encompasses one or more lipid bilayers ,  and may include a cell wall layer ;  also includes the space between layers .
the volume enclosed by the nuclear inner membrane .
any small ,  fluid - filled ,  spherical organelle enclosed by membrane .
self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another in a behavioral context ;  the aspect of locomotory behavior having to do with movement .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving mitochondrial dna .
a process in which a protein or protein complex is maintained in a specific location in the cell cortex .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a food stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a food stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains ,  or increases the rate of a response to a food stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an extracellular stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an extracellular stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to an extracellular stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to nutrient levels .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to nutrient levels .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to nutrient levels .
the eventual plane of cell division  ( also known as cell cleavage or cytokinesis )  in a dividing cell .
the cleavage furrow is a plasma membrane invagination at the cell division site .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of telomeres ,  terminal regions of a linear chromosome that include the telomeric dna repeats and associated proteins .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process that affects and monitors the activity of telomeric proteins and the length of telomeric dna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process that affects and monitors the activity of telomeric proteins and the length of telomeric dna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process that affects and monitors the activity of telomeric proteins and the length of telomeric dna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cholinergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter acetylcholine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cholinergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter acetylcholine .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cholinergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter acetylcholine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gabaergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba )  .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gabaergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba )  .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gabaergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the process in which a methyl group is covalently attached to a molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process of creating protein polymers .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process of creating protein polymers .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process of creating protein polymers .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of initiation of dna - dependent dna replication .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of initiation of dna - dependent dna replication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein oligomerization .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein oligomerization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein oligomerization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the division of the cytoplasm of a cell and its separation into two daughter cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the division of the cytoplasm of a cell ,  and its separation into two daughter cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the division of the cytoplasm of a cell ,  and its separation into two daughter cells .
any biological process ,  occurring at the level of a multicellular organism ,  pertinent to its function .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an integrated living unit: an anatomical structure  ( which may be a subcellular structure ,  cell ,  tissue ,  or organ )  ,  or organism over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
the biological process in which new individuals are produced by one or two multicellular organisms .
any process in which a protein is maintained in a specific location within ,  or in the membrane of ,  a cell ,  and is prevented from moving elsewhere .
a process that modulates the size of a cellular component .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a protein in a mitochondrion .
the directed movement of a protein from one location to another within a lipid bilayer .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
all of the contents of a plasma membrane bounded cell projection ,  excluding the plasma membrane surrounding the projection .
all of the contents of a dendrite ,  excluding the surrounding plasma membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a process that reduces the internal ph of a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a process that reduces the internal ph of a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a process that reduces the internal ph of a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna endoreduplication .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna endoreduplication .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna endoreduplication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the specification ,  formation or maintenance of anisotropic intracellular organization or cell growth patterns .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any cellular process that depends upon or alters the microtubule cytoskeleton .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the spindle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the mitotic spindle .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising actin filaments and their associated proteins .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any cellular process that depends upon or alters the actin cytoskeleton .
a supramolecular fiber containing myosin heavy chains ,  plus associated light chains and other proteins ,  in which the myosin heavy chains are arranged into a filament .
the disaggregation of a protein - containing macromolecular complex into its constituent components .
the process in which cellular structures ,  including whole cells or cell parts ,  are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a cell part are generated and organized .
any macromolecular complex composed of two or more polypeptide subunits ,  which may or may not be identical .
any process in which a macromolecule is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a chromosome .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation during mitosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation during mitosis .
self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another along an axis .
the deposition or aggregation of coloring matter in a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna splicing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna splicing .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
a cell cycle process that results in the division of the cytoplasm of a cell after meiosis ,  resulting in the separation of the original cell into two daughter cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform amines .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amines .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amines .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways leading to the breakdown of amines .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways leading to the breakdown of amines .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways leading to the breakdown of amines .
the dna - dependent dna replication that occurs in the nucleus of eukaryotic organisms as part of the cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the dna - dependent dna replication that occurs in the nucleus of eukaryotic organisms as part of the cell cycle .
a cell cycle checkpoint that ensures accurate chromosome replication and segregation by preventing progression through a meiotic cell cycle until conditions are suitable for the cell to proceed to the next stage .
a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition of a meiotic cell cycle until the spindle is correctly assembled and chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a secretory granule .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within an organelle .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a syncytium ,  a mass of cytoplasm containing several nuclei enclosed within a single plasma membrane ,  by the fusion of the plasma membranes of two or more individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amides .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amides .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amides .
the process in which the accumulation of misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum triggers a response that positively regulates autophagy .
a cellular process that results in the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a cell junction .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cell junction .
a process in which a protein transports or maintains the localization of another protein to the nucleus .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the response by the male to a hermaphrodite after initial contact following mate finding .
location ,  by the male ,  of his partner's vulva when backing along the ventral side of the hermaphrodite during mating .
insertion of the male copulatory spicules into the hermaphrodite .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location at the level of a cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a protein complex ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving various organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the directed movement of the male and female pronuclei towards each other prior to their fusion .
the rotation of centrosomes and associated pronuclei in one - cell embryos such as those of caenorhabditis elegans ,  occurring as a transition between pronuclear migration and pronuclear fusion .
behavior directed towards society ,  or taking place between members of the same species .
the movement of a larva through a feeding substrate whilst feeding on food .
the emergence of an immature organism from a protective structure .
any process of posttranscriptional gene inactivation  ( silencing )  mediated by small rna molecules that may trigger rna  ( often mrna )  degradation or negatively regulate mrna translation .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a tube over time ,  from its initial formation to a mature structure .
any process in which a protein is maintained in the endoplasmic reticulum and prevented from moving elsewhere .
the process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components within the cell ,  which become activated themselves to further propagate the signal and finally trigger a change in the function or state of the cell .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location within the extracellular region .
the transfer of information occurring at the level of a multicellular organism .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a mitochondrial protein .
a non - membranous macromolecular complex containing proteins and translationally silenced mrnas .
the process in which an organism effects a change in the structure or processes of another organism .
a dna recombination process that results in the exchange of an equal amount of genetic material between highly homologous dna molecules .
the rhythmic process of defecation that consists of an intestinal oscillator which regulates calcium waves .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components by an organism to form a pore complex in a membrane of another organism .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a prolongation or process extending from a muscle cell .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any of the smallest contractile units of a myofibril  ( striated muscle fiber )  .
any process in which dna and associated proteins are formed into a compact ,  orderly structure within a nucleoid .
a ribonucleoprotein granule located in the cytoplasm .
the trafficking of synaptic vesicles from the pre - synaptic membrane so the vesicle can dock and prime for another round of exocytosis and neurotransmitter release .
the region of a neuron that includes the cell body  ( cell soma )  and dendrite ( s )  ,  but excludes the axon .
binding specifically to a substance  ( cargo )  to deliver it to a transport vesicle .
the cell cycle process in which the directed movement of the mitotic spindle to a specific location in the cell occurs .
synthesis and deposition of a collagen and cuticulin - based noncellular ,  hardened ,  or membranous secretion from an epithelial sheet .
attaching of a collagen and cuticulin - based cuticle to the epithelium underlying it .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the growth of all or part of an organism so that it occurs at its proper speed ,  either globally or in a specific part of the organism's development .
self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic nuclear division ,  the process in which the nucleus of a diploid cell divides twice forming four haploid cells ,  one or more of which usually function as gametes .
the determination of sex and sexual phenotype in the germ line of a hermaphrodite .
the determination of female sex and sexual phenotype in the germ - line of the hermaphrodite .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the dauer larva over time ,  through the facultative diapause of the dauer  ( enduring )  larval stage ,  with specialized traits adapted for dispersal and long - term survival ,  with elevated stress resistance and without feeding .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the egg - laying organ of female and hermaphrodite nematodes over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of development of the vulva .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of development of the vulva .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of development of the vulva .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression ;  the process is mitotically or meiotically heritable ,  or is stably self - propagated in the cytoplasm of a resting cell ,  and does not entail a change in dna sequence .
any process ,  mediated by small non - coding rnas ,  that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate that mrnas are effectively translated into protein .
any process that modulates the consistent predetermined time point at which an integrated living unit or organism progresses from an initial condition to a later condition and the rate at which this time point is reached .
the cell cycle process in which two small cells are generated ,  as byproducts destined to degenerate ,  as a result of the first and second meiotic divisions of a primary oocyte during its development to a mature ovum .
behavior that is dependent upon the sensation of temperature .
regulated re - replication of dna within a single cell cycle ,  resulting in an increased cell ploidy .
the behavior of an organism in response to an odor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dopamine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving catecholamines .
the bidirectional movement of large protein complexes along microtubules within a cilium ,  mediated by motor proteins .
the migration of individual cells within the blastocyst to help establish the multi - layered body plan of the organism  ( gastrulation )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving neurotransmitters ,  any of a group of substances that are released on excitation from the axon terminal of a presynaptic neuron of the central or peripheral nervous system and travel across the synaptic cleft to either excite or inhibit the target cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by the destruction of the native ,  active configuration ,  with or without the hydrolysis of peptide bonds .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by the destruction of the native ,  active configuration ,  with or without the hydrolysis of peptide bonds .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the periodic casting off and regeneration of an outer covering of cuticle ,  feathers ,  hair ,  horns ,  skin ,  etc .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups into a molecule .
any process that stops ,  prevents or decreases the rate of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to an external stimulus .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to light .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a cuticle ,  the outer layer of some animals and plants ,  which acts to prevent water loss .
synthesis and deposition of a collagen and cuticulin - based noncellular ,  hardened ,  or membranous secretion from an epithelial sheet ,  occurring as part of the molting cycle .
any process that modulates the establishment or extent of a membrane potential ,  the electric potential existing across any membrane arising from charges in the membrane itself and from the charges present in the media on either side of the membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways occurring at the level of individual cells resulting in the formation of any of a group of naturally occurring ,  biologically active amines ,  such as norepinephrine ,  histamine ,  and serotonin ,  many of which act as neurotransmitters .
the chemical reactions and pathways occurring at the level of individual cells resulting in the breakdown of biogenic amines ,  any of a group of naturally occurring ,  biologically active amines ,  such as norepinephrine ,  histamine ,  and serotonin ,  many of which act as neurotransmitters .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of dopamine ,  a catecholamine neurotransmitter and a metabolic precursor of noradrenaline and adrenaline .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving dopamine ,  a catecholamine neurotransmitter and a metabolic precursor of noradrenaline and adrenaline .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of dopamine ,  a catecholamine neurotransmitter and a metabolic precursor of noradrenaline and adrenaline .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any of a group of physiologically important biogenic amines that possess a catechol  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl )  nucleus and are derivatives of 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylethylamine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of any of a group of physiologically important biogenic amines that possess a catechol  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl )  nucleus and are derivatives of 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylethylamine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of serotonin  ( 5 - hydroxytryptamine )  ,  a monoamine neurotransmitter occurring in the peripheral and central nervous systems ,  also having hormonal properties .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving serotonin  ( 5 - hydroxytryptamine )  ,  a monoamine neurotransmitter occurring in the peripheral and central nervous systems ,  also having hormonal properties .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of serotonin  ( 5 - hydroxytryptamine )  ,  a monoamine neurotransmitter occurring in the peripheral and central nervous systems ,  also having hormonal properties .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving compounds that contain an indole  ( 2 , 3 - benzopyrrole )  skeleton .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of compounds that contain an indole  ( 2 , 3 - benzopyrrole )  skeleton .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of compounds that contain an indole  ( 2 , 3 - benzopyrrole )  skeleton .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ethanolamine  ( 2 - aminoethanol )  and compounds derived from it .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone ,  naturally occurring substances secreted by specialized cells that affects the metabolism or behavior of other cells possessing functional receptors for the hormone .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for a neuron to attain its fully functional state .
cytoplasmic organelles ,  spherical or oval in shape ,  that are bounded by a single membrane and contain oxidative enzymes ,  especially those utilizing hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the region of a mitochondrion to which the dna is confined .
any process that mediates the adoption of a specific fate by a cell .
any process that activates or enables a cell to adopt a specific fate .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a muscle cell .
the expulsion of seminal fluid ,  thick white fluid containing spermatozoa ,  from the male genital tract .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a circadian rhythm .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a circadian rhythm behavior .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a circadian rhythm behavior .
the specific behavior of an organism relating to the intake of food ,  any substance  ( usually solid )  that can be metabolized by an organism to give energy and build tissue .
a cascade of processes induced by the detection of dna damage within a cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving pheromones ,  a substance that is secreted and released by an organism and detected by a second organism of the same or a closely related species ,  in which it causes a specific reaction ,  such as a definite behavioral reaction or a developmental process .
the directed movement of an amide ,  any compound containing one ,  two ,  or three acyl groups attached to a nitrogen atom ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of cell death by apoptotic process .
a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
a prolongation or process extending from a nerve cell ,  e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of peptides ,  compounds of 2 or more  ( but usually less than 100 )  amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another .
the contraction and relaxation movements of the pharyngeal muscle that mediate feeding in nematodes .
any process that modulates the contraction and relaxation movements of the pharyngeal muscle that mediates feeding in nematodes .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to a temperature gradient .
entry into the facultative diapause of the dauer  ( enduring )  larval stage of nematode development .
exit from the facultative diapause of the dauer  ( enduring )  larval stage of nematode development .
posterior movement of an organism ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the speed ,  mechanical force ,  or rhythm of the posterior movement of an organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell death by apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell death by apoptotic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that activates or increases the activity of an enzyme .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of an enzyme .
any process in which proteins and protein complexes involved in translation are transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
a small cytoplasmic ,  non - membranous rna / protein complex aggregate in the primordial germ cells of many higher eukaryotes .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
the internal volume enclosed by the membranes of a particular organelle ;  includes the volume enclosed by a single organelle membrane ,  e .g .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex disassembly ,  the disaggregation of a protein complex into its constituent components .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex disassembly ,  the disaggregation of a protein complex into its constituent components .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex disassembly ,  the disaggregation of a protein complex into its constituent components .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the recognition and removal of an apoptotic cell by a neighboring cell or by a phagocyte .
fibers ,  composed of actin ,  myosin ,  and associated proteins ,  found in cells of smooth or striated muscle .
a functional unit located near the cell apex at the points of contact between epithelial cells ,  which in vertebrates is composed of the tight junction ,  the zonula adherens ,  and desmosomes and in some invertebrates ,  such as drosophila ,  is composed of the subapical complex  ( sac )  ,  the zonula adherens and the septate junction .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding .
any process that stops or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
the covalent alteration of one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological macromolecule ,  resulting in a change in its properties .
the covalent attachment of a methyl residue to one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological macromolecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of secondary metabolism ,  the chemical reactions and pathways involving compounds that are not necessarily required for growth and maintenance of cells ,  and are often unique to a taxon .
the accumulation of pigment in an organism ,  tissue or cell ,  either by increased deposition or by increased number of cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna splicing ,  the process of removing sections of the primary rna transcript to remove sequences not present in the mature form of the rna and joining the remaining sections to form the mature form of the rna .
any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of cell death by apoptotic process in neurons .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell death by apoptotic process in neurons .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell death of neurons by apoptotic process .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an amide ,  any derivative of an oxoacid in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an amide ,  any derivative of an oxoacid in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
the disaggregation of a protein complex into its constituent components ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the removal of the apoptotic cell by phagocytosis ,  by a neighboring cell or by a phagocyte .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process in which macromolecules aggregate ,  disaggregate ,  or are modified ,  resulting in the formation ,  disassembly ,  or alteration of a protein complex .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a system process ,  a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of excretion ,  the elimination by an organism of the waste products that arise as a result of metabolic activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of anions ,  atoms or small molecules with a net negative charge into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular component biogenesis ,  a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vacuole .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular component biogenesis ,  a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vacuole .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the progression of an organism from an initial condition to a later condition ,  occurring when the organism is in a symbiotic interaction .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving those compounds which are formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a macromolecule ,  any large molecule including proteins ,  nucleic acids and carbohydrates ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a specific protein ,  rather than of proteins in general ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving small molecules ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
any process evolved to enable an interaction with an organism of a different species .
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals ,  involving another organism .
a multicellular organism process which involves another multicellular organism of the same or different species .
the cell cycle process by which a cell commits to entering the next cell cycle phase .
the cell cycle process by which a cell commits to entering the next meiotic cell cycle phase .
the cell cycle process by which a cell commits to entering the next mitotic cell cycle phase .
a mitotic cell cycle checkpoint that detects and negatively regulates progression through the cell cycle in response to dna damage .
a mitotic cell cycle process that controls cell cycle progression in response to changes in dna structure by monitoring the integrity of the dna .
a meiotic cell cycle process that controls cell cycle progression in response to changes in dna structure by monitoring the integrity of the dna .
a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition of a meiotic nuclear division until the spindle is correctly assembled and that the chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cilium ,  a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
the cell cycle process in which a cell progresses from metaphase to anaphase as part of the cell cycle .
the cell cycle process in which a cell progresses from metaphase to anaphase as part of meiosis .
the dna - dependent dna replication that takes place as part of the cell cycle .
a cell cycle checkpoint that detects and negatively regulates progression from g2 to m phase as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
a cell cycle checkpoint that detects and negatively regulates progression from g1 to s phase as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle process by which a cell in g2 phase commits to m phase .
a lysosome - related organelle contained within the intestinal cells of the nematode c . elegans .
the membrane of a gut granule ,  a lysosome - related organelle contained within the intestinal cells of the nematode c . elegans .
the lumen of a gut granule ,  a lysosome - related organelle contained within the intestinal cells of the nematode c . elegans .
the cell cycle process by which a cell in g1 phase commits to s phase .
a distinct period or stage in a biological process or cycle .
the joining of the lipid bilayer membrane that surround a cell with that of another cell ,  producing a single cell .
a process of exocytosis in which soluble proteins and other substances are initially stored in secretory vesicles for later release .
innate immune responses are defense responses mediated by germline encoded components that directly recognize components of potential pathogens .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the innate immune response ,  the organism's first line of defense against infection .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the innate immune response ,  the organism's first line of defense against infection .
the nucleus of either the ovum or the spermatozoon following fertilization .
the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets during m phase of the meiotic cell cycle .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the primary sexual characteristics over time ,  from their formation to the mature structures .
the cell cycle process in which replicated homologous chromosomes are organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two sets during the first division of the meiotic cell cycle .
the process in which voltage - gated ion channels become localized to distinct subcellular domains in the neuron .
the commitment of cells to specific cell fates and their capacity to differentiate into particular kinds of cells .
signaling at long or short range between cells that results in the commitment of a cell to a certain fate .
any molecular function involved in the initiation ,  activation ,  perpetuation ,  repression or termination of polypeptide synthesis at the ribosome .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location .
any process in which a protein is maintained in a location and prevented from moving elsewhere .
the junction between an axon of one neuron and a dendrite of another neuron ,  a muscle fiber or a glial cell .
differentiated cytoplasm associated with a pole  ( animal ,  vegetal ,  anterior ,  or posterior )  of an oocyte ,  egg or early embryo .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation ,  the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and functional features .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of spermatid nuclear differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of spermatid nuclear differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of spermatid nuclear differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna or circrna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by the destruction of the native ,  active configuration ,  with or without the hydrolysis of peptide bonds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna replication .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of asymmetric cell division .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of asymmetric cell division .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon extension .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell adhesion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocytosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the innate immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of mitosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which a cell progresses from metaphase to anaphase during mitosis ,  triggered by the activation of the anaphase promoting complex by cdc20 / sleepy homolog which results in the degradation of securin .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which a cell progresses from metaphase to anaphase during mitosis ,  triggered by the activation of the anaphase promoting complex by cdc20 / sleepy homolog which results in the degradation of securin .
any process that reduces the internal ph of an organism ,  part of an organism or a cell ,  measured by the concentration of the hydrogen ion .
any process that increases the internal ph of an organism ,  part of an organism or a cell ,  measured by the concentration of the hydrogen ion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational elongation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational elongation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna recombination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna recombination .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving catecholamine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving catecholamine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of exocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of exocytosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of growth ,  the increase in size or mass of all or part of an organism .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of growth ,  the increase in size or mass of all or part of an organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of progression through the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle contraction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle contraction .
any cellular process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any cellular process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dopamine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dopamine .
any process ,  mediated by small non - coding rnas ,  that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent that mrnas are effectively translated into protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic development .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a phenol ,  any compound containing one or more hydroxyl groups directly attached to an aromatic carbon ring .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving octopamine ,  1 -  ( p - hydroxyphenyl )  - 2 - aminoethanol .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the primary male sexual characteristics over time ,  from their formation to the mature structures .
the establishment of the sex of a male organism by physical differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the deposition of eggs ,  either fertilized or not ,  upon a surface or into a medium .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the addition of tubulin heterodimers to one or both ends of a microtubule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances between the nucleus and the cytoplasm .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances between the cytoplasm and the nucleus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances between the nucleus and the cytoplasm .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins from the nucleus into the cytoplasm .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of directed movement of proteins from the nucleus into the cytoplasm .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of rna from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of rna from the nucleus into the cytoplasm .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of directed movement of rna from the nucleus into the cytoplasm .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell or a tissue .
the directed movement of substances within a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a neurotransmitter from a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a neurotransmitter .
a simple form of learning whereby the repeated presence of a stimulus leads to a change in the probability or strength of the response to that stimulus .
a decrease in a behavioral response to a repeated stimulus .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of the response to osmotic stress .
the directed movement of a vesicle along a microtubule ,  mediated by motor proteins .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna splicing via a spliceosomal mechanism .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of mrna splicing via a spliceosomal mechanism .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of mrna splicing via a spliceosomal mechanism .
the developmental process that results in the deposition of coloring matter in an organism ,  tissue or cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the developmental process that results in the deposition of coloring matter in an organism .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the developmental process that results in the deposition of coloring matter in an organism .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the developmental process that results in the deposition of coloring matter in an organism .
a form of programmed cell death that is accompanied by the formation of autophagosomes .
generation of the male gamete ;  specialised haploid cells produced by meiosis and along with a female gamete takes part in sexual reproduction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor mediated endocytosis ,  the uptake of external materials by cells ,  utilizing receptors to ensure specificity of transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor mediated endocytosis ,  the uptake of external materials by cells ,  utilizing receptors to ensure specificity of transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor mediated endocytosis ,  the uptake of external materials by cells ,  utilizing receptors to ensure specificity of transport .
the creation of a single organelle from two or more organelles .
the creation of two or more organelles by division of one organelle .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the mesoderm are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for a cell to attain its fully functional state .
the complete process of formation and maturation of an ovum or female gamete from a primordial female germ cell .
a vesicle - mediated transport process ,  in which the synaptic vesicle membrane constituents are retrieved from the presynaptic membrane on the axon terminal after neurotransmitter secretion by exocytosis .
the directed movement of synaptic vesicles .
the directed movement of synaptic vesicle along axonal microtubules from the cell body to the presynapse .
any process pertinent to the generation and maintenance of rhythms in the physiology of an organism .
the specific behavior of an organism that recurs with a regularity of approximately 24 hours .
development of a tissue or tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a spermatid over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of whole living organisms  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of whole living organisms  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of any organ involved in hematopoiesis  ( also known as hemopoiesis )  or lymphoid cell activation over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the bursa of fabricius over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the digestive tract over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
development ,  taking place during the post - embryonic phase of an animal tissue or tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of post - embryonic development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of post - embryonic development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of post - embryonic development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to a stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
the growth of a cell ,  where growth contributes to the progression of the cell over time from one condition to another .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell ,  where the increase in size or mass has the specific outcome of the progression of the organism over time from one condition to another .
the process in which anatomical structures are generated and organized during the embryonic phase .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an oocyte over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to its specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the reproductive developmental process whose specific outcome is the progression of structures that will be used in the process of creating new individuals from one or more parents ,  from their formation to the mature structures .
the process ,  occurring above the cellular level ,  that is pertinent to the reproductive function of a multicellular organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle development .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of muscle development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of developmental growth .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of developmental growth .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of developmental growth .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of an anatomical structure from unspecified parts .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a neuron over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process in which the structures of a neuron are generated and organized .
long distance growth of a single axon process involved in cellular development .
the process in which nerve cells are generated .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a tissue are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organismal system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a specialized region of the plasma membrane and cell cortex of a presynaptic neuron ;  encompasses a region of the plasma membrane where synaptic vesicles dock and fuse ,  and a specialized cortical cytoskeletal matrix .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a neuron projection are generated and organized .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
the long distance growth of a single cell process ,  that is involved in the migration of an axon growth cone ,  where the migration is directed to a specific target site by a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an anatomical structure from an initial condition to its mature state .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a cell projection are generated and organized .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cell over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
any process involved in the controlled self - propelled movement of a cell that results in translocation of the cell from one place to another .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a chemical .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a sensory system over time from its formation to the mature structure .
any process in which a chromosome is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the directed movement of nucleic acids ,  single or double - stranded polynucleotides involved in the storage ,  transmission and transfer of genetic information ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of rna ,  ribonucleic acids ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna processing ,  those processes involved in the conversion of a primary mrna transcript into a mature mrna prior to its translation into polypeptide .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna processing .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna processing .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of phagocytosis ,  the process in which phagocytes engulf external particulate material .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of phagocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of phagocytosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurogenesis ,  the generation of cells in the nervous system .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurogenesis ,  the generation of cells within the nervous system .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurogenesis ,  the generation of cells within the nervous system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of axonogenesis ,  the generation of an axon ,  the long process of a neuron .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of axonogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of axonogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dendrite development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that modulates the activity of an enzyme .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of whole living organisms  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of ions within an organism or cell .
any process that modulates the physical form or the activity of a synapse ,  the junction between a neuron and a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  .
any process that modulates the frequency or amplitude of synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  across a synapse .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  across a synapse .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  across a synapse .
any process that modulates the physical form of a synapse ,  the junction between a neuron and a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a synapse ,  the junction between a neuron and a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  .
any process involved in maintaining the structure and integrity of a protein and preventing it from degradation or aggregation .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a cell adhesion molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium - mediated signaling ,  the process in which a cell uses calcium ions to convert an extracellular signal into a response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium - mediated signaling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium - mediated signaling .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of neurological system .
the operation of the mind by which an organism becomes aware of objects of thought or perception ;  it includes the mental activities associated with thinking ,  learning ,  and memory .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a higher concentration of a chemical .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a lower concentration of a chemical .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a lower concentration in a concentration gradient of a specific chemical .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a lower concentration in a concentration gradient of a specific chemical .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a lower concentration in a concentration gradient of a specific chemical .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a higher concentration in a concentration gradient of a specific chemical .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a higher concentration in a concentration gradient of a specific chemical .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a higher concentration in a concentration gradient of a specific chemical .
the directed movement of mrna ,  messenger ribonucleic acid ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription as part of a meiotic cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription involved in the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription as part of a meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids .
the cell cycle process in which the controlled breakdown of the nuclear envelope during meiotic cell division occurs .
the controlled breakdown of the nuclear envelope during the first division of meiosis .
the controlled breakdown of the nuclear envelope in the context of a normal process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle cell differentiation .
the directed movement of substances out of the nucleus .
the directed movement of substances into ,  out of ,  or within the nucleus .
the directed movement of substances into the nucleus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported ,  tethered to or otherwise maintained in a specific location .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle ,  the array of microtubules and associated molecules that serves to move duplicated chromosomes apart .
the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the spindle .
the lengthening of the distance between poles of the spindle during a meiotic cell cycle .
any process that localizes a substance or cellular component .
any process in which a cell ,  substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is maintained in a location and prevented from moving elsewhere .
the directed movement of rna to a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multicellular organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of a multicellular organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  any of the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
the process of creating protein polymers ,  compounds composed of a large number of component monomers ;  polymeric proteins may be made up of different or identical monomers .
the process of creating protein oligomers ,  compounds composed of a small number ,  usually between three and ten ,  of component monomers ;  protein oligomers may be composed of different or identical monomers .
the process in which protein polymers ,  compounds composed of a large number of component monomers ,  are broken down .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of chromosomes ,  structures composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins that carries hereditary information .
the directed movement of the spindle to a specific location in the cell .
any process that set the alignment of spindle relative to other cellular structures .
the cell cycle process in which the directed movement of the meiotic spindle to a specific location in the cell occurs .
any process that set the alignment of meiotic spindle relative to other cellular structures .
the process resulting in division and partitioning of components of a cell to form more cells ;  may or may not be accompanied by the physical separation of a cell into distinct ,  individually membrane - bounded daughter cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the physical partitioning and separation of a cell into daughter cells .
the directed movement of a chromosome to a specific location .
the cell cycle process in which paired chromosomes are detached from each other .
the process in which sister chromatids are physically detached from each other during mitosis .
the process in which chromosomes are physically detached from each other during meiosis .
the process in which paired chromosomes are physically detached from each other during male meiosis .
the process in which paired chromosomes are physically detached from each other during female meiosis .
the alignment of chromosomes at the metaphase plate  ( spindle equator )  ,  a plane halfway between the poles of the spindle .
the cell cycle process in which chromosomes are aligned at the metaphase plate ,  a plane halfway between the poles of the meiotic spindle ,  during meiosis .
the cell cycle 'gap' phase which is the interval between the completion of dna segregation  ( usually by mitosis or meiosis )  and the beginning of dna synthesis .
progression through the phases of the meiotic cell cycle ,  in which canonically a cell replicates to produce four offspring with half the chromosomal content of the progenitor cell via two nuclear divisions .
the cell cycle phase following cytokinesis which begins with g1 phase ,  proceeds through s phase and g2 phase and ends when prophase of meiosis or mitosis begins .
the cell cycle phase which follows anaphase during m phase of mitosis and meiosis and during which the chromosomes arrive at the poles of the cell and the division of the cytoplasm starts .
a cell cycle phase during which nuclear division occurs ,  and which is comprises the phases: prophase ,  metaphase ,  anaphase and telophase and occurs as part of a meiotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle phase which begins after cytokinesis and ends when meiotic prophase begins .
the cell cycle phase following cytokinesis which begins with g1 phase ,  proceeds through s phase and g2 phase and ends when mitotic prophase begins .
the cell cycle process in which the reformation of the nuclear envelope during meiosis occurs .
the reformation of the nuclear envelope during meiosis i .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any apoptotic process in a neuron ,  the basic cellular unit of nervous tissue .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progression through the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of progression through the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that reduces the internal ph of a cell ,  measured by the concentration of the hydrogen ion .
any process that modulates the internal ph of a cell ,  measured by the concentration of the hydrogen ion .
any process that increases the internal ph of a cell ,  measured by the concentration of the hydrogen ion .
any process in which a protein is maintained in the nucleus and prevented from moving elsewhere .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process in which an organelle is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
a cellular localization process whereby a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within a cell including the localization of substances or cellular entities to the cell membrane .
any process in which the nucleus is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within the cell .
any process in which a vesicle or vesicles are transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process ,  occuring in a cell ,  that localizes a substance or cellular component .
the directed movement of a vesicle to a specific location .
any process in which a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is maintained in a specific location within ,  or in the membrane of ,  a cell ,  and is prevented from moving elsewhere .
any process in which is the spindle is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the directed movement of an organelle to a specific location .
any process in which a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within a membrane .
the disruption of the membranes of another organism ,  leading to damage to its cells and possibly death of that organism .
any process in which a cell is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process in which an organism has an effect on an organism of the same species .
a biological process which involves another organism of the same or different species .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell division .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell division .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear division ,  the partitioning of the nucleus and its genetic information .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear division ,  the partitioning of the nucleus and its genetic information .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear division ,  the partitioning of the nucleus and its genetic information .
the vesicular release of  gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nervous system development ,  the origin and formation of nervous tissue .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nervous system development ,  the origin and formation of nervous tissue .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nervous system development ,  the origin and formation of nervous tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of synapse assembly ,  the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a synapse .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of synapse assembly ,  the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a synapse .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of synapse assembly ,  the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a synapse .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transmission of a nerve impulse ,  the sequential electrochemical polarization and depolarization that travels across the membrane of a neuron in response to stimulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transmission of a nerve impulse ,  the sequential electrochemical polarization and depolarization that travels across the membrane of a neuron in response to stimulation .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transmission of a nerve impulse ,  the sequential electrochemical polarization and depolarization that travels across the membrane of a neuron in response to stimulation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome segregation ,  the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome segregation ,  the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome segregation ,  the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a carboxylic ester bond .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a muscle cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
an organelle consisting of a network of tubules that functions in targeting molecules ,  such as receptors transporters and lipids ,  to the plasma membrane .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of monovalent inorganic cations within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of cations within an organism or cell .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a chemical at the level of the cell .
the dormancy process that results in entry into diapause .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the digestive system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the binding activity of a molecule that brings together two or more molecules through a selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric interaction ,  permitting those molecules to function in a coordinated way .
the assembly ,  arrangement ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures that is involved in the internalization of bacteria ,  immune complexes and other particulate matter or of an apoptotic cell by phagocytosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the internalization of bacteria ,  immune complexes and other particulate matter or of an apoptotic cell by phagocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the internalization of bacteria ,  immune complexes and other particulate matter or of an apoptotic cell by phagocytosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the internalization of bacteria ,  immune complexes and other particulate matter or of an apoptotic cell by phagocytosis .
a collagen and cuticulin - based noncellular ,  multilayered structure that is synthesized by an underlying ectodermal  ( hypodermal )  cell layer .
the cuticle layer that lies directly beneath the lipid - containing epicuticle .
the extracellular matrix that is a regularly spaced circumferential ridge present in the cortical region of the cuticle .
the fluid - filled cuticle layer that lies between the cortical and basal layers and is characterized by the presence of regularly spaced columnar struts that lie on either side of the annular furrows and link the two surrounding layers .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a syncytium ,  a mass of cytoplasm containing several nuclei enclosed within a single plasma membrane ,  by the fusion of the plasma membranes of two or more individual cells .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a syncytium ,  a mass of cytoplasm containing several nuclei enclosed within a single plasma membrane ,  by the fusion of the plasma membranes of two or more individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inactivation of gene expression by a posttranscriptional mechanism .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inactivation of gene expression by a posttranscriptional mechanism .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inactivation of gene expression by a posttranscriptional mechanism .
the specific behavior of a male organism that is associated with reproduction .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the microtubule spindle during a mitotic cell cycle .
a homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state within a defined anatomical structure of an organism ,  including control of cellular proliferation and death and control of metabolic function .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the behavior associated with the intake of food .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ovulation ,  the release of a mature ovum / oocyte from an ovary .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ovulation ,  the release of a mature ovum / oocyte from an ovary .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ovulation ,  the release of a mature ovum / oocyte from an ovary .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an oocyte over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to its specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
any process that increases the rate or extent of the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an oocyte over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to its specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
any process that decreases the rate or extent of the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an oocyte over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to its specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
differentiated cytoplasm associated with a pole of an oocyte ,  egg or early embryo that will be inherited by the cells that will give rise to the germ line .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a head from an initial condition to its mature state .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in a specific location within or in the membrane of a cell .
the removal of tubulin heterodimers from one or both ends of an axonemal microtubule .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving acetylcholine ,  the acetic acid ester of the organic base choline .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving acetylcholine ,  the acetic acid ester of the organic base choline .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving acetylcholine ,  the acetic acid ester of the organic base choline .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an epithelium over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a pharynx from an initial condition to its mature state .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of fertilization .
the progression of a skeletal muscle organ over time from its initial formation to its mature state .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of necrotic cell death .
any process that decreases the rate or frequency of cell death .
the increase in size or mass of an anatomical structure that contributes to the structure attaining its shape .
any apoptotic process that contributes to the shaping of an anatomical structure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of chromosome condensation ,  the progressive compaction of dispersed interphase chromatin into threadlike chromosomes prior to mitotic or meiotic nuclear division ,  or during apoptosis ,  in eukaryotic cells .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of vesicle - mediated transport ,  the directed movement of substances ,  either within a vesicle or in the vesicle membrane ,  into ,  out of or within a cell .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of homologous chromosome segregation ,  the cell cycle process in which replicated homologous chromosomes are organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two sets during the first division of the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of meiosis i ,  a cell cycle process comprising the steps by which a cell progresses through the first phase of meiosis ,  in which cells divide and homologous chromosomes are paired and segregated from each other ,  producing two daughter cells .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of microtubule - based movement ,  the movement of organelles ,  other microtubules and other particles along microtubules ,  mediated by motor proteins .
behavior by which an organism locates food .
the commitment of cells to specific cell fates of the endoderm ,  ectoderm ,  or mesoderm as a part of gastrulation .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of meiosis i ,  a cell cycle process comprising the steps by which a cell progresses through the first phase of meiosis ,  in which cells divide and homologous chromosomes are paired and segregated from each other ,  producing two daughter cells .
any process that regulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of gene silencing by rna .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of gene silencing by rna .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of gene silencing ,  the transcriptional or post - transcriptional process carried out at the cellular level that results in long - term gene inactivation .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of gene silencing ,  the transcriptional or post - transcriptional process carried out at the cellular level that results in long - term gene inactivation .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of a mrna catabolic process ,  the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of a mrna catabolic process ,  the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
a process which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a membrane .
the membrane organization process that joins two lipid bilayers to form a single membrane .
the progression of a muscle structure over time ,  from its formation to its mature state .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of nematode larval development ,  the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the nematode larva over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of nematode larval development ,  the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the nematode larva over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of nematode larval development ,  the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the nematode larva over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of dauer larval development ,  the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the dauer larva over time ,  through the facultative diapause of the dauer  ( enduring )  larval stage ,  with specialized traits adapted for dispersal and long - term survival ,  with elevated stress resistance and without feeding .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of dauer larval development ,  the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the dauer larva over time ,  through the facultative diapause of the dauer  ( enduring )  larval stage ,  with specialized traits adapted for dispersal and long - term survival ,  with elevated stress resistance and without feeding .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of dauer larval development ,  the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the dauer larva over time ,  through the facultative diapause of the dauer  ( enduring )  larval stage ,  with specialized traits adapted for dispersal and long - term survival ,  with elevated stress resistance and without feeding .
any process that modulates the extent of cell growth .
the progression of the reproductive system over time from its formation to the mature structure .
a cellular process that results in the breakdown of a cilium .
the progression of an axon over time .
a cytokinesis that involves the function of a set of proteins that are part of the microfilament or microtubule cytoskeleton .
the process in which a neuron growth cone is directed to a specific target site in response to an attractive chemical signal .
the process in which a neuron growth cone is directed to a specific target site in response to a repulsive chemical cue .
the disaggregation of a mitochondrion into its constituent components .
the macroautophagy process in which specific structures are targeted by the autophagy process .
a cellular process involving delivery of a portion of the cytoplasm to lysosomes or to the plant or fungal vacuole that does not involve direct transport through the endocytic or vacuolar protein sorting  ( vps )  pathways .
a process that contributes to the first meiotic division .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
an extracellular matrix consisting mainly of proteins  ( especially collagen )  and glycosaminoglycans  ( mostly as proteoglycans )  that provides not only essential physical scaffolding for the cellular constituents but can also initiate crucial biochemical and biomechanical cues required for tissue morphogenesis ,  differentiation and homeostasis .
any process that starts or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation during mitosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial gene expression .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of macromolecules to form a protein - containing complex .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins and dna molecules to form a protein - dna complex .
any process that modulates a measurable attribute of any biological process ,  quality or function .
any process that modulates a qualitative or quantitative trait of a biological quality .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
an organelle lumen that is part of an intracellular organelle .
the successive addition of amino acid residues to a nascent polypeptide chain during protein biosynthesis in a mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna in a mitochondrion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna in a mitochondrion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna in a mitochondrion .
a cell - cell junction that seals cells together in an epithelium in a way that prevents even small molecules from leaking from one side of the sheet to the other .
a cell junction that mechanically attaches a cell  ( and its cytoskeleton )  to neighboring cells or to the extracellular matrix .
a process of chromosome organization that is involved in a meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein to a specific location .
a type of cell death that is morphologically characterized by an increasingly translucent cytoplasm ,  swelling of organelles ,  minor ultrastructural modifications of the nucleus  ( specifically ,  dilatation of the nuclear membrane and condensation of chromatin into small ,  irregular ,  circumscribed patches )  and increased cell volume  ( oncosis )  ,  culminating in the disruption of the plasma membrane and subsequent loss of intracellular contents .
a transport vesicle that mediates transport from an intracellular compartment to the plasma membrane ,  and fuses with the plasma membrane to release various cargo molecules ,  such as proteins or hormones ,  by exocytosis .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
a process of negative regulation of translation that is mediated by the association of small interfering rnas  ( sirnas )  with a cognate target mrna .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within the mitochondrion .
any process in which a macromolecule is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location at the level of a cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an organelle .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within the endoplasmic reticulum .
the process of cell death in a neuron .
the set of processes involved in identifying and degrading defective or aberrant rnas .
the set of processes involved in identifying and degrading defective or aberrant rnas within the cytoplasm .
the set of processes involved in identifying and degrading defective or aberrant rnas within the nucleus .
the set of processes involved in identifying and degrading defective or aberrant mrnas within the nucleus .
a cellular process that results in a change in the spatial configuration of a dna molecule .
any process in which a ribonucleoprotein complex is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location within a cell .
a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition until the spindle is correctly assembled and chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
a mitotic cell cycle checkpoint that originates from the spindle and delays the metaphase / anaphase transition of a mitotic nuclear division until the spindle is correctly assembled and oriented ,  the completion of anaphase until chromosomes are attached to the spindle ,  or mitotic exit and cytokinesis when the spindle does not form .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the directed movement of a ribonucleoprotein complex from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
the directed movement of a ribonucleoprotein complex that contains messenger rna from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the developmental process in which an organism emerges from a surrounding protective structure such as an egg or pupa case .
any process in which a protein is transported from one specific location in the extracellular region to another ,  or maintained in a specific extracellular location .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for an anatomical structure to attain its fully functional state .
the directed movement of organic substances into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the directed movement of nitrogen - containing compounds into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the nuclear inner or outer membrane .
any process in which macromolecules aggregate ,  disaggregate ,  or are modified ,  resulting in the formation ,  disassembly ,  or alteration of a protein - dna complex .
any process in which macromolecules aggregate ,  disaggregate ,  or are modified ,  resulting in the formation ,  disassembly ,  or alteration of a ribonucleoprotein complex .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
the cellular dna metabolic process resulting in the formation of dna ,  deoxyribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main types of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long unbranched macromolecule formed from one or two strands of linked deoxyribonucleotides ,  the 3' - phosphate group of each constituent deoxyribonucleotide being joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage to the 5' - hydroxyl group of the deoxyribose moiety of the next one .
any process that stop ,  prevents or decreases transcription as part of the g1 / s transition of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases transcription as part of the g1 / s transition of the mitotic cell cycle .
the part of a cell encompassing the cell cortex ,  the plasma membrane ,  and any external encapsulating structures .
the dormancy process that results in exit from diapause .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the directed movement of an organelle along a microtubule ,  mediated by motor proteins .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a cell cycle checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a dna integrity checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a meiotic cell cycle checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a mitotic cell cycle checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a spindle checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a dna damage checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to an intra - s dna damage checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a cell size control checkpoint during the g1 / s transition of mitosis .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a meiotic spindle assembly checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a cell size control checkpoint during mitosis .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a mitotic cell cycle spindle checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a mitotic cell cycle spindle assembly checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a spindle assembly checkpoint .
any process in which a protein is maintained in a specific location a specific location on or in an organelle ,  and is prevented from moving elsewhere .
any process in which a protein is maintained in a specific location in a mitochondrion ,  and is prevented from moving elsewhere .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a location in a peroxisome .
any process in which a protein is maintained in a specific location in a peroxisome ,  and is prevented from moving elsewhere .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a location in a vacuole .
any process in which a protein is maintained in a specific location in a vacuole ,  and is prevented from moving elsewhere .
a spindle that forms as part of meiosis .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism involving those compounds formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to stress .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular response to stress .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of fertilization .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a lytic vacuole .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of microtubule nucleation .
any process that modulates the size of an anatomical structure .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any cell - cell adhesion process that modulates the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising actin filaments and their associated proteins .
any process in which mitochondrial dna and associated proteins are formed into a compact ,  orderly structure .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the separation of a single continuous membrane into two membranes .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of spindle assembly .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising microtubules and their associated proteins that contributes to chromosomal pairing and precedes synapsis .
the joining of two lipid bilayers to form a single organelle membrane .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the microtubule spindle .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the spindle checkpoint ,  a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition until the spindle is correctly assembled and oriented ,  and chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the spindle checkpoint ,  a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition until the spindle is correctly assembled and oriented ,  and chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the spindle checkpoint ,  a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition until the spindle is correctly assembled and oriented ,  and chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of metaphase plate congression ,  the alignment of chromosomes at the metaphase plate ,  a plane halfway between the poles of the spindle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a muscle system process ,  a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in a muscle system .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the mitotic cell cycle spindle assembly checkpoint ,  a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition of a mitotic nuclear division until the spindle is correctly assembled and chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the mitotic cell cycle spindle assembly checkpoint ,  a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition of a mitotic nuclear division until the spindle is correctly assembled and chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription of target genes that are transcribed as part of the g2 / m transition of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the process in which new strands of dna are synthesized in the mitochondrion .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the process in which new strands of dna are synthesized in the mitochondrion .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the process in which new strands of dna are synthesized in the mitochondrion .
any cellular metabolic process involving nucleic acids .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle that contributes to the process of meiosis .
mitotic bipolar spindle assembly begins with spindle microtubule nucleation from the separated spindle pole body ,  includes spindle elongation during prometaphase ,  and is complete when all kinetochores are stably attached the spindle ,  and the spindle assembly checkpoint is satisfied .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another in a behavioral context ;  the aspect of locomotory behavior having to do with movement .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another in a behavioral context ;  the aspect of locomotory behavior having to do with movement .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another in a behavioral context ;  the aspect of locomotory behavior having to do with movement .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of dna - dependent dna replication ,  the process in which new strands of dna are synthesized ,  using parental dna as a template for the dna - dependent dna polymerases that synthesize the new strands .
any process that inhibits or decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription of target genes that are transcribed as part of the g2 / m transition of the mitotic cell cycle .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in dynamic structural changes to the arrangement of actin filaments .
synthesis of dna that is a part of the process of duplicating one or more molecules of dna .
steps involved in processing precursor rnas arising from transcription of operons in the mitochondrial genome into mature mrnas .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or a multicellular organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
all of the contents of a cilium ,  excluding the plasma membrane surrounding the cilium .
a specialized area of membrane on either the presynaptic or the postsynaptic side of a synapse ,  the junction between a nerve fiber of one neuron and another neuron or muscle fiber or glial cell .
the process that results in grouping synaptic vesicles in presynaptic structures .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an organic cyclic compound ,  any molecular entity that contains carbon arranged in a cyclic molecular structure .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the ammonium ion .
a series of molecular signals which triggers the apoptotic death of a cell .
a series of molecular signals in which an intracellular signal is conveyed to trigger the apoptotic death of a cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a supramolecular fiber ,  a polymer consisting of an indefinite number of protein or protein complex subunits that have polymerised to form a fiber - shaped structure .
the entire complement of dendrites for a neuron ,  consisting of each primary dendrite and all its branches .
any process in which a synaptic vesicle or vesicles are transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the process in which the migration of a neuron projection is directed to a specific target site in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
the cellular synthesis of rna on a template of nucleic acid  ( dna or rna )  .
any vesicle that is part of the intracellular region .
reactions triggered in response to the presence of another organism that act to protect the cell or organism from damage caused by that organism .
a membrane that is a  ( regional )  part of the plasma membrane .
the attachment of one cell to another cell via adhesion molecules .
the binding by a cell - adhesion protein on a cell surface to an adhesion molecule on another cell surface ,  to mediate adhesion of the cell to the external substrate or to another cell .
the binding by a cell - adhesion protein on the cell surface to an extracellular matrix component ,  to mediate adhesion of the cell to another cell .
any subdivision of a chromosome along its length .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the synaptic vesicle cycle .
one of the distinct periods or stages into which the meiotic cell cycle is divided .
one of the distinct periods or stages into which the mitotic cell cycle is divided .
a meiotic cell cycle phase prior to a during which some part of meiosis i nuclear division or the proceeding cytokinesis occurs .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of inorganic ions within an organism or cell .
the part of a synapse that is part of the presynaptic cell .
any protein complex that is part of a membrane .
any protein complex that is part of the plasma membrane .
a protein complex that is part of a mitochondrion .
the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of nuclear chromosomes ,  is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
the directed movement of a protein along a microtubule ,  mediated by motor proteins .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination .
cell - cell signaling from pre to post - synapse ,  across the synaptic cleft .
the directed movement of organelles or molecules along microtubules in axons .
any vesicle - mediated transport that occurs in a synapse .
an infolding of the plasma membrane .
a cellular component that consists of an indeterminate number of proteins or macromolecular complexes ,  organized into a regular ,  higher - order structure such as a polymer ,  sheet ,  network or a fiber .
a polymeric supramolecular structure .
the movement of a cellular component as a result of microtubule polymerization .
a microtubule - based process that results in the transport of organelles ,  other microtubules ,  or other cellular components .
a microtubule - based process that results in the transport of proteins .
the actin cytoskeleton that is part of a presynapse .
any process ,  acting in the presynapse that results in modulation of chemical synaptic transmission .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of trans - synaptic signaling .
fusion of the membrane of a vesicle with the plasma membrane ,  thereby releasing its contents into the extracellular space .
a cytoplasmic ,  membrane bound vesicle that is capable of fusing to the plasma membrane to release its contents into the extracellular space .
a biological process in which synaptic vesicles are loaded with neurotransmitters ,  move to the active zone ,  exocytose and are then recycled via endocytosis ,  ultimately leading to reloading with neurotransmitters .
a polymer consisting of an indefinite number of protein or protein complex subunits that have polymerised to form a fiber - shaped structure .
a component of the cytoskeleton consisting of a homo or heteropolymeric fiber constructed from an indeterminate number of protein subunits .
the directed movement of synaptic vesicles along cytoskeletal fibers such as microfilaments or microtubules within a cell ,  powered by molecular motors .
the directed movement of synaptic vesicles along microtubules within a cell ,  powered by molecular motors .
the directed movement of a vesicle along a cytoskeletal fiber such as a microtubule or and actin filament ,  mediated by motor proteins .
any  ( proper )  part of the cytosol of a single cell of sufficient size to still be considered cytosol .
the region of the cytosol consisting of all cytosol that is part of the presynapse .
the pathway leading to secretion of a neurotransmitter from the presynapse as part of synaptic transmission .
cell - cell signaling to ,  from or within a synapse .
cell - cell signaling in either direction across the synaptic cleft .
any process that modulates synaptic transmission by regulating translation occurring at the synapse .
cell - cell signaling between presynapse and postsynapse ,  across the synaptic cleft ,  that modulates the synaptic transmission properties of the synapse .
any  ( proper )  part of the cytoplasm of a single cell of sufficient size to still be considered cytoplasm .
the portion of the cytoskeleton contained within the presynapse .
any process that modulates synaptic transmission by regulating a catabolic process occurring at a presynapse .
any process that modulates synaptic transmission by regulating translation occurring at the presynapse .
the directed flow of cytosol  ( the liquid component of the cytoplasm )  and the organelles it contains .
any signal release from a synapse .
the complete extent of cell cortex that underlies some some region of the plasma membrane .
a mitotic cell cycle process which results in the assembly ,  arrangement ,  or disassembly of the nuclear inner or outer membrane during mitosis .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the collection of neuronal projections into a bundle of rods ,  known as a fascicle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cellular response to osmotic stress .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiosis i ,  a cell cycle process comprising the steps by which a cell progresses through the first phase of meiosis ,  in which cells divide and homologous chromosomes are paired and segregated from each other ,  producing two daughter cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin filament organization .
a part of a cellular organism that is either an immaterial entity or a material entity with granularity above the level of a protein complex but below that of an anatomical system .
any dna biosynthetic process that is involved in mitochondrial dna replication .
a prolongation or process extending from a cell and that is bounded by plasma membrane ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of plasma membrane bounded cell projections .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a plasma membrane bounded prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a plasma membrane bounded cell projection are generated and organized .
all of the contents of a plasma membrane bounded neuron projection ,  excluding the plasma membrane surrounding the projection .
one of the two nuclear divisions that occur as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
a mitotic cell cycle process comprising the steps by which the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell divides ;  the process involves condensation of chromosomal dna into a highly compacted form .
the cellular processes that contribute to exocytosis .
the process in which a mitochondrial gene's sequence is converted into a mature gene product or products  ( proteins or rna )  .
translation that occurs at the presynapse .
translation that occurs at the presynapse ,  and that modulates chemical synaptic transmission .
a vesicle - mediated transport process in which the presynapse take up external materials or membrane constituents by the invagination of a small region of the plasma membrane to form a new membrane - bounded vesicle .
translation that occurs at the synapse .
any process that regulates translation occurring at the synapse .
any process that regulates translation occurring at the presynapse .
a cellular process in which two or more cells combine together ,  their plasma membrane fusing ,  producing a single cell .
the directed movement of some substance from a cell ,  into the extracellular region .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of negative regulation of mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint signaling .
a stable assembly of two or more macromolecules ,  i .e .
a protein complex that is part of an endoplasmic reticulum .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dendrite development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of peroxisome organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of peroxisome organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuromuscular synaptic transmission .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuromuscular synaptic transmission .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuromuscular synaptic transmission .
any signalling pathway that increases or activates a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g1 phase to s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to nucleus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to nucleus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to nucleus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of oocyte maturation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of oocyte maturation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of oocyte maturation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle endocytosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle endocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle endocytosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna interference .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna interference .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna interference .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to oxidative stress .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to oxidative stress .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to oxidative stress .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of g1 / s transition of mitotic cell cycle by stopping ,  preventing ,  or reducing the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an acetate ester ,  any carboxylic ester where the carboxylic acid component is acetic acid .
calcium - mediated signaling that results in positive regulation of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to reactive oxygen species .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to reactive oxygen species .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to reactive oxygen species .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of oviposition .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of oviposition .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of engulfment of apoptotic cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of engulfment of apoptotic cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of engulfment of apoptotic cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving primary amino compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of primary amino compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of primary amino compound .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron death .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron death .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron death .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic cyclic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organic cyclic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic cyclic compound .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with heterocyclic compound .
any positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in cellular response to chemical stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of macromitophagy .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitophagy .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitophagy .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organonitrogen compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organonitrogen compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organonitrogen compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
any microtubule in a dendrite ,  a neuron projection .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vesicle transport along microtubule .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vesicle transport along microtubule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vesicle transport along microtubule .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic hydroxy compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organic hydroxy compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic hydroxy compound .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle assembly .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial dna metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial dna metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial dna metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein depolymerization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein depolymerization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein depolymerization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell junction assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell junction assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell junction assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic sister chromatid separation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell cycle checkpoint .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell cycle checkpoint .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell cycle checkpoint .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell cycle phase transition .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell cycle phase transition .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell cycle phase transition .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cell cycle phase transition .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cell cycle phase transition .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cell cycle phase transition .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic cell cycle phase transition .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic cell cycle phase transition .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic cell cycle phase transition .
any regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in spermatogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of metaphase / anaphase transition of cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of metaphase / anaphase transition of cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of metaphase / anaphase transition of cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of metaphase / anaphase transition of meiotic cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of metaphase / anaphase transition of meiotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of metaphase / anaphase transition of meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of organelle assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of organelle assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of organelle assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic spindle elongation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic spindle elongation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to dna damage .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to dna damage .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to dna damage .
any neuron projection extension that is involved in neuron projection guidance .
any dna replication initiation that is involved in cell cycle dna replication .
any dna replication initiation that is involved in nuclear cell cycle dna replication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome condensation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna catabolic process .
any intracellular signal transduction that is involved in meiotic spindle checkpoint .
any intracellular signal transduction that is involved in mitotic dna damage checkpoint .
any intracellular signal transduction that is involved in mitotic dna integrity checkpoint .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cytokinesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cytokinesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of male mating behavior .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of male mating behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of male mating behavior .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of organelle transport along microtubule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear cell cycle dna replication .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to water deprivation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon guidance .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon guidance .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon guidance .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
any apoptotic process that is involved in anatomical structure development .
any signalling pathway that modulates the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g2 phase to m phase of the cell cycle .
any signalling pathway that decreases or inhibits the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g2 phase to m phase of the cell cycle .
any signalling pathway that activates or increases the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g2 phase to m phase of the cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle transport .
any signalling pathway that modulates the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g1 phase to s phase of the cell cycle .
any signalling pathway that decreases or inhibits the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g1 phase to s phase of the cell cycle .
any signalling pathway that activates or increases the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g1 phase to s phase of the cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle elongation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle elongation .
any microtubule cytoskeleton organization that is involved in mitosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to oxidative stress .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to oxidative stress .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to oxidative stress .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of supramolecular fiber organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of fibril organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of supramolecular fiber organization .
any nuclear dna replication that is involved in a mitotic cell cycle .
any dna replication initiation involved in meiotic cell cycle dna replication .
any dna replication initiation involved in mitotic cell cycle dna replication .
the disaggregation of an organelle into its constituent components .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to wounding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to wounding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to wounding .
a process that is part of the meiotic cell cycle .
a process that is part of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription occuring in the mitochondrion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription occuring in the mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrion degradation by an autophagic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrion degradation by autophagy .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dopamine biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dopamine biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dopamine biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vitellogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vitellogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vitellogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of regulated secretory pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of regulated secretory pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of regulated secretory pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleus organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein catabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein catabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of foraging behavior .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of foraging behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of foraging behavior .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic chromosome condensation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic chromosome condensation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle recycling .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle recycling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle recycling .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell maturation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell maturation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell maturation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cell cycle dna replication .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cell cycle dna replication .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cell cycle dna replication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna replication initiation involved in mitotic dna replication .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna replication initiation involved in mitotic dna replication .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna replication initiation involved in mitotic dna replication .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cytokinesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle checkpoint .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any meiotic cell cycle process that is involved in oocyte maturation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic cell cycle process involved in oocyte maturation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to endoplasmic reticulum stress .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrion degradation by autophagy .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of anterograde synaptic vesicle transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of anterograde synaptic vesicle transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of anterograde synaptic vesicle transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of pharyngeal pumping .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of pharyngeal pumping .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of eating behavior .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of eating behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of eating behavior .
any positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in neuron differentiation .
a negative regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that results in negative regulation of neuron apoptotic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagic cell death .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagic cell death .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagic cell death .
any cytoplasm that is part of a axon .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic cell cycle process involved in oocyte maturation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic cell cycle process involved in oocyte maturation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic dna damage checkpoint .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic dna damage checkpoint .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic dna damage checkpoint .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein catabolic process in the vacuole .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein catabolic process in the vacuole .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein catabolic process in the vacuole .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of telomere maintenance via telomere lengthening .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of telomere maintenance via telomere lengthening .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of telomere maintenance via telomere lengthening .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretory granule organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretory granule organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretory granule organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of initiation of premeiotic dna replication .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of initiation of premeiotic dna replication .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of initiation of premeiotic dna replication .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a posttranscriptional regulation of gene expression that results in regulation of synapse organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in development .
any regulation of translation that is involved in cellular response to uv .
any dna biosynthetic process that is involved in mitotic dna replication .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of protein localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of protein localization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial translational elongation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial translational elongation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial translational elongation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic chromosome separation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic chromosome separation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic chromosome separation .
any cellular protein catabolic process that takes place in a lysosome .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane invagination .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane invagination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane invagination .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lysosomal protein catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lysosomal protein catabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lysosomal protein catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic chromosome condensation .
any intracellular signal transduction that is involved in positive regulation of cell growth .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of fertilization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to endoplasmic reticulum .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to endoplasmic reticulum .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to endoplasmic reticulum .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic nuclear envelope disassembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic nuclear envelope disassembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic nuclear envelope disassembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of serotonin biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of serotonin biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of serotonin biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial mrna catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial mrna catabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial mrna catabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lysosome organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lysosome organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lysosome organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of synapse organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome separation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome separation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome separation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome condensation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of spindle assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of spindle assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule nucleation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to gamma radiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to gamma radiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to gamma radiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of backward locomotion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of backward locomotion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of oogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of oogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of oogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to endoplasmic reticulum stress .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to endoplasmic reticulum stress .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesoderm formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesoderm formation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesoderm formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dauer entry .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dauer entry .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dauer entry .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gonad development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gonad development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gonad development .
any dna recombination that takes place in mitochondrion .
long distance growth of a single neuron projection involved in cellular development .
any of the meiotic spindle microtubules that radiate in all directions from the spindle poles and are thought to contribute to the forces that separate the poles and position them in relation to the rest of the cell .
the joining of two lipid bilayers that surround the mitochondria .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a dna damage checkpoint .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a dna damage checkpoint .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a dna damage checkpoint .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of male gonad development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of male gonad development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of male gonad development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of multicellular organismal development .
any signalling pathway that modulates the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g1 phase to s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to water deprivation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna - dependent dna replication .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna - dependent dna replication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of cell polarity .
any signalling pathway that decreases or inhibits the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g1 phase to s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell motility .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell motility .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell motility .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dendrite development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ribonucleoprotein complex localization .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ribonucleoprotein complex localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ribonucleoprotein complex localization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin cytoskeleton reorganization .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin cytoskeleton reorganization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin cytoskeleton reorganization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of feeding behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of feeding behavior .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of defecation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of defecation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of defecation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle exocytosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle exocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle exocytosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesoderm development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesoderm development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesoderm development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ectoderm development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ectoderm development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ectoderm development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic cell clearance .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic cell clearance .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic cell clearance .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gastrulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gastrulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear - transcribed mrna catabolic process ,  nonsense - mediated decay .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear - transcribed mrna catabolic process ,  nonsense - mediated decay .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear - transcribed mrna catabolic process ,  nonsense - mediated decay .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of defecation rhythm .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of defecation rhythm .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of defecation rhythm .
the process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components located at the endosome .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle clustering .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle clustering .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle clustering .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic sister chromatid separation .
the set of processes involved in identifying and degrading defective or aberrant rnas that takes place in the mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to dna damage stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to dna damage stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to dna damage stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to drug .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to drug .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to drug .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron migration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to gamma radiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to gamma radiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to gamma radiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome organization .
an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
a generically dependent continuant that is about some thing .
the curation status of the term .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
the reason for which a term has been deprecated .
a denotator type indicates how a term should be interpreted from an ontological perspective .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities
a quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to move freely .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's scalar absolute value of the rate of change of the bearer's position .
a composite chromatic quality composed of hue ,  saturation and intensity parts .
a scalar optical property that is the intensity ,  value or amount of perceived light .
a scalar chromatic property that is the degree of purity of perceived light .
a luminous flux quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's emitting longer wavelength light following the absorption of shorter wavelength radiation ;  fluorescence is common with aromatic compounds with several rings joined together .
a single physical entity inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's quantities or relative ratios of subparts .
a quality inhering in a substance by virtue of the amount of the bearer's there is mixed with another substance .
a quality that is the extent of space between two entities .
a physical quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the number of the bearer's repetitive actions in a particular time .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to undergo sexual reproduction in order to differentiate the individuals or types involved .
a time quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's expected maximum age .
a quality of a single physical entity inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's size or shape or structure .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ratios of distances between its features  ( points ,  edges ,  surfaces and also holes etc )  .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting repetition of placement of its parts .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
the number of entities of this type that are part of the whole organism .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer's disposition to react to a stimulus or an agent .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's movement or variation characterized by the regular recurrence or alternation of different quantities or conditions .
a physical quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the size of the bearer's maximum displacement from the 'normal' position ,  when periodic motion is taking place .
a rhythm quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the repetitiveness of bearer's rhythm .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to detect or perceive external stimulation .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical magnitude .
a 1 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's vertical dimension of extension .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the distance between two points .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's placement which is defined by the angle between the bearer and an axis ,  or the angle between the bearer and another object .
a morphological quality pertaining to the degree to which an object contains an opening ,  aperture ,  orifice or vent .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial location relative to other objects in the vicinity .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative position ,  shape ,  arrangements and connectivity of an organism's various parts ;  the pattern underlying its form .
a morphologic quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative size ,  organization and distribution of its surface elements or the representation or invention of the appearance of its surface ;  visual and tactile surface characteristics .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence per unit time .
a quality in which events occur in sequence .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of the bearer's disposition to survive and develop normally or the number of surviving individuals in a given population .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's behavior aggregate of the responses or reactions or movements in a given situation .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or lacking skillful and effective interaction of movement .
a reproductive quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's initiating ,  sustaining ,  or supporting reproduction .
a reproductive quality inhering in the young of an animal by virtue of their number .
a fertility quality of inhering in a male by virtue of the bearer's disposition to initiate ,  sustain ,  or support reproduction .
a quality of a process which ends earlier than the natural end time or reference process .
a mobility quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being incapable to move freely .
a speed which is relatively high .
a speed which is relatively low .
a color brightness which is relatively low .
a color saturation which is of low purity .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude of or the relationships between its repeated parts lack consistency .
a distance which is greater relative to the normal or average .
a distance which is lesser relative to the normal or average .
a frequency which is relatively high .
a frequency which is relatively low .
gonochoristic organism that can produce male gametes .
a branchiness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having branches .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curled or wound  ( especially in concentric rings or spirals )  .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being such that every part of the surface or the circumference is equidistant from the center .
a pattern quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a repeatable or predictable placement .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's deviation from normal or average .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting no deviation from normal or average .
a quality denoting the lack of an entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's existence .
an amount which is relatively high .
a response quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to react to a stimulus or an agent .
a response quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lack of reaction to a stimulus or an agent .
a duration quality of a process which is relatively high .
a duration quality of a process which is relatively low .
a quality of a process which starts later than the natural start time or the reference process .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking sensitivity toward an external stimulus .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having sensitivity toward an external stimulus .
a height which is relatively low .
a height which is relatively high .
a length quality which is relatively large .
a length quality which is relatively small .
an increased size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting enlargement of a cell or constituent group of cells  ( for example ,  organ )  .
a decreased size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting reduced size of a cell or constituent group of cells  ( for example ,  organ )  .
a size quality which is relatively high .
a size quality which is relatively low .
a thickness which is relatively high .
a thickness which is relatively low .
a volume which is relatively high .
a volume which is relatively low .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's affording blocked passage or view .
a pattern where all the repeated elements are oriented in the same direction .
a symmetry quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking symmetry .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one or more angle ( s )  in its length .
an oriented quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being reversed in position ,  order ,  or condition .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's being changed in abnormal position .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer whose structure deteriorates or is lost over time due to an active pathological process .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being merged with another entity .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being blocked or filled with obstacles or an obstacle .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not occurring or existing at the same time or having the same period or phase .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being uninterrupted in time ,  sequence ,  substance ,  or extent .
a quality of a process which starts earlier than the natural start time or the reference process .
a viability quality inhering in a population by virtue of the bearer's long term survival inability .
a behavioral quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting increased activity .
a behavioral quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting reduced activity .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being affected by loss of the ability to move a body part .
a coordination quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking skillful and effective interaction of movement .
a rate which is relatively low .
a rate which is relatively high .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the dimension through an object as opposed to its length or width .
a 3 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of 3 - dimensional space it occupies .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking organisation .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being oval with two axes of symmetry ,  as produced by a conical section .
a fertility quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable of initiating ,  sustaining ,  or supporting reproduction .
an optical quality which obtains by virtue of the ability of the bearer to absorb visible light .
a optical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking opacity .
a pattern quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the correspondence in size ,  shape ,  and relative position of the bearer's parts on opposite sides of a dividing line or median plane or about a center or axis .
a time quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the time it elapses for the bearer to respond to a stimulus .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of ratio of the bearer's output to the bearer's input .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to resist to a stimulus .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting concentration .
a concentration which is higher relative to the normal or average .
a concentration which is lower relative to the normal or average .
a resistance quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resistance to a stimulus .
a response quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's excessive reaction to a stimulus or an agent .
a response quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's limited reaction to a stimulus or an agent .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits variation or change .
a quality which inheres in an process .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a physical quality which is equal to the distance between repeating units of a wave pattern .
a fluorescence quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of emitting light during exposure to radiation from an external source .
a physical quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with electromagnetic radiation .
a scalar optical quality which obtains by the magnitude of the light emitted by the bearer .
an em radiation quality in which the em radiation is within the fiat range of the spectrum visible deemed to be light .
an optical quality that is the mixture ,  purity or pattern of wavelengths of light perceived by the observer .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to varying or changing .
a process quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude of the temporal extent between the starting and ending point .
multi - cellular organism that can produce both male and female gametes .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being easily damaged or destroyed .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's number of homologous sets of chromosomes in the nucleus or primary chromosome - containing compartment of the cell ,  each set essentially coding for all the biological traits of the organism .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing a single set of homologous chromosomes .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing an integral multiple of the monoploid number ,  possibly excluding the sex - determining chromosomes .
a monadic quality of continuant that exists at the cellular level of organisation .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's number of nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having no nucleus .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one nucleus .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having thin ,  tail - like projections extending outwards from the cell body .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the cessation of the bearer's life .
a quality of a single process which describes the growth of an organism ,  structure ,  or group of organisms .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to produce new life or offspring .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having connection or association with another entity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer includes all its components .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's components no longer being in a single contiguous unit .
an attachment quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking connection or association with another entity .
a quality of a process inhering in bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to respond to stimulation .
a depth which is relatively low .
a position which is relatively high .
a positional which is relatively low .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being drawn in or pulled back from any given point .
a growth quality of a process inhering in an organism ,  structure ,  or group of organisms by virtue of the bearer's reduced or increased growth .
a concave quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's shape being a v - shaped cut .
a reproductive quality inhering in the young of an animal by virtue of the bearer's being cared for at one time .
a quality of a single physical entity that arises by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits the ability to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a functionality quality held by the bearer when the latter is able to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a disfunctional quality held by the bearer when the latter is unable to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a sensitivity toward an external stimulus which is higher than normal / average .
a sensitivity toward an external stimulus which is lower than normal / average .
a sensitivity of a process which is higher than normal or average .
a sensitivity of a process which is lower than normal or average .
the number of parts of a particular type that the bearer entity has .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a processual part as specified by the additional entity .
a functionality quality which is held by the bearer when the latter is able to perform additional or different function ( s )  .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processual parts .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having fewer processual parts .
a variability which is relatively low .
a variability which is relatively high .
a 1 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's downward or backward or inward dimenision .
a depth quality which is relatively high .
an oriented quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being turned outward in placement .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's extending out above or beyond a surface or boundary .
an oriented quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being relocated around an axis .
a life span which is relatively high .
a life span which is relatively low .
a functionality quality held by the bearer when the latter exhibits decreased ability to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a functional quality held by the bearer when the latter exhibits increased ability to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the front of an organism relative to another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the rear of an organism relative to another entity .
a resistance to a stimulus which is relatively high .
a resistance to a stimulus which is relatively low .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial positioning with respect to an additional entity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being damaged or destroyed .
an efficiency quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking efficiency .
a behavioral quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting marked activity .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in one dimension .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in three dimensions .
a quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with radiation .
a heterochronic growth quality inhering in an organism ,  structure ,  or group of organisms by virtue of the bearer's increased growth .
a peramorphic growth quality which is due to an earlier onset .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's location of features or characteristics along an axis .
a size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being abnormally developed ,  usually due to malnutrition .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being wound in a continuous series of loops .
a coiling which is relatively high .
a coiling which is relatively low .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having multiple angles in its length .
a grooved texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by one or more creases in a normally smooth surface .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's increasing over time .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's absence or closure of a normal body orifice or tubular passage .
a fertility which is relatively low .
a fertility which is relatively high .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer with some kind of aperture or opening that is blocked or clogged .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting transient abnormal enlargement ,  not due to cell proliferation .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being out of its usual or proper place ,  or position .
a shape quality in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's curving inward .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a consistently - sized round cross section .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical expression of sexual characteristics .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's participation in movement .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having more than one nucleus .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the state of bearer's mechanical ,  physical ,  and biochemical processes .
a fluorescence which is higher than normal .
a fluorescence which is lower than normal .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits shape variation or change .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's having or exhibiting variation its shape .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting cells .
a cellularity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of more than one cell .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
an amount which is relatively low .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
a quality of physical entities inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a physical part as specified by the additional entity .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n and has_part  >  0 of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
the bearer of this quality has_part  >  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
surface shape that refers to the inward or outward curvature of the surface .
a shape that inheres in a 2 dimensional entity ,  such as a cross section or projection of a 3 dimensional entity .
a complete three dimensional shape in which for every line connecting pair of points on the object is within the object .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the degree to which there are subdivisions or offshoots in a bearer entity .
a structural quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing hollow areas .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer exhibiting deterioration of its structure .
an occurrence which is relatively high .
an occurrence which is relatively low .
a fragility which is relatively high .
a fragility which is relatively low .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's movement .
having extra or fewer parts .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a hole or holes ,  especially a row or array of small holes .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's being changed in position .
a quality which inheres in a molecular entity ,  a single molecule ,  atom ,  ion ,  radical etc .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or lacking of substances produced by living organisms that have a color resulting from selective color absorption .
texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked with one or more channels .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being arranged in a systematic fashion .
a behavioral quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to exhibit marked activity .
a shape that inheres in a 3 dimensional entity .
a quality that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a shape constituting a transition between a rectangle and a circle ;  a closed curve ,  of which the circle and ellipse are special cases ,  whose parametric equation is x = a .cos2 / rt ,  y = b .cos2 / rt
a temporal distribution pattern of process occurrences within a regulation / reference process .
the temporal relation between the end of the process with respect to a reference process .
the temporal relation between the start of the process with respect to a reference process .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one or more nucleus .
absence due to a degenerative process .
the number of repeated events per unit time ,  occurring in a repeating series .
the rate of output of a continuous process .
a material entity consisting of multiple components that are causally integrated .
an occurrent  [ span:occurrent ]  that exists in time by occurring or happening ,  has temporal parts and always involves and depends on some entity .
a layer of dense irregular connective tissue that lines organs and supports the mucosa ,  as well as joins the mucosa to the bulk of underlying smooth muscle .
a major division of the nervous system that contains nerves which connect the central nervous system  ( cns )  with sensory organs ,  other organs ,  muscles ,  blood vessels and glands .
any portion of the organ that covers that body and consists of a layer of epidermis and a layer of dermis .
a non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions .
an organ of sight that includes the camera - type eyeball and supporting structures such as the lacrimal apparatus ,  the conjunctiva ,  the eyelid .
an organ that is capable of transducing sensory stimulus to the nervous system .
any hollow cylindrical anatomical structure containing a lumen through which substances are transported .
a thin layer of loose connective tissue which lies beneath the epithelium and together with the epithelium constitutes the mucosa [ wp ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a respiratory airway .
anterior - most body region containing the pharynx .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of a secretory epithelial layer  ( mesothelium )  and a connective tissue layer .
an eye with one concave chamber .
a tubular structure that contains ,  conveys body fluid ,  such as blood or lymph .
a tubular structure that transports secreted or excreted substances .
organ component adjacent to an organ cavity and which consists of a maximal aggregate of organ component layers .
material anatomical entity that is a single connected structure with inherent 3d shape generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
a collection of cells or cell groups that collectively perform a function
a part of an organ that constitutes a distinct modular sub - unit .
a multicellular structure that is a part of an organ .
anatomical structure that is part of the respiratory system .
the stage of development at which the animal is fully formed ,  including immaturity and maturity .
a life cycle stage that starts with fertilization and ends with the fully formed embryo .
end of the life of an organism .
an section of a respiratory tract .
any part or collection of parts of the central or peripheral nervous system .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements and articular elements that are part of an individual subdivision of the organism .
the surface  ( external )  layer of ectoderm which begins to proliferate shortly after separation from the neuroectoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops from the endoderm and the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops from the ectoderm ,  mesoderm and endoderm .
stage succeeding embryo ,  including mature structure
nonparenchymatous organ that primarily consists of dense connective tissue organized into a sheet which interconnects two or more organs ,  separates two or more body spaces from one another ,  or surrounds an organ or body part .
the lung vasculature is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the lungs [ go ]  .
an entire span of an organism's life ,  commencing with the zygote stage and ending in the death of the organism .
a spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of the life cycle of an organism .
a stage at which the organism is a single cell produced by means of sexual reproduction .
the first few specialized divisions of an activated animal egg ;  stage consisting of division of cells in the early embryo .
an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
a stage defined by complex and coordinated series of cellular movements that occurs at the end of cleavage during embryonic development of most animals .
staged defined by the formation of a tube from the flat layer of ectodermal cells known as the neural plate .
a stage at which the ectoderm ,  endoderm ,  and mesoderm develop into the internal organs of the organism .
the connective tissue located between the respiratory  ( airway and alveolar )  epithelium ,  the capillary endothelium and pleural mesothelium ;  it contains basement membrane composed of collagen ,  elastin ,  proteoglycans ,  and fibronectin
the epithelial layer of the lung .
a tube in the respiratory system .
structure derived from foregut that becomes a lung [ go ]  .
anatomical conduit that connects two adjacent body spaces  ( or a body space with the space surrounding the organism )  [ fma , modified ]  .
the proximal portion of the digestive tract ,  containing the oral cavity and bounded by the oral opening .
the orifice that connects the mouth to the exterior of the body .
anatomical cavity at the start of the digestive tract that that is enclosed by the mouth .
the pair of anatomical structures comprised of a left lung and right lung .
organ that functions in gaseous exchange between an organism and its environment .
a fluid that is composed of blood plasma and erythrocytes .
circulating fluid that is part of the hemolymphoid system .
organism at the blastula stage  -  an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
the wall of the digestive tract .
a lining of mostly endodermal origin ,  covered in epithelium ,  which is involved in absorption and secretion .
a mucosa that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a respiratory airway .
the subdivision of the musculoskeletal system that consists of all the muscles of the body [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
tissue that surrounds the lens nucleus
the core of the crystalline lens ,  surrounded by the cortex .
a gland in which the principal secretory cells are serous secreting cells .
an anatomical wall that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of organism substance that is produced by exocrine glands .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
multicellular ,  connected anatomical structure that has multiple organs as parts and whose parts work together to achieve some shared function .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
anatomical structure which is a subdivision of a whole organism ,  consisting of components of multiple anatomical systems ,  largely surrounded by a contiguous region of integument .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
a multicellular anatomical structure that is associated with an embryo and derived from the zygote from which it develops ,  but which does not contribute to the embryo proper or to structures that are part of the same organism after embryogenesis .
association of cells with a common embryological origin or pathway and similar structure and function .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of cuboidal cells .
unilaminar epithelium ,  which consists of a single layer of columnar cells .
epithelium which consists of more than one layer of epithelial cells that may or may not be in contact with a basement membrane .
unilaminar epithelium which consists of a single layer of squamous cells .
epithelium that consists of epithelial cells not arranged in one ore more layers .
compound organ that contains one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
epithelium which consists of a single layer of epithelial cells .
subdivision of trunk that lies between the head and the abdomen .
anatomical entity that comprises the organism in the early stages of growth and differentiation that are characterized by cleavage ,  the laying down of fundamental tissues ,  and the formation of primitive organs and organ systems .
a layer of cells produced during the process of gastrulation during the early development of the animal embryo ,  which is distinct from other such layers of cells ,  as an early step of cell differentiation .
primary germ layer that is the outer of the embryo's three germ layers and gives rise to epidermis and neural tissue .
primary germ layer that lies remote from the surface of the embryo and gives rise to internal tissues such as gut .
the middle germ layer of the embryo ,  between the endoderm and ectoderm .
anterior part of the embryonic digestive tract that develops into a mouth .
the main trunk of the systemic arterial system that carries blood from the heart to all the organs and other structures of the body ,  bringing oxygenated blood to all parts of the body in the systemic circulation
a myogenic muscular circulatory organ found in the vertebrate cardiovascular system composed of chambers of cardiac muscle .
the brain is the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate ,  and most invertebrate ,  animals .
the transparent anterior portion of the fibrous coat of the eye that serves as the chief refractory structure
transparent part of camera - type eye that helps to refract light to be focused on the retina .
the retina is the innermost layer or coating at the back of the eyeball ,  which is sensitive to light and in which the optic nerve terminates .
an organ that detects light .
an organism subdivision that extends from the head to the pectoral girdle ,  encompassing the cervical vertebral column .
anatomical cluster that consists of two or more adjacent skeletal structures ,  which may be interconnected by various types of tissue [ vsao ]  .
the outer epithelial layer of the skin that is superficial to the dermis .
functional system which consists of structures involved in respiration .
an airway through which respiratory air passes in organisms .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs devoted to the ingestion ,  digestion ,  and assimilation of food and the discharge of residual wastes .
organ system that passes nutrients  ( such as amino acids and electrolytes )  ,  gases ,  hormones ,  blood cells ,  etc .
portion of connective tissue composed of adipocytes enmeshed in areolar tissue
a subdivision of the muscular system corresponding to a subdisivision of an organism .
complement of nervous tissue  ( neurones ,  nerves ,  receptors and support cells )  serving to detect ,  relay and coordinate information about an animal's internal and external environments and to initiate and integrate its effector responses and activities .
the central nervous system is the core nervous system that serves an integrating and coordinating function .
anatomical system that overlaps the nervous system and is responsible for receiving and processing sensory information .
anterior subdivision of a digestive tract .
a portion of the respiratory and digestive tracts ;  its distal limit is the superior part of the esophagus and it connects the nasal and oral cavities with the esophagus and larynx ;  it contains the valleculae and the pyriform recesses ;  its upper limits are the nasal cavity and cranial base .
primordia are populations of contiguous cells that are morphologically distinct and already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue [ fbbt ,  hartenstein ,  v .  ( 2004 )  ]  .
in the developing vertebrate ,  the neural tube is the embryo's precursor to the central nervous system ,  which comprises the brain and spinal cord .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
a zone of skin that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a terminal branch of the left or right common carotid artery which supplies oxygenated blood to to the throat ,  neck glands ,  tongue ,  face ,  mouth ,  ear ,  scalp and dura mater of the meninges [ mp ] 
it ascends beneath the anterior margin of the trapezius ,  distributing branches to it ,  and to the neighboring muscles and lymph glands in the neck ,  and anastomosing with the superficial branch of the descending branch of the occipital artery .
a potential space between the visceral and parietal layers of the pericardium .
endocardium that is part of the cardiac ventricle .
an epicardial layer that lines a cardiac ventricle
muscular layer of the cardiac ventricle composed of a compact myocardial layer surrounding the trabecular layer .
a zone of skin that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
joint fluid is a transudate of plasma that is actively secreted by synovial cells .
muscle tissue composed of cardiac muscle cells ,  forming the muscles of the heart [ zfa , modified ]  .
muscle tissue which is unstriated ,  composed primarily of smooth muscle fibers surrounded by a reticulum of collagen and elastic fibers .
simple squamous epithelium of mesodermal origin which lines serous membranes .
a major subdivision of an organism that is the entire part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
a zone of skin that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
anatomical system that is a multi - element ,  multi - tissue anatomical cluster that consists of the skeleton and the articular system .
a subdivision of the head that has as parts the layers deep to the surface of the anterior surface ,  including the mouth ,  eyes ,  and nose  ( when present )  .
a zone of skin that is part of a lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an articular capsule  ( or joint capsule )  is an envelope surrounding a synovial joint .
a bilaterally paired branched artery that originates from the aortic arches and divides into and includes as parts the internal and external carotid arteries [ cjm ]  .
inner tube of two concentric tubes that make up the body
the segment of the respiratory tract that starts proximally with the trachea and includes all distal structures including the lungs [ wp , modified ] 
one of two jugular veins that collect the blood from the brain ,  the superficial parts of the face ,  and the neck .
the ciliary muscle is a ring of smooth muscle in the middle layer of the eye that controls the eye's accommodation for viewing objects at varying distances and regulates the flow of aqueous humour through schlemm's canal .
a branch of the external carotid artery that supplies structures of the face .
organ consisting of a tissue made up of various elongated cells that are specialized to contract and thus to produce movement and mechanical work [ go ]  .
an epithelial tube or tree of tibes that transports blood away from the heart [ modified from aeo definition ]  .
any of the tubular branching vessels that carry blood from the capillaries toward the heart .
the pulmonary artery that supplies the right lung .
the pulmonary artery that supplies the left lung .
the anterior facial vein  ( facial vein )  commences at the side of the root of the nose ,  and is a direct continuation of the angular vein where it also receives a small nasal branch .
subdivision of skeleton which includes upper and lower jaw skeletons .
subdivision of head that consists of the lower jaw skeletal elements plus associated soft tissue  ( skin ,  lips ,  muscle )  [ cjm ]  .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a pharynx .
the space in the eye ,  filled with aqueous humor ,  and bounded anteriorly by the cornea and a small portion of the sclera and posteriorly by a small portion of the ciliary body ,  the iris ,  and part of the crystalline lens
the pigmented middle of the three concentric layers that make up an eye ,  consisting of the iris ,  ciliary body and choroid [ wp , edited ]  .
the adjustable membrane ,  composed of the stroma and pigmented epithelium ,  located just in front of the crystalline lens within the eye
the smooth stratified squamous epithelium that covers the outer surface of the cornea
opaque fibrous outer layer of the eyeball [ zfa , kardong , wp ]  .
the thickened portion of the vascular tunic ,  which lies between the choroid and the iris ,  composed of ciliary muscle and ciliary processes
vascular layer containing connective tissue ,  of the eye lying between the retina and the sclera .
a double layer covering the ciliary body that produces aqueous humor .
any of the layers that make up the retina [ mp ]  .
a thick watery refractive medium that fills the space between the lens and the cornea [ wp ]  .
any of the parts of the eye that lie in front of ,  or ventral to ,  the lens  ( inclusive ) 
any of the parts of the eye that lie in back of ,  or dorsal to ,  the lens  ( but not inclusive ) 
a layer of epithelial cells that is part of the eye .
the elastic ,  clear ,  membrane - like structure ,  that is outer most layer of the lens
one of the two fleshy folds which surround the opening of the mouth .
lip that covers the lower portion of the mouth .
the midbrain is the middle division of the three primary divisions of the developing chordate brain or the corresponding part of the adult brain  ( in vertebrates ,  includes a ventral part containing the cerebral peduncles and a dorsal tectum containing the corpora quadrigemina and that surrounds the aqueduct of sylvius connecting the third and fourth ventricles )  [ go ]  .
a segment of the developing hindbrain [ zfa ]  .
organ component of neuraxis that has as its parts the medullary reticular formation ,  inferior olivary complex and cochlear nuclear complex ,  among other structures [ fma ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a capillary  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an arteriole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a venule  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a vein  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
ventral part of the midbrain ,  separated from the hindbrain by the isthmus [ isbn:0471888893 ]  .
a multi - tissue structure that is part of a spinal cord .
the liquid component of blood ,  in which erythrocytes are suspended .
one of the minute vessels that collect deoxygenated blood from the capillary plexuses returns it to the veins
the smallest division of the artery located between the muscular arteries and the capillaries [ go ]  .
a vessel through which blood circulates in the body .
any of the smallest blood vessels connecting arterioles with venules .
a monolayer of specialized ,  flattened ,  mitochondria - rich cells that lines the posterior surface of the cornea and faces the anterior chamber of the eye [ wp ]  .
a layer of epithelium that lines the heart ,  blood vessels  ( endothelium ,  vascular )  ,  lymph vessels  ( endothelium ,  lymphatic )  ,  and the serous cavities of the body [ mesh ]  .
an artery that carries deoxygenated blood from heart to the lungs .
pulmonary veins are blood vessels that transport blood from the lungs to the heart [ go ]  .
a nervous system structure composed primarily of nerve cell bodies  ( somas )  .
the most posterior of the three principal regions of the brain .
muscle tissue that contains fibers that are divided by transverse bands into striations .
a systemic artery that supplies the lung with with oxygenated blood .
respiration organ that develops as an outpocketing of the esophagus .
an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure contains fluid that is actively transported around the organism [ zfa ]  .
anatomical structure that is part of an embryo .
the truncus arteriosus and bulbus cordis are divided by the aorticopulmonary septum .
the endocardial cushion is a specialized region of mesenchymal cells that will give rise to the heart septa and valves [ go ]  .
the sinus venosus is a large cardiac chamber at the inflow tract that receives venous blood from systemic circulation .
the dermis is a layer of skin between the epidermis  ( with which it makes up the skin )  and subcutaneous tissues ,  and is composed of two layers ,  the papillary and reticular dermis [ wp ]  .
epidermal layer .
an organ that is located within the body cavity  ( or in its extension ,  in the scrotum )  ;  it consists of organ parts that are embryologically derived from endoderm ,  splanchnic mesoderm or intermediate mesoderm ;  together with other organs ,  the viscus constitutes the respiratory ,  gastrointestinal ,  urinary ,  reproductive and immune systems ,  or is the central organ of the cardiovascular system .
a cardiac atrium that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac atrium that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac ventricle that is in the right side of the heart .
cardiac chamber in which blood enters the heart .
cardiac chamber through which blood leaves the heart .
a cardiac ventricle that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac septum that divides the left and right atria of the heart .
the postcranial subdivision of skeleton structural components forming the long axis of the vertebrate body ;  in danio ,  consisting of the notochord ,  vertebrae ,  ribs ,  supraneurals ,  intermuscular bones ,  and unpaired median fins ;  in human consists of the bones of the vertebral column ,  the thoracic cage and the pelvis [ zfa + fma ]  .
cardiac septum which separates the right ventricle from the left ventricle .
the organ covering the body that consists of the dermis and epidermis .
the thin membranous structure between the two heart atria or the thick muscular structure between the two heart ventricles .
organism subdivision which is the part of the body posterior to the cervical region  ( or head ,  when cervical region not present )  and anterior to the caudal region .
the sensory system subserving the sense of vision .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the endocardium is an anatomical structure comprised of an endothelium and an extracellular matrix that forms the innermost layer of tissue of the heart ,  and lines the heart chambers [ go ]  .
endocardium that is part of the atrium .
lung which consists of the right upper lobe ,  middle lobe and right lower lobe .
lung which consists of the left upper lobe and left lower lobe .
a portion of adipose tissue that is part of the hypodermis ,  beneath the dermis .
anatomical cluster consisting of the hematopoietic system and the lymphoid system ,  or its analogs .
the dermis ,  epidermis and hypodermis .
vasculature that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
vasculature that is part of the eye region .
anatomical system that consists of the muscular and skeletal systems .
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by an articular capsule which encloses a synovial membrane and a synovial cavity .
the part of the coelemic cavity lumen that is enclosed by the walls of the thorax .
part of the central nervous system located in the vertebral canal continuous with and caudal to the brain ;  demarcated from brain by plane of foramen magnum .
stalk - like part of the brain that includes amongst its parts the medulla oblongata of the hindbrain and the tegmentum of the midbrain [ zfa , mp , generalized ]  .
the atrial part of middle layer of the heart ,  comprised of involuntary muscle
the ridge - shaped grey matter of the spinal cord that extends longitudunally through the center of each half of the spinal cord ,  and are largely or entirely composed of nerve cell bodies and their dendrites and some supportive tissue .
the cavity within the body of all animals higher than the coelenterates and certain primitive worms ,  formed by the splitting of the embryonic mesoderm into two layers .
a flexible rod - shaped body found in embryos of all chordates .
somites are spheres of epithelial cells that form sequentially along the anterior - posterior axis of the embryo through mesenchymal to epithelial transition of the presomitic mesoderm .
anatomical system that consists of the glands and parts of glands that produce exocrine secretions and help to integrate and control bodily metabolic activity .
an arterial trunk which is continuous with the heart and branches into the pulmonary arteries .
a specialized region of ectoderm found between the neural ectoderm  ( neural plate )  and non - neural ectoderm and composed of highly migratory pluripotent cells that delaminate in early embryonic development from the dorsal neural tube and give rise to an astounding variety of differentiated cell types [ mp ]  .
embryonic ectoderm that gives rise to nervous tissue .
a region of the serous membrane that forms the innermost layer of the pericardium and the outer surface of the heart .
the middle layer of the heart ,  comprised mainly of striated cardiac muscle fibers
the cardiac conduction system consists of specialized cardiomyocytes that regulate the frequency of heart beat [ go ] 
serous membrane which is divided into parietal and visceral serous pericardium .
membrane organ which is attached to the pericardial sac proper and the central tendon of diaphragm and is continuous with the pretracheal fascia .
a gland that secretes products  ( excluding hormones and other chemical messengers )  into ducts  ( duct glands )  which lead directly into the external environment [ wp ]  .
tissue with cells that deposit non - polarized extracellular matrix including connective tissue fibers and ground substance .
muscle tissue is a contractile tissue made up of actin and myosin fibers [ go ]  .
anatomical system that is involved in the production of hematopoietic cells .
a double - walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels .
the combination of pericardial sac  ( a double - walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels )  plus fibrous pericardium .
parietal serous membrane which is part of the pericardium and forms the outer layer of the pericardial sac .
transudate contained in the pericardial cavity .
connected anatomical system that forms a barrier between an animal and its environment .
a gland that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of the mouth and lines the oral cavity ,  typically stratified squamous ,  and may be para -  ,  ortho -  or non -  keratinized .
visceral serous membrane which is continuous with the parietal serous pericardium and is attached to the myocardium [ fma ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a choroid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
arteries that supply the spinal cord .
an epithelium that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
connective tissue composed of elastic fibers .
the middle layer of an artery or vein .
the innermost layer of a blood vessel which is a lining of endothelial cells facing the lumen [ kardong ]  .
an organ that functions as a secretory or excretory organ
in amniote animal embryology ,  the epiblast is a tissue type derived either from the inner cell mass in mammals or the blastodisc in birds and reptiles .
one of a series of paired bulges that develop along the lateral walls of the foregut .
ectodermal placode that develops in the head into a part of the sensory nervous system .
anatomical space which contains portions of one or more body substances and is bounded by the internal surface of one maximally connected anatomical structure .
anatomical divisons of the brain according to one or more criteria ,  e .g .
a wall ,  dividing a cavity or structure into smaller ones [ wp ]  .
the part of the brain that is the morphological boundary between the midbrain and hindbrain and that is the location of an organizing center which patterns the midbrain and hindbrain primordia of the neural plate .
a temporary epithelium that derives from the outer layer of the ectdoerm and is shed once the inner layer differentiates to form a true epidermis .
the portion of neural plate anterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
the portion of neural plate posterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
unsegmented field of paraxial mesoderm present posterior to the most recently formed somite pair ,  from which somites will form .
blood islands are structures in the developing embryo which lead to many different parts of the circulatory system .
a horseshoe - shaped thickening of the endoderm at the cranial  ( rostral )  end of the primitive streak formed by the involution of spemann's organizer cells which ,  together with the notochord ,  induces the formation of the neural plate from the overlying ectodermal cells and contributes mesodermal type cells to the surrounding tissue
the axial mesoderm includes the prechordal mesoderm and the chordamesoderm .
portion of tissue that is part of the anterior neural keel and will form the optic vesicle [ zfa ]  .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of neural and non - neural epithelial layers which will form the retina and retinal pigmented epithelium of the mature eye [ zfa ]  .
a thickened portion of ectoderm which serves as the precursor to the lens .
a region of embryonic ectodermal cells that lie directly above the notochord .
the paraxial mesoderm is the mesoderm located bilaterally adjacent to the notochord and neural tube [ go ] 
portion of the middle of the three primary germ layers of the embryo that resides on the periphery of the embryo ,  is continuous with the extra - embryonic mesoderm ,  splits into two layers enclosing the intra - embryonic coelom ,  and gives rise to body wall structures [ mp ]  .
bilateral groups of cells consisting of three rows: one row of endocardial precursors medially and two rows of myocardical precursors laterally .
ventral somitic compartment that is a precursor of the axial skeleton [ xao ]  .
neural crest cells  ( nccs )  originating in the anterior part of the developing embryo and residing between the mid - diencephalon and the forming hindbrain ;  cranial nccs migrate dorsolaterally to form the craniofacial mesenchyme that differentiates into various craniofacial cartilages and bones ,  cranial neurons ,  glia ,  and connective tissues of the face ;  these cells enter the pharyngeal pouches and arches where they give rise to thymic cells ,  bones of the middle ear and jaw  ( mandible )  ,  and the odontoblasts of the tooth primordia ;  like their counterparts in the trunk ,  cranial nccs also contribute to the developing peripheral nervous system ,  along with the pigmented cell  ( i .e .
anatomical structure that overlaps the outer epithelial layer and is adjacent to the space surrounding the organism .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
portion of tissue composed of mesenchymal cells  ( motile cells that develop from epthelia via an epithelial to mesenchymal transition )  and surrounding extracellular material .
the 6th pharyngeal arch .contributes to the development of the sternocleidomastoid and trapezius muscles
the vessels formed within the first pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the sixth pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
upper portion of the skull that excludes the mandible  ( when present in the organism )  .
anatomical structure that is part of the head consisting entirely of cranium and mandible [ wp ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a foregut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subdivision of the skeleton that corresponds to the lower part of the mouth .
a gland that is part of a foregut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
racemose mucous glands beneath the mucous membrane of the pharynx .
a gland that is part of a integumental system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood island that is part of a mesoderm .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing camera - type eye .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a oral opening  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a layer of epithelial cells on the surface of the mucosa .
an epithelium that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a right atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a left atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a right ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a left ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of an interventricular septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any of the striated muscles that move the eye and include: superior rectus ,  inferior rectus ,  medial rectus ,  lateral rectus ,  superior oblique ,  inferior oblique ,  retractor bulbi
a mesothelium that is part of a pericardium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a digestive tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an adipose tissue that is part of a dermis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an artery that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the iinferior labial artery  ( inferior labial branch of facial artery )  arises near the angle of the mouth ;  it passes upward and forward beneath the triangularis and ,  penetrating the orbicularis oris ,  runs in a tortuous course along the edge of the lower lip between this muscle and the mucous membrane .
an artery that is part of a thoracic cavity [ cjm ]  .
a vein that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the inferior labial vein is the vein receiving blood from the lower lip .
a vein that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of capillary that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a venule that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arteriole that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a heart  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a cornea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a retina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of the arterial system .
a blood vessel that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a capillary that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gray matter that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a dermis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a skin gland that is part of a camera - type eye  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the dense connective tissue which contains predominantly elastic fibers and is found in the tunica media of the aorta wall .
the type of heart connective tissue found in the endocardial layer that consists mainly of elastic fibers .
an elastic tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a circulatory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
elastic tissue layer that lines a blood vessel layer .
elastic tissue that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the middle layer of the aorta wall ,  containing the smooth muscle layer and elastic fibers .
the innermost layer of the aorta ,  containing the endothelium and an inner elastic membrane .
an arterial blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
portion of tissue in the nervous system which consists of neurons and glial cells ,  and may also contain parts of the vasculature .
a mucous membrane that lines the mouth .
any muscle organ that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a neural tube .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a midbrain .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a hindbrain .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a spinal cord .
a neural plate that develops_from a future spinal cord .
an anatomical cavity that has the potential to develop into a coelemic cavity lumen .
the part of the coelom in the embryo between the somatopleuric and splanchnopleuric mesoderm ;  the principal body cavities of the trunk  ( thoracic ,  abdominal ,  and pelvic )  arise from this embryonic part of the coelom
the part of the retina that contains neurons and photoreceptor cells [ go ]  .
epithelial tubes transport gases ,  liquids and cells from one site to another and form the basic structure of many organs and tissues ,  with tube shape and organization varying from the single - celled excretory organ in caenorhabditis elegans to the branching trees of the mammalian kidney and insect tracheal system .
any endothelium that has the quality of being cylindrical  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that carries blood from the capillaries toward the heart
a duct that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that lines the lumen of the digestive tract .
the slender connective tissue fiber in the extracellular matrix of skin tissue that is composed of microfibrils and amorphous elastin and is characterized by great elasticity
the connection between the embryo proper and extraembryonic tissues
a transitional population of migrating mesenchymal cells that derive from somites and that will become dermal cells .
the single layer of epithelial cells that lines the early neural tube and develops into the nervous system and into the neural crest cells
the layer of undifferentiated ,  proliferating cells that line the neural tube lumen that is the immediate transformation of the germinal neuroepithelium
the layer of glia and differentiating neurons that forms as a second layer around the germinal neuroepithium ;  as this develops it comes to lie between the ventricular and marginal layers and includes the basal and alar plates .
the outermost layer of the neural tube that consists of axons from the developing mantle layer and will form the white matter
the subdivision of the face that includes the eye  ( eyeball plus adnexa such as eyelids )  and the orbit of the skull and associated parts of the face such as the eyebrows ,  if present
any tube ,  opening or passage that connects two distinct anatomical spaces .
a vasculature that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the endoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the ectoderm .
the optic vesicle is the evagination of neurectoderm that precedes formation of the optic cup [ go ]  .
the first recognizable structure derived from the heart field
a specific region of the lateral mesoderm that will form the primary beating heart tube .
an epithelial tube that will give rise to the mature heart .
the outflow tract septum is a partition in the outflow tract
the outflow tract is the portion of the heart through which blood flows into the arteries
vein of heart that drains the myocardium
a cardiac chamber surrounds an enclosed cavity within the heart
an embryonic group of progenitor cells that forms from an outpouching of the septum transversum near the venous pole of the heart and gives rise to the epicardium
a thick plate of mesodermal tissue that occupies the space between the thoracic cavity and yolk stalk in the early embryo ,  forming a transverse partition partially separating the coelomic cavity into thoracic and abdominal portions .
organ that is part of the hematopoietic system .
the nonstriated ,  involuntary muscle tissue located in the wall of the aorta
a portions of the gut that is derived from endoderm .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an arteriole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
smooth muscle found within ,  and composing the majority of the wall of blood vessels .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pericardium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle that is part of the eye region .
anatomical cluster that consists of all the skeletal elements  ( eg . ,  bone ,  cartilage ,  and teeth )  of the body .
the bilaminar epithelium formed from the myotome and dermatome .
a cone - like structure that is formed when myocardial progenitor cells of the heart field fuse at the midline .
dense connective tissue that separates the atria from the ventricles and provides physical support for the heart .
a blood vessel smooth muscle that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the embryonic structure that gives rise to the corneal ectoderm
the first of the series of pharyngeal arches that develop into jaw bones or their homologs ,  and their associated nerves and arteries
one of a series of paired embryological vascular structures formed within a pharyngeal arch ;  in the adult ,  some of these vessels give rise to the great vessels [ mp ] 
a transparent homogeneous acellular layer ,  6 to 9 um thick ,  lying between the basal lamina of the outer layer of stratified epithelium and the substantia propria of the cornea ;  it is considered to be a basement membrane .
an embryo at the neurula stage .
sum of all sensory systems in an organism .
any collection of skeletal muscles that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a face .
any collection of muscles that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of an atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a interatrial septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a cardiac septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a myocardium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a muscle organ  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a musculoskeletal system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
anatomical system that has as its parts the heart and blood vessels .
a vascular network consisting of blood vessels .
an eye that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an eye that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the part of the arterial system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart to the body ,  and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart .
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all arteries .
an artery of the systemic circulation ,  which is the part of the cardiovascular system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart ,  to the body ,  and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart .
the part of the venous system that drains the general body tissues [ kardong ] 
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all venous vessels .
an endothelium that lines the blood vasculature .
an anatomical wall that is part of an aorta ,  enclosing the luminal space .
the outermost layer of the aorta wall ,  containing connective tissue and collagen and elastic fibers
the muscular portion of the wall between the two lower chambers of the heart
the costocervical trunk arises from the upper and back part of the subclavian artery ,  behind the scalenus anterior on the right side ,  and medial to that muscle on the left side .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an arterial system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a venous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an arterial system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a venous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel endothelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a transient fetal dilation of the distal  ( or cranial )  heart tube located where the arterial trunk joins the ventral roots of the aortic arches
the jugular veins are veins that bring deoxygenated blood from the head back to the heart via the superior vena cava .
the embryo and its adnexa  ( appendages or adjunct parts )  or associated membranes  ( i .e .
a transverse unitary subdivision of the neural tube that shares a common dorsoventral structure  ( floor ,  basal ,  alar ,  and roof plates )  ,  but each having differential molecular identities and fates ;  they comprise the secondary prosencephalon ,  diencephalon  ( prosomeres )  ,  the midbrain  ( mesomeres )  ,  and the hindbrain  ( rhombomeres )  .
any segmental subdivision of a nervous system .
an organ subunit that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
organism at the gastrula stage .
organ consisting of skeletal tissue .
anatomical system that consists of all the joints of the body .
a submucosa that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a cardiac ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mucous membrane lining the respiratory tract
any of the tissue layers that comprise a blood vessel .
the pseudostratified ciliated epithelium that lines much of the conducting portion of the airway ,  including part of the nasal cavity and larynx ,  the trachea ,  and bronchi
an epithelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of artery that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of vein that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thin layer of flat cells that line the aorta and form a barrier between circulating blood in the lumen and the rest of the vessel wall
an endothelium that is part of the cardiovascular system .
a gland that is part of a eye .
a vasculature that is part of a retina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
layer of lateral plate mesoderm that forms the circulatory system and future gut wall  -  overlies endoderm [ wp ]  .
a structure created during embryogenesis when the lateral mesoderm splits into two layers  -  the inner  ( or splanchnic )  layer adheres to the endoderm ,  and with it forms the splanchnopleure [ wp ]  .
the central region of trunk mesoderm .
the mass of tissue made up of mesenchymal cells in the lung .
anatomical cluster that connects two or more adjacent skeletal elements or hardened body parts .
a portion of the gut that is derived from ectoderm .
a proximal - distal subdivision of the digestive tract .
a part of a wall of an organ that forms a layer .
the tissue underlying the tunica mucosa of the pharynx .
a mucosa that is part of a lower lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a hemolymphoid system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the median dorsal longitudinal groove formed in the embryo by the neural plate after the appearance of the neural folds .
one of the two elevated edges of the neural groove [ go , mp ]  .
a solid rod of neurectoderm derived from the neural keel .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a hindbrain and adjacent_to a spinal cord .
a hole in a tube [ go ]  .
an ectodermal placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that is the primordium of many structures derived from the ectoderm [ go ] 
muscle structures are contractile cells ,  tissues or organs that are found in multicellular organisms [ go ]  .
a bud is a protrusion that forms from an epithelial sheet by localized folding .
an epithelial sheet bent on a linear axis .
a structure consisting of multiple cell components but which is not itself a cell and does not have  ( complete )  cells as a part .
an organ or element that part of the dorsum of the organism .
an organ or element that part of the trunk region .
an organ or element that is in the thoracic cavity .
an organ that part of the thoracic segment region .
a vein that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an external ectoderm that is part of a optic eminence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ectoderm that is part of a optic eminence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endocardium that is part of a interventricular septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a bulbus cordis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a stomodeum .
portion of primordial embryonic connective tissue of the developing head ,  consisting of mesenchymal cells supported in interlaminar jelly ,  that derive mostly from the mesoderm and contribute to head connective tissue ,  bone and musculature in conjunction with cranial neural crest cells .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing trunk .
the posterior part of the developing vertebrate hindbrain or the corresponding part of the adult brain composed of the medulla oblongata and a portion of the fourth ventricle ;  as well as the glossopharyngeal nerve  ( cn ix )  ,  vagus nerve  ( cn x )  ,  accessory nerve  ( cn xi )  ,  hypoglossal nerve  ( cn xii )  ,  and a portion of the vestibulocochlear nerve  ( cn viii )  .
a portion of tissue that is part of an embryo .
portion of tissue that is contiguous with the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells that will not contribute to the embryo .
the endothelial lining of the endocardium .
an pulmonary artery endothelium is an epithelium that lines the pulmonary artery [ go ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a mucosa of oral region .
a ventricular outflow tract is a portion of either the left ventricle or right ventricle of the heart through which blood passes in order to enter the great arteries .
an outflow tract that is part of a aorta .
an array of photoreceptors and any supporting cells found in an eye .
a transparent structure that is part of a visual sense organ ,  the function of which is to direct or focus light onto a photoreceptor array .
one of: the common carotid artery ,  or its branches ,  the external and internal carotid arteries .
portion of tissue that is the inner layer of the optic cup and will become the neural retina .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the lens .
portion of tissue that is part of the eye and gives rise to the mature ,  fully layered cornea .
the dilated structure that is lined by endothelial cells and located at the arterial pole of the heart just above  ( distal to )  the truncus arteriosus in mammalian embryos ;  it is the primordial vascular channel from which the aortic arches  ( and eventually the dorsal aortae )  arise ;  the aortic sac is homologous to the ventral aorta of gill - bearing vertebrates
portion of tissue on the side of the lumen of the neural tube .
multi - tissue structure that arises from the heart rudiment and will become the heart tube .
a neural tube lateral wall that is part of a rhombomere .
a pair of lateral diverticula just over the liver rudiment representing the primordia of the lungs ,  formed by the floor of the foregut just anterior to the liver diverticulum .
a somite that is part of a trunk .
a layer of cuboidal epithelial cells bounded anteriorly by the capsule of the lens and posteriorly by the lens cortex .
an epithelium that is part of a anterior chamber of eyeball .
an epithelium that is part of a lens vesicle .
an endothelium that is part of a right lung .
an endothelium that is part of a left lung .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a lens vesicle .
mesenchyme that is part of a optic eminence .
a venous system that is part of a hindbrain .
the outermost layer of a blood vessel ,  composed mainly of fibrous tissue .
a tunica intima that is part of a artery .
an outermost connective tissue covering of an organ ,  vessel ,  or other structure [ wp ]  .
a acellular anatomical structure that is the bounding layer of a anatomical structure .
an acellular membrane that is part of the epithelium ,  lies adjacent to the epithelial cells ,  and is the fusion of the the basal lamina and the reticular lamina .
a delimited region of dense mesenchyme within looser mesenchyme .
the paired ventral prominences formed by bifurcation of the first pharyngeal arches in the embryo ;  the two prominences unite ventrally and fuse to form the mandible and lower lip
organ with organ cavity ,  which has as parts a serous membrane and a serous cavity  .
epithelium that derives from the endoderm .
subdivision of skeleton which consists of cranial skeleton ,  set of all vertebrae ,  set of all ribs and sternum [ fma ,  modified ]  .
an outflow tract that is part of a cardiac atrium .
anteriosuperior ,  smooth - walled portion of the cavity of the right ventricle ,  beginning at the supraventricular crest and terminating in the pulmonary trunk
anterosuperior fibrous portion of the left ventricle that connects to the ascending aorta .
outflow part of atrium which consists of wall and cavity of the outflow part of right atrium and the tricuspid valve .
an outflow tract of atrium that is part of a left atrium .
the laminar structure of the heart
any of the arteries or veins that supply blood to the heart or return blood from the heart muscles to the circulation
the wall of the heart that separates the right atrium and left ventricle ;  and is located just above the septal cusp of the tricuspid valve
anatomical structure embedded in or located in the integument that is part of the integumental system .
the thin bilaminar membrane derived from the prechordal plate that is devoid of mesoderm and formed by the apposition of the stomodeal ectoderm with the foregut endoderm ;  after the embryonic head fold has evolved it lies at the caudal limit of the stomodeum ,  forming a septum between the primitive mouth and pharynx ;  the membrane eventually disappears ,  and thus a communication is established between the mouth and the future pharynx .
the embryonic precursor of the brain .
an anatomical junctions that overlaps the mouth and foregut .
the notochordal plate is the dorsal part of the notochordal process when the ventral portion breaks down .
a midline cellular cord formed from the migration of mesenchymal cells from the primitive knot
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac ventricle .
a segment of the eyeball that is filled with refractive media
body substance in a liquid or semi - solid state in the eyeball which serves to refract light .
liquid components of living organisms .
an artery that connects two larger arteries .
a portion of organism substance that secreted_by a zone of skin .
a portion of organism substance that secreted_by a respiratory system .
the feeding organ ,  a neuro - muscular pump in the head of the animal ,  used to ingest food ,  bacteria suspended in liquid ,  filter them out ,  grind them up and transport posteriorly into the instestine .
tunica media of artery which is continuous with the myocardium of right ventricle .
a myocardium that is part of a left ventricle of a heart .
a myocardium that is part of a right ventricle of a heart .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into endoderm .
portion of embryonic tissue determined by fate mapping to become a structure .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into ectoderm .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into mesoderm .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a epithelium .
the edge of the cornea where it joins the sclera ;  the limbus is a common site for the occurrence of corneal epithelial neoplasm
loose connective tissue located at the outer and inner layers of organs .
a vasculature that is part of a organ .
a head mesenchyme that develops_from a mesoderm .
mesenchyme that is part of a mandibular prominence .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a digestive tract .
an epithelium that is part of a lip .
an epithelium characterised by its most superficial layer consisting of squamous epithelial cells .
the vascular cord is the primordial vasculature that will develop into blood vessels by the process of tubulogenesis [ go ]  .
a capillary that is part of the coronary system .
a two dimensional anatomical structure that is the boundary between an anatomical structure and an anatomical substance ,  an anatomical space or the organism's environment .
the splanchnic mesoderm in the cardiogenic region where the heart develops ;  it gives rise to endocardial heart tubes that fuse to form the primordial cardiac tube ,  the heart primordium [ web ]  .
organism at the cleavage stage .
cranial neural crest that migrates into the mandibular arch .
a hollow ,  muscular organ ,  which ,  by contracting rhythmically ,  keeps up the circulation of the blood or analogs [ go , modified ]  .
an intermediate stage  ( between the neural plate and neural rod )  during the early segmentation period in the morphogenesis of the central nervous system primordium ;  the keel is roughly triangular shaped in cross section .
a mesothelium that is part of a serous pericardium .
mesenchyme that develops_from a cranial neural crest .
a tunica media that is part of a artery .
a tunica adventitia that is part of a artery .
a tunica adventitia that is part of a vein .
a tunica intima that is part of a vein .
a tunica media that is part of a vein .
the rhombencephalon  ( or hindbrain )  is a developmental categorization of portions of the central nervous system in vertebrates .
portion of tissue that is part of the heart tube and will become the sinus venosus .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a endocardium .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the midbrain hindbrain boundary .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a presomitic mesoderm .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a neural plate .
the part of the blastula that has the potential to develop into a paraxial mesoderm .
a vasculature that is part of a chordate pharynx .
the epidermis is the entire outer epithelial layer of an animal ,  it may be a single layer that produces an extracellular material  ( e .g .
outermost layer of cells surrounding the embryo .
the space within an epithelial sphere .
an epithelial tube that is open at one end only .
an epithelial tube open at both ends that allows fluid flow .
a closed epithelium with a lumen .
mesenchyme with little extracellular matrix .
mesenchymal cells that are migrating .
simple columnar epithelium in which the luminal side of the cells bears cilia .
epithelium bearing vibratile cilia on the free surface .
a thin ,  loose vascular connective tissue that makes up the membranes surrounding joints and the sheaths protecting tendons  ( particularly flexor tendons in the hands and feet )  where they pass over bony prominences .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a synovial joint .
epithelial layer of the retina ,  ciliary body ,  or iris composed of cells containing pigment granules .
an anatomical structure that connects two structures
anlagen are populations of contiguous cells ,  typically arranged in one plane ,  that are morphologically indistinct ,  but that already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue .
a gland that is part of a epidermis .
any bodily fluid that has passed through a membrane such as the capillary wall ,  as a result of unbalanced hydrostatic and osmotic forces
any fluid produced by a serous gland .
anatomical system that consists of all blood and lymph vessels .
the anteriormost subdivision of the body that includes the head ,  jaws ,  pharyngeal region and the neck  ( if present )  .
musculature system of the pharyngeal and head regions .
an endothelium that is part of a heart  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a transient embryonic complex that comprises the pharyngeal arches ,  bulges of tissues of mesoderm and neural crest derivation through which pass nerves and pharyngeal arch arteries .
a head that is part of a embryo .
a brain that develops_from a neural tube .
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all pulmonary arteries and all pulmonary veins .
subdivision of endoskeleton derived from pharyngeal arches
system pertaining to blood vessels in the brain .
vein that drains left lung and returns blood to the heart .
vein that drains right lung and returns blood to the heart .
endocardium that is part of the right atrium .
a vein that is part of a craniocervical region .
sum total of mesenchyme in the embryo .
an ectoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
an endoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
a portion of mesenchymal tissue associated with an individual pharyngeal arch .
mesenchyme that is part of a 1st arch mandibular component .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing left lung .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing right lung .
a neural plate that develops_from a presumptive midbrain .
a neural plate that develops_from a presumptive hindbrain .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a midbrain .
any endocardium that is part of the right ventricle of the heart .
any endocardium that is part of the left ventricle of the heart .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a stomodeum .
the embryonic connective tissue made up of loosely aggregated mesenchymal cells ,  supported by interlaminar jelly ,  that gives rise to the developing cardiac structures
the many - lobed berry cluster of cells that is the terminous of a gland where the secretion is produced is acinar in form .
branch or outpocketing of the digestive tract .
a specific region of the lateral mesoderm that will form the majority of the mesodermal component of the right ventricle ,  arterial pole  ( outflow tract )  and venous pole  ( inflow tract )  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing face .
a multicellular organism that existence_starts_with a post - embryonic stage .
an anatomical structure that has more than one cell as a part .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 6 .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 1 .
the sum total of mesenchymal tissue in the pharyngeal arch region .
gland of the epithelium lining the oral cavity .
an epithelium consisting of cuboidal epithelial cells .
mesenchyme that has the potential to develop into a dermis .
a developing anatomical structure that has the potential to develop into a myelencephalon .
any portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of the conducting system of heart or the purkinje fibers .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a blood vessel .
a roughly circular bulge in a surface .
an anatomical boundary that corresponds to some physical discontinuity .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac atrium .
the core globe - shaped component of the camera - type eye .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch mandibular mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 6th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a rhombencephalon neural crest .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch mesenchyme .
portion of tissue that is dorsolateral to the floor plate and part of the midbrain .
portion of neural tube that gives rise to the midbrain .
an endothelium that is part of a sclera .
mesenchyme surrounding the developing optic cup which develops into the sclera .
an epithelium that is part of a extraembryonic structure .
developing anatomical structure that develops into the eyeball and associated structures .
an anatomical structure that develops from the neural crest .
an anatomical structure that has some part that develops from the neural crest .
a skeletal element that is part of a orbital region .
skeletal subdivision of the head including skull  ( cranium plus mandible )  ,  pharyngeal and / or hyoid apparatus .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a mandibular process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a mandibular process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch mandibular mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 6th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a entire pharyngeal arch associated mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a entire pharyngeal arch associated mesenchyme .
epithelium composed of cells that develops from the ectoderm [ fma , modified ]  .
mesenchyme that develops_from a splanchnopleure .
the integrated unit  ( of the eye )  that consists of the conjunctiva ,  the corneal surface ,  and the ocular mucosal adnexa including the lid margins and the meibomian gland openings ,  the lacrimal glands and the lacrimal drainage system ,  all which are critical to maintain ocular surface integrity and provide protection from external antigens and pathogenic microorganisms .
the ciliary processes are formed by the inward folding of the various layers of the choroid ,  i .e .
a simple columnar epithelium that looks stratified but is not ,  because its cells are arranged with their nuclei at different levels .
epithelium composed of a single layer of cells ,  appearing as layered because the column - shaped cells vary in height so the nuclei are at different levels .
a vessel of the microcirculature ,  lying between the arterioles and venules ;  includes capillaries  ( blood and lymphatic )  ,  metarterioles and arteriovenous anastomoses .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements  ( i .e .
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by ligaments or fibrocartilage without an intervening synovial cavity .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the axial skeleton plus associated joints .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the postcranial axial skeleton plus associated joints .
subdivision of skull that consists of the facial bones .
the skull can be divided into two: the neurocranium and the facial skeleton
a multi cell part structure that is part of a central nervous system .
a subdivision of an anatomical system .
the part of the trunk that is in the dorsum [ cjm ]  .
a blood vasculature that is part of a head .
anatomical structure that is an aggregation of similar cells from which cartilages and bones form ,  and from which chondrogenesis and osteogenesis are initiated during repair and / or regeneration .
a subdivision of the head that corresponds to the jaw skeleton ,  containing both soft tissue ,  skeleton and teeth  ( when present )  .
an epithelium that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a oral epithelium .
a major subdivision of an organism that divides an organism along its main body axis  ( typically anterio - posterior axis )  .
a cardiovascular system that is part of a conceptus .
ectodermal placode that does not develop into a component of the nervous system .
an anatomical junction that divides and overlaps with and atrium and a ventricle in the heart .
connective tissue ,  which consists of a population of connective tissue cells ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains an irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
irregular connective tissue is an irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a dense irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
dense connective tissue is mainly composed of collagen type i .
irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a sparse irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
an acinus that is part of a exocrine gland .
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of aorta tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of pulmonary tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
front  ( ventral )  portion of the vascular ,  pigmentary ,  or middle coat of the eye ,  including the ciliary body and the iris .
the aggregate of the coelemic cavity lumen plus the membranes that line the lumen .
anatomical system that consists of the integumental system plus all mucosae and submucosae .
a zone of skin that is part of a craniocervical region .
an epithelium that consists of columnar epithelial cells .
epithelium that derives from the mesoderm .
one of five swellings formed during the development of the face
an artery of the neck
the deep cervical artery  ( profunda cervicalis )  is an artery of the neck .
a layer of tissue between the muscularis and serosa .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system venous blood vessel .
the sclera and cornea form the fibrous tunic of the bulb of the eye ;  the sclera is opaque ,  and constitutes the posterior five - sixths of the tunic ;  the cornea is transparent ,  and forms the anterior sixth .
an anatomical space with no opening to another space or to the exterior .
a vein that drains a lip .
any vein within the general circulation that transports blood back to the right atrium of the heart .
the secretory unit of a serous gland .
anatomical cavity that is the lumen of the skull and contains the brain .
a blood vessel endothelium that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the space that surrounds an organism .
an anatomical space which is the lumen of some anatomical conduit and connects two or more spaces together [ fma , modified ]  .
vascular endothelium found in blood vessels of the blood - brain - barrier .
musculature of the head and neck ,  spine ,  and ribs .
a principle subdivision of an organism that includes all structures along the primary axis ,  typically the anterior - posterior axis ,  from head to tail ,  including structures of the body proper where present  ( for example ,  ribs )  ,  but excluding appendages .
the region of the organism associated with the visceral organs .
a tubular passage that extends from the primitive pit into the head process during the early stages of embryonic development in mammals .
fluid contained within the notochordal canal
a organ component layer that is part of a integumental system .
a blood that is part of a artery .
a blood that is part of a vein .
a blood that is part of a capillary .
any of the organs or elements that are part of the digestive system .
great vessels is a term used to refer collectively to the large vessels that bring blood to and from the heart .
mesenchyme that develops_from the neural crest [ automatically generated definition ]  .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all skeletal elements in the thoracic region of the trunk .
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive midbrain
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive spinal cord
a portion of tissue that will develop into vasculature .
visceral intrapericardial fat contiguous with the myocardial surface .
a gland that is typically found in or near the orbital region ,  in or around either the medial or lateral canthi ,  and is typically associated with secretions onto the eyeball or associated ducts .
an eye consisting of multiple light - sensing organs
a region of somite adjacent to presomitic mesoderm .
epithelium located in the intersomitic region .
any structure that is placed on one side of the left - right axis of a bilaterian .
a hollow ,  muscular organ ,  which ,  by contracting rhythmically ,  contributes to the circulation of lymph ,  blood or analogs .
a basement membrane of epithelium that is part of a respiratory system .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a hypodermis .
a epithelium that is part of a camera - type eye .
a epithelium that is part of a foregut .
a capillary that is part of a lung .
luminal space of the right ventricle of the heart .
luminal space of the left atrium of the heart .
luminal space of the left ventricle of the heart .
luminal space of the right atrium of the heart .
the external part of the developing pharynx that is made of ectoderm .
a layer of of the central nervous system that is part of gray matter .
primordium that develops into the central nervous system
primordium that develops into the nervous system
the part of the conceptus that may be lost before birth or will be discarded at birth ,  or when the embryo becomes an independent organism .
an embryonic anatomical entity that will turn into one or more other anatomical entities ,  perhaps with other anatomical entities ,  later in development .
a mesenchyme - derived anatomical entity undergoing a transtion to become another structure .
a zone of skin that is part of a lower lip .
a boundary delimiting a rhombomere .
any portion of submucosa that lines the digestive tract .
any organ component layer that consists of muscle tissue .
an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the heart .
any region of epithelium that is part of a skin region .
the part of the eye that consists of both the retina and the optic choroid
an exocrine gland that is part of a integumental system .
single layer of a laminar structure ,  identified by different density ,  arrangement or size of cells and processes arranged in flattened layers or lamina [ cumbo ]  .
serous membrane layer that is adjacent to and lines an organ .
serous membrane layer that lines to a body cavity .
a specific region of the foregut into the area in which the lung will develop .
an embryonic or larval epithelium that is committed to form part of the nervous system .
an epithelium that is undergoing proliferation to provide large numbers of neuronal cells .
a neuroepithelium some of whose cells are undergoing terminal differentiation to become neuronal cells .
any substance in the body or expelled from the body that is in a gaseous state .
any portion of gas located in a part of the respiratory system that is composed primarily of air .
the area of axial mesoderm that develops into the prechordal plate
endocardium that is part of the left atrium .
an multicellular anatomical structure that has subparts of multiple organs as a part .
a cluster of cells ,  largely surrounded by a morphological boundary .
a collection of anatomical structures that are alike in terms of their morphology or developmental origin .
any organ component layer that consists of smooth muscle tissue .
any portion of gas located in a part of the respiratory system .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any material entity that is located in the digestive tract .
anatomical surface ,  which is the external surface of the whole body .
the part of the circulatory system that lies within the subcutaneous tissue layers close to the surface of the skin .
any of the veins carrying deoxygenated blood from the subcutaneous tissue layers .
the part of the circulatory system that lies deep beneath the subcutaneous tissue layers away from the surface of the skin .
a blood vessel carrying deoxygenated blood far beneath the skin usually accompanying an artery .
any chamber of the left side of the heart
any chamber of the right side of the heart
the parts of the orbital region that are outside of the the eyeball ,  including the lacrimal apparatus ,  the extraocular muscles and the eyelids ,  eyelashes ,  eyebrows and the conjunctiva
the primordial mouth region of the developing head .
the sum of epicardial and paracardial fat deposits .
fat deposits in the mediastinum outside the parietal pericardium  .
any fat deposit surrounding a visceral organ .
an region of the mesoderm that includes anterior lateral mesoderm of the first heart field plus contiguous pharyngeal mesoderm that gives rise to second - heart - field - derived regions of the heart and branchiomeric muscles .
material anatomical entity that forms the outermost boundary of an anatomical structure .
a bodily fluid that is located in the coelom .
any gland that is part os the respiratory system .
a notochord that has persisted beyond the embryonic stage .
a transudate found in the serous sac .
wall of ventricle which is continuous with the wall of aorta .
wall of ventricle which is continuous with the wall of pulmonary trunk .
region of wall of right ventricle which is continuous with the lateral and septal walls of right ventricle .
a mucosa that is part of a lip region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
wall of organ which has as its parts the endocardium ,  myocardium  ,  epicardium ,  and the cardiac septum ,  surrounded by the pericardial sac proper and is continuous with the walls of the systemic and pulmonary arterial and venous trees .
a zone of skin that is part of the face .
an anatomical junction between two parts of the digestive tract .
structures of the dermis ,  epidermis ,  glands and pigment cells recognizable on the external surfaces of the integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the external head integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the body integument .
blood vessels in respiratory skin .
left part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
right part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
genes normally silenced within heterochromatin are abnoramally de - repressed and exhibit expression ,  unlike controls .
animals accumulate vacuoles in an abnormal manner in cells ,  tissues ,  and / or organs of the animal .
cells exhibit an abnormal intracellular level  ( amount )  of calcium ,  compared to controls .
cells exhibit a higher level of calcium in the cytosol ,  compared to controls .
cells exhibit a lower level of calcium in the cytosol ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit increased occurrence of cell death ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit decreased occurrence of cell death ,  compared to controls .
animals exhibit a decrease in the expression of one or more known ,  endogenous ,  antimicrobial genes ,  compared to controls .
variations in the process ( es )  that constitute cell corpse degradation within the engulfing cell compared to control .
an anatomical entity of the nematode caenorhabditis elegans .
pedigree of nuclei ,  lineal descent from p0 ,  the founder .
a variety of very different cell types which share cytoplasmic features  ( such as large membrane - bound granules )  that suggest a role in secretion ,  thus termed gland cells .
a type of pharyngeal cell that connects basement membrane to the apices of triangle - shaped pharyngeal lumen .
contractile cell that makes up muscle tissue .
posterior segment of pharyngeal corpus .
the last ,  posterior bulb of the pharynx .
the first ,  anterior bulb of the pharynx .
a section of pharynx of which muscles contract with a peristaltic motion .
embryonic founder cell
rectal cell ,  postembryonic blast cell in male
embryonic founder cell
post - embryonic cell of pedigree tl .paa ,  phasmid sockets .
anterior spermathecae
embryonic founder cell of germ line
single cell zygote
posterior daughter cell of p7 .ppp ,  fuses into hermaphrodite vula syncytium .
embryonic founder cell
postembryonic mesoblast of pedigree msapaapp .
rectal cell ,  postembryonic blast cell
anchor cell ,  induces vulva ,  part of hermaphrodite gonad .
excretory socket cell ,  links duct to hypodermis
cell that forms the duct of the excretory system .
rectal cell at hatching ,  becomes pda in hermaphrodite ,  postembryonic blast cell in male
postembryonic neuroblast ,  analogous to pn .a cells ,  also known as p0 .
seam hypodermal cell
postembryonic blast cell ,  excretory socket in embryo
rectal cell ,  blast cell in male
embryonic founder cell
embryonic founder cell
rectal cell ,  postembryonic blast cell in male
tail seam hypodermal cell ,  postembryonic blast cell ,  functions as phasmid socket in l1
seminal vesicle ,  outer ;  cell of pedigree z1 .paapp in male .
inner seminal vesicle cell of pedigree z4 .appap .
male gonad cell ,  leads gonad during morphogenesis and initiates union with cloaca
lumbar ganglion ,  left side .
the left and right lateral ganglia lie beside the nerve ring in the head .
sensillum of inner or outer labial .
sensory organ of the inner labial .
ganglion in the head .
organ producing either sperm or ova .
set of six cells that form a thin cylindrical sheet between pharynx and ring neuropile ;  no chemical synapses ,  but gap junctions with muscle arms and rme motor neurons ,  might be glial cells
organ in hermaphrodite animal that produces both ova and sperm .
a cluster of nerve cells and associated glial cells  ( nuclear location )  .
a cell that is the e blast cell or is a lineal descendant of e .
the ganglion that lies above and behind the rectum in the tail ,  in close continuity with the anal hypodermal ridge .
ganglion that lies beside the nerve ring in the head .
neurons that sense body touch ,  have specialized microtubules in processes .
cuticle - lined lumenal region surrounded by pharyngeal epithelium ,  situated at the anterior end of pharynx .
ganglion lies beside the nerve ring in the head ,  just anterior of the retrovesicular ganglion .
an accordion - like tube that contains sperm and is the site of oocyte fertilization .
ganglion in the trunk of the body .
muscle lining of the uterine wall .
openning of the rectum
spermatheca in anterior gonad arm .
anterior lobe of the bi - lobbed hermaphrodite gonad .
ganglion anterior to the nerve ring
bilaterally symmetric chemosensory specializations located on the two lateral lips in the head involving a large hole in the anterior cuticle .
neuron of the amphid sensillum
neuron making synapse on an effector  ( muscle ,  gland )  .
bilateral sensory organ in the tail ,  similar to the amphid in the head .
the left one in the pair of phasmid sensilla .
the pharyngeal nervous system is composed of 20 pharyngeal neurons which lie completely within the pharynx .
ganglion anterior to the anus .
type of cells that make up muscle layers in the pharynx .
ganglion on the lateral side ,  in postior portion of the body ,  associated with posterior deirid .
ganglion that lies at the anterior limit of the ventral nerve cord ,  near the ventral ganglion and nerve ring in the head posterior to the excretory pore .
neuron class of two ciliated neurons with flattened ,  sheet - like endings that are associated with the sheath cells of the amphid sensilla
lies within the body wall ,  in close relation to nervous system and excretory system .
anatomical structures that exist outside of cells ;  non - cellular .
the organ system that allows the animal move ,  includes all muscles .
region of the body by which tissues ,  cells or cell parts are classified
body region posterior to the head and anterior to the tail
posterior region ,  from rectum to the end
a fluid - filled space enclosed on the outside by the basal laminae of the bodywall tissues ,  principally those of the bodywall muscles and the hypodermis .
intergrated group of organs ,  performing one or more unified functions .
an interfacial epithelial cell which forms a distal cap on a sheath cell to bind the sheath of a sensillum to the neighboring hypodermis ,  via adherens junctions .
a free - floating spherical cell lying in the pseudocoelomic cavity of larvae and adult c . elegans which can endocytose many compounds ,  possibly for immune surveillance .
anatomical or cell objects that exist in only one ,  male or hermaphrodite ,  sex .
a group of hypodermal cells that lie along the apical midline of the hypodermis ,  at the extreme left and right sides between nose and tail
an epithelial cell that serves either to bridge two neighboring epithelial tissues or to form an opening in the epithelium .
a rigid external coating which is secreted by the hypodermis ,  seam and some transitional epithelial cells which covers the outer body ,  the major openings  into the body cavity from the exterior ,  and two large sensory bristles ,  the male spicules .
cells or anatomical parts specific to the male sex
cells or anatomical parts specific to the hermaphrodite sex
neuron that senses external stimuli and transduce them to signals internal to the organism .
part of the nervous system that lies completely outside the pharynx .
cells that support sensory neurons ,  similar to glial cells in vertebrates .
concerns with functional aspects of cells and anatomical parts
entity of anatomical origin that is either entirely acellular or is a collection of cells and acellular parts .
a group of six equivalent cells forms a tightly constructed 'valve' that links the posterior bulb of the pharynx to the anterior four cells of the intestine .
spatial axis
a chain of very large cuboidal cells forming a wide central lumen in which food arrives from the posterior pharynx ,  is digested ,  and from which waste products proceed to the rectum .
the passageway in the hindgut between the posterior intestine ,  the rectal valve and the opening to the exterior .
a feature of the male tail ,  caudal to the proctodeum ,  where the vas deferens and the intestine open out jointly near the tail tip to discharge their contents .
four processes   ( canals )  of the excretory canal cell each contain a central collecting lumen which feeds to a central lumenal canal in the cell body ;   the central canal forms a specialized membrane to release fluids into the excretory duct .
gland cell of the secretory - excretory system ,  sends processes to ring ,  opens into excretory duct .
cell line which early in development becomes differentiated from the remaining somatic cell line ,  and alone has the potential to undergo meiosis and form gametes .
the components of the gonad that are separate from the germline proper .
any of 20 large epithelial cells which form a tube and are mostly situated as bilaterally symmetric pairs around the tubular lumen .
epithelium connecting intestine and anus .
a structural  ( glial )  cell which forms an specialized environment surrounding the sensory ending ( s )  of one or more neurons ;  sometimes accompanied by a more distal socket cell .
h - shaped cell associated with the excretory system ,  largest cell in c . elegans .
longitudinal bands of muscle cells surrounding animal body ,  with one band running in each quadrant of the body ,  regulated contraction and relaxation of these muscles cause locomotion .
muscle of the alimentary organ system .
muscle associated with hermaphrodite vulva .
five pairs of thin gonadal sheath cells form a single layer covering the germ line component of each arm ,  each pair occupying a stereotyped position along the gonad proximal - distal axis .
a large process bundle that runs along the vental mid - line extending from the ventral region of the nerve ring .
the left and right lumbar ganglia lie behind the pre - anal ganglion in the tail ,  in lateral positions .
neuron that senses soluable chemicals
neuron that senses volatile odorants
the shell or external calcareous covering of an egg
female genital .
the most extensive region of neuropil in the animal ,  consists of a large toroidal bundle of processes .
a bundle of nerve processes that runs along the dorsal mid - line of the animal .
sheath cell of amphid sensillum .
the organ in which the eggs are developed and protected until laid .
body wall muscle in the head ,  including first eight cells of each muscle quadrants which are innervated by nerve ring neurons .
the first  ( count from anterior - most )  of twelve postembryonic blast cells for ventral cord motorneurons ,  ventral hypodermis ,  vulva ,  male preanal ganglion ;  ventral hypodermis in l1 .
precursor cell destined to divide some time after hatching .
monoucleate interfacial cell between the uterus and vulva  ( uv1 - uv3 )  ,  four sets total  ( l / r ,  a / p ) 
gonad of a male animal ,  produces sperm .
essensially a modified rectum ,  junction between the alimentary and genital tracts in the male .
male haploid germ cell .
a cell which gives rise to spermatids by meiosis .
an immature sperm cell which undergoes morphogenesis to form mature ,  amoeboid sperm .
type of 95 cells that make up muscles of the body wall .
neuron type ,  neurons that have ciliated nerve endings .
neuron class of two motoneurons that innervate vulval muscles in the hermaphrodite .
neuron that uses serotonin as a vesicular neurotransmitter .
neuron that uses vesicular acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter .
member of a set of two cells that generate exclusively sperm and ovum .
an organ system consists of the excretory system and associated glands .
somatic cell that situates at the tip of a gonad arm .
part of male gonad that holds mature sperm ,  made of a total of 12 nuclei .
specialized muscle type in male sex organ .
specialized muscle type in the posterior of adult male .
sensillum in the head ,  each with a cep receptor neuron .
sensory organ ,  consists of sensory neurons and supporting cells .
male sensory organ ;  nine bilateral pairs of finger - like rays  ( numbered 1 to 9 ,  left / right )  radiate from the tail and are embedded in a cuticlar fan .
ganglion in the tail region  ( posterior to rectum )  .
an acellular thin cuticle whip formed at the very end of the tail during embryogenesis .
cell that exists in and is part of an embryo .
a cell that is born in a worm after hatching .
cell that has the potential to form structural part of a vulva .
any muscle cell that is not pharyngeal .
somatic  ( not germline )  cell of the hermaphrodite gonad .
cell of the hermaphrodite spermatheca .
small linear ridges running along the lateral lines of the cuticle ,  lengthwise along the body ;  these thickenings lie in register with the seam cells which likely produce them and are present in the cuticle of the l1 ,  dauer and adult stages ,  but not in other larval stages .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
primary cell type that forms the hypodermis .
cell that is mononuclear and has a strong potential to fuse with other cell ( s )  to form a multinucleated cell .
cell that has more than one nucleus .
blast cell lying ventrolaterally in the late embryo and l1 larval stage which divides during the late l1 larva in stereotypical reiterated fashion to give rise to many motor neurons which begin function in the ventral cord and preanal ganglion of the early l2 larva ,  as well as hypodermal cells  ( which fuse into hyp7 )  and a series of programmed cell deaths .
these cells include: b ,  f ,  y ,  u ,  k' and k . all rectal epithelial cells contain secretory membrane stacks along this region facing the lumenal cuticle and produce some portion of the cuticular lining of the rectum .
seminal vesicle cell of male gonad .
cell of male gonad .
seminal vesicle ,  outer ;  cell of the pedigree z1 .paapp or z4 .aaapp .
precursor cell of ,  before fusion to form vulval syncytia vula ( 4 )  ,  vulc ( 4 )  ,  vuld ( 2 )  ,  vule ( 4 )  and vulf ( 4 )  .
portion of the digestive tract between the oral opening and the definitely tri - radiate beginning of the esophagus  ( pharynx )  .
tail lateral ectoblasts that give rise to neurons ,  hypodermis and glial lineages .
hypodermal socket cell of the phasmid sensillum .
anatomical part of the body which is involved in sexual reproduction and constitutes the reproductive system .
antomical structure of the male involved in sexual reproduction .
a sclerotized cuticular structure at the base of the male tail fan which houses the retracted spicules and guides the eversion of the spicules through the anus .
a small lump on the gubernaculum of the male tail .
the extreme anterior portion of the body .
one of two small cells produced ,  each during one of the two meiotic cell divisions ,  which are then discarded in the creation of the haploid germ cell .
neuron that senses and responds to mechanical stimuli ,  such as touch .
cell of the epithelia of uterus .
a cell that is the m blast cell or is a lineal descendant of m .
embryonic cell which descends from the same parent cell as a germline blastomere .
embryonic cell that has the developmental potential to generate a germ cell .
an apparatus for laying eggs of the hermaphrodite reproductive system ,  consists of the uterus ,  the uterine muscles ,  the vulva ,  the vulval muscles ,  and a local neuropil formed by the egg - laying neurons .
a cell that is the c blast cell or is a lineal descendant of c .
a cell that is the d blast cell or is a lineal descendant of d .
a cell that is the p embryonic blast cell or is a lineal descendant of p .
a diploid immature germ cell which forms in the gonad when a spermatogonial stem cell buds off from the rachis to form a single cell that quickly enters metaphase i and divides to form secondary spermatocytes attached to a residual body .
a haploid immature germ cell which forms in the gonad by the division of a diploid primary spermatocyte .
a cell that is ql or qr blast cell or is a lineal descendant of ql or qr .
ventral ganglion neuroblasts present at hatching ,  located near the excretory pore .
a cell that is the b post - embryonic blast cell or is a lineal descendant of b ,  in male .
a cell that is the ab blast cell or is a lineal descendant of ab .
a cell that is the ms blast cell or is a lineal descendant of ms .
a lobe of the gonad .
the nematode life - cycle stage that occurs entirely outside of a host organism .
the whole period of embryogenesis in the nematode caenorhabditis elegans ,  from the formation of an egg until hatching .
the c . elegans life stage spanning 0 - 350min after first cleavage at 20 centigrade .
the c . elegans life stage spanning 0 - 100min after first cleavage at 20 centigrade .
also called zygote . - 50min till 0min of first cleavage at 20 centigrade .
the c . elegans life stage spanning 100 - 290min after first cleavage at 20 centigrade .
the c . elegans life stage spanning 290 - 350min after first cleavage at 20 centigrade .
the c . elegans life stage spanning 210 - 350min after first cleavage at 20 centigrade .
the c . elegans life stage spanning 350 - 620min after first cleavage at 20 centigrade .
the c . elegans life stage spanning 350 - 390min after first cleavage at 20 centigrade .
the c . elegans life stage spanning 390 - 420min after first cleavage at 20 centigrade .
the c . elegans life stage spanning 420 - 460min after first cleavage at 20 centigrade .
the c . elegans life stage spanning 460 - 520min after first cleavage at 20 centigrade .
the c . elegans life stage spanning 520 - 620min after first cleavage at 20 centigrade .
the c . elegans life stage spanning 620 - 800min ( hatch )  after first cleavage at 20 centigrade .
a developemental life stage of the nematode caenorhabditis elegans that occurs from egg hatching until death .
a developmental life stage of the nematode caenorhabditis elegans that occurs from egg hatching until adulthood .
the first stage larva .at 25 centigrade ,  it ranges 14 - 25 .5 hours after fertilization ,  0 - 11 .5 hours after hatch .
the stage when an animal shifts from l1 larva to l2 larva .
the second stage larva .at 25 centigrade ,  it ranges 25 .5 - 32 .5 hours after fertilization ,  11 .5 - 18 .5 hours after hatch .
the stage when an animal shifts from l2 larva to l3 larva .
a third stage larva specialized for dispersal and long term survival .
the third stage larva .at 25 centigrade ,  it ranges 32 .5 - 40 hours after fertilization ,  18 .5 - 26 hours after hatch .
the stage when an animal shifts from l3 larva to l4 larva .
the fourth stage larva .at 25 centigrade ,  it ranges 40 - 49 .5 hours after fertilization ,  26 - 35 .5 hours after hatch .
the stage when an animal shifts from l4 larva to adult .
the stage that begins when a c .elegans individual is fully - developed and has reached maturity .
the stage after an male animal is fully - developed and reaches maturity .
the stage after an hermaphrodite animal is fully - developed and reaches maturity .
a developemental life stage of a worm
any developmental stage in a nematode ,  including embryo ,  larva and adult stage .
the whole period of embryogenesis in a nematode ,  from the formation of an egg until hatching .
the nematode life - stage that begins when the organism is fully - developed and has reached maturity .
the stage that begins after hatching and ends when the nematode becomes adult .
the first stage larva of nematodes .
the second stage larva of nematodes .
the third stage larva of nematodes .
the fourth stage larva of nematodes .
a developmental life stage of the nematode caenorhabditis elegans that occurs in an egg  ( oocyte )  ,  before fertilization by sperm .
a c . elegans life stage that occurs during embryogenesis
a c . elegans life stage that occurs after embryogenesis
a c . elegans life stage that occurs during the elongating embryo life stage
a c . elegans life stage that occurs during the 1 .5 - fold embryo life stage
a c . elegans life stage that occurs during the 2 - fold embryo life stage
a c . elegans life stage that occurs during the 3 - fold embryo life stage
a c . elegans life stage that occurs during the bean embryo life stage
a c . elegans life stage that occurs during the comma embryo life stage
a c . elegans life stage that occurs during the fully - elongating embryo life stage
a c . elegans life stage that occurs during the proliferating embryo life stage
a c . elegans life stage that occurs during the blastula embryo life stage
a c . elegans life stage that occurs during the gastrulating embryo life stage
a c . elegans life stage that occurs during the enclosing embryo life stage
a c . elegans life stage that occurs during the adult life stage
a c . elegans life stage that occurs during the larval life stage
a c . elegans life stage that occurs during the l1 larval life stage
a c . elegans life stage that occurs during the l2 larval life stage
a c . elegans life stage that occurs during the l3 larval life stage
a c . elegans life stage that occurs during the l4 larval life stage
c . elegans life stage classified by the number of cells in the organism .
c . elegans life stage that occurs during a larval molt
a life stage of the nematode caenorhabditis elegans
