the union or introduction of genetic information from compatible mating types that results in a genetically different individual .
a cellular process resulting in the division of the cytoplasm of a cell and its separation into two daughter cells .
elemental activities ,  such as catalysis or binding ,  describing the actions of a gene product at the molecular level .
any molecular function by which a gene product interacts selectively with dna  ( deoxyribonucleic acid )  .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an rna molecule or a portion thereof .
catalysis of movement along a polymeric molecule such as a microfilament or microtubule ,  coupled to the hydrolysis of a nucleoside triphosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: ntp  +  h2o = ndp  +  phosphate to drive the unwinding of a dna or rna helix .
catalysis of the phosphorylation of an amino acid residue in a protein ,  usually according to the reaction: a protein  +  atp = a phosphoprotein  +  adp .
catalysis of the reaction: a phosphoprotein  +  h2o = a protein  +  phosphate .
mediates the transfer of a signal from the outside to the inside of a cell by means other than the introduction of the signal molecule itself into the cell .
the action of a molecule that contributes to the structural integrity of a complex or assembly within or outside a cell .
enables the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein or protein complex  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  .
the part of a cell or its extracellular environment in which a gene product is located .
the space external to the outermost structure of a cell .
the rigid or semi - rigid envelope lying outside the cell membrane of plant ,  fungal ,  and most prokaryotic cells ,  maintaining their shape and protecting them from osmotic lysis .
that fraction of cells ,  prepared by disruptive biochemical methods ,  that includes the plasma and other membranes .
a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
a structure composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins  ( e .g .
a small ,  dense body one or more of which are present in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells .
all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
a semiautonomous ,  self replicating organelle that occurs in varying numbers ,  shapes ,  and sizes in the cytoplasm of virtually all eukaryotic cells .
the double lipid bilayer enclosing the mitochondrion and separating its contents from the cell cytoplasm ;  includes the intermembrane space .
a closed structure ,  found only in eukaryotic cells ,  that is completely surrounded by unit membrane and contains liquid material .
a small ,  membrane - bounded organelle that uses dioxygen  ( o2 )  to oxidize organic molecules ;  contains some enzymes that produce and others that degrade hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  .
the irregular network of unit membranes ,  visible only by electron microscopy ,  that occurs in the cytoplasm of many eukaryotic cells .
a compound membranous cytoplasmic organelle of eukaryotic cells ,  consisting of flattened ,  ribosome - free vesicles arranged in a more or less regular stack .
a cytoplasmic structure that can catalyze gamma - tubulin - dependent microtubule nucleation and that can anchor microtubules by interacting with their minus ends ,  plus ends or sides .
an intracellular organelle ,  about 200 a in diameter ,  consisting of rna and protein .
any of the various filamentous elements that form the internal framework of cells ,  and typically remain after treatment of the cells with mild detergent to remove membrane constituents and soluble components of the cytoplasm .
the membrane surrounding a cell that separates the cell from its external environment .
a protuberance from a cell of an organism that reproduces by budding ,  which will grow larger and become a separate daughter cell after nuclear division ,  cytokinesis ,  and cell wall formation  ( when appropriate )  .
the region of a cell that lies just beneath the plasma membrane and often ,  but not always ,  contains a network of actin filaments and associated proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of precursor metabolites ,  substances from which energy is derived ,  and any process involved in the liberation of energy from these substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna ,  deoxyribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main types of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from one ,  or more commonly ,  two ,  strands of linked deoxyribonucleotides .
the synthesis of either rna on a template of dna or dna on a template of rna .
the cellular metabolic process by which a protein is formed ,  using the sequence of a mature mrna molecule to specify the sequence of amino acids in a polypeptide chain .
the process of assisting in the covalent and noncovalent assembly of single chain polypeptides or multisubunit complexes into the correct tertiary structure .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents ,  and compounds derived from amino acids ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aromatic compounds ,  any organic compound characterized by one or more planar rings ,  each of which contains conjugated double bonds and delocalized pi electrons ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving vitamins .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the nucleus .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion ;  includes mitochondrial morphogenesis and distribution ,  and replication of the mitochondrial genome as well as synthesis of new mitochondrial components .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a peroxisome .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vacuole .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the cell wall ,  the rigid or semi - rigid envelope lying outside the cell membrane of plant ,  fungal and most prokaryotic cells ,  maintaining their shape and protecting them from osmotic lysis .
the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
the process by which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
a form of asexual reproduction ,  occurring in certain bacteria and fungi  ( e .g .
a pattern of cell growth that occurs in conditions of nitrogen limitation and abundant fermentable carbon source .
a cell cycle process comprising the steps by which a cell progresses through the nuclear division phase of a meiotic cell cycle ,  the specialized nuclear and cell division in which a single diploid cell undergoes two nuclear divisions following a single round of dna replication in order to produce four daughter cells that contain half the number of chromosomes as the diploid cell .
the cascade of processes by which a signal interacts with a receptor ,  causing a change in the level or activity of a second messenger or other downstream target ,  and ultimately effecting a change in the functioning of the cell .
any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells ,  tissues ,  organs ,  and organisms .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a lipid .
a collection of membranous structures involved in transport within the cell .
double layer of lipid molecules that encloses all cells ,  and ,  in eukaryotes ,  many organelles ;  may be a single or double lipid bilayer ;  also includes associated proteins .
a membrane - bounded vesicle found in the cytoplasm of the cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a membrane .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vesicle .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
the directed movement of substances into ,  out of or within a cell by a cellular process that begins with the formation of membrane - bounded vesicles in which the transported substances are enclosed or located in the vesicle membrane .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
catalysis of the transfer of a nucleotidyl group to a reactant .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
catalysis of the cleavage of c - c ,  c - o ,  c - n and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
catalysis of the geometric or structural changes within one molecule .
catalysis of the ligation of two substances with concomitant breaking of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium at the level of the cell .
modulates the activity of an enzyme .
any part of a cell where non - isotropic growth takes place .
the process by which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a cellular spore ,  a cell form that can be used for dissemination ,  for survival of adverse conditions because of its heat and dessication resistance ,  and / or for reproduction .
plays a role in regulating transcription ;  may bind a promoter or enhancer dna sequence or interact with a dna - binding transcription factor .
the codon binding activity of a trna that positions an activated amino acid ,  mediating its insertion at the correct point in the sequence of a nascent polypeptide chain during protein synthesis .
any process involved in mediating the movement of discrete segments of dna between nonhomologous sites .
the process by which cellular structures ,  including whole cells or cell parts ,  are generated and organized .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process of the formation of the constituents of the ribosome subunits ,  their assembly ,  and their transport to the sites of protein synthesis .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any substance involved in the initiation ,  activation ,  perpetuation ,  repression or termination of polypeptide synthesis at the ribosome .
the enzymatic release of energy from organic compounds  ( especially carbohydrates and fats )  which either requires oxygen  ( aerobic respiration )  or does not  ( anaerobic respiration )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a cofactor ,  a substance that is required for the activity of an enzyme or other protein .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of chromosomes ,  structures composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins that carries hereditary information .
the cellular process by which a protein complex is synthesized ,  aggregates ,  and bonds together .
an organelle envelope that surrounds the chromosomes and the central part of the spindle apparatus during mitosis and meiosis ;  observed in many invertebrates .
