an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
a continuant that is a bearer of quality and realizable entity entities ,  in which other entities inhere and which itself cannot inhere in anything .
an occurrent that has temporal proper parts and for some time t ,  p s - depends_on some material entity at t .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
a continuant that inheres in or is borne by other entities .
a role is particular behaviour which a material entity may exhibit .
a continuant that is dependent on one or other independent continuant bearers .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
a naphthol carrying a hydroxy group at position 2 .
elementary particle not affected by the strong force having a spin 1 / 2 ,  a negative elementary charge and a rest mass of 0 .000548579903 ( 13 )  u ,  or 0 .51099906 ( 15 )  mev .
a class of carbonyl compound encompassing dicarboxylic acids and any derivatives obtained by substitution of either one or both of the carboxy hydrogens .
any member of the class of benzoquinones that is 1 , 4 - benzoquinone or its c - substituted derivatives .
any organic compound having an initial boiling point less than or equal to 250 degreec  ( 482 degreef )  measured at a standard atmospheric pressure of 101 .3 kpa .
an alkanesulfonate in which the carbon at position 1 is attached to r ,  which can represent hydrogens ,  a carbon chain ,  or other groups .
a diol in which the two hydroxy groups are on different carbon atoms ,  usually but not necessarily adjacent .
a compound that ,  on administration ,  undergoes conversion by biochemical  ( enzymatic )  ,  chemical  ( possibly following an enzymatic step )  ,  or physical  ( e .g .
an atom of an element that exhibits properties that are between those of metals and nonmetals ,  or that has a mixture of them .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the amino group of any tertiary amino compound .
any compound that can disrupt the functions of the endocrine  ( hormone )  system
a bronsted acid derived from one or more inorganic compounds .
any main group molecular entity that is gaseous at standard temperature and pressure  ( stp ;  0degreec and 100 kpa )  .
a chemical compound that causes a substantial proportion of exposed people or animals to develop an allergic reaction in normal tissue after repeated exposure to the compound .
any methoxyflavanone having a methoxy substituent located at position 4' .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of glutamic acid ,  having anionic carboxy groups and a cationic amino group
any agent that induces nausea and vomiting .
a purine nucleobase found in humans and other organisms .
a molecular entity that can accept an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group from another molecular entity .
a sulfur - containing amino acid that is propanoic acid with an amino group at position 2 and a sulfanyl group at position 3 .
a large group of antibiotics isolated from various species of streptomyces and characterised by having a substituted phenoxazine ring linked to two cyclic heterodetic peptides .
any alpha - amino acid having l - configuration at the alpha - carbon .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of formic acid .
any n - acyl - amino acid in which the amino acid moiety has d configuration .
an optically active form of glutamic acid having d - configuration .
a nucleobase - containing molecular entity with a polymeric structure comprised of a linear sequence of 13 or more nucleotide residues .
an optically active form of glutamic acid having l - configuration .
a monoatomic monoanion resulting from the addition of an electron to any halogen atom .
an azane that consists of a single nitrogen atom covelently bonded to three hydrogen atoms .
a sulfur oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of both oh groups of sulfuric acid .
a carbonyl group with two c - bound amine groups .
a 2 - aminopurine carrying a 6 - oxo substituent .
compounds having the structure rsr  ( r = / = h )  .
an aromatic hydrocarbon comprising two fused benzene rings .
the simplest member of the class of 1 , 4 - benzoquinones ,  obtained by the formal oxidation of hydroquinone to the corresponding diketone .
any member of the class of organooxygen compounds that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone or a lactol resulting from their intramolecular condensation  ( monosaccharides )  ;  substances derived from these by reduction of the carbonyl group  ( alditols )  ,  by oxidation of one or more hydroxy groups to afford the corresponding aldehydes ,  ketones ,  or carboxylic acids ,  or by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by a hydrogen atom ;  and polymeric products arising by intermolecular acetal formation between two or more such molecules  ( disaccharides ,  polysaccharides and oligosaccharides )  .
amide derived from two or more amino carboxylic acid molecules  ( the same or different )  by formation of a covalent bond from the carbonyl carbon of one to the nitrogen atom of another with formal loss of water .
a six - carbon aromatic annulene in which each carbon atom donates one of its two 2p electrons into a delocalised pi system .
any oligosaccharide ,  polysaccharide or their derivatives consisting of monosaccharides or monosaccharide derivatives linked by glycosidic bonds .
an aldehyde resulting from the formal oxidation of methanol .
high molecular weight ,  linear polymers ,  composed of nucleotides containing deoxyribose and linked by phosphodiester bonds ;  dna contain the genetic information of organisms .
the d - enantiomer of phenylalanine .
a compound in which a carbonyl group is bonded to two carbon atoms: r2c=o  ( neither r may be h )  .
a compound in which one or more of the oh groups of phosphoric acid have been replaced with an amino or substituted amino group .
the 7h - tautomer of purine .
the l - enantiomer of phenylalanine .
a sulfur oxoanion that is the conjugate base of hydrogen sulfite  ( h2so3 )  .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid containing five carbon atoms .
a compound rc ( =o ) h ,  in which a carbonyl group is bonded to one hydrogen atom and to one r group .
the carbon oxoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from carbonic acid .
a common and naturally occurring pyrimidine nucleobase in which the pyrimidine ring is substituted with two oxo groups at positions 2 and 4 .
the simplest member of the class toluenes consisting of a benzene core which bears a single methyl substituent .
a straight chain alkane composed of 8 carbon atoms .
a benzenediol comprising benzene core carrying two hydroxy substituents para to each other .
a compound containing at least one carbon - halogen bond  ( where x is a halogen atom )  .
a mononuclear parent hydride consisting of covalently bonded hydrogen and chlorine atoms .
a molecular entity that can transfer  ( "donate" )  an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group to another molecular entity .
a carbamate ester obtained by the formal condensation of ethanol with carbamic acid .
a halide anion formed when chlorine picks up an electron to form an an anion .
'lipids' is a loosely defined term for substances of biological origin that are soluble in nonpolar solvents .
an alpha - amino acid that is glutaric acid bearing a single amino substituent at position 2 .
any nucleoside where the sugar component is d - ribose .
that part of dna or rna that may be involved in pairing .
an acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon having the general formula cnh2n + 2 ,  and therefore consisting entirely of hydrogen atoms and saturated carbon atoms .
a phosphate ion that is the conjugate base of hydrogenphosphate .
a haloalkane that is bromoethane substituted by chlorine at position 2 .
a member of the class of 1 , 4 - benzoquinones that is p - benzoquinone in which the hydrogens at positions 2 and 5 are replaced by aziridin - 1 - yl groups .
a pyrimidine having keto groups at the 2 -  and 4 - positions and a bromo group at the 5 - position .
a uridine having a bromo substituent at the 5 - position .
any aminopurine having the amino substituent at the 2 - position .
a member of the class of tetraphenes that is tetraphene in which the hydrogens at positions 7 and 12 are replaced by bromomethyl and methyl groups ,  respectively .
any n - acylamino acid having l - configuration .
a glycosyl compound arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and an h atom bound to a nitrogen atom ,  thus creating a c - n bond .
an n - nitroguanidine compound having nitroso and methyl substituents at the n' - position .
an organosulfur compound having the structure r2s=o or r2c=s=o  ( r = / = h )  .
compounds with the general formula rnhc ( =o ) ch3 .
an organic group formed by removing one or more hydroxy groups from an oxoacid that has the general structure rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  .
any of the naturally occurring ,  basic nitrogen compounds  ( mostly heterocyclic )  occurring mostly in the plant kingdom ,  but also found in bacteria ,  fungi ,  and animals .
a univalent group  - cnh2n + 1 derived from an alkane by removal of a hydrogen atom from any carbon atom .
any chemical  ( fbcv:0000525 )  that has role some alkylating agent  ( chebi:22333 )  .
any purine having at least one amino substituent .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the electron .
a substance that opposes oxidation or inhibits reactions brought about by dioxygen or peroxides .
a molecular entity having an available pair of electrons capable of forming a covalent bond with a hydron  ( bronsted base )  or with the vacant orbital of some other molecular entity  ( lewis base )  .
any benzenoid aromatic compound consisting of the benzene skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a monocarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any benzoic acid .
any quinone resulting from the formal oxidation of catechol ,  hydroquinone ,  or their c - substituted derivatives .
any inorganic anion that is formally derived from boric acid .
a compound derived from a hydrocarbon by replacing a hydrogen atom with a bromine atom .
any haloalkane that consists of an alkane substituted by at least one bromine atom .
a diol that is a butanediol or a derivative of a butanediol .
any ester of carbamic acid or its n - substituted derivatives .
the univalent carboacyl group formed by loss of  - oh from the carboxy group of carbamic acid .
a substance intended to sterilize any organism .
a halogen molecular entity containing one or more atoms of chlorine .
any haloalkane that consists of an alkane substituted by at least one chloro group .
an organic molecule or ion  ( usually a metal ion )  that is required by an enzyme for its activity .
an  alkaloid that is a carbotricyclic compound comprising 5 , 6 , 7 , 9 - tetrahydrobenzo [ a ] heptalene having four methoxy substituents at the 1 -  ,  2 -  ,  3 -  and 10 - positions as well as an oxo group at the 9 - position and an acetamido group at the 7 - position .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
a metal sulfate compound having copper ( 2 +  )  as the metal ion .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of cysteine at the amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or thiol group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of cysteine by a heteroatom .
a compound that contains two hydroxy groups ,  generally assumed to be ,  but not necessarily ,  alcoholic .
any substance which when absorbed into a living organism may modify one or more of its functions .
any chemical  ( fbcv:0000525 )  that has role some enzyme inhibitor  ( chebi:23924 )  .
a methanesulfonate ester resulting from the formal condensation of methanesulfonic acid with ethanol .
a member of the class of n - nitrosoureas that is urea in which one of the nitrogens is substituted by ethyl and nitroso groups .
an aliphatic sulfide in which the sulfur atom is bonded to at least one ethyl group .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of glutamic acid at the amino group or either of the carboxy groups ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is l - glutamic acid or any of the essential amino acids biosynthesised from it  ( glutamine ,  proline and arginine )  .
an ec 6 .3 .*  ( c - n bond - forming ligase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of glutamate -  - ammonia ligase  ( ec 6 .3 .1 .2 )  .
a glycosyl compound resulting from the attachment of a glycosyl group to a non - acyl group ro -  ,  rs -  ,  rse -  ,  etc .
a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biological context .
a defined linked collection of atoms or a single atom within a molecular entity .
any organonitrogen compound containing a carbamimidamido  ( guanidino )  group .
a halohydrocarbon that is an alkane in which at least one hydrogen atom has been replaced by with a halogen atom .
a compound derived from a hydrocarbon by replacing a hydrogen atom with a halogen atom .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of carbon and at least of one other element .
a methanesulfonate salt resulting from the reaction of equimolar amounts of hycanthone and methanesulfonic acid .
a compound consisting of carbon and hydrogen only .
benzenediols that have the hydroxy substituents in the 1 -  and 4 - positions .
hydroxides are chemical compounds containing a hydroxy group or salts containing hydroxide  ( oh (  -  )  )  .
a member of the class of flavanones that consists of flavanone with one or more hydroxy substituents .
any member of the class of  naphthalenes that is naphthalene carrying one or more hydroxy groups .
a compound which contains oxygen ,  at least one other element ,  and at least one hydrogen bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
a molecular entity that contains no carbon .
strictly ,  a substance intended to kill members of the class insecta .
a role played by a chemical agent which exhibits the capability of occupying space between dna base pairs due to particular properties in size ,  shape and charge .
chemical element with atomic number 53 .
a salt is an assembly of cations and anions .
a molecular entity having a net electric charge .
any alkaloid that has a structure based on an isoquinoline nucleus .
any intermediate or product resulting from metabolism .
an organosulfonic ester resulting from the formal condensation of methanesulfonic acid with the hydroxy group of an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol .
a 1 , 1 - diunsubstituted alkanesulfonate that is the conjugate base of methanesulfonic acid .
a member of the class of flavanones that consists of flavanone with one or more methoxy substituents .
a methanesulfonate ester resulting from the formal condensation of methanesulfonic acid with methanol .
a family of aziridine - containing natural products isolated from streptomyces caespitosus or streptomyces lavendulae .
any polyatomic entity that is an electrically neutral entity consisting of more than one atom .
an oxoacid containing a single carboxy group .
any hydroxynaphthalene derivative that has a single hydroxy substituent .
an ethyl sulfide that is diethyl sulfide in which a hydrogen from each of the terminal methyl groups is replaced by a chlorine .
an agent that increases the frequency of mutations above the normal background level ,  usually by interacting directly with dna and causing it damage ,  including base substitution .
any benzenoid aromatic compound having a skeleton composed of two ortho - fused benzene rings .
a substance used to destroy pests of the phylum nematoda  ( roundworms )  .
an endogenous compound that is used to transmit information across the synapse between a neuron and another cell .
any organic ion with a net negative charge .
any organic ion with a net positive charge .
an organooxygen compound with formula ror ,  where r is not hydrogen .
compounds of the general formula so3hor where r is an organyl group
an oxide is a chemical compound of oxygen with other chemical elements .
a quinone in which the two oxo groups of the quinone are located para to each other on the 6 - membered quinonoid ring .
a chemically diverse class of peptides that exhibit antimicrobial properties .
strictly ,  a substance intended to kill pests .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of alanine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of phenylalanine  by a heteroatom .
any organic aromatic compound with a structure based on a phenylpropane skeleton .
a phosphorus oxoacid that consists of one oxo and three hydroxy groups joined covalently to a central phosphorus atom .
any amino acid whose side chain is capable of forming one or more hydrogen bonds .
a compound that contains two or more hydroxy groups .
derivatives of oxoacids rne ( =o ) oh in which the hydroxy group is replaced by an amino group and the oxo group is replaced by =nr .
a nucleobase whose skeleton is derived from purine .
a class of imidazopyrimidines that consists of purine and its substituted derivatives .
a nucleobase whose skeleton is derived from pyrimidine .
a class of aromatic heterocyclic compounds each of which contains a benzene ring ortho fused to carbons 2 and 3 of a pyridine ring .
any compound with a 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine skeleton ,  in which nitrogen atoms replace carbon at positions 1 ,  3 and 5 of the core benzene ring structure .
any fatty acid containing no carbon to carbon multiple bonds .
an aliphatic monocarboxylic acid with a chain length of less than c6 .
an inorganic sodium salt having hydrogensulfite as the counterion .
any alkali metal salt having sodium ( 1 +  )  as the cation .
an ester of an alcohol and sulfuric acid .
salts and esters of sulfuric acid
any sulfur molecular entity that involves either covalently bonded or anionic sulfur .
any sulfurous acid derivative that is a salt or an ester of sulfurous acid .
a sulfur oxoacid that consists of two oxo and two hydroxy groups joined covalently to a central sulfur atom .
any oxacycle having an oxolane  ( tetrahydrofuran )  skeleton .
an organic tricyclic compound in which at least one of the rings of the tricyclic skeleton contains one or more heteroatoms .
any member of the class of benzenes that is a substituted benzene in which the substituents include one  ( and only one )  methyl group .
any nutrient required in small quantities by organisms throughout their life in order to orchestrate a range of physiological functions .
an element whose atom has an incomplete d sub - shell ,  or which can give rise to cations with an incomplete d sub - shell .
a member of the class of 1 , 4 - benzoquinones that is 1 , 4 - benzoquinone in which three of the ring hydrogens are replaced by aziridin - 1 - yl groups .
a univalent carboacyl group is a group formed by loss of oh from the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid .
any plant metabolite that is found naturally as a component of a volatile oil .
a neutral compound having formal unit electrical charges of opposite sign on non - adjacent atoms .
an alkanesulfonic acid in which the alkyl group directly linked to the sulfo functionality is methyl .
an n - acyl - amino acid that is a form of the water - soluble vitamin b9 .
a  saturated organic heteromonocyclic parent that is a three - membered heterocycle of two carbon atoms and one oxygen atom .
a trimethylxanthine in which the three methyl groups are located at positions 1 ,  3 ,  and 7 .
a member of the class of chloroethanes substituted by two chloro groups at positions 1 and 2 .
a diamminedichloroplatinum compound in which the two ammine ligands and two chloro ligands are oriented in a cis planar configuration around the central platinum ion .
an aromatic amino acid that is alanine in which one of the methyl hydrogens is substituted by a phenyl group .
a trihydroxyflavanone having the three hydroxy gropus located at the 3' -  ,  5 -  and 7 - positions and an additional methoxy substituent at the 4' - position .
a 2 - carbon sulfoxide in which the sulfur atom has two methyl substituents .
a bromoalkane that is ethane carrying bromo substituents at positions 1 and 2 .
a one - carbon compound that is ammonia in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by a carboxy group .
a metal fluoride salt with a na (  +  )  counterion .
a disaccharide derivative that consists of hesperetin substituted by a 6 - o -  ( alpha - l - rhamnopyranosyl )  - beta - d - glucopyranosyl moiety at position 7 via a glycosidic linkage .
a monocarboxylic acid that is butanoic acid substituted at position 4 by a 4 -  [ bis ( 2 - chloroethyl ) amino ] phenyl group .
members of the class of flavans with a 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 - aryl - 2h - 1 - benzopyran - 4 - one skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
the conjugate base of a fatty acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group of the corresponding fatty acid .
a phenylalanine derivative comprising l - phenylalanine having  [ bis ( 2 - chloroethyl ) amino group at the 4 - position on the phenyl ring .
a methanesulfonate ester that is butane - 1 , 4 - diol in which the hydrogens of the hydroxy groups are replaced by methanesulfonyl groups .
an onium cation obtained by protonation of ammonia .
a carboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of any dicarboxylic acid .
an ion of copper carrying a double positive charge .
the conjugate base formed when the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid is deprotonated .
a monoatomic monocation obtained from sodium .
a diatomic molecule containing covalently bonded hydrogen and fluorine atoms .
a divalent inorganic anion resulting from the removal of two protons from ammonia .
a carboxamide derived from a monocarboxylic acid .
an ortho -  and peri - fused polycyclic arene consisting of five fused benzene rings .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of l - glutamic acid ,  having anionic carboxy groups and a cationic amino group
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of d - glutamic acid ,  having anionic carboxy groups and a cationic amino group
a dicarboxylic acid dianion that is the conjugate base of glutamate ( 1 -  )  .
an l - alpha - amino acid anion that is the dianion obtained by the deprotonation of the both the carboxy groups of l - glutamic acid .
the simplest carboxylic acid ,  containing a single carbon .
a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom .
a short - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of valeric acid ;  present in ester form as component of many steroid - based pharmaceuticals .
a sulfur - containing amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of cysteine ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an optically active form of phenylalaninate having l - configuration .
an optically active form of phenylalaninium having l - configuration .
the d - enantiomer of phenylalaninate .
an optically active form of phenylalaninium having d - configuration .
an aromatic amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of phenylalanine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of phenylalanine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
any cyclic ether in which the oxygen atom forms part of a 3 - membered ring .
an amide is a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
a biochemical role played by any micronutrient that is an organic compound .
intended use of the molecular entity or part thereof by humans .
a particle not known to have substructure .
a monoatomic entity is a molecular entity consisting of a single atom .
an assembly consisting of a central atom  ( usually metallic )  to which is attached a surrounding array of other groups of atoms  ( ligands )  .
an organic fundamental parent is a structure used as a basis for substitutive names in organic nomenclature ,  containing ,  in addition to one or more hydrogen atoms ,  a single atom of an element ,  a number of atoms  ( alike or different )  linked together to form an unbranched chain ,  a monocyclic or polycyclic ring system ,  or a ring assembly or ring / chain system .
any substituent group which does not contain carbon .
any substituent group or skeleton containing carbon .
a univalent group formed by removing a hydrogen atom from a hydrocarbon .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having one free valence at a carbon atom .
a chemical entity constituting the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element .
a nucleus is the positively charged central portion of an atom ,  excluding the orbital electrons .
heavy nuclear particle: proton or neutron .
a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
a molecular entity all atoms of which have the same atomic number .
an organosulfur compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - sulfur bond .
an anion consisting of more than one atom .
a substance that kills or slows the growth of microorganisms ,  including bacteria ,  viruses ,  fungi and protozoans .
a substance  ( or active part thereof )  that kills or slows the growth of bacteria .
a nutrient is a food component that an organism uses to survive and grow .
a heteroorganic entity is an organic molecular entity in which carbon atoms or organic groups are bonded directly to one or more heteroatoms .
an agrochemical is a substance that is used in agriculture or horticulture .
a fertilizer is any substance that is added to soil or water to assist the growth of plants .
a substance administered to aid diagnosis of a disease .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an alkali metal .
any p - block element atom that is in group 15 of the periodic table: nitrogen ,  phosphorus ,  arsenic ,  antimony and bismuth .
a p - block molecular entity containing any pnictogen .
any p - block element belonging to the group 16 family of the periodic table .
any p - block molecular entity containing a chalcogen .
an ester of a carboxylic acid ,  r ( 1 ) c ( =o ) or ( 2 )  ,  where r ( 1 )  = h or organyl and r ( 2 )  = organyl .
an atom belonging to one of the main groups  ( found in the s -  and p -  blocks )  of the periodic table .
a group derived from an arene by removal of a hydrogen atom from a ring carbon atom .
a hydracid is a compound which contains hydrogen that is not bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
arylmethyl groups and derivatives formed by substitution: arcr2 -  .
a pnictogen oxoacid which contains phosphorus and oxygen ,  at least one hydrogen atom bound to oxygen ,  and forms an ion by the loss of one or more protons .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a transition element .
an atom of an element that exhibits typical metallic properties ,  being typically shiny ,  with high electrical and thermal conductivity .
the sulfur oxoanion formed by deprotonation of sulfonic acid .
an organic derivative of sulfonic acid in which the sulfo group is linked directly to carbon .
an organic anion obtained by deprotonation of the sufonate group ( s )  of any organosulfonic acid .
organic derivatives of sulfonic acid in which the sulfo group is linked directly to carbon of an aryl group .
an amino - acid anion obtained by deprotonation of any alpha - amino acid .
any main group element atom belonging to the p - block of the periodic table .
a carbon oxoacid acid carrying at least one  - c ( =o ) oh group and having the structure rc ( =o ) oh ,  where r is any any monovalent functional group .
any carboxylic acid having a sulfur substituent .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms from any of groups 1 ,  2 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  and 18 of the periodic table .
any molecule that consists of a series of atoms joined together to form a ring .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of the same element only .
a homocyclic compound in which all of the ring members are carbon atoms .
a molecule that features two fused rings .
a polycyclic compound in which two rings have two ,  and only two ,  atoms in common .
a polycyclic compound in which one ring contains two ,  and only two ,  atoms in common with each of two or more rings of a contiguous series of rings .
any acyclic or cyclic ,  saturated or unsaturated carbon compound ,  excluding aromatic compounds .
a cyclically conjugated molecular entity with a stability  ( due to delocalization )  significantly greater than that of a hypothetical localized structure  ( e .g .
any monocyclic or polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
a mancude monocyclic hydrocarbon without side chains of the general formula cnhn  ( n is an even number )  or cnhn + 1  ( n is an odd number )  .
a polycyclic compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one non - carbon atom .
a bicyclic compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one skeletal heteroatom .
an s - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an s - block element .
a main group molecular entity that contains one or more atoms of a p - block element .
a d - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a d - block element .
hydrides are chemical compounds of hydrogen with other chemical elements .
a macromolecule formed by a living organism .
a macromolecule made up of nucleotide units and hydrolysable into certain pyrimidine or purine bases  ( usually adenine ,  cytosine ,  guanine ,  thymine ,  uracil )  ,  d - ribose or 2 - deoxy - d - ribose and phosphoric acid .
a cation consisting of more than one atom .
an amino acid in which the amino group is located on the carbon atom at the position alpha to the carboxy group .
when two or more amino acids combine to form a peptide ,  the elements of water are removed ,  and what remains of each amino acid is called an amino - acid residue .
a carboxylic acid containing one or more amino groups .
an organic compound having at least one hydroxy group attached to a carbon atom .
any organic molecule that consists of atoms connected in the form of a ring .
a heterocyclic compound formally derived from an arene by replacement of one or more methine  (  - c= )  and / or vinylene  (  - ch=ch -  )  groups by trivalent or divalent heteroatoms ,  respectively ,  in such a way as to maintain the continuous pi - electron system characteristic of aromatic systems and a number of out - of - plane pi - electrons corresponding to the hueckel rule  ( 4n + 2 )  .
an n - glycosyl compound that has both a nucleobase ,  normally adenine ,  guanine ,  xanthine ,  thymine ,  cytosine or uracil ,  and either a ribose or deoxyribose as functional parents .
a macromolecule is a molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
a monocyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
organic aromatic compounds having one or more hydroxy groups attached to a benzene or other arene ring .
an amino acid whose structure includes an aromatic ring .
an amino compound in which the amino group is linked directly to an aromatic system .
a project that describes a large material resource that is accessible to the community .
any nutrient required in large quantities by organisms throughout their life in order to orchestrate a range of physiological functions .
a nitrosamine that is n - ethylethanamine substituted by a nitroso group at the n - atom .
saturated acyclic nitrogen hydrides having the general formula nnhn + 2 .
a substance which is structurally similar to a metabolite but which competes with it or replaces it ,  and so prevents or reduces its normal utilization .
a substance that diminishes the rate of a chemical reaction .
a substance that increases the rate of a reaction without modifying the overall standard gibbs energy change in the reaction .
the zwitterionic form of an amino acid having a negatively charged carboxyl group and a positively charged amino group .
a derivative of ammonium ,  nh4 (  +  )  ,  in which one  ( or more )  of the hydrogens bonded to the nitrogen have been replaced with univalent organyl groups .
cations of structure r2c=n (  +  ) r2 .
a polyclic compound in which all of the ring members are carbon atoms .
any drug that enhances the activity of the central nervous system .
any heteroorganic entity containing at least one carbon - nitrogen bond .
compounds having the structure rc ( =nr ) nr2 .
any aliphatic monocarboxylic acid derived from or contained in esterified form in an animal or vegetable fat ,  oil or wax .
an oxoanion is an anion derived from an oxoacid by loss of hydron ( s )  bound to oxygen .
a substance used in the prophylaxis or therapy of infectious diseases .
a substance used to treat or prevent parasitic infections .
substance intended to kill parasitic worms  ( helminths )  .
a substance used in the treatment or control of nematode infestations .
a class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms involving the central nervous system .
a loosely defined grouping of drugs that have effects on psychological function .
an agent capable of relieving pain without the loss of consciousness or without producing anaesthesia .
a drug that has principally analgesic ,  antipyretic and anti - inflammatory actions .
an agent that promotes the excretion of urine through its effects on kidney function .
an addition compound contains two or more simpler compounds that can be packed in a definite ratio into a crystal .
any molecular entity that consists of a ring having  ( formally )  the maximum number of noncumulative double bonds .
a heterobicyclic aromatic organic compound comprising a pyrimidine ring fused to an imidazole ring ;  the parent compound of the purines .
the 1h - tautomer of purine .
the 3h - tautomer of purine .
the 9h - tautomer of purine .
a negative ion consisting solely of carbon and oxygen  atoms ,  and therefore having the general formula cxoy ( n -  )  for some integers x ,  y and n .
a substance that inhibits or prevents the proliferation of neoplasms .
any ether in which the oxygen is attached to at least one aryl substituent .
a member of the class of naphthols carrying a single hydroxy substituent at c - 1 or c - 2 .
an agent used to treat cestode ,  trematode ,  or other flatworm infestations in man or animals .
any carboxylic acid containing two carboxy groups .
a compound formally derived from an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l  >  0 )  and an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol by linking with formal loss of water from an acidic hydroxy group of the former and a hydroxy group of the latter .
an ether in which the oxygen atom is linked to two ethyl groups .
a xenobiotic  ( greek ,  xenos "foreign" ;  bios "life" )  is a compound that is foreign to a living organism .
an agent that suppresses immune function by one of several mechanisms of action .
a compound having a nitro group ,   - no2  ( free valence on nitrogen )  ,  which may be attached to carbon ,  nitrogen  ( as in nitramines )  ,  or oxygen  ( as in nitrates )  ,  among other elements  ( in the absence of specification ,  c - nitro compounds are usually implied )  .
a carboxylic acid anion formed when the carboxy group of a monocarboxylic acid is deprotonated .
a phosphorus oxoanion that is the conjugate base of phosphoric acid .
compounds having the nitroso group ,   - no ,  attached to carbon ,  or to another element ,  most commonly nitrogen or oxygen .
n - nitroso amines ,  compounds of the structure r2nno .
any antimicrobial drug which is used to treat or prevent protozoal infections .
a substance used for its pharmacological action on any aspect of neurotransmitter systems .
a chloroalkane that is ethane in which one or more of the  hydrogens is replaced by chlorine .
a drug used to treat or prevent microbial infections .
compounds having a fully conjugated cyclic dione structure ,  such as that of benzoquinones ,  derived from aromatic compounds by conversion of an even number of  - ch= groups into  - c ( =o )  -  groups with any necessary rearrangement of double bonds  ( polycyclic and heterocyclic analogues are included )  .
a compound in which two monosaccharides are joined by a glycosidic bond .
lepton is a fermion that does not experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
baryon is a fermion that does experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
particle of half - integer spin quantum number following fermi - dirac statistics .
a particle smaller than an atom .
a subatomic particle known to have substructure  ( i .e .
hadron is a subatomic particle which experiences the strong force .
a nucleus or any of its constituents in any of their energy states .
any molecular entity consisting of more than one atom .
an ion consisting of more than one atom .
a polycyclic heteroarene that is anthracene in which one of the central ch groups is replaced by a nitrogen atom .
any compound containing the carbonyl group ,  c=o .
organic compounds containing an oxygen atom ,  =o ,  doubly bonded to carbon or another element .
an organochlorine compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chlorine bond .
a bicyclic compound in which all the ring atoms are carbon .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the proton .
an organochalcogen compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chalcogen bond .
an organochalcogen compound containing at least one carbon - oxygen bond .
a compound containing at least one carbon - bromine bond .
an organofluorine compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - fluorine bond .
a substance administered to enhance contrast in images of the inside of the body obtained using x - rays ,  gamma - rays ,  sound waves ,  radio waves  ( mri )  ,  or radioactive particles in order to diagnose disease .
any ether in which the oxygen atom forms part of a ring .
a group of heterocyclic compounds based on the pteroic acid skeleton conjugated with one or more l - glutamic acid units .
an acid is a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron  ( bronsted acid )  or capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron pair  ( lewis acid )  .
a molecular entity consisting of two or more chemical elements .
any heteroatomic molecular entity that is a chemical compound of halogen with other chemical elements .
compounds having two beta - haloalkyl groups bound to a nitrogen atom ,  as in  ( x - ch2 - ch2 ) 2nr .
an amide of a carboxylic acid ,  having the structure rc ( =o ) nr2 .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of protein kinases .
a straight chain alkane composed of 4 carbon atoms .
a carboacyl group is a group formed by loss of at least one oh from the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid .
a carbopolyclic compound comprising of three carbocyclic rings .
a drug used in the treatment of malaria .
any organonitrogen compound containing a cyclic component with nitrogen and at least one other element as ring member atoms .
compounds based on a triazine skeleton .
any organic heterocyclic compound containing at least one ring oxygen atom .
any organic heterocyclic compound containing a benzene ring in which two of the c - h fragments have been replaced by isolobal nitrogens  ( the diazine parent structure )  .
any drug used for its actions on cholinergic systems .
a pyrimidine carrying one or more oxo substituents .
a specific group of isoquinoline alkaloids that occur only in higher plants and are constituents mainly of the papaveraceae family .
any agent that affects the transport of molecular entities across a biological membrane .
any flavonoid with a 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 - aryl - 2h - 1 - benzopyran skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
any dianion containing at least one carboxy group .
any methoxyflavanone that is flavanone substituted by a methoxy group .
a hydroxyflavanone carrying three hydroxy substituents .
any  hydroxyflavanone carrying two hydroxy substituents .
a compound having the nitro group  (  - no2 )  attached to a nitrogen atom .
a membrane transport modulator that is able to regulate intracellular calcium levels .
substance which produces loss of feeling or sensation .
substance that produces loss of consciousness .
drugs that used to treat infestations by flukes  ( trematodes )  of the genus schistosoma .
any alkylbenzene that is benzene substituted with one or more methyl groups .
a  monocyclic arene that is benzene substituted with one or more alkyl groups .
any sulfur oxoacid derivative derived from sulfurous acid .
a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron to an acceptor  ( bronsted base )  .
a molecular entity capable of accepting a hydron from a donor  ( bronsted acid )  .
a molecular entity able to provide a pair of electrons and thus capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron - pair acceptor  ( lewis acid )  ,  thereby producing a lewis adduct .
an n - nitro compound that is guanidine in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by a nitro group .
any  organonitrogen heterocyclic compound based on a phenazine skeleton and derivatives .
a volatile or volatilizable chemical compound utilized for control of pests in buildings ,  soil ,  grain ,  as well as during processing of goods to be imported or exported to prevent transfer of exotic organisms .
any saturated fatty acid lacking a side - chain .
any compound having a pyrimidine as part of its structure .
a monovalent inorganic anion that consists of phosphoric acid in which one of the three oh groups has been deprotonated .
a butanediol that is butane in which one hydrogen of each of the methyl groups is substituted by a hydroxy group .
an alkane comprising of two carbon atoms .
an aminocarboxamidine ,  the parent compound of the guanidines .
a phosphate ion that is the conjugate base of dihydrogenphosphate .
a liquid that can dissolve other substances  ( solutes )  without any change in their chemical composition .
any ether carrying a hydroxy group at unspecified position .
a hydroxyether that is ethanol substituted by a methoxy group at position 2 .
a chemical compound that can be excited by light of a specific wavelength and subsequently transfer energy to a chosen reactant .
organic derivatives of sulfonic acid in which the sulfo group is linked directly to carbon of an alkyl group .
any member of the 'superclass' flavonoids whose skeleton is based on 1 - benzopyran with an aryl substituent at position 2 .
any hydroxyflavanone with a hydroxy substituent at position 3' of the phenyl ring .
an antimicrobial agent that is applied to non - living objects to destroy harmful microorganisms or to inhibit their activity .
a solvent that is composed of polar molecules .
a polar solvent that is capable of acting as a hydron  ( proton )  donor .
a solvent with a comparatively high relative permittivity  ( or dielectric constant )  ,  greater than ca .
compounds derived from oxoacids rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  by replacing =o by =nr ;  thus tautomers of amides .
a carboximidic acid that is the imidic acid tautomer of urea ,  h2nc ( =nh ) oh ,  and its hydrocarbyl derivatives .
esters or salts of methanesulfonic acid .
a role played by a substance that can react readily with ,  and thereby eliminate ,  radicals .
substance that attaches to and blocks cell receptors that normally bind naturally occurring substances .
any drug that binds to but does not activate cholinergic receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of acetylcholine or cholinergic agonists .
any l - alpha - amino acid carrying an n - acyl substituent .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
a member of the class of n - nitrosoureas that is urea in which one of the nitrogens is substituted by methyl and nitroso groups .
an ec 3 .1 .*  ( ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a phosphoric diester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .4 .
any protective agent counteracting or neutralizing the action of poisons .
a compound that ,  on administration ,  must undergo chemical conversion by metabolic processes before becoming the pharmacologically active drug for which it is a prodrug .
synthetic or natural substance which is given to prevent a disease or disorder or are used in the process of treating a disease or injury due to a poisonous agent .
a topoisomerase inhibitor that inhibits the bacterial enzymes of the dna topoisomerases ,  type i class  ( ec 5 .99 .1 .2 )  that catalyze atp - independent breakage of one of the two strands of dna ,  passage of the unbroken strand through the break ,  and rejoining of the broken strand .
mononuclear cations derived by addition of a hydron to a mononuclear parent hydride of the pnictogen ,  chalcogen and halogen families .
a univalent organyl group obtained by cleaving the bond from c - 2 to the side chain of a proteinogenic amino - acid .
an ec 1 .5 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - nh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of dihydrofolate reductase  ( ec 1 .5 .1 .3 )  .
a reagent with two reactive groups ,  usually at opposite ends of the molecule ,  that are capable of reacting with and thereby forming bridges between macromolecules ,  principally side chains of amino acids in proteins ,  allowing the locations of naturally reactive areas within the proteins to be identified .
a compound in which monosaccharide units are joined by glycosidic linkages .
a product in capsule ,  tablet or liquid form that provide essential nutrients ,  such as a vitamin ,  an essential mineral ,  a protein ,  an herb ,  or similar nutritional substance .
a topoisomerase inhibitor that inhibits dna topoisomerase  ( atp - hydrolysing )  ,  ec 5 .99 .1 .3  ( also known as topoisomerase ii and as dna gyrase )  ,  which catalyses atp - dependent breakage of both strands of dna ,  passage of the unbroken strands through the breaks ,  and rejoining of the broken strands .
biologically active substance whose activity affects or plays a role in the functioning of the immune system .
any molecular entity that contains carbon .
a role played by a chemical compound to induce direct or indirect dna damage .
a role played by a chemical compound which is known to  induce a process of carcinogenesis  by corrupting  normal cellular pathways ,  leading to the acquistion of tumoral capabilities .
a chemical compound ,  or part thereof ,  which causes the onset of an allergic reaction by interacting with any of the molecular pathways involved in an allergy .
a role played by a chemical compound  in biological systems with adverse consequences in embryo developments ,  leading to birth defects ,  embryo death or altered development ,  growth retardation and functional defect .
a role played by a chemical compound exihibiting itself through the ability to induce damage to the liver in animals .
a poison that interferes with the functions of the nervous system .
an ec 2 .7 .11 .*  ( protein - serine / threonine kinase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of non - specific serine / threonine protein kinase  ( ec 2 .7 .11 .1 )  ,  a kinase enzyme involved in phosphorylation of hydroxy group of serine or threonine .
thioxanthene and its substitution derivatives .
compounds containing an aziridine ring that contains a quaternary nitrogen atom .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
a thioxanthen - 9 - one compound having a methyl substituent at the 1 - position and a 2 -  [  ( diethylamino ) ethyl ] amino substituent at the 4 - position .
a drug that modulates the function of the endocrine glands ,  the biosynthesis of their secreted hormones ,  or the action of hormones upon their specific sites .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a chemical context .
an  organic molecule that is electrically neutral carrying a positive and a negative charge in one of its major canonical descriptions .
sulfate salts where the cation is a metal ion .
an angular ortho - fused polycyclic arene consisting of four fused benzene rings .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having two free valences at carbon atom ( s )  .
a carboxamide resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxylic acid with the amino group of an amino acid .
acridines which are substituted in any position by one or more amino groups or substituted amino groups .
a biological role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biochemical context .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof which causes the development of a pathological process .
a biological role which describes how a drug interacts within a biological system and how the interactions affect its medicinal properties .
any substance introduced into a living organism with therapeutic or diagnostic purpose .
a member of the class of butanediols that is butane in which two of the hydrogens have been replaced by hydroxy groups .
a thioxanthen - 9 - one compound having a hydroxymethyl substituent at the 1 - position and a 2 -  [  ( diethylamino ) ethyl ] amino substituent at the 4 - position .
an antagonist at the a2a receptor .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of at least two different elements .
a d - alpha - amino acid zwitterion that is d - phenylalanine in which a proton has been transferred from the carboxy group to the amino group .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of l - phenylalanine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any fatty acid anion obtained by removal of a proton from the carboxy group of a short - chain fatty acid  ( chain length of less than c6 )  .
any fatty acid anion in which there is no c - c unsaturation .
any saturated fatty acid anion lacking a carbon side - chain .
an organic anion of general formula rs ( =o ) 2o (  -  )  where r is an organyl group .
any fatty acid whose skeletal carbon atoms form an unbranched open chain .
a fatty acid anion formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid functional group of a straight - chain fatty acid .
compounds containing one or more phosphoric acid units .
a reagent that forms a bond to its reaction partner  ( the electrophile )  by donating both bonding electrons .
hydroxy boron compounds of general formula bxoyhz .
conjugate base of an l - alpha - amino acid arising from deprotonation of the c - 1 carboxy group .
zwitterionic form of an l - alpha - amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
zwitterionic form of a d - alpha - amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
a carboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of an n - acyl - l - alpha - amino acid arising from deprotonation of the c - 1 carboxy group .
the conjugate base of an n - acyl - d - alpha - amino acid arising from deprotonation of the c - 1 carboxy group .
any anion arising from deprotonation of at least one oh group in a flavonoid compound .
a metal cation with a valence of two .
an atom or small molecule with a positive charge that does not contain carbon in covalent linkage ,  with a valency of one .
r = c or h . the iminium ion resulting from the protonation of one of the imine nitrogens of guanidine or its derivatives .
zwitterionic form of any peptide where ,  in general ,  the amino terminus is positively charged and the carboxy terminus is negatively charged .
any pharmacological or immunological agent that modifies the effect of other agents such as drugs or vaccines while having few if any direct effects when given by itself .
any substance that interacts with tubulin to inhibit or promote polymerisation of microtubules .
any alpha - amino acid anion in which the parent amino acid has d - configuration .
a poison that interferes with the function of the kidneys .
any compound that has a nucleobase as a part .
a flavonoid oxoanion that is the conjugate base of hesperetin arising from selective deprtotonation of the 7 - hydroxy group .
any substance that interacts with tubulin to inhibit polymerisation of microtubules .
zwitterionic form of a polar amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
an alkanesulfonate in which the carbon at position 1 is attached to at least two hydrogens .
the dicarboxylic acid dianion formed from folic acid by loss of a proton from each of the two carboxy groups in the glutamic acid moiety .
any additive that enhances the efficiency of fuel .
a carbohydrate derivative arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and an h atom bound to an oxygen ,  carbon ,  nitrogen or sulfur atom of a separate entity .
any organooxygen compound derived from a carbohydrate by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by an amino group ,  a thiol group or similar heteroatomic groups .
an ec 3 .1 .3 .*  ( phosphoric monoester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of alkaline phosphatase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .1 )  .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from a disaccharide .
a sulfur - containing amino acid whose alpha - carboxylic acid group is ionized  ( not protonated )  .
an aromatic amino acid whose alpha - carboxylic acid group is ionized  ( non - protonated )  .
a substance capable of undergoing rapid and highly exothermic decomposition .
any substance which is added to food to preserve or enhance its flavour and / or appearance .
any organic salt prepared using an organosulfonic acid as the acid component .
a food additive which is added to flour or dough to improve baking quality and / or colour .
an inorganic cation with a valency of two .
an organic molecular entity containing a single carbon atom  ( c1 )  .
any organic molecular entity that is acidic and contains carbon in covalent linkage .
the role played by a substance in enhancing the appearance or odour of the human body ;  a name given to the substance itself or to a component of it .
any substance that causes disturbance to organisms by chemical reaction or other activity on the molecular scale ,  when a sufficient quantity is absorbed by the organism .
any compound that inhibits cell division  ( mitosis )  .
an antiparasitic drug which is effective against apicomplexan parasites in the genus plasmodium .
an n - acyl - l - alpha - amino acid anion obtained by deprotonation of any folic acid .
a chemosterilant intended to sterilize insects .
a methanesulfonate ester that is hexane - 2 , 5 - diol in which the hydrogens of the hydroxy groups are replaced by methanesulfonyl groups .
a ryanodine receptor modulator which activates the receptor .
an ammonium ion resulting from the protonation of the tertiary amino group of lycanthone .
a molecule that can substitute for a normal nucleobase in nucleic acids .
any substance that inhibits the process of apoptosis  ( programmed cell death )  in multi - celled organisms .
any substance that induces the process of apoptosis  ( programmed cell death )  in multi - celled organisms .
an ec 5 .99 .1 .*  ( miscellaneous isomerase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any of the topoisomerases  ( enzymes that regulate the overwinding or underwinding of dna )  .
an antagonist at any adenosine receptor .
an enzyme inhibitor that inhibits the action of a transferase  ( ec 2 .
any organic molecular entity whose stucture is based on derivatives of a phenyl - substituted 1 - phenylpropane possessing a c15 or c16 skeleton ,  or such a structure which is condensed with a c6 - c3 lignan precursors .
any molecule that consists of at least one carbon atom as part of the electrically neutral entity .
a member of the class of flavanones having one or more glycosyl residues attached at unspecified positions .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is biosynthesised from erythrose 4 - phosphate and phosphoenolpyruvate  ( i .e .
an antimetabolite that impairs the action of folic acids
a compound that causes the contraction of body tissues ,  typically used to reduce bleeding from minor abrasions .
an enzyme inhibitor that inhibits the action of an isomerase  ( ec 5 .* .* .
a ligase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a c - n bond - forming ligase  ( ec 6 .3 .* .
any enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the action of a ligase  ( ec 6 .* .* .* )  .
any  metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in eukaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of the fungi ,  plantae and animalia kingdoms .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in animals that include diverse creatures from sponges ,  insects to mammals .
any animal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mammals .
a role played by any of the group of eight water - soluble vitamins originally thought to be a single compound  ( vitamin b )  .
any mammalian metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in a mouse  ( mus musculus )  .
any  fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in baker's yeast  ( saccharomyces cerevisiae )  .
any metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in prokaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of domains such as the bacteria and archaea .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of any aromatic amino - acid .
any metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound .
a compressed gas or liquid with a boiling point lower than room temperature which to used to propel and dispense liquids such as deodorants ,  insecticides ,  paints ,  etc .
any metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in marine macro -  and microorganisms .
a nitroso compound that is any urea in which one of the nitrogens is substituted by a nitroso group
a transferase inhibitor that inhibits the action of a phosphorus - containing group transferase  ( ec 2 .7 .* .
an isomerase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any member of the group of 'other isomerases'  ( ec 5 .99 .* .
an enzyme inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase  ( ec 1 .* .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the ch - nh group of donors  ( ec 1 .5 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase of class ec 1 .8 .* .
any enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase  ( ec 3 .* .* .
a hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any ester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .* .
any hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase acting on c - n bonds ,  other than peptide bonds  ( ec 3 .5 .* .
an ec 3 .1 .*  ( ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any phosphoric monoester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .
an ec 3 .5 .*  ( hydrolases acting on non - peptide c - n bonds )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any protein - serine / threonine kinase  ( ec 2 .7 .11 .
an ec 6 .3 .*  ( c - n bond - forming ligase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any acid - ammonia  ( or amine )  ligase  ( ec 6 .3 .1 .
an ec 5 .99 .*  ( other isomerases )  inhibitor that interferes with the activity of any enzyme in the ec 5 .99 .1 .
an ec 1 .5 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - nh group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor  ( ec 1 .5 .1 .
an ec 1 .8 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on sulfur group of donors )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor  ( ec 1 .8 .1 .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in plants ,  the kingdom that include flowering plants ,  conifers and other gymnosperms .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in fungi ,  the kingdom that includes microorganisms such as the yeasts and moulds .
any human metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound in humans .
any prokaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in bacteria .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in escherichia coli .
an ec 1 .8 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on sulfur group of donors ,  nad +  or nadp +  as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of trypanothione - disulfide reductase  ( ec 1 .8 .1 .12 )  .
any mammalian metabolite  produced during a metabolic reaction in humans  ( homo sapiens )  .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of amidase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .4 )  .
a propellant that is used to expel foods from an aerosol container .
a physiological role played by any substance that is distributed in foodstuffs .
any minor or unwanted substance introduced into the environment that can have undesired effects .
a substance used in a thermodynamic heat pump cycle or refrigeration cycle that undergoes a phase change from a gas to a liquid and back .
any compound that causes severe skin ,  eye and mucosal pain and irritation .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of any alpha - amino acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any organooxygen compound that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone ,  or a compound derived from one .
any metabolite produced by all living cells .
any inorganic anion with a valency of three .
any inorganic anion with a valency of two .
any inorganic anion with a valency of one .
an animal metabolite produced by arthropods such as crabs ,  lobsters ,  crayfish ,  shrimps and krill .
a daphnia metabolite produced by the species daphnia magna .
a crustacean metabolite produced by the genus of small planktonic arthropods ,  daphnia
an ester resulting from the formal condensation of the hydroxy group of an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol with an organosulfonic acid .
an organosulfate oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of the sulfo group of any alkyl sulfate ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any derivative of a proteinogenic amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or a side - chain functional group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
any derivative of a non - proteinogenic amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group or carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
any of the 23 alpha - amino acids that are precursors to proteins ,  and are incorporated into proteins during translation .
any amino - acid that is not naturally encoded in the genetic code of any organism .
any derivative of an amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group ,  carboxy group ,  side - chain functional group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
any l - alpha - amino acid which is not a member of the group of 23 proteinogenic amino acids .
any  alpha - amino acid which is not a member of the group of 23 proteinogenic amino acids .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of l - glutamic acid at the amino group or either of the carboxy groups ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - glutamic acid by a heteroatom .
a non - proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of d - phenylalanine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of d - phenylalanine by a heteroatom .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of l - phenylalanine  at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - phenylalanine  by a heteroatom .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in algae including unicellular organisms like chlorella and diatoms to multicellular organisms like giant kelps and brown algae .
any cosmetic used to lighten the colour of skin by reducing the concentration of melanin .
any metabolite  ( endogenous or exogenous )  found in human blood serum samples .
a member of the class of acridines that is acridine substituted by a chloro group at position 6 ,  a methoxy group at position 2 and a  [ 5 -  ( diethylamino ) pentan - 2 - yl ] nitrilo group at position 9 .
any metal which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
any drug which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
a drug that acts as an antagonist ,  agonist ,  reverse agonist ,  or in some other fashion when interacting with cellular receptors .
flybase miscellaneous controlled vocabulary term .
phenotype that is any abnormality in thermotaxis  ( go:0043052 )  .
term used to qualify a descriptor .
phenotype of males that is a reduction in the proportion of fertilized eggs produced ,  but only to  >  50% of wild - type .
phenotype of females that is a reduction in the proportion of fertilized eggs produced ,  but only to  >  50% of wild - type .
genotype g1 is a modifier of variegation if ,  and only if ,  some genotype g2 has a variegated phenotype and the degree of variegation caused by g1g2 is significantly different from that caused by g2 alone .
term that describes an allele ,  balancer ,  group or publication .
qualifier used to describe changes in number or location of an anatomical structure compared to wild type .
penetrance is the fraction of individuals of a given genotype who exhibit the phenotype associated with that genotype .
penetrance is the fraction of individuals of a given genotype who exhibit the phenotype associated with that genotype .
penetrance is the fraction of individuals of a given genotype who exhibit the phenotype associated with that genotype .
penetrance is the fraction of individuals of a given genotype who exhibit the phenotype associated with that genotype .
expressivity measures the extent to which a given genotype is expressed at the phenotypic level .
expressivity measures the extent to which a given genotype is expressed at the phenotypic level .
expressivity measures the extent to which a given genotype is expressed at the phenotypic level .
expressivity measures the extent to which a given genotype is expressed at the phenotypic level .
expressivity measures the extent to which a given genotype is expressed at the phenotypic level .
qualifier that describes the spatial characteristics of a phenotype or expression pattern relative to the position of another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the front of an organism relative to another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located further from a more centrally located entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the back or upper surface of an organism relative to another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the rear of an organism relative to another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located more centrally than another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being extended on all sides of another entity simultaneously .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the belly or lower surface of an organism relative to another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located near in space in relation to another entity .
present in the area that separates segments .
qualifier that describes the spatial characteristics of a phenotype or expression pattern .
restricted to anterior region of some specified type .
restricted to apical region of some specified type .
restricted to basal region of some specified type .
restricted to central region of some specified type .
restricted to distal region of some specified type .
restricted to dorsal region of some specified type .
restricted to dorso - lateral region of some specified type .
anatomical structure is present in a location in which it would not be present in wild - type .
restricted to lateral region ( s )  of some specified type .
restricted to medial region of some specified type .
restricted to posterior region of some specified type .
restricted to proximal region of some specified type .
restricted to unknown part ( s )  of a specified type .
present in the correct location but in larger numbers than in wild - type .
expressed everywhere at some specified stage .
restricted to ventral region of some specified type .
restricted to ventro - lateral region of some specified type .
position in the egg or pre - gastrula embryo expressed as a percentage of egg length ,  where 0% corresponds to the posterior tip and 100% to the anterior tip .
at the posterior tip of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
0 - 10% of egg length from the posterior tip of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
the full length of the pre - gastrula embryo .
0 - 20% of egg length from the posterior tip of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
0 - 30% of egg length from the posterior tip of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
0 - 40% of egg length from the posterior tip of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
0 - 50% of egg length from the posterior tip of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
0 - 60% of egg length from the posterior tip of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
0 - 70% of egg length from the posterior tip of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
0 - 80% of egg length from the posterior tip of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
0 - 90% of egg length from the posterior tip of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
10% of egg length from the posterior tip of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
10 - 100% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
10 - 20% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
10 - 30% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
10 - 40% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
10 - 50% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
10 - 60% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
10 - 70% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
10 - 80% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
10 - 90% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
at the anterior tip of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
20% of egg length from the posterior tip of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
20 - 100% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
20 - 30% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
20 - 40% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
20 - 50% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
20 - 60% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
20 - 70% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
20 - 80% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
20 - 90% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
30% of egg length from the posterior tip of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
30 - 100% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
30 - 40% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
30 - 50% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
30 - 60% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
30 - 70% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
30 - 80% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
30 - 90% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
40% of egg length from the posterior tip of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
40 - 100% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
40 - 50% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
40 - 60% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
40 - 70% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
40 - 80% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
40 - 90% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
50% of egg length from the posterior tip of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
50 - 100% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
50 - 60% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
50 - 70% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
50 - 80% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
50 - 90% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
60% of egg length from the posterior tip of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
60 - 100% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
60 - 80% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
60 - 90% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
70% of egg length from the posterior tip of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
70 - 100% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
70 - 80% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
70 - 90% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
80% of egg length from the posterior tip of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
80 - 90% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
90% of egg length from the posterior tip of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
90 - 100% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
a record of an analysis carried out by flybase that has not been formally published .
expression pattern which varies in intensity following a gradient in a specific axis .
expression pattern which varies in intensity following a gradient in the anterior - posterior axis .
expression pattern which varies in intensity following a gradient in the dorsal - ventral axis .
restricted to stripes in some specified type .
sequence change caused by the cleavage of a 19 - 24 bp palindromic dna site by the i - crei endonuclease .
expression in even ,  but not odd numbered segment of the blastoderm .
expression in odd ,  but not even numbered segments of the blastoderm .
a list of species found in a specified area .
restricted to a segmentally repeated pattern with some specified type .
a stock with one or more chromosomes  ( balancers )  that are used primarily for their ability to preserve a stock genotype without selection .
a phenotypic effect which is expressed in and limited to cells of the mutant genetic constitution under investigation is said to be cell autonomous .
a phenotypic effect which is not expressed in / limited to cells of the mutant genetic constitution under investigation is said to be cell non - autonomous .
chromosome that carries inversions and visible mutations ,  and which can be used to identify the genotype of an individual .
a phenotypic attribute is described as showing a maternal effect when the phenotype of an individual is a manifestation of the genotype of the mother ,  rather than the genotype of the individual .
a phenotypic attribute is described as showing a non - rescuable maternal effect  ( strict maternal effect )  when the introduction of a wild - type copy of the responsible mutation from the father has no ameliorating effect on the maternal effect mutant phenotype .
a phenotypic attribute is described as showing a rescuable maternal effect when the introduction of a wild - type copy of the responsible mutation from the father ameliorates the maternal effect mutant phenotype .
a phenotypic attribute is described as showing a paternal effect when the phenotype of an individual is a manifestation of the genotype of the father ,  rather than the genotype of the individual .
qualifier that describes an observed expression pattern .
weak expression .
expression pattern that resembles small grains or particles .
strong expression .
expression pattern that resembles small dots .
expression pattern that is constant throughout the assayed anatomical entity .
expression pattern that changes throughout the assayed anatomical entity .
qualifier that describes the type of publication .
a publicly available document .it includes individual articles ,  such as research papers and reviews ,  and collections of articles ,  such as scientific journals .
an individual abstract of a presentation at a meeting ,  congress ,  conference ,  symposium ,  colloquium ,  seminar ,  workshop ,  round table ,  or other professional gathering .
a work consisting of a self - described account .
a work consisting of a list of books ,  articles ,  documents ,  publications ,  and other items ,  usually on a single subject or related subjects .
a work consisting of an account of the events ,  works ,  and achievements ,  personal and professional ,  during a person's life .
a publication on a single subject or related subjects that is complete in itself ,  whether constructed of chapters ,  sections ,  or parts ,  and that is not issued on a regular ,  ongoing basis .
a work consisting of a critical analysis of one or more books or other monographic works .
the published records of the papers delivered at or issued on the occasion of individual congresses ,  symposia ,  and meetings ;  abstracts of papers delivered at such congresses ;  reports of the officers and delegates of such congresses ;  combinations of the foregoing ;  or proceedings of the conference of a society if they are not limited to matters of internal organization .
a record of a dna or rna sequence in some standard format ,  such as genbank or embl or ddbj .
a record of a protein sequence in some standard format ,  such as uniprotkb .
a work consisting of an acknowledgement of an error ,  issued by a publisher ,  editor ,  or author .
a film or video that is factual ,  documentary or instructional in character .
a work consisting of a conversation with an individual regarding his or her background and other personal and professional details ,  opinions on specific subjects posed by the interviewer .
a work consisting of written or printed communication between individuals or between persons and representatives of corporate bodies .
a work consisting of an announcement or statement of recent or current events of new data and matters of interest in the field of medicine or science ,  published in a scientific journal .
a work consisting of a critical or explanatory note written to discuss ,  support ,  or dispute an article or other presentation previously published .
a published announcement of a death accompanied by a short biography of the deceased .
an article reporting original research ,  published in a peer - reviewed journal .
a work consisting of documents granted by a government giving exclusive rights to an inventor or assignee to manufacture ,  use ,  or sell an invention for a certain number of years .
a work that has not been formally published and that consists of observations or data submitted by a researcher or group of researchers directly to flybase .
a literary or oral work expressing meaning via symbolism and following formal or informal patterns .
a work consisting of a single or multi - sheet notice made to attract attention to events ,  activities ,  causes ,  goods ,  or services .
a written or recorded communication directed at members of the news media for the purpose of announcing something ostensibly newsworthy .
a work consisting of a statement issued by one or more authors of an article or a book ,  withdrawing or disavowing acknowledgement of their participation in performing research or writing the results of their study .
an article or book published after examination of published material on a subject .
a mildly satirical mockery or parody of a conventional publication type .
a list of drosophila stocks kept by a specified stock center or research group .
supporting content or information ,  such as animation ,  datasets ,  multimedia files ,  video ,  movies ,  audio files ,  text files ,  or software ,  which is submitted for publication in an online journal or an online edition of a journal .
a diagram that is designed to be touched ,  rather than looked at .
an article describing exercises or practicals suitable for teaching .
a work consisting of a formal presentation made usually to fulfill requirements for an academic degree .
a systematic effort to annotate gene models on a sequenced drosophila genome ,  such as those conducted for d . melanogaster at the celera jamboree .
a work consisting of a set of statements ,  directions ,  or principles presenting current or future rules or policy .
a work that has not been formally published .
qualifier that describes the language of the publication .
publication in the afrikaans language .
publication in the arabic language .
publication in the armenian language .
publication in the belarussian language .
publication in the bulgarian language .
publication in the catalan language .
publication in the chinese language .
publication in the cumbrian language .
publication in the czech language .
publication in the danish language .
publication in the dutch language .
publication in the english language .
publication in the estonian language .
publication in the faroese language .
publication in the farsi language .
publication in the finnish language .
publication in the flemish language .
publication in the french language .
publication in the german language .
publication in the greek language .
publication in the hebrew language .
publication in the hungarian language .
publication in the icelandic language .
publication in the indonesian language .
publication in the italian language .
publication in the japanese language .
publication in the jugoslavian language .
publication in the korean language .
publication in the latin language .
publication in the latvian language .
publication in the lithuanian language .
publication in the malay language .
publication in the malayalam language .
publication in the norwegian language .
publication in the polish language .
publication in the portuguese language .
publication in the serbo - croat  ( roman )  language .
publication in the roman language .
publication in the russian language .
publication in the serbo - croat language .
publication in the slovak language .
publication in the slovenian language .
publication in the spanish language .
publication in the swedish language .
publication in the turkish language .
publication in the ukrainian language .
publication in the yiddish language .
rank that describes the usefulness of mutants according to their phenotype .
the rk1 rank describes mutants that are easily scored .
the rk2 rank describes mutants that are usable but less convenient .
the rk3 rank describes mutants that are of limited usefulness .
term that describes the type of allele .
an allele that either makes no functional gene product ,  makes reduced levels of a normally functioning gene product or makes a gene product with reduced activity compared to wild - type .
an allele inferred to completely lack function from the observation that addition of extra copies in the genome has no effect on the phenotype .
allele inferred to make a gene product that is functionally equivalent to wild - type but in a lesser amount or with lowered activity from the observation that extra copies in the genome decrease the expressivity and / or penetrance of the phenotype .
an allele that either makes a normally functioning gene product but at higher levels or in a different spatial or temporal pattern to wild - type ,  or a product with increased or novel activity compared to wild - type .
an allele that is inferred to make a gene product with a novel function or expression pattern compared to wild - type based on the evidence that the phenotype is unaffected by extra or fewer doses of the wild - type gene .
an allele that is inferred to make a gene product that is antagonistic to the wild - type gene product from the observations that extra copies of the wild - type allele reduce the expressivity and / or penetrance of the phenotype .
an allele inferred to make either increased amounts of a normal gene product or a gene product with normal function but increased activity compared to wild - type from the observation that extra copies in the genome increase the expressivity and / or penetrance of the phenotype .
allele that corresponds to the wild - type one .
wild - type allele that can be distinguished from others .
wild - type allele that can only be distinguished from another one under special conditions .
a phenotypic attribute is described as recessive when it is manifest only in individuals homozygous or hemizygous for the allele that causes that phenotype .
a phenotypic attribute is described as dominant when it is manifest in individuals heterozygous for the allele that causes that phenotype .
a phenotypic attribute is described as codominant when it is manifest in individuals carrying the allele that causes that phenotype ,  irrespective of the homologous allele .
a phenotypic attribute is described as semidominant when individuals heterozygous for the allele show phenotypes part way between homozygotes for either allele .
expression is limited to one or other sex by virtue of the particular biology of that sex ,  rather than the sex - linkage of the genes underlying the attribute .
expression is limited to males by virtue of the particular biology of males ,  rather than the sex - linkage of the gene ( s )  involved .
expression is limited to females by virtue of the particular biology of females ,  rather than the sex - linkage of the gene ( s )  involved .
phenotype expressed only under specific environmental conditions that do not induce the same defect in wild - type animals .
phenotype only expressed in some subset of the temperature range within which wild - type animals are viable .
phenotype only expressed at high temperatures .
phenotype only expressed at low temperatures .
phenotype expressed only in the presence of some specific drug  ( chebi:23888 )  whose presence does not induce the same defect in wild - type animals .
phenotype expressed only in the presence of ru486  ( chebi:50692 )  ,  also known as mifepristone .
phenotype expressed only in the presence of tetracycline  ( chebi:27902 )  .
phenotype that is the partial or full transformation of one or more segments  ( fbbt:00000003 )  or segmental appendages from one identity to another .
expression across a contiguous block of two or more segments of the blastoderm .
expression in the terminal regions of the embryo / larva: the acron ,  telson and adjacent segments .
expression in alternate segments of the blastoderm .
qualifier that describes an expression pattern of a segment polarity gene .
phenotype that is any abnormality in dorsal / ventral axis specification  ( go:0009950 )  .
a phenotype that is an expansion of the developing embryonic nervous system at the expense of developing ventral epidermis .
qualifier that relates the expression of a phenotype to the sex of the individual .
expressed in males .
expressed in females .
a clone of germline cells that share a genotype .
a clone of somatic cells that share a genotype that is different from the genotype of the animal in which it resides and from which it is derived .
incomplete penetrance or expressivity of a phenotype or incomplete suppression of a phenotype .
qualifier that describes a phenotype that has poor penetrance or expressivity .
qualifier that describes a phenotype that has reduced penetrance or expressivity when compared to wild - type .
qualifier that describes an electrophoretic migration of a gene product that is slower than the wild - type .
qualifier that describes an electrophoretic migration of a gene product that is intermediate in speed compared to the wild - type .
qualifier that describes a phenotype that is intermediate in speed compared to the wild - type .
the canonical phenotype of a wild - type drosophilid .
a phenotype that is survival to mature adulthood ,  where mature is defined as after adult stage a3  ( fbdv:00006012 )  .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of some significant proportion of animals in that population ,  but less that half ,  prior to becoming a mature adult ,  where mature is defined as after adult stage a3  ( fbdv:00006012 )  .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of all animals in that population at some stage or stages prior to becoming a mature adult ,  where mature is defined as after adult stage a3  ( fbdv:00006012 )  .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of a majority of animals in that population prior to becoming a mature adult ,  where mature is defined as after adult stage a3  ( fbdv:00006012 )  .
a phenotype that is a failure of mutant cells to survive .
a post - embryonic ,  macroscopic ,  anatomical phenotype .
phenotype that is any abnormality in eye color compared to wild - type .
a phenotype that is any abnormality in body color compared to wild - type .
a phenotype that is any abnormality in the size of the whole body or some body part compared to wild - type .
phenotype that is a decrease in body size compared to identically raised wild - type controls .
phenotype that is a decrease in the number of cells in a whole animal or in some specific organ ,  tissue or clone of cells compared to wild - type .
phenotype that is a decrease in the size of cells in a whole animal or in some specific organ ,  tissue or clone of cells compared to wild - type .
phenotype that is an increase in body size compared to identically raised wild - type controls .
phenotype that is an increase in the number of cells in a whole animal or in some specific organ ,  tissue or clone of cells compared to wild - type .
phenotype that is an increase in the size of cells compared to wild - type .
a phenotype that is the inability to produce a zygote .
a phenotype that is a reduction in the proportion of fertilized eggs produced to below 50% of wild - type .
a phenotype that is the inability of females to mate and produce fertilized offspring .
a phenotype that is a reduction in the proportion of fertilized eggs produced by females to below 50% of wild - type .
a phenotype of female sterility due to defects in the female germline .
a phenotype of female sterility due to defects in somatic cells of the ovary  ( fbbt:00006030 )  ,  or of the products of these cells  ( such as eggshell )  .
a phenotype that is the inability of males to mate and produce fertilized offspring .
a phenotype that is a reduction in the proportion of fertilized eggs produced by males to below 50% of wild - type .
a phenotype of male sterility due to defects in the male germline .
a phenotype of male sterility due to defects in somatic cells of the testis  ( fbbt:00006031 )  or of the products of these cells .
a phenotype that is the ability to mate and as a result produce fertilized eggs .
phenotype that is a reduction in the proportion of fertilized eggs produced ,  but only to  >  50% of wild - type .
a phenotype that is the ability of males to mate and as a result produce fertilized eggs .
a phenotype that is the ability of females to mate and as a result produce fertilized eggs .
a phenotype in which all offspring are sterile .
genotype g1 is an enhancer of variegation if ,  and only if ,  some genotype g2 has a variegated phenotype and the degree of variegation caused by g1g2 is greater than that caused by g2 alone .
genotype g1 is a non - enhancer of variegation of the phenotype due to genotype g2 if ,  and only if ,  g2 has a variegated phenotype and the degree of variegation caused by g1g2 is not greater than that caused by g2 alone .
genotype g1 is a suppressor of variegation if ,  and only if ,  some genotype g2 has a variegated phenotype and the degree of variegation caused by g1g2 is less than that caused by to g2 alone .
genotype g1 is a non - suppressor of variegation of the phenotype due to genotype g2 if ,  and only if ,  g2 has a variegated phenotype and the degree of variegation caused by g1g2 is not less than that caused by g2 alone .
a phenotype that is the inability to synthesize some organic compound that can be synthesized by wild - type animals ,  and that is required for normal growth and / or development .
phenotype that is any abnormality in aging  ( go:0007568 )  .
phenotype that is a shorter adult life - span than wild - type .
phenotype that is a longer adult life - span than wild - type .
phenotype that is any abnormality in behavior  ( go:0007610 )  .
phenotype that is a change in the strong tendency ,  seen in wild - type drosophila melanogaster ,  to climb  -  a behavior otherwise known as negative gravitaxis  ( go:0048060  ;  movement away from the source of gravity )  .
phenotype that is a disposition to paralysis under conditions that do not cause paralysis in a wild - type animal .
a phenotype consisting of decreased frequency of `multicellular organismal movement`  ( go:0050879 )  compared to wild - type .
a phenotype exhibited following mechanical shock and consisting of a brief period of intense ,  uncoordinated motor activity  ( legs and wings flailing ,  abdomen coiling )  followed by a prolonged period of paralysis .
a phenotype consisting of increased frequency of `multicellular organismal movement`  ( go:0050879 )  compared to wild - type .
phenotype that is any abnormality in response to pain  ( go:0048265 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in circadian rhythm  ( go:0007623 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in locomotor rhythm  ( go:0045475 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in eclosion rhythm  ( go:0008062 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in learning  ( go:0007612 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in memory  ( go:0007613 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in courtship behavior  ( go:0007619 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in mating  ( go:0007618 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in circadian mating behavior  ( go:0035648 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in male courtship behavior ,  veined wing generated song production  ( go:0045433 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in chemosensory behavior  ( go:0007635 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in sensory perception of smell  ( go:0007608 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in sensory perception of taste  ( go:0050909 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in or absense of proboscis extension reflex in response to a sugar stimulus via taste sensilla on the tarsus .
phenotype that is any abnormality in sensory perception of sound  ( go:0007605 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in response to stress  ( go:0006950 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in response to osmotic stress  ( go:0006970 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in response to heat  ( go:0009408 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in visual behavior  ( go:0007632 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in optomotor response: a motor response during flight or walking that serves to stabilize both image formation on the retina and locomotor course .
phenotype that is any abnormality in phototaxis  ( go:0042331 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in locomotory behavior  ( go:0007626 )  .
phenotype that is a reduced ability to jump or a reduced jump response .
phenotype that is abnormal co - ordination of motor activity .
phenotype that is any abnormality in flight  ( go:0060361 )  .
phenotype that is the absence of flight  ( go:0060361 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in feeding behavior  ( go:0007631 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in grooming behavior  ( go:0007625 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in or loss of a stereotypical behavioral response to touch .
phenotype that is any abnormality in entrainment of circadian clock by photoperiod  ( go:0043153 )  ,  which is defined as: 'the synchronization of a circadian rhythm to photoperiod ,  the intermittent cycle of light  ( day )  and dark  ( night )  .'
phenotype that is any abnormality in dna repair  ( go:0006281 )  .
phenotype that is a change in the amount of cell death in a whole animal or in some specific organ tissue or clone of cells compared to wild - type .
phenotype that is an increase in the amount of cell death in a whole animal or in some specific organ tissue or clone of cells compared to wild - type .
phenotype that is a decrease in the amount of cell death in a whole animal or in some specific organ tissue or clone of cells compared to wild - type .
phenotype that is any abnormality in cell growth  ( go:0016049 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in the size of cells in a whole animal or in some specific organ ,  tissue or clone of cells compared to wild - type .
phenotype that is any abnormality in the shape  ( pato:0000052 )  of some cell compared to wild - type .
phenotype that is any abnormality in the asymmetric distribution of components within a cell .
phenotype that is any abnormality in meiotic cell cycle  ( go:0051321 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in mitotic cell cycle  ( go:0000278 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in cytokinesis  ( go:0000910 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in the electrophysiological properties of some class of neurons ,  muscles or other anatomical structure of the nervous system .
phenotype that is any abnormality in the anatomy of the nervous system  ( fbbt:00005093 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in sex determination  ( go:0007530 )  .
phenotype that is a difference in electrophoretic migration of a gene product compared to wild - type .
phenotype that is a decreased sensitivity  ( compared to wild - type )  to the toxic effects of some specified chemical .
phenotype that is an increased sensitivity  ( compared to wild - type )  to the toxic effects of some specified chemical .
phenotype that is a decreased tendency for radiation exposure to cause toxic effects .
phenotype that is an increased tendency for radiation exposure to cause toxic effects .
dominant phenotype consisting of short slender bristles and delayed development .
phenotype that is an increase in size of a tissue or organ due to increased numbers of cells ,  where the affected tissue or organ maintains its normal form .
phenotype that is characterized by the formation of abnormal masses of tissue  ( tumors )  as the result of neoplasia .
phenotype characterized by the formation of lumps of melanotic tissue inside the body in the absence of foreign bodies .
phenotype characterized by closely associated necrosis and melanization .
phenotype that is any abnormality in immune response  ( go:0006955 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in establishment of planar polarity  ( go:0001736 )  .
phenotype that is a change in the rate of some developmental process  ( go:0032502 )  taking place prior to mature adulthood  ( defined as adult stage a3 )  ,  compared to wild - type .
phenotype that is any abnormality in wound healing  ( go:0042060 )  .
describes the origin of the mutation that causes a phenotype .
dna change introduced by using an in vitro construct .
sequence change introduced by using an in vitro construct that contains a fusion of the regulatory region of one gene on to the coding region of another .
sequence change introduced by using an in vitro construct that contains a in - frame fusion of the open reading frames from two or more genes .
mutation induced by an in vitro construct that uses site directed mutagenesis to target a particular region of the gene .
sequence change introduced by an in vitro construct generated by internal deletion of some genomic sequence or cdna .
sequence change introduced by an in vitro construct containing a genomic fragment that partially or fully rescues loss of function mutations or deletions of the gene whose sequence it carries .
sequence change introduced by an in vitro construct that contains the wild - type open reading frame of a gene  ( without introns )  ,  the expression of which is controlled by a wild - type promoter of the same gene .
sequence change introduced by an in vitro construct that uses site directed mutagenesis to target a particular region of the gene resulting in a change to the change to the amino acids sequence encodes . .
sequence change introduced by an in vitro construct designed to generate dsrna for rna interference  ( rnai )  experiments .
mutation found in a natural population .
mutation caused by exposure to a temperature that is higher or lower than 25 degrees celsius .
mutation induced by exposure to temperature that is lower than 25 degrees celsius .
mutation induced by exposure to a temperature that is higher than 25 degrees celsius .
mutation caused by a spontaneous event .
sequence change induced by the genetic exchange that takes place between dna sequences .
sequence change caused by a dna recombination process that results in the unidirectional transfer of genetic material from a donor sequence to a highly homologous acceptor  ( go:0035822 )  .
mutation caused by a recombination event that causes the unequal exchange of small intralocus regions ,  usually leading to the formation of duplication and deficiency products .
sequence change caused by a recombination event that causes an unequal exchange of genetic material between homologous or non - homologous regions .
sequence change caused by the exchange of genetic material during mitosis that occurs at crossing over ,  and more frequently between homologous chromosomes .
sequence change caused by a recombination event between tandem repeats of rrna genes that causes unequal chromatid exchange at crossing over and an increase in the number of functional copies .
mutation that is caused by a recombination event that causes the breakdown of compound chromosome arms resulting in duplications or deletions in proximal regions .
mutation caused by a recombination event between tandem repeats of rrna genes that causes unequal chromatid exchange at crossing over and a reduction in the number of functional copies .
sequence change induced by a recombination event catalyzed by a recombinase that occurs at specific nucleotide sequences .
sequence change caused by a site specific recombination event catalyzed by the tyrosine recombinase flpase ,  that recognizes minimal flp recombination target  ( frt )  sites of 34 base pairs .
sequence change caused by the cleavage of an 18 base pair dna sequence by the i - scei endonuclease .
sequence change induced by a site specific recombination event catalyzed by the tyrosine recombinase cre .
sequence change induced by chromosomal segregation .
mutation induced by the mobilization of a transposable element .
mutation caused by hybrid dysgenesis that results from the mobilization of the i - element retrotransposon .
mutation induced by hybrid dysgenesis caused by the mobilization of the stalker transposable element .
mutation induced by the transposable activity caused by a p - element ,  a dna transposable element .
mutation caused by hybrid dysgenesis that results from the action of the p - element .
mutation induced by the mobilization of a p - element by the delta2 - 3 transposase .
mutation caused by a p - element that is inserted into the genome and that is used to create more insertions at other sites .
mutation caused by the mobilization of a p - element by the transposase produced from the helper plasmid p pi25 .1 .
mutation caused by the mobilization of a p - element by the transposase produced from the helper plasmid p pi25 .7wc .
mutation caused by pm hybrid dysgenesis that is induced by the higher frequency of recombination in certain male chromosomes .
mutation caused by a male recombination event induced by a male recombination factor which is present in chromosomes extracted from a population in haifa ,  israel .
mutation caused by a male recombination event in the second and third chromosomes induced by a male recombination factor which is present in chromosomes extracted from a population in harlingen ,  texas .
mutation caused by a male recombination event induced by male recombination factor 23 .5 mrf which is present in second chromosomes extracted from a population in patras ,  greece .
mutation caused by a male recombination event induced by male recombination factor 31 .1 mrf which is present in second chromosomes extracted from a population in patras ,  greece .
mutation induced by the transposable activity caused by hobo ,  a dna transposable element .
mutation caused by hybrid dysgenesis that results from the mobilization of the hobo element .
mutation caused by the activity of the hobo element ,  mobilized by an hobo transposase which is produced from the supplied p - element helper plasmid hbl1 .
mutation induced by the transposable activity caused by mariner ,  a dna transposable element .
mutation induced by transposable activity caused by the gypsy retrovirus .
mutation induced by the transposable activity caused by piggybac ,  a dna transposable element .
mutation induced by exposure to radiation .
mutation induced by exposure to ionizing radiation .
mutation induced by exposure to alpha rays .
mutation induced by exposure to gamma rays .
mutation induced by exposure to 60co gamma rays .
mutation induced by exposure to 137cs gamma rays .
mutation induced by exposure to 226ra alpha rays .
mutation induced by exposure to 32p radiation .
mutation induced by exposure to 3h radiation .
mutation induced by exposure to 3h - deoxycytidine radiation .
mutation induced by exposure to 3h - thymidine radiation .
mutation induced by treatment in a bevatron .
mutation induced by exposure to deuteron radiation .
mutation induced by exposure to neutron radiation .
mutation induced by exposure to 252cf fission neutron radiation .
mutation induced by exposure to x rays .
mutation induced by exposure to non - ionizing radiation .
mutation induced by exposure to a magnetic field .
mutation induced by exposure to radio waves .
mutation induced by exposure to the stratosphere .
mutation induced by exposure to supersonic radiation .
mutation induced by exposure to u .v .
a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
no description .
no description .
no description .
a member of the class of n - nitrosoureas that is urea in which one of the nitrogens is substituted by ethyl and nitroso groups .
a methanesulfonate salt resulting from the reaction of equimolar amounts of hycanthone and methanesulfonic acid .
no description .
no description .
any chemical  ( fbcv:0000525 )  that has role some intercalator  ( chebi:24853 )  .
no description .
no description .
no description .
a molecule that can substitute for a normal nucleobase in nucleic acids .
no description .
a molecular entity that contains no carbon .
a metal sulfate compound having copper ( 2 +  )  as the metal ion .
no description .
an inorganic sodium salt having hydrogensulfite as the counterion .
mutation induced by exposure to epoxy hydrocarbon .
no description .
no description .
no description .
a methanesulfonate ester that is hexane - 2 , 5 - diol in which the hydrogens of the hydroxy groups are replaced by methanesulfonyl groups .
mutation induced by exposure to 1 , 4 - dimethanesulfonoxybut - 2 - yne .
dominance relationships describe the dependence of the expression of a phenotypic attribute of an allele on the genotype at the locus in question .
mutation induced by exposure to 1 , 6 - dimethylsulfonoxy d - mannitol .
mutation induced by exposure to 1 , 6 - dimethylsulfonoxy l - mannitol .
no description .
a member of the class of 1 , 4 - benzoquinones that is p - benzoquinone in which the hydrogens at positions 2 and 5 are replaced by aziridin - 1 - yl groups .
a member of the class of tetraphenes that is tetraphene in which the hydrogens at positions 7 and 12 are replaced by bromomethyl and methyl groups ,  respectively .
no description .
an ortho -  and peri - fused polycyclic arene consisting of five fused benzene rings .
high molecular weight ,  linear polymers ,  composed of nucleotides containing deoxyribose and linked by phosphodiester bonds ;  dna contain the genetic information of organisms .
an ether in which the oxygen atom is linked to two ethyl groups .
no description .
a  saturated organic heteromonocyclic parent that is a three - membered heterocycle of two carbon atoms and one oxygen atom .
no description .
a disaccharide derivative that consists of hesperetin substituted by a 6 - o -  ( alpha - l - rhamnopyranosyl )  - beta - d - glucopyranosyl moiety at position 7 via a glycosidic linkage .
no description .
no description .
chemical element with atomic number 53 .
no description .
no description .
mutation induced by exposure to natural gas .
a member of the class of n - nitrosoureas that is urea in which one of the nitrogens is substituted by methyl and nitroso groups .
no description .
no description .
no description .
a phenylalanine derivative comprising l - phenylalanine having  [ bis ( 2 - chloroethyl ) amino group at the 4 - position on the phenyl ring .
no description .
no description .
no description .
no description .
no description .
no description .
no description .
assay method used to generate an allele .
qualifier that describes the relation between two phenotypes that are due to genotypes g1 and g2 .
the genotype g1 is a suppressor of genotype g2 if  ( and only if )  the phenotype due to g2 is made less severe by g1 .
a phenotype due to genotype g1 is suppressible by genotype g2 if the if the phenotype due to the genotype g1g2 is less severe than that due to g1 alone .
genotype g1 is enhancer of genotype g2 if  ( and only if )  the phenotype due to the genotype g1g2 is more severe than the sum of phenotypes due to g1 and g2 ,  where all comparisons are under identical environmental conditions .
a phenotype due to genotype g1 is enhanceable by genotype g2 if  ( and only if )  the phenotype due to the genotype g1g2 is more severe than the sum of phenotypes due to g1 and g2 ,  where all comparisons are under identical environmental conditions .
genotype g1 is a non - enhancer of genotype g2 if  ( and only if )  the phenotype due to the genotype g1g2 is not more severe than the sum of phenotypes due to g1 and g2 ,  where all comparisons are under identical environmental conditions .
a phenotype due to genotype g1 is non - enhanceable by genotype g2 if  ( and only if )  the phenotype due to the genotype g1g2 is no more severe than the sum of phenotypes due to g1 and g2 ,  where all comparisons are under identical environmental conditions .
the genotype g1 is a non - suppressor of genotype g2 if  ( and only if )  the phenotype due to g2 is not made less severe by g1 .
a phenotype due to genotype g1 is non - suppressible by genotype g2 if  ( and only if )  the phenotype due to the genotype g1g2 is no less severe than the phenotype due to g1 alone .
work consisting of a statement of the opinions ,  beliefs ,  and policy of the editor or publisher of a journal ,  usually on current matters of medical or scientific significance to the medical community or society at large .
a publication containing a collection of separate articles written by distinct authors .
restricted to unknown subtype ( s )  of a specified type .
qualifier that describes the expression pattern of an embryo .
a stock established from flies collected in the wild within the past 3 years .
phenotype that is an abnormality in body size compared to wild - type animals raised under the same conditions as the animals exhibiting the phenotype .
a set of related web pages containing content such as text ,  images ,  video ,  audio ,  etc . ,  prepared and maintained as a collection of information on a particular subject .
phenotype that is any abnormality in cell adhesion  ( go:0007155 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in hatching behavior  ( go:0035187 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in eclosion  ( go:0007562 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in cell cycle  ( go:0007049 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in endomitotic cell cycle  ( go:0007113 )  .
60 - 70% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
80 - 100% of egg length from the posterior tip  ( 0% )  of the egg or pre - gastrula embryo .
phenotype that is any abnormality in circadian behavior  ( go:0048512 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in proboscis extension reflex  ( go:0007637 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in sensory perception  ( go:0007600 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in sensory perception of touch  ( go:0050975 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in response to temperature stimulus  ( go:0009266 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in response to cold  ( go:0009409 )  .
parental effects describe the dependence of the expression of a phenotypic attribute of an allele on the parent from which that allele is inherited .
phenotype that is any abnormality in axis specification  ( go:0009798 )  .
descriptor that relates to aspects of a balancer .
an allele that completely lacks function ,  coding either for a completely inactive gene product or none at all .
an allele shown by molecular evidence to completely lack function ,  producing either a completely inactive gene product or none at all .
allele that makes a gene product that is functionally equivalent to wild - type but in a lesser amount or with lowered activity .
an allele shown by molecular evidence to make a gene product that is functionally equivalent to wild - type but in a lesser amount or with lowered activity .
an allele shown by molecular evidence to produce a gene product with a novel function or expression pattern compared to wild - type .
allele shown by molecular evidence to make either a functionally wild - type gene product at increased levels or a gene product with the same function as wild - type but with increased activity .
an allele that has been shown by molecular evidence to make a gene product that is antagonistic to the function of the wild - type gene product .
an allele that makes a gene product that is antagonistic to the function of the wild - type gene product .
an allele that makes either increased amounts of a normal gene product or a gene product with normal function but increased activity compared to wild - type .
an allele that makes a gene product with a novel function or expression pattern compared to wild - type .
a phenotype that is a disruption in the wild - type pattern of segments or parasegments of the embryo or larva .
embryonic / larval segmentation phenotype that is the complete or partial loss of alternate segments or parasegments .
embryonic / larval segmentation phenotype that is the complete or partial loss of even segments .
embryonic / larval segmentation phenotype that is the complete or partial loss of odd segments .
embryonic / larval segmentation phenotype in which some fraction of each segment  ( along the anterior - posterior axis )  is deleted and replaced by a mirror image duplication of the remaining part of the segment .
embryonic / larval segmentation phenotype that is the complete loss of a contiguous stretch of 2 or more segments .
phenotype expressed only in the presence or absence of some specific chemical whose presence or absence does not induce the same defect in wild - type animals .
phenotype that is any abnormality in sleep  ( go:0030431 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in entry into diapause  ( go:0055115 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in entry into reproductive diapause  ( go:0055116 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in response to starvation  ( go:0042594 )  .
phenotype that is an increase or decrease in the number of cells in a whole animal or in some specific organ ,  tissue or clone of cells compared to wild - type .
change of a genomic sequence via homologous recombinational repair  ( go:0000724 )  that is induced by a double stranded break in an engineered donor construct that contains sequence homologous to the target gene .
change of a genomic sequence via homologous recombinational repair  ( go:0000724 )  that is induced by a double strand break on both sides of the homologous region in an engineered donor sequence .
change of a genomic sequence via homologous recombinational repair  ( go:0000724 )  that is induced by a double strand break within an engineered homologous donor sequence .
phenotype that is a inability to jump .
phenotype only expressed under some specific nutritional regime .
phenotype only expressed under conditions where calorie intake is restricted .
phenotype that is any abnormality in cell migration  ( go:0016477 )  .
phenotype that is an increase in the rate of cell growth  ( go:0016049 )  in a whole animal or in some specific organ tissue or clone of cells compared to wild - type .
phenotype that is an decrease in the rate of cell growth  ( go:0016049 )  in a whole animal or in some specific organ tissue or clone of cells compared to wild - type .
phenotype that is a decrease in size of an initially normally sized organ or tissue due to wasting away of cells .
phenotype that is any abnormality or in or absence of a jump response  ( go:0007630 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in mating behavior  ( go:0007617 )  .
a clone of somatic cells that share a mutant genotype that includes being minute  +  /  +  and that is part of and derived from an animal with a different genotype that includes being minute  +  /  -  .
phenotype that consists of abnormal growth of a tissue or organ due to increased numbers of cells ,  but in which the affected tissue or organ does not maintain its normal form .
phenotype that is a reduction in size of an organ or tissue compared to wild - type due to reduced numbers of cells being produced during its development or growth .
phenotype that is any abnormality in response to oxidative stress  ( go:0006979 )  .
expressed in virgin females .
expressed in mated females .
expressed in virgin males .
expressed in mated males .
expression is limited to virgin females .
expression is limited to mated females .
expression is limited to mated males .
expression is limited to virgin males .
embryonic / larval segmentation phenotype that is the complete or partial loss of terminal regions of the embryo / larva: the acron ,  telson and immediately adjacent segments .
an allele that completely lacks function  ( i .e .
an allele inferred to completely lack function at some temperatures  ( restrictive temperatures )  but not others  ( permissive temperatures )  from the observation that addition of extra copies in the genome has no effect on the phenotype at the restrictive temperatures .
a publication that is not issued on a regular ,  ongoing basis containing separate articles or chapters  ( typically reviews )  written by different authors on a single subject or related subjects ,  overseen by one or more editors .
an allele that completely lacks function  ( i .e .
an allele inferred to completely lack function at low temperatures  ( restrictive temperatures )  but not at high temperatures  ( permissive temperatures )  from the observation that adding extra copies in the genome has no effect on the phenotype at the restrictive temperatures .
an allele inferred to completely lack function at high temperatures  ( restrictive temperatures )  but not at low temperatures  ( permissive temperatures )  from the observation that adding extra copies in the genome has no effect on the phenotype at the restrictive temperatures .
an allele shown by molecular evidence to completely lack function at low temperatures  ( restrictive temperatures )  but not at high temperatures  ( permissive temperatures )  .
an allele shown by molecular evidence to completely lack function at high temperatures  ( restrictive temperatures )  but not at low temperatures  ( permissive temperatures )  .
an allele shown by molecular evidence to completely lack function at some temperatures  ( restrictive temperatures )  but not at others  ( permissive temperatures )  .
an allele that at some temperatures but not others either makes no functional gene product or makes reduced levels of a normally functioning gene product or makes a gene product with reduced activity compared to wild - type .
an allele that at high temperatures but not low temperatures ,  either makes no functional gene product ,  makes reduced levels of a normally functioning gene product or makes a gene product with reduced activity compared to wild - type .
an allele that at low temperatures but not high temperatures ,  either makes no functional gene product ,  makes reduced levels of a normally functioning gene product or makes a gene product with reduced activity compared to wild - type .
an allele that at some temperatures but not others ,  either makes a normally functioning gene product but at higher levels or in a different spatial or temporal pattern to wild - type ,  or a product with increased or novel activity compared to wild - type .
an allele that at high temperatures but not low temperatures ,  either makes a normally functioning gene product but at higher levels or in a different spatial or temporal pattern to wild - type ,  or a product with increased or novel activity compared to wild - type .
an allele that at low temperatures but not high temperatures ,  either makes a normally functioning gene product but at higher levels or in a different spatial or temporal pattern to wild - type ,  or a product with increased or novel activity compared to wild - type .
an allele that ,  at some temperatures but not others ,  makes a gene product that is functionally equivalent to wild - type but in a lesser amount or with lowered activity .
an allele that makes a gene product that is functionally equivalent to wild - type but which at high temperatures is present in a lesser amount or with lowered activity ,  and that retains normal levels of expression or activity at low temperatures .
an allele that makes a gene product that is functionally equivalent to wild - type but which at low temperatures is present in a lesser amount or with lowered activity ,  and that retains normal function at higher temperatures .
an allele inferred from genetic evidence to have normal activity at some temperatures  ( permissive temperatures )  but at other temperatures to make a gene product with normal function but in a lesser amount or with lowered activity  ( non - permissive temperatures )  .
an allele inferred from genetic evidence to have normal activity at high temperatures  ( permissive temperatures )  but to make a gene product with normal function but in a lesser amount or with lowered activity at lower temperatures  ( non - permissive temperatures )  .
an allele inferred from genetic evidence to have normal activity at low temperatures  ( permissive temperatures )  but to make a gene product with normal function but in a lesser amount or with lowered activity at higher temperatures  ( non - permissive temperatures )  .
an allele shown by molecular evidence to make a normal gene product in normal amounts at some temperatures ,  but at other temperatures to make a gene product that is functionally equivalent to wild - type but in a lesser amount or with lowered activity .
an allele shown by molecular evidence to make a normal gene product in normal amounts at high temperatures ,  but at lower temperatures to make a gene product that is functionally equivalent to wild - type but in a lesser amount or with lowered activity .
an allele shown by molecular evidence to make a normal gene product in normal amounts at low temperatures ,  but at higher temperatures to make a gene product that is functionally equivalent to wild - type but in a lesser amount or with lowered activity .
an allele that makes a gene product that is antagonistic to the function of the wild - type gene product at some temperatures ,  but not others .
an allele that makes a gene product that is antagonistic to the function of the wild - type gene product at high temperatures ,  but not at lower temperatures .
an allele that makes a gene product that is antagonistic to the function of the wild - type gene product at cold temperatures ,  but not at higher temperatures .
an allele inferred to make a gene product that is antagonistic to the wild - type gene product at some temperatures  ( restrictive temperatures )  but not at others  ( permissive temperatures )  from the observation that ,  at the non - permissive temperatures ,  the phenotype over a deficiency is stronger than that over a wild - type allele ,  which in turn is stronger than that in the presence of a duplication of the wild - type locus .
an allele inferred to make a gene product that is antagonistic to the wild - type gene product at low temperatures  ( restrictive temperatures )  but not at high temperatures  ( permissive temperatures )  from the observation that ,  at the non - permissive temperatures ,  the phenotype over a deficiency is stronger than that over a wild - type allele ,  which in turn is stronger than that in the presence of a duplication of the wild - type locus .
an allele inferred to make a gene product that is antagonistic to the wild - type gene product at high temperatures  ( restrictive temperatures )  but not at lower temperatures  ( permissive temperatures )  from the observation that ,  at the non - permissive temperatures ,  the phenotype over a deficiency is stronger than that over a wild - type allele ,  which in turn is stronger than that in the presence of a duplication of the wild - type locus .
an allele that has been shown by molecular evidence to make a gene product that is antagonistic to the function of the wild - type gene product at some temperatures but not others .
an allele that has been shown by molecular evidence to make a gene product that is antagonistic to the function of the wild - type gene product at low temperatures but not higher temperatures .
an allele that has been shown by molecular evidence to make a gene product that is antagonistic to the function of the wild - type gene product at high temperatures but not lower temperatures .
an allele that ,  at some temperatures but not others ,  makes a gene product with a novel function or expression pattern compared to wild - type .
an allele that ,  at some high temperatures but not lower temperatures ,  makes a gene product with a novel function or expression pattern compared to wild - type .
an allele that ,  at some low temperatures but not higher temperatures ,  makes a gene product at with a novel function or expression pattern compared to wild - type .
an allele that ,  is inferred to make a gene product with a novel function or expression pattern compared to wild - type at some temperatures  ( non - permissive temperatures )  but not others  ( permissive temperatures )  based on the evidence that the phenotype at the non - permissive temperature is unaffected by extra or fewer doses of the wild - type gene .
an allele that ,  is inferred to make a gene product with a novel function or expression pattern compared to wild - type at some low temperatures  ( non - permissive temperatures )  but not higher temperatures  ( permissive temperatures )  ,  based on the evidence that the phenotype at the non - permissive temperature is unaffected by extra or fewer doses of the wild - type gene .
an allele that ,  is inferred to make a gene product with a novel function or expression pattern compared to wild - type at some high temperatures  ( non - permissive temperatures )  but not lower temperatures  ( permissive temperatures )  ,  based on the evidence that the phenotype at the non - permissive temperature is unaffected by extra or fewer doses of the wild - type gene .
an allele shown by molecular evidence to produce a gene product with a novel function or expression pattern  ( compared to wild - type )  at some temperatures but not others .
an allele shown by molecular evidence to produce a gene product with a novel function or expression pattern  ( compared to wild - type )  at low temperatures but not higher temperatures .
an allele shown by molecular evidence to produce a gene product with a novel function or expression pattern  ( compared to wild - type )  at high temperatures but not lower temperatures .
an allele that ,  at some temperatures but not others ,  makes a gene product with normal function but at higher levels or with higher activity than in wild - type .
an allele that ,  at high temperatures but not lower temperatures ,  makes a gene product with normal function but at higher levels or with higher activity than in wild - type .
an allele that ,  at low temperatures but not higher temperatures ,  makes a gene product with normal function but at higher levels or with higher activity than in wild - type . .
an allele inferred from genetic evidence to make a normal gene product at increased levels or with increased activity compared to wild - type ,  where this increased amount or activity is present at some temperatures  ( non - permissive temperatures )  but not others  ( permissive temperatures )  ,  and where the genetic evidence consists of the observation that extra copies in the genome increase the expressivity and / or penetrance of the phenotype at the non - permissive temperatures .
an allele inferred from genetic evidence to make a normal gene product at increased levels or with increased activity compared to wild - type ,  where this increased amount or activity is present at low temperatures  ( non - permissive temperatures )  but not higher temperatures  ( permissive temperatures )  ,  and where the genetic evidence consists of the observation that extra copies in the genome increase the expressivity and / or penetrance of the phenotype at the non - permissive temperatures .
an allele inferred from genetic evidence to make a normal gene product at increased levels or with increased activity compared to wild - type ,  where this increased amount or activity is present at high temperatures  ( non - permissive temperatures )  but not lower temperatures  ( permissive temperatures )  ,  and where the genetic evidence consists of the observation that extra copies in the genome increase the expressivity and / or penetrance of the phenotype at the non - permissive temperatures .
an allele shown by molecular evidence to make a functionally wild - type gene product at increased levels or with increased activity where this increased expression or activity occurs at some temperatures but not others .
an allele shown by molecular evidence to make a functionally wild - type gene product at increased levels or with increased activity where this increased expression or activity occurs at low temperatures but not higher temperatures .
an allele shown by molecular evidence to make a functionally wild - type gene product at increased levels or with increased activity where this increased expression or activity occurs at high temperatures but not lower temperatures .
a publication issued on a regular ,  ongoing basis containing separate research articles and other writings such as reviews ,  comments and conference reports .
a work consisting of a news item appearing in a general - interest newspaper or other general news periodical ,  containing information of current and timely interest in the field of medicine or science .
a record of a nucleotide or protein sequence in some standard format .
work consisting of a structured file of information or a set of logically related data stored and retrieved using computer - based means .
a phenotype in which the aging process  ( go:0007568 )  is slower than in wild - type .
a phenotype in which the aging process  ( go:0007568 )  is accelerated compared to wild - type .
a phenotype that becomes more severe with age .
cell autonomy statements describe the cellular focus of mutant phenotype ,  generally revealed by genetic mosaic analysis ,  in terms of whether the mutant has its phenotypic effect limited to ,  or not limited to ,  cells of the mutant genotype .
descriptor that relates to aspects of an allele .
qualifier that describes an observable phenotype .
qualifier that describes a particular quality of an observable phenotype .
a clone of cells that share a genotype .
a methanesulfonate ester that is butane - 1 , 4 - diol in which the hydrogens of the hydroxy groups are replaced by methanesulfonyl groups .
a monocarboxylic acid that is butanoic acid substituted at position 4 by a 4 -  [ bis ( 2 - chloroethyl ) amino ] phenyl group .
an allele that completely lacks function  ( i .e .
phenotype expressed only in the presence of beta - estradiol  ( chebi:16469 )  .
phenotype that is a defect in endocytosis  ( go:0006897 )  .
phenotype that is a defect in exocytosis  ( go:0006887 )  .
any abnormality in or loss of some anatomical structure or biological process compared to wild - type .
mutation induced by the transposable activity caused by minos ,  a dna transposable element .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of all animals in that population at some stage or stages prior to eclosion from the pupal case  ( the end of the p - stage )  .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of all animals in that population at some stage or stages before the end of the first instar larval stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of all animals in that population at some stage or stages before the end of the larval stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of all animals in that population at some stage or stages before the end of the second instar larval stage .
a phenotype that is an increase in the rate of death in a population at any stage of life  ( during development or adulthood )  ,  over the rate seen in a wild type control population .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of all animals in that population during the p - stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of all animals in that population during the first instar larval stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of all animals in that population during the larval stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of all animals in that population during the second instar larval stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of all animals in that population during the third instar larval stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of the majority of animals in that population during the p - stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of the majority of animals in that population during the first instar larval stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of the majority of animals in that population during the larval stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of the majority of animals in that population during the second instar larval stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of the majority of animals in that population during the third instar larval stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of some significant proportion of animals in that population prior to becoming a mature adult ,  where mature is defined as after adult stage a3  ( fbdv:00006012 )  .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of a significant proportion of animals in that population prior to becoming a mature adult ,  where mature is defined as after adult stage a3  ( fbdv:00006012 )  .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of a significant proportion of animals in that population during the p - stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of a significant proportion of animals in that population during the first instar larval stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of a significant proportion of animals in that population during the second instar larval stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of a significant proportion of animals in that population during the larval stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of a significant proportion of animals in that population during the third instar larval stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of all animals in that population during the pharate adult stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of all animals in that population at some stage or stages before the end of the prepupal stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of all animals in that population at some stage or stages before the end of the pupal stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of all animals in that population during the pupal stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of all animals in that population during the prepupal stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of all animals in that population at some stage or stages before the end of the embryonic stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of all animals in that population during the embryonic stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of the majority of animals in that population during the pupal stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of the majority of animals in that population during the prepupal stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of the majority of animals in that population during the pharate adult stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of the majority of animals in that population during the embryonic stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of a significant proportion of animals in that population during the pharate adult stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of a significant proportion of animals in that population during the pupal stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of a significant proportion of animals in that population during the prepupal stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of a significant proportion of animals in that population during the embryonic stage .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of all animals in that population as immature adults  ( after eclosion but before the end of adult stage a3  ( fbdv:00006012 )  )  .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of the majority of animals in that population as immature adults  ( after eclosion but before the end of adult stage a3  ( fbdv:00006012 )  )  .
a phenotype of a population that is the death of some significant number of animals in that population as immature adults  ( after eclosion but before the end of adult stage a3  ( fbdv:00006012 )  )  .
qualifier that describes aspects of genetic models of disease .
makes a condition better .
contrary to expectation ,  does not make a condition better .
contrary to expectation ,  does not make a condition worse .
contrary to expectation ,  characteristics associated with a given condition are not recapitulated in a different system .
makes a condition worse .
characteristics associated with a given condition recapitulated in a different system .
sequence change induced by a cleavage event that is caused by an endonuclease that recognizes and cleaves specific sequences in double stranded dna causing double - strand breaks  ( dsb )  .
sequence change caused by a cleavage of a specific dna sequence induced by crispr  ( clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats )  / cas9 nuclease system .
sequence change caused by the cleavage of specific dna sequences by transcription activator - like effector nucleases  ( talens )  .
sequence change caused by a site specific recombination catalyzed by the serine recombinase phic31 integrase that recognizes a minimal high - efficiency attp recognition site of 39 base pairs and a minimal high - efficiency attb recognition site of 34 base pairs .
descriptor that relates aspects of the grouping of genes or gene products .
genes or gene products that are acknowledged to form a natural biological group .
two or more genes contiguously arranged where the individual genes are either identical in sequence ,  or essentially so  ( so:0005851 )  .
genes whose products share a common biological and / or molecular function .
genes with the same location on the chromosome and whose products have a similar function .
genes whose protein products form a macromolecular complex  ( go:0043234 )  .
genes whose products act in a specified signal transduction or metabolic pathway .
genes whose products act in a specified biological process .
mutation caused by the transposable activity caused by the i - element ,  a non - ltr retrotransposon .
mutation caused by the transposable activity caused by the stalker element ,  a ltr retrotransposon .
term that describes a dataset .
term that specifies the dataset component type .
a set of biological data from a single study .
biological source material characterized by an experiment .
quantitative or qualitative assessment of biological source material to measure some attribute .
analysis of raw data generated by an assay ( s )  that makes some conclusion .
a collection of material reagents .
the data type content of a dataset .
the type of project as characterized its data content .
a project that groups together related sub - projects .
a project that characterizes an organism's genome sequence .
a project that characterizes the intraspecific variation of an organism's genome .
a project that characterizes the occupancy profile of a factor that binds directly or indirectly to the genome .
a project that characterizes the set of transcribed rna sequences expressed by the genome .
a project that characterizes the set of proteins expressed in an organism .
a project that characterizes the set of inter - molecular interactions in an organism .
a project that characterizes the set of small molecules in an organism .
a project that searches for the genes responsible for a particular observable trait .
a project that searches for chemicals ,  natural or synthetic ,  that elicit some biological effect .
a project that constructs models describing the set of transcripts and polypeptides encoded by some group of genes .
a project that reconstructs the evolutionary history of a group of genes or organisms .
a project type that is not described by other more specific terms .
the type of biosample as characterized by its biological source material .
a biosample that comprises the whole animal .
a biosample derived from a multicellular structure comprising similar cells with some specific function ,  typically isolated by dissection .
a biosample containing dissociated cells isolated from the organism ,  typically isolated by affinity capture or sorting methods .
a biosample consisting of cells that were isolated from animal tissue and cultured in vitro for a limited amount of time .
a biosample consisting of cells isolated from animal tissue that have acquired the ability to proliferate indefinitely .
the type of assay as characterized by its data content .
an assay of 5' capped transcripts ,  using cage to biotinylate and isolate the 7 - methylguanosine cap ,  with subsequent characterization by high - throughput sequencing .
a genome binding assay of some factor as characterized by chromatin immunoprecipitation  ( chip )  of that factor and analysis of co - purifying dna fragments using genome tiling array .
a genome binding assay of some factor as characterized by chromatin immunoprecipitation  ( chip )  of that factor and high - throughput sequencing of co - purifying dna fragments .
an rna binding assay of some protein as characterized by cross - linking immunoprecipitation  ( clip )  and high - throughput sequencing of co - purifying rna fragments .
a genome binding assay of some protein as characterized by creating a fusion to dna adenine methyltransferase and analysis of methylated dna sequences by genome tiling array .
a genome binding assay of some protein as characterized by creating a fusion to dna adenine methyltransferase and analysis of methylated dna sequences by high - throughput sequencing .
an assay that characterizes the genome's dnase hypersensitivity using genome tiling array .
an assay that characterizes the genome's dnase hypersensitivity using high - throughput sequencing .
an assay that characterizes transcriptional regulatory elements using formaldehyde - assisted isolation of regulatory elements  ( faire )  and high - throughput sequencing .
an assay that maps the genome - wide position ,  orientation and amount of transcriptionally engaged rna polymerase by global run - on sequencing .
an assay that maps nucleosome positions by using micrococcal nuclease to cleave linker dna with the subsequent isolation of mononucleosomal dna fragments that are characterized by genome tiling array .
an assay that maps nucleosome positions by using micrococcal nuclease to cleave linker dna with the subsequent isolation of mononucleosomal dna fragments that are characterized by high - throughput sequencing .
an assay of 5' - capped transcripts using the orthogonal approaches of reverse transcriptase template - switching and cap - trapping ,  with subsequent characterization by high - throughput sequencing .
an assay mapping genomic replication patterns by labeling newly synthesized dna in vivo with 5 - bromo - 2 - deoxyuridine  ( brdu )  ,  with subsequent affinity purification and characterization by high - throughput sequencing .
ribosome profiling ,  an assay in which mrna fragments protected by ribosomes are isolated and characterized by high - throughput sequencing .
an assay in which a factor is immunoprecipitated and the associated rna sequences are characterized by high - throughput sequencing .
measurement of global transcript abundance by hybridization of cdna to an oligonucleotide array ,  in which the array contains a set of probes designed with complementarity to each annotated transcript .
a quantitative method for mapping transcribed regions ,  in which complementary dna fragments are subjected to high - throughput sequencing .
measurement of transcribed regions across the genome by hybridization of cdna to an oligonucleotide array ,  in which the genome is represented by oligonucleotides at regularly spaced intervals .
an assay characterizing of small rna species 17 - 35 nt in size by high - throughput sequencing .
an assay that identifies and characterizes of proteins and their post - translational modifications by mass spectrometry .
an assay that identifies and characterizes lipids by mass spectrometry .
an assay that identifies and characterizes complex carbohydrates by mass spectrometry .
an assay that identifies and characterizes small metabolites by mass spectrometry .
an assay that identifies the molecules that interact with a particular bait factor by mass spectrometry .
an assay that tests proteins pairwise for interaction by fusing each to separate ,  complementary domains of some protein ,  usually a transcription factor .
an assay that uses a panel of rna interference  ( rnai )  reagents to systematically knockdown a large set of genes ,  one at a time ,  to identify those that are involved in some biological process .
an assay that uses a panel of deficiencies to systematically delete large segments of the genome to identify those segments that are involved in some biological process .
an assay that uses a large set of mutations to identify genes that are involved in some biological process .
an assay that characterizes copy number variation of the genome in a sample using genome tiling array .
an assay of genomic sequence that generates a large number of random genomic sequences ,  typically derived from paired - end sequencing of genomic fragments ,  that together give a complete  ( albeit scrambled )  representation of the entire genome .
the type of result as characterized by its data content .
a result that maps the relative position of genetic markers ,  where distances are measured by recombination frequency .
a result that maps the relative position of genes and other sequence landmarks .
a result in which a collection of whole genome shotgun sequences is combined to build successively larger contigs .
the result of reconstruction of the genome achieved by aligning and merging smaller fragments .
the result of extensive sequence alignment and merging to produce a genome assembly that serves as the current reference for a particular organism .
a result that provides the expression values for all  ( or some subset )  of genes in a given biological sample .
a result that profiles expressed rna - seq sequences along genome .
a result that profiles the genome occupancy for some factor .
a result of ribo - seq analysis that profiles ribosome protected sequences along the genome .
an analysis that results in the identification of discrete transcription start site regions .
an analysis that results in the identification of discrete polyadenylation sites .
an analysis that results in the identification of discrete exon junctions .
an analysis that results in the identification of discrete a - to - i rna editing sites .
an analysis that results in the identification of discrete dna or rna binding sites .
an analysis that results from the comparison of expression profiles for different conditions to identify genes that are regulated by those conditions .
the analysis of a gene expression profiles to define sets of genes that share similar expression characteristics .
a result that represents a set of genes that share similar expression characteristics across some set of conditions .
a result that represents a set of genes that have some shared characteristic .
a result that represents a set of protein - protein interactions for a given sample .
a result that represents a set of rna - protein interactions for a given sample .
a result that represents a set of rna - rna interactions for a given sample .
a result that represents a set of small molecules identified for a given sample .
a result that represents the range of phenotypes obtained for a set of genetic perturbations .
a result that represents the copy number variation across the genome for a given sample .
a result that represents the mapping of coordinates between two different genome assemblies for a given species .
a result that is produced from the detailed examination of data to come to some conclusion .
the type of reagent collection as characterized by the material resources comprised by the collection .
a collection of large chromosomal aberrations ,  available as fly stocks ,  which may include duplications ,  deletions ,  inversions or translocations .
a collection of alleles that are available as fly stocks .
a collection of cdnas available as plasmids .
a collection of transgenic constructs that are available as fly stocks .
a collection of pcr products used for the synthesis of double - stranded rna to induce rna - interference .
a collection of transgenic constructs ,  available as fly stocks ,  designed to target gene knockdown by rna - interference .
a collection of genomic dna clones available as plasmids .
a collection of wild - type fly strains .
a collection of transgenic construct insertions available as fly stocks .
a collection of transposable element insertions available as fly stocks .
a collection of hybridization targets on a microarray .
a descriptor that describes some aspect of a dataset .
a descriptor that describes some aspect of a project .
the aim of the project investigation ,  as defined by the key variables in the set of experiments .
a project study design that aims to compare different species .
a project study design that aims to compare different wild - type strains for a given species .
a project study design that aims to characterize the biological mechanisms responsible for the development or maintenance of the sex - related properties of an organism .
a project study design investigating the biological mechanisms responsible for the control or maintenance of development .
a project study design investigating the biological mechanisms responsible for the control or maintenance of circadian rhythm .
a project study design investigating the biological mechanisms of the cell responsible for maintaining or controlling aspects of the cell cycle .
a project study design investigating the biological mechanisms of intact or dissected tissues in order to understand their form or function .
a project study design involving the use of cultured or extracted cells with an investigative focus of studying a cellular property .
a project study design examining subcellular components of cells including organelles ,  the nucleus ,  or any other grouping of intra -  or extracellular material .
a project study design in which the goal of the study is to examine properties of a specific gene or set of genes .
a project study design investigating the effects of a biotic stimulus on some aspect of an organism .
a project study design investigating the effects of a chemical stimulus on some aspect of an organism .
a project study design investigating the effects of a physical stimulus on some aspect of an organism .
characteristics pertaining to the growth conditions ,  treatments and tissue isolation methods used to generate and obtain a biosample .
the scope and purity of a biosample ,  ranging from single cell to environmental sample .
a biosample that is derived from only a single cell .
a biosample that is derived from one individual .
a biosample that is derived from multiple individuals .
a biosample that is derived from multiple species .
a biosample derived from an environmental sample for which the species content is unknown .
a biosample that was synthesized in a laboratory .
a sample that originated from a wild caught population and is considered true wild type .
growth conditions and treatments used to culture the organism prior to biosample isolation .
an inbred strain is subjected to artificial laboratory selection of some trait over the course of several generations .
a sample that is derived from a controlled mating between individuals of two specific species .
a sample in which the individuals have undergone mating .
a sample in which the individuals have not undergone mating .
a sample that is maintained in conditions comparable to constant darkness .
a sample that is maintained in conditions comparable to constant light .
a sample that is maintained in conditions with a specific cycle that included exposure to both light and darkness .
a sample that is derived from a primary cell culture .
characteristics pertaining to the cell culture conditions used to generate the biosample .
a sample that contains a transfected agent which is not incorporated into the genome .
a sample that contains a transfected agent which has been stably incorporated into the genome .
a sample that is derived from a population of cells undergoing a log phase of division .
a sample that is derived from a population of cells undergoing a stationary phase of division .
a sample that is derived from a population of cells undergoing cell cycle division in a synchronized manner .
the cells that are grown in liquid culture .
the cells that are grown on plates .
the conditioned medium containing factors secreted by cultured cells that has been isolated .
methods pertaining to the experimental treatment or isolation of a biosample .
a sample that has undergone a disruption to the activity of one of its genes .
treatment of an organism with a biological stimulus ,  such as an infectious or parasitic agent .
a sample that has been exposed to one or more forms of chemical agent .
a sample that has been exposed to changes in the physical environment including temperature ,  pressure and radiation .
a sample that has been dissected from the tissue of a more complete organism .
a single cell type that has been isolated by affinity purification or fluorescent cell sorting .
a sample that has undergone fractionation in order to isolate specific subcellular components for study .
a sample in which specific cells within a tissue have been ablated by some method ,  such as targeted expression of a cell toxin ,  or laser ablation of fluorescently marked cells .
a sample that has been labelled in a targeted ,  cell - specific manner .
neuronal activity that has been perturbed using genetically controlled agents to activate or depress membrane potential .
some characteristic of an assay pertaining to the methods involved in processing the biological source material or generating the raw output data of the assay .
a type of biomolecule that is isolated from a biosample and characterized by downstream steps in an assay .
material that is derived from isolation of genomic dna .
material that is derived from isolation of the total rna .
material that is derived from the isolation of rna containing a poly ( a )  tail .
the isolation of small rna species 17 - 35 nt in size .
material that is derived from the isolation of translated messenger rna .
material that is derived from the isolation of proteins .
material that is derived from the isolation of chromatin and its subcellular components and / or binding partners .
isolation of rna - protein complexes .
material that is derived from the isolation of metabolites .
the biosample that is depleted of specific biomolecule types before further processing .
material that has undergone the depletion of ribosomal rna .
material that has undergone the depletion of single - stranded rna .
material that has undergone the depletion of double - stranded rna .
material that has undergone the depletion of unbound rna .
the biosample that is enriched for a specific biomolecule type for further processing .
material that has been selected using chromatin immunoprecipitation ,  or chip .
material that has been selected using dna adenine methyltransferase identification ,  or damid .
material that has been selected using formaldehyde - assisted isolation of regulatory elements or faire .
material that has been selected using cap analysis gene expression ,  in which the 7 - methylguanosine cap at 5' transcript ends is biotinylated and affinity purified .
chromatin that has been cleaved using micrococcal nuclease to cleave at linker dna between nucleosomes .
material that has been selected from a sample treated by deoxyribonuclease .
material that has been selected using a low salt chromatin extraction ,  typically 80mm .
material that has been selected using a high salt chromatin extraction ,  typically 600mm .
mononucleosomal fragments ,  generated by micrococcal nuclease cleavage at linker dna between nucleosomes ,  that have been isolated by gel electrophoresis .
material that has been selected using affinity purification .
material that has been selected using size fractionation .
material that has been selected using short sequences of deoxy - thymine nucleotides to affinity purify rna containing long polya stretches .
material that has been selected using short sequences of deoxy - thymine nucleotides to prime first strand cdna synthesis by reverse transcriptase at long polya stretches .
random oligomers that have been used to prime first strand cdna synthesis by reverse transcriptase at random positions along transcripts .
material that has been selected based on density via density sedimentation .
nucleotide analogs that are used to map the position and orientation of the rna polymerase active site .
a method used to characterize the biological molecules isolated from a biosample .
a method that uses sanger sequencing for this assay .
a method that uses single molecule sequencing ,  by highly processive dna polymerase to generate an extremely long single read on the order of several kilobases ,  for this assay .
a method that uses high - throughput sequencing for this assay .
a method that uses 454 sequencing ,  a form of high - throughput sequencing with 400 - 500 nt read length ,  for this assay .
a method that uses illumina sequencing ,  a form of high - throughput sequencing ,  for this assay .
a method that uses an affymetrix gene expression array ,  version 1 ,  for this assay .
a method that uses an affymetrix gene expression array ,  version 2 ,  for this assay .
a method that uses a genomic tiling array ,  a subtype of microarray chip in which the genome is represented by oligonucleotides at regularly spaced intervals ,  for this assay .
a method that uses a peptide array ,  a subtype of microarray chip ,  for this assay .
a method that uses mass spectrometry ,  an analytical technique for sorting ions based on mass ,  for this assay .
a method that uses two samples ,  one a control and the other an experimental sample ,  for this assay .
a method that uses an rna - seq assay in which only one end of the library fragment is sequenced .
a method that uses an rna - seq assay in which both ends of the library fragment are sequenced to provide additional mapping constraints .
some characteristic of a result pertaining to the methods involved in analyzing the input data ,  or the content or format of the output data .
a genomic mapping profile that distinguishes forward and reverse strand distributions .
a genomic mapping profile that does not distinguish between forward and reverse strand mapping .
an alignment of high - throughput sequences that includes only those reads mapping uniquely to the genome .
an alignment of high - throughput sequences that includes reads mapping to multiple sites in the genome .
a unit of expression  ( reads per kilobase per million reads )  in which high - throughput sequencing reads mapping to a given feature are normalized both to the size of that feature and to the total number of reads in the sample .
a unit of expression  ( reads per million mirna reads )  in which high - throughput sequencing reads for a given mirna are normalized against all reads mapping to all mirna .
a unit of expression  ( reads per million reads )  in which high - throughput sequencing reads for a given type of feature are normalized against all reads mapping to all features of the same type .
sequencing the full extent of selected large clones ,  typically by sub - cloning large inserts as smaller fragments ,  to improve the accuracy and completeness of an assembly .
mapping of restriction enzyme recognition sites to develop a physical map of a genome .
mapping of short  ( 200 - 500 bp )  sequence - tagged sites  ( sts )  landmarks to develop a physical map of a genome .
an ordered list of a minimal set of overlapping clones that provides complete coverage across an assembly .
sequences that have been mapped to mitotic or polytene chromosomes to guide genome assembly .
there is sequence for one or more chromosomes .
some sequence contigs have been connected across gaps to create scaffolds ,  but no scaffolds have been placed on chromosomes .
the assembly represents the whole genome ,  though there may still be gaps .
the assembly represents only part of the organism's genome ,  because only a single chromosome was targeted ,  coverage is  < 1 ,  or total length is less than half the average for other assemblies of the same species .
sequence change caused by the cleavage of specific dna sequences by zinc finger nucleases  ( zfns )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in sensory perception of light stimulus  ( go:0050953 )  .
sequence change caused by a site specific recombination catalyzed by the serine recombinase bxb1 integrase that recognizes a minimal high - efficiency attpx recognition site of 48 base pairs and a minimal high - efficiency attbx recognition site of 38 base pairs .
term that describes the use of an experimental tool .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and confers a specific property that facilitates detection of that gene product by an experimental method .
sequence that forms all or part of the rna product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and confers a specific property that facilitates detection of that rna product by an experimental method .
sequence that forms all or part of the protein product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and confers a specific property that facilitates detection of that protein product by an experimental method .
sequence that forms all or part of the protein product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that encodes an enzyme whose activity can be used to detect the presence of that protein product .
sequence that forms all or part of the protein product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that exhibits the property of fluorescence ,  that can be used to detect the presence of that protein product .
protein having well characterized fluorescence excitation and emission spectra ,  with an emission peak within the wavelength range of 499 - 519nm .
protein having well characterized fluorescence excitation and emission spectra ,  with an emission peak within the wavelength range of 424 - 467nm .
protein having well characterized fluorescence excitation and emission spectra ,  with an emission peak within the wavelength range of 474 - 492nm .
protein having well characterized fluorescence excitation and emission spectra ,  with an emission peak within the wavelength range of 524 - 538nm .
protein having well characterized fluorescence excitation and emission spectra ,  with an emission peak within the wavelength range of 559 - 572nm .
protein having well characterized fluorescence excitation and emission spectra ,  with an emission peak within the wavelength range of 574 - 610nm .
protein having well characterized fluorescence excitation and emission spectra ,  with an emission peak within the wavelength range of 625 - 659nm .
protein having well characterized fluorescence excitation and emission spectra ,  with an emission peak equal or greater than 670nm .
a fluorescent protein whose spectral properties are changeable ,  resulting from a reversible or irreversible change in fluorophore conformation .
a fluorescent protein whose spectral properties can be modulated by exposure to light of a specific wavelength ,  triggering a conformational change of the fluorophore and subsequent change in fluorescent state .
a protein that can be switched from an essentially non - fluorescent state to a fluorescent state by irradiation with a pulse of light of a specific wavelength .
a protein that can be converted from one fluorescent state to another fluorescent state  ( with a changed emission spectrum peak )  by irradiation with a pulse of light of a specific wavelength .
a protein that can be reversibly switched between a non - fluorescent state and a fluorescent state ,  or between two different fluorescent states .
a protein that converts from one fluorescent state to another fluorescent state  ( with a changed emission spectrum peak )  over time .
sequence that forms part of the protein product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that encodes an epitope that can be used to detect the presence of the tagged protein product .
sequence that forms part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which is used to target the tagged gene product either to a specific subcellular location within the cell or for secretion to the extracellular space .
a peptide sequence that forms part of the protein product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which is used to target the tagged protein either to a specific subcellular location within the cell or for secretion to the extracellular space .
a peptide sequence that forms part of the protein product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which is used to target the tagged protein to the nucleus .
a peptide sequence that forms part of the protein product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which is used to target the tagged protein to the mitochondrion .
a peptide sequence that forms part of the protein product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which is used to target the tagged protein to the peroxisome .
a peptide sequence that forms part of the protein product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which is used to target the tagged protein to the centrosome .
a peptide sequence that forms part of the protein product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which is used to target the tagged protein to the microtubule .
a peptide sequence that forms part of the protein product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which is used to target the tagged protein to the endoplasmic reticulum .
a peptide sequence that forms part of the protein product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which is used to target the tagged protein to the golgi apparatus .
a peptide sequence that forms part of the protein product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which is used to target the tagged protein to a cellular membrane .
a peptide sequence that forms part of the protein product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which is used to target the tagged protein to the plasma membrane .
a peptide sequence that forms part of the protein product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which is used to target the tagged protein to a vesicle .
a peptide sequence that forms part of the protein product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which is used to target the tagged protein to the secretory pathway .
a peptide sequence used to target a tagged protein for export from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
sequence that forms part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and confers a specific ,  novel property that facilitates purification of the gene product and / or any associated macromolecular complex by an experimental method .
sequence that forms part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which is used to regulate the activity of the tagged gene product .
sequence that forms part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which results in the activity of the tagged gene product being regulated in response to a particular stimulus .
sequence that forms part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which results in the activity of the tagged gene product being regulated in response to irradiation with a pulse of light .
sequence that forms part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which results in the tagged gene product being regulated by binding to a small molecule ,  such as an ion or ligand .
sequence that forms part of the protein encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which allows a protein to be inactivated by the chromophore - assisted light inactivation  ( cali )  technique .
sequence that forms part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which results in the tagged gene product being targeted for degradation ,  where this property can be regulated by a specific process or entity .
sequence that forms part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which results in the tagged gene product being targeted for degradation ,  where this property can be regulated by the cell cycle .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that is used to provide a readout of a biologically relevant property that is not part of or directly encoded by the genome ,  for example ph ,  redox state ,  membrane potential ,  a change in concentration of a particular molecule .
sequence that forms all or part of the protein product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and confers a specific property that facilitates detection of a molecule that is not part of or directly encoded by the genome .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that is used to provide a readout of calcium ion concentration .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that is used to provide a readout of ph .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that is used to provide a readout of voltage .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that is used to provide a readout of the redox state of a cell / tissue .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that is used to provide a readout of changes in the mechanical force the gene product is subjected to .
component that forms part of a 'split system' .
non - fluorescent fragment of a fluorescent protein .
sequence that forms all or part of the protein product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that encodes a catalytically inactive fragment of an enzyme whose activity can be used to detect the presence of that protein product when complementary split reporter enzyme fragments are brought together in vivo .
sequence encoding a site - specific dna - binding domain fused to a heterodimerization domain ,  e .g .
sequence encoding a transcription activation domain fused to a heterodimerization domain .
sequence that forms part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which allows the tagged gene product to be cleaved  ( broken into smaller molecules by the rupture of a covalent bond )  by a specific process .
sequence that forms part of the protein product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which allows the tagged protein product to be cleaved  ( broken into smaller molecules by the rupture of a covalent bond )  by a specific process .
component that forms part of a binary expression system .
transactivator  ( 'driver' )  that is encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which forms part of a binary expression system .
specific dna sequence that is used as the effector in a binary expression system .
repressor that can be used to regulate expression in a binary expression system .
an enzyme that mediates a recombination exchange reaction between two dna templates ,  each containing a specific recognition site .
the recognition site for a particular site - specific recombinase ,  an enzyme that mediates a recombination exchange reaction between two dna templates ,  each containing a copy of the recognition site .
transactivator  ( 'driver' )  that forms part of a binary expression system and whose activity is regulated in response to a particular stimulus .
transactivator  ( 'driver' )  that forms part of a binary expression system and whose activity is regulated by binding to a small molecule ,  such as an ion or ligand .
repressor that can be used to regulate expression in a binary expression system and whose activity is regulated in response to a particular stimulus .
repressor that can be used to regulate expression in a binary expression system and whose activity is regulated by temperature .
sequence that forms all or part of a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which is designed to impact or assess any proximate gene ( s )  when integrated into the genome .
an enhancer trap cassette is designed to report or utilize the expression of endogenous enhancer elements upon integration of the cassette into the genome .
a protein trap cassette is designed to tag protein ( s )  encoded by an endogenous locus upon integration of the cassette into the genome .
a gene trap cassette is designed to interrupt transcription of an endogenous locus upon integration of the cassette into the genome .
the basic components of a polya trap cassette are a promoter fused to a gene sequence that lacks a polyadenylation  ( polya )  sequence but is followed by a splice donor sequence .
the basic component of a promoter trap cassette is a promoterless gene .
the basic components of a misexpression element are an enhancer sequence plus a minimal promoter .
sequence that forms all or part of a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which can be used to an modify an organism's genetic material in a defined manner .
an enzyme that mediates an exchange reaction between two dna templates ,  resulting in integration of dna from one of the templates into the other .
an enzyme that catalyzes hydrolysis of dna in a site - specific manner .
an enzyme that catalyzes hydrolysis of dna in a site - specific manner ,  and in which the specificity is determined by a guide rna that contains sequence complementary to the dna sequence of interest ,  rather than being an inherent property of the nuclease itself .
a recognition site for an integrase ,  an enzyme that mediates an exchange reaction between two dna templates ,  resulting in integration of dna from one of the templates into the other .
a recognition site for a site - specific dna nuclease ,  an enzyme that catalyzes hydrolysis of dna in a site - specific manner .
engineered sequence that forms all or part of a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that has the property of a 'regulatory_region'  ( so:0005836 )  .
engineered sequence that forms all or part of a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that has the property of a 'transcription_regulatory_region'  ( so:0001679 )  .
sequence that forms part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which results in the tagged gene product being targeted for degradation ,  where this property can be regulated by a small molecule .
phenotype that is any abnormality in copulation  ( go:0007620 )  .
phenotype that is an increase in the number of gametes produced .
phenotype that is a decrease in the number of gametes produced .
phenotype that is any abnormality in oviposition  ( go:0007620 )  .
a phenotype that is an increased occurrence of cell division  ( go:0051301 )  .
a phenotype that is a decreased occurrence of cell division  ( go:0051301 )  .
a short report describing a single stand - alone research finding that is peer - reviewed and published .
a version of a scientific manuscript that is shared publicly on the web without peer review .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that confers a specific property that can be used to regulate the activity of a neuron .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that confers a specific property that can be used to inhibit the activity of a neuron .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that confers a specific property that can be used to inhibit the activity of a neuron ,  where this property can be regulated in response to a particular stimulus .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that confers a specific property that can be used to inhibit the activity of a neuron ,  where this property can be regulated by irradiation with a pulse of light .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that confers a specific property that can be used to inhibit the activity of a neuron ,  where this property can be regulated by binding to a small molecule ,  such as an ion or ligand .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that confers a specific property that can be used to inhibit the activity of a neuron ,  where this property can be regulated by temperature .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that confers a specific property that can be used to stimulate the activity of a neuron .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that confers a specific property that can be used to stimulate the activity of a neuron ,  where this property can be regulated in response to a particular stimulus .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that confers a specific property that can be used to stimulate the activity of a neuron ,  where this property can be regulated by temperature .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that confers a specific property that can be used to stimulate the activity of a neuron ,  where this property can be regulated by irradiation with a pulse of light .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that confers a specific property that can be used to stimulate the activity of a neuron ,  where this property can be regulated by binding to a small molecule ,  such as an ion or ligand .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that confers a specific property used to ablate a specific cell or anatomical structure .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that confers a specific property used to ablate a specific cell or anatomical structure ,  where this property can be regulated in response to a particular stimulus .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that confers a specific property used to ablate a specific cell or anatomical structure ,  where this property can be regulated by temperature .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that confers a specific property used to ablate a specific cell or anatomical structure ,  where this property can be regulated by irradiation with a pulse of light .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that confers a specific property used to ablate a specific cell or anatomical structure ,  where this property can be regulated by binding to a small molecule ,  such as an ion or ligand .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that is used to provide a readout of the activity of a specific biological process .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that is used to provide a readout of the activity of a specific signal transduction pathway .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that is used to provide a readout of the activation state of a specific gene product .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that encodes an enzyme which covalently tags neighboring macromolecules ,  facilitating the subsequent purification or detection of the tagged macromolecules by an experimental method .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that encodes an enzyme which covalently tags neighboring proteins ,  facilitating the subsequent purification or detection of the tagged proteins by an experimental method .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that encodes an enzyme which covalently tags neighboring rna ,  facilitating the subsequent purification or detection of the tagged rna by an experimental method .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that encodes an enzyme which covalently tags neighboring dna ,  facilitating the subsequent purification or detection of the tagged dna by an experimental method .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and that confers a specific property that can be used to facilitate the detection of a specific cell population by an experimental method .
sequence that forms all or part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and confers a specific property that can be used to stochastically label cells in the same sample with different colors of fluorescent protein .
sequence that forms part of the protein product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which allows the tagged protein product to be cleaved  ( broken into smaller molecules by the rupture of a covalent bond )  by a specific process that can be regulated by binding to a small molecule ,  such as an ion or ligand .
catalytically inactive fragment of a recombinase .
sequence that has a property that allows specific binding to another macromolecule .
sequence that has a property that allows specific binding to another macromolecule ,  where this property can be regulated in response to a particular stimulus .
sequence that has a property that allows specific binding to another macromolecule ,  where this property can be regulated by irradiation with a pulse of light .
sequence that has a property that allows specific binding to another macromolecule ,  where this property can be regulated by temperature .
sequence that has a property that allows specific binding to another macromolecule ,  where this property can be regulated by binding to a small molecule ,  such as an ion or ligand .
an enzyme that catalyzes hydrolysis of dna in a site - specific manner ,  having a cognate recognition site of 20 - 30bp .
work consisting of speeches read or delivered before an audience or class ,  especially for instruction or to set forth some subject .
an immunoglobulin molecule having a specific amino acid sequence that gives each antibody the ability to adhere to and interact with the antigen that induced its synthesis and with molecules containing structures similar to that antigen .
phenotype expressed only in the presence or absence of light ,  which may be white light or particular wavelength ( s )  .
an antibody whose domain architecture has been engineered in vitro .
an engineered antibody consisting of the antigen - binding variable domain  ( vhh domain )  of a camelid single - domain heavy chain antibody  ( hcab )  .
an engineered antibody consisting of the heavy  ( vh )  and light  ( vl )  chains of an immunoglobulin ,  separated by a short flexible linker peptide and expressed as a single fusion protein .
an rmce target element contains a region of dna sequence flanked by a pair of target sites for a recombinase or an integrase ,  which are arranged such that this target sequence cassette can be replaced with donor sequence from a compatible rmce donor element via recombination - mediated cassette exchange  ( rmce )  .
an rmce donor element contains a region of dna sequence flanked by a pair of target sites for a recombinase or an integrase ,  which are arranged such that this donor sequence cassette can be used to replace target sequence of a compatible rmce target element via recombination - mediated cassette exchange  ( rmce )  .
a docking element is an element that has been introduced into a site in the genome to allow integration of dna at a defined location ;  this neutralizes the problem of position effects that are seen with non - specific insertion techniques such as transposable - element - mediated transgenesis .
sequence that forms all or part of a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which can be used to modify an rna of interest in a defined manner .
an enzyme that catalyzes hydrolysis of rna in a site - specific manner ,  and in which the specificity is determined by a guide rna that contains sequence complementary to the target rna sequence of interest ,  rather than being an inherent property of the ribonuclease itself .
sequence that forms part of the gene product encoded by a transgenic locus or modified endogenous locus and which results in the tagged gene product being targeted for degradation ,  where this property can be regulated by irradiation with a pulse of light .
present in the correct location but in smaller numbers than in wild - type .
anatomical structure that would be present in wild - type is not present .
phenotype that is any abnormality in anesthesia - resistant memory  ( go:0007615 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in short - term memory  ( go:0007614 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in medium - term memory  ( go:0072375 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in long - term memory  ( go:0007616 )  .
phenotype that is any abnormality in body weight compared to identically raised wild - type controls .
phenotype that is an increase in body weight compared to identically raised wild - type controls .
phenotype that is a decrease in body weight compared to identically raised wild - type controls .
a phenotype that is an increase in the size of the whole body or some body part compared to wild - type .
a phenotype that is a decrease in the size of the whole body or some body part compared to wild - type .
phenotype that is an increase in the rate of phototaxis  ( go:0042331 )  .
phenotype that is a decrease in the rate of phototaxis  ( go:0042331 )  .
phenotype that is an increase in the rate of cell adhesion  ( go:0007155 )  .
phenotype that is a decrease in the rate of cell adhesion  ( go:0007155 )  .
phenotype that is an increase in the total amount or frequency of sleep  ( go:0030431 )  over a given time interval ,  compared to wild - type .
phenotype that is a decrease in the total amount or frequency of sleep  ( go:0030431 )  over a given time interval ,  compared to wild - type .
phenotype that is an increase in the total amount or frequency of feeding behavior  ( go:0007631 )  over a given time interval ,  compared to wild - type .
phenotype that is a decrease in the total amount or frequency of feeding behavior  ( go:0007631 )  over a given time interval ,  compared to wild - type .
