the abundance of a chemical  ( if chemical synthesis is not known )  .
a biochemical event resulting in a new chemical product .
the addition of an ethyl group .
the movement of a molecule out of a cell  ( by more specific means than secretion )  .
the bending and positioning of a molecule to achieve conformational integrity .
the addition of a geranoyl group .
the non - enzymatic addition of a sugar .
the addition of a hydroxy group .
the splitting of a molecule via the specific use of water .
the movement of a molecule into a cell  ( by more specific means than uptake )  .
the genetic alteration of a gene product .
the addition of an acetyl group .
the loss of electrons .
the gain of electrons .
the addition of a ribosyl group .
any general biochemical or molecular event .
overall propensity of molecules to degradation .
the movement of a molecule into a cell  ( by less specific means than import )  .
involving the use of two or more chemicals simultaneously .
an elemental function of a molecule .
the addition of an acyl group .
the addition of an alkyl group .
the addition of an amine group .
the addition of a adp - ribosyl group .
the processing or splitting of a molecule ,  not necessarily leading to the destruction of the molecule .
the addition of a carboxyl group .
the selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric ,  interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
a protein glycosylation process in which a sugar unit is added to a protein via the n4 atom of peptidyl - asparagine ,  the omega - n of arginine ,  or the n1' atom peptidyl - tryptophan .
a protein glycosylation process in which a sugar unit is added to a protein via the hydroxyl group of peptidyl - serine ,  peptidyl - threonine ,  peptidyl - hydroxylysine ,  or peptidyl - hydroxyproline ,  or via the phenol group of peptidyl - tyrosine ,  forming an o - glycan .
the covalent attachment of lipid groups to an amino acid in a protein .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
the process of removing sections of the primary rna transcript to remove sequences not present in the mature form of the rna and joining the remaining sections to form the mature form of the rna .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  including the breakdown of carbon compounds with the liberation of energy for use by the cell or organism .
the process in which a gene's sequence is converted into a mature gene product or products  ( proteins or rna )  .
the protein modification process in which a glutathione molecule is added to a protein amino acid through a disulfide linkage .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into a molecule ,  usually with the formation of a phosphoric ester ,  a phosphoric anhydride or a phosphoric amide .
the process in which one or more ubiquitin groups are added to a protein .
the process in which a sumo protein  ( small ubiquitin - related modifier )  is conjugated to a target protein via an isopeptide bond between the carboxyl terminus of sumo with an epsilon - amino group of a lysine residue of the target protein .
the covalent addition of a nitric oxide group to an amino acid within a protein .
the addition of a nucleotide to a protein amino acid .
the covalent attachment of a prenyl group to a protein ;  geranyl ,  farnesyl ,  or geranylgeranyl groups may be added .
the covalent attachment of a farnesyl group to a protein .
the covalent attachment of a palmitoyl group to a protein .
the covalent attachment of a myristoyl group to a protein .
the modification of a protein by amino acid glucuronidation .
the process in which a methyl group is covalently attached to a molecule .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the controlled release of a substance by a cell ,  a group of cells ,  or a tissue .
the addition of a carbamoyl group to a protein amino acid .
any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in a specific location .
the addition of a sulfate group to a molecule .
the covalent attachment of a glycosyl residue to a substrate molecule .
