the concept has value type x"
the concept is assessed by x"
the concept is opposite of x"
the concept is timed observation of x"
the concept is duration of x"
the concept is probability of x"
the concept has nominal value x"
the concept has canonical value x"
mental health status .
the subjective measurement of an individual's sense of well - being and ability to enjoy life .
the probability of benefit to individuals in a defined population from a medical technology applied for a given medical problem under ideal conditions of use .
the state of the body as influenced by the diet and the ability of the diet to maintain an overall healthy condition .
a subject domain utilized for the submission of information encompassing and representing data ,  vocabulary or records related to healthcare resource utilization .
a measure of how well a patient is able to perform ordinary tasks and carry out daily activities .
the bodily processes that include arousal ,  erection ,  orgasm ,  and ejaculation .
the amount of money needed to buy ,  do or make something or the amount paid ,  charged ,  or engaged to be paid ,  for purchasing goods ,  services and financial instruments .
the state of being certain that adverse effects will not be caused by some agent under defined conditions .
the act of abiding by a stated treatment plan or protocol or the extent to which a patient conforms to medical advice regarding prescribed regimen ,  lifestyle ,  dietary changes ,  follow - up schedule and other recommendations .
a type of safety study that assesses the degree to which overt adverse effects can be tolerated by the subject .
the finding of bodily harm due to the poisonous effects of something .
any unfavorable or unintended disease ,  sign ,  or symptom  ( including an abnormal laboratory finding )  that is temporally associated with the use of a medical treatment or procedure ,  and that may or may not be considered related to the medical treatment or procedure .
a disease or condition that extends beyond the site and spreads into adjacent tissues and regional lymph nodes .
a biological process that involves the transfer and growth of cancer cells from the site of the primary tumor .
a measure of the time until death from any cause .
a pathologic process in which alterations at the molecular level result in a more aggressive cytologic and phenotypic profile and clinical course of a neoplasm or a disease process that is increasing in scope or severity or a pathologic process in which alterations at the molecular level result in a more aggressive cytologic and phenotypic profile and clinical course of a malignant neoplasm or process of disease spreading and / or increase of its severity or the worsening of a disease over time .
an assessment of the overall response of the disease to the therapy .
the length of time after treatment for a specific disease during which a patient survives with no sign of recurrence of the disease .
a tumor composed of atypical neoplastic ,  often pleomorphic cells that invade other tissues .
the length of time after treatment during which a patient survives with no sign of a particular complication of disease .
something that happens at a given place and time .
the lack of expected or desired effect related to a therapy .
the return of a disease after a period of remission .
the disappearance of all signs of cancer in response to treatment .
the reemergence of a malignant neoplasm after a period of remission .
the disappearance of all signs of cancer ,  supported by pathological examination .
the most clinically favorable response recorded from the start of the study treatment until the end of treatment .
an evaluation of the clinical response of the disease to the therapy .
the ratio of deaths in an area to the population of that area ,  expressed as deaths per 1000 per year .
cancer that is neither decreasing nor increasing in extent or severity .
the amount of prostate specific antigen is increased ,  based on pre - defined thresholds .
the sensation of discomfort ,  distress ,  or agony ,  resulting from the stimulation of specialized nerve endings or a disorder characterized by the sensation of marked discomfort ,  distress or agony .
any immune system response of an organisms to an internal or invasive threat .
the term was used in various ways in the past ,  to describe unintended effects of medical intervention ,  usually negative  ( unfavourable )  ,  but also positive  ( favourable )  ones .
the cessation of life or a cessation of life that cannot be attributed to a ctcae term associated with grade 5 .
information collected directly from a patient that typically includes subjective feelings regarding symptoms ,  functions in daily life ,  physical ,  mental ,  emotional ,  spiritual ,  and social well being ,  and satisfaction with his / her health care .
morbidity ;  the relative incidence of a particular disease in a population .
overall tiredness and lack of energy or a disorder characterized by a state of generalized weakness with a pronounced inability to summon sufficient energy to accomplish daily activities .
a disorder resulting from the presence and activity of a microbial ,  viral ,  fungal ,  or parasitic agent .
an abatement in intensity or degree  ( as in the manifestations of a disease )  .
any disease or disorder that occurs during the course of ,  or because of ,  another disease ,  treatment ,  or procedure .
a general indicator of the body fat an individual is carrying based upon the ratio of weight to height .
a scanning procedure used to measure calcium and other minerals present in bone .
an evaluation of the pathologic response of the disease to the therapy .
the condition of being treated as a patient in a hospital .
any expected or unexpected adverse event ,  related or unrelated to the intervention ,  occurring at any agent dose ,  any phase of product or procedure testing ,  that results in any of the following outcomes: death ,  a life - threatening adverse event ,  requires inpatient hospitalization  ( not required as part of the treatment )  or prolongation of existing hospitalization ,  a persistent or significant disability or incapacity ,  or cancer ,  or a congenital anomaly or birth defect .
a sensation of discomfort secondary to surgery .
the act of cutting out ;  the surgical removal of part or all of a structure or organ .
a question about the intensity of an individual's pain .
loss of blood from the circulation ,  either internally or externally .
a melancholy feeling of sadness and despair or a disorder characterized by melancholic feelings of grief or unhappiness .
an index designed for classifying patients 16 years of age or older by their functional impairment .
protected against infectious disease by either specific or non - specific mechanisms .
a finding indicating that there is a decrease in the size and the extent of tissue involvement by a malignant tumor in a patient .
a symptom or state of reduced quality or strength .
the vertical force exerted by a mass as a result of gravity or the relative importance granted to something .
red discoloration of the skin caused by infectious agents ,  inflammation ,  drug hypersensitivity ,  or underlying disease .
a substance present in or produced by a tumor or by the host ,  that can be used for differentiating neoplastic from normal tissue based on measurements in body fluids ,  secretions ,  cells ,  and / or tissues .
a psychometric response scale to assess subjective characteristics or symptoms ,  which relies upon a continuum of possible result values in between two fixed end - points .
a period in a clinical study during which subjects receive therapeutic treatment or an action or administration of therapeutic agents to produce an effect that is intended to alter or stop a pathologic process or the act of the dispensing ,  applying ,  or tendering of something to another ,  such as administration of a medicine or subject to a process with the aim of readying for some purpose ,  improving ,  or remedying a condition or an action or administration of therapeutic agents to produce an effect that is intended to alter the course of a pathologic process .
accumulation of an excessive amount of fluid in cells or intercellular tissues .
any of the mental or physical manifestations that accompany perimenopause and menopause .
a tool for the assessment of pain in both clinical and research settings .
a reduction in total body weight or a question about the usual severity of an individual's weight loss or a question about how often an individual has or had weight loss or a question about an individual's distress from their weight loss or a finding characterized by a decrease in overall body weight ;  for pediatrics ,  less than the baseline growth curve or a question about whether an individual has or had weight loss .
the disappearance of all signs of cancer based on physical exam ,  such as palpation .
a metastatic cancer cell found in the peripheral blood or the determination of the amount of circulating tumor cells present in a sample .
those physical activities which are required for our daily existence .
an evaluation of the hematologic response of the disease to the therapy .
a lessening of pain following an intervention .
the collection of promis item scales that assess perceived difficulties in intellectual processes ,  capabilities ,  and deficits .
apprehension of danger and dread accompanied by restlessness ,  tension ,  tachycardia ,  and dyspnea unattached to a clearly identifiable stimulus or a disorder characterized by apprehension of danger and dread accompanied by restlessness ,  tension ,  tachycardia ,  and dyspnea unattached to a clearly identifiable stimulus .
a self - administered questionnaire designed to evaluate patient function and bother after prostate cancer treatment .
a disorder characterized by loss of skin pigment or abnormal lightening of skin due to decreased melanin production or deposition .
a disorder characterized by darkening of the skin due to excessive melanin deposition or darkening of the skin due to excessive melanin deposition .
symptomatic fracture ,  surgery or radiation to bone ,  or spinal cord compression
gas or air in the gastrointestinal tract .
toxicity that impairs or damages the heart .
the flow of blood from a ruptured blood vessel .
a carcinoma arising from the breast ,  most commonly the terminal ductal - lobular unit .
the collection of promis item scales that assess an individual's ability to carry out activities that require physical actions including more complex activities that require a combination of skills ,  often within a social context .
a performance status scale designed to assess disease progression and its affect on the daily living abilities of the patient .
a measure of the health of a population that combines an assessment of both mortality and disability .
an intense reaction  ( usually immunologic )  developing at the site of injection or a disorder characterized by an intense adverse reaction  ( usually immunologic )  developing at the site of an injection .
a 9 - item questionnaire ,  developed by cleeland and mendoza ,  designed to assess the severity of fatigue and the impact of fatigue on daily functioning in cancer patients .
a group of neurologic disorders caused by damage to the nervous system following exposure to pharmacologic ,  biologic ,  and chemical agents .
an infection that occurs at a surgical site within 30 days after an operation .
expelling the contents of the stomach and the sensations associated with it .
a disorder characterized by a queasy sensation and / or the urge to vomit or a question about whether an individual is or was bothered by nausea or a question about the usual severity of an individual's nausea or a question about whether a person has or had nausea or a question about how often an individual has or had nausea or a question about how much nausea an individual experienced during the specified time period or a question about an individual's distress from their nausea or upper abdominal discomfort associated with an urge to vomit .
painful sensation in the bones or a disorder characterized by marked discomfort sensation in the bones .
a standard terminology developed to report adverse events occurring in cancer clinical trials .
standard parameters to be used when documenting response of solid tumors to treatment ;  a set of published rules that define when cancer patients improve  ( ''respond'' )  ,  stay the same  ( ''stable'' )  ,  or worsen  ( ''progression'' )  during treatments .
a diagnostic or treatment procedure performed by manual and / or instrumental means ,  often involving an incision and the removal or replacement of a diseased organ or tissue ;  of or relating to or involving or used in surgery or requiring or amenable to treatment by surgery or the branch of medical science that treats disease or injury by operative procedures .
a medical specialty concerned with the skin ,  its structure ,  functions ,  diseases ,  and treatment .
a disorder characterized by an reduction in the amount of hemoglobin in 100 ml of blood .
a laboratory finding indicating decreased number of hematopoietic cells in the bone marrow .
a disorder characterized by systemic pathological activation of blood clotting mechanisms which results in clot formation throughout the body .
neutropenia associated with fever ,  the latter indicating the presence of an infection or a disorder characterized by an anc  < 1000 / mm3 and a single temperature of  > 38 .3 degrees c  ( 101 degrees f )  or a sustained temperature of  > =38 degrees c  ( 100 .4 degrees f )  for more than one hour
a disorder characterized by laboratory test results that indicate widespread erythrocyte cell membrane destruction or disruption of the integrity of the erythrocyte membrane causing release of hemoglobin or the determination of the amount of destruction of red blood cells present in a sample .
a disorder characterized by a form of thrombotic microangiopathy with renal failure ,  hemolytic anemia ,  and severe thrombocytopenia or acute kidney injury associated with microangiopathic hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia .
a disorder characterized by laboratory test results that indicate an increased number of white blood cells in the blood or a laboratory test result indicating an increased number of white blood cells in the peripheral blood .
a painful sensation in a lymph node or a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in a lymph node .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the spleen .
a coagulation disorder characterized by extensive formation of thrombi in small blood vessels throughout the body due to low levels of adamts13 protein ,  and resulting in consumption of circulating platelets ,  which is characterized by thrombocytopenia ,  anemia ,  neurologic changes ,  and sometimes fever and renal dysfunction or a disorder characterized by the presence of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia ,  thrombocytopenic purpura ,  fever ,  renal abnormalities and neurological abnormalities such as seizures ,  hemiplegia ,  and visual disturbances .
signs and symptoms related to acute ischemia of the myocardium secondary to coronary artery disease .
a heart disorder characterized by a defect in aortic valve structure or function or a disorder characterized by a defect in aortic valve function or structure .
a disorder characterized by a dysrhythmia without cardiac electrical activity .
a disorder characterized by a dysrhythmia without discernible p waves and an irregular ventricular response due to multiple reentry circuits .
a disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of an organized ,  regular atrial rhythm with atrial rate of 240 - 340 beats per minute .
a disorder characterized by a dysrhythmia with complete failure of atrial electrical impulse conduction through the av node to the ventricles or a disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of complete failure of atrial electrical impulse conduction to the ventricles .
a disorder characterized by a dysrhythmia with a delay in the time required for the conduction of an electrical impulse through the atrioventricular  ( av )  node beyond 0 .2 seconds ;  prolongation of the pr interval greater than 200 milliseconds or a disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of prolonged pr interval for a specific population .
paroxysms of chest pain due to reduced oxygen to the heart or a disorder characterized by substernal discomfort due to insufficient myocardial oxygenation .
a disorder affecting the conduction system that sends electrical signals in the myocardium or a disorder characterized by pathological irregularities in the cardiac conduction system .
a disorder characterized by a thickened and fibrotic pericardial sac ;  these fibrotic changes impede normal myocardial function by restricting myocardial muscle action or a heart disorder in which the pericardial sac becomes thickened and fibrotic ,  tightening the myocardium and impeding the normal myocardial function .
a disorder characterized by the inability of the heart to pump blood at an adequate volume to meet tissue metabolic requirements ,  or ,  the ability to do so only at an elevation in the filling pressure or inability of the heart to pump blood at an adequate rate to meet tissue metabolic requirements .
a disorder characterized by failure of the left ventricle to produce adequate output despite an increase in distending pressure and in end - diastolic volume .
a heart disorder characterized by a defect in mitral valve structure or function or a disorder characterized by a defect in mitral valve function or structure .
a disorder characterized by a dysrhythmia with relatively constant pr interval prior to the block of an atrial impulse .
a disorder characterized by a dysrhythmia with a progressively lengthening pr interval prior to the blocking of an atrial impulse .
a disorder characterized by gross necrosis of the myocardium ;  this is due to an interruption of blood supply to the area or an electrocardiographic assessment of findings that suggest the occurrence of a myocardial infarction or an electrocardiographic finding of pathologic q waves ,  which is suggestive of myocardial infarction of one or more regions of the heart .
inflammation of the muscle tissue of the heart or a disorder characterized by inflammation of the muscle tissue of the heart .
an unpleasant sensation of irregular and / or forceful beating of the heart or a disorder characterized by an unpleasant sensation of irregular and / or forceful beating of the heart .
a disorder characterized by a dysrhythmia with abrupt onset and sudden termination of atrial contractions with a rate of 150 - 250 beats per minute .
fluid collection within the pericardial sac ,  usually due to inflammation or a disorder characterized by fluid collection within the pericardial sac ,  usually due to inflammation .
a disorder characterized by an increase in intrapericardial pressure due to the collection of blood or fluid in the pericardium or acute compression of the heart caused by increased intrapericardial pressure due to the collection of blood or fluid in the pericardium from rupture of the heart ,  penetrating trauma ,  or progressive effusion .
a disorder characterized by irritation to the layers of the pericardium  ( the protective sac around the heart )  or an inflammatory process affecting the pericardium .
a heart disorder characterized by a defect in pulmonary valve structure or function or a disorder characterized by a defect in pulmonary valve function or structure .
a disorder characterized by an inability of the ventricles to fill with blood because the myocardium  ( heart muscle )  stiffens and loses its flexibility or restrictive cardiomyopathy resulting from a known treatment or a type of heart disorder referring to the inability of the ventricles to fill with blood because the myocardium  ( heart muscle )  stiffens and looses its flexibility .
a disorder characterized by impairment of right ventricular function associated with low ejection fraction and a decrease in motility of the right ventricular wall or impairment of the right ventricular function associated with low ejection fraction and decreased motility of the right ventricular wall .
a disorder characterized by a dysrhythmia with alternating periods of bradycardia and atrial tachycardia accompanied by syncope ,  fatigue and dizziness or a constellation of signs and symptoms which may include syncope ,  fatigue ,  dizziness ,  and alternating periods of bradycardia and atrial tachycardia ,  which is caused by sinoatrial node dysfunction .
a disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of abnormally slow heart rate with its origin in the sinus node .
a disorder characterized by a dysrhythmia with a heart rate greater than 100 beats per minute that originates in the sinus node or a disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of abnormally rapid heart rate with its origin in the sinus node .
a disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of a tachycardia which does not originate in the ventricles or his purkinje system .
a disorder characterized by a defect in tricuspid valve function or structure or a heart disorder characterized by a defect in tricuspid valve structure or function .
an electrocardiographic finding of an atypical cardiac rhythm resulting from a pathologic process in the cardiac ventricles or a disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of an atypical cardiac rhythm resulting from a pathologic process in the cardiac ventricles or a disorder characterized by a dysrhythmia that originates in the ventricles .
a disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of a rapid grossly irregular ventricular rhythm with marked variability in qrs cycle length ,  morphology ,  and amplitude .
a disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of three or more consecutive complexes of ventricular origin with a rate greater than a certain threshold  ( 100 or 120 beats per minute are commonly used )  .
a disorder characterized by the presence of an accessory conductive pathway between the atria and the ventricles that causes premature ventricular activation or a cardiac conduction disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of ventricular pre - excitation ,  which is a short pr interval and a long qrs interval with a delta wave .
a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the ear or painful sensation in the ear region .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the outer ear and ear canal .
painful sensation in the external ear region or a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the external ear region .
partial or complete loss of the ability to detect or understand sounds resulting from damage to the outer ,  middle ,  or inner ear structures .
inflammation of the anatomical structures of the middle ear secondary to an infectious process .
abnormal perception of sounds experienced by an individual in the absence of auditory stimulation or a disorder characterized by noise in the ears ,  such as ringing ,  buzzing ,  roaring or clicking .
a disorder characterized by a sensation as if the external world were revolving around the patient  ( objective vertigo )  or as if he himself were revolving in space  ( subjective vertigo )  or a feeling of movement ,  a sensation as if the external world were revolving around the patient  ( objective vertigo )  or as if he himself were revolving in space  ( subjective vertigo )  .
a disorder characterized by dizziness ,  imbalance ,  nausea ,  and vision problems or a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the inner ear .
an endocrine or hormonal disorder that occurs when the adrenal cortex does not produce enough of the hormone cortisol and in some cases ,  the hormone aldosterone .
a constellation of signs and symptoms caused by an excess of glucocorticoids .
a disorder characterized by unusually late sexual maturity or unusually late sexual maturity .
a finding indicating a faster than normal rate of development or a disorder characterized by greater growth than expected for age .
a disorder characterized by an increase in production of parathyroid hormone by the parathyroid glands .
overactivity of the thyroid gland resulting in overproduction of thyroid hormone and increased metabolic rate .
an endocrine disorder characterized by decreased production of parathyroid hormone by the parathyroid glands .
a disorder characterized by a decrease in production of thyroid hormone by the thyroid gland or abnormally low levels of thyroid hormone .
a disorder characterized by unusually early development of secondary sexual features ;  the onset of sexual maturation begins usually before age 8 for girls and before age 9 for boys or unusually early sexual maturity .
a disorder characterized by inappropriate masculinization occurring in a female or prepubertal male or the development of normal male puberty due to testosterone effect or the abnormal development of male secondary sexual characteristics in children and females due to excessive androgens or the abnormal development of male secondary sexual characteristics due to excessive androgens .
blurred vision is the loss of visual acuity  ( sharpness of vision )  resulting in a loss of ability to see small details .
a disorder characterized by partial or complete opacity of the crystalline lens of one or both eyes .
a disorder characterized by inflammation ,  swelling and redness to the conjunctiva of the eye or inflammation of the conjunctiva of the eye .
area of epithelial tissue loss from corneal surface ;  associated with inflammatory cells in the cornea and anterior chamber or a disorder characterized by an area of epithelial tissue loss on the surface of the cornea .
a syndrome characterized by dryness of the cornea and conjunctiva .
a slight or incomplete paralysis of an extraocular muscle or a disorder characterized by incomplete paralysis of an extraocular muscle .
painful sensation in the eye or a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the eye .
a disorder characterized by impaired eyelid function or a disorder characterized by impaired eyelid function .
a disorder characterized by a sudden or brief burst of light or the perception of sudden or brief bursts  ( flashes )  of light .
spots before the eyes caused by opaque cell fragments in the vitreous humor or lens or spots before the eyes caused by opaque cell fragments in the vitreous humor or lens or a disorder characterized by an individual seeing spots before their eyes .
a disorder characterized by an increase in pressure in the eyeball due to obstruction of the aqueous humor outflow or increased pressure in the eyeball due to obstruction of the outflow of aqueous humor .
a disorder characterized by inflammation to the cornea of the eye or inflammation of the cornea .
a disorder characterized by an inability to see clearly in dim light or an inability to see clearly in dim light ;  due to a deficiency of vitamin a or to a retinal disorder .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the optic nerve  ( second cranial nerve )  or a disorder characterized by involvement of the optic nerve  ( second cranial nerve )  .
a disorder characterized by swelling around the optic disc or swelling around the optic disc ,  usually due to increased intracranial pressure or pressure on the optic nerve by a tumor .
increased sensitivity of the eyes to light ,  which can result in the avoidance of light exposure or a disorder characterized by fear and avoidance of light .
a disorder characterized by the separation of the inner retina layers from the underlying pigment epithelium or an eye emergency condition which may lead to blindness if left untreated .
a disorder characterized by a small laceration of the retina ,  this occurs when the vitreous separates from the retina .
retinal damage resulting from diminished blood flow / oxygenation due to abnormalities of the retinal vessels .
a disorder involving the retina or any disease or disorder of the retina .
a disorder affecting the sclera .
an inflammatory process affecting a part of or the entire uvea .
blood extravasation in the vitreous humor .
tearing eyes ;  a condition caused either by tear overproduction or impaired drainage of the tear duct .
a disorder characterized by swelling of the abdomen or swelling of the abdomen resulting from excessive food intake ,  malnutrition ,  liver disease ,  primary abdominal tumors ,  and tumors metastatic to the abdominal cavity .
a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the abdominal region or painful sensation in the abdominal region .
a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between the opening in the anal canal to the perianal skin or a pathologic tract that connects an opening in the anal canal to the perianal skin .
a disorder characterized by bleeding from the anal region or bleeding originating from the anal area .
an inflammatory process affecting the mucous membrane of the anus or a disorder characterized by inflammation of the mucous membrane of the anus .
a disorder characterized by a necrotic process occurring in the anal region or a necrotic process involving the area of the anus .
a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the anal region or painful sensation in the anal region .
a disorder characterized by a narrowing of the lumen of the anal canal or narrowing of the anal canal .
a painful tear in the lining of the anal canal ,  often accompanied by bleeding on defecation .
a disorder characterized by accumulation of serous or hemorrhagic fluid in the peritoneal cavity or the accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity ,  which may be serous ,  hemorrhagic ,  or the result of tumor metastasis to the peritoneum .
distention of the abdomen associated with a feeling of fullness or a disorder characterized by subject - reported feeling of uncomfortable fullness of the abdomen .
bleeding originating in the cecum or a disorder characterized by bleeding from the cecum .
a disorder characterized by inflammation of the lip or an inflammatory process affecting the lip .
a disorder characterized by inflammation of the colon or inflammation of the colon .
an abnormal communication between the large intestine and another organ or cavity or a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between the large intestine and another organ or anatomic site .
a disorder characterized by bleeding from the colon or bleeding originating from the colon .
a disorder characterized by blockage of the normal flow of the intestinal contents in the colon or blockage of the normal flow of the intestinal contents in the colon .
a disorder characterized by a rupture in the colonic wall or a rupture in the colonic wall due to traumatic or pathologic processes .
narrowing of the lumen of colon or a disorder characterized by a narrowing of the lumen of the colon .
a circumscribed inflammatory and necrotic erosive lesion in the mucosa surface of the colon or a disorder characterized by a circumscribed ,  inflammatory and necrotic erosive lesion on the mucosal surface of the colon .
a disorder characterized by irregular and infrequent or difficult evacuation of the bowels or a question about whether an individual is or has been constipated or a question about how often an individual has or had constipation or a question about the usual severity of an individual's constipation or a question about an individual's distress from their constipation or irregular and infrequent or difficult evacuation of the bowels .
a disorder characterized by the decay of a tooth ,  in which it becomes softened ,  discolored and / or porous or the decay of a tooth ,  in which it becomes softened ,  discolored ,  and / or porous .
watery bowel movements or a question about whether an individual has or had diarrhea or a disorder characterized by frequent and watery bowel movements or a question about the usual severity of an individual's diarrhea or a question about an individual's distress from their diarrhea or a question about how often an individual has or had diarrhea .
a question about the usual severity of an individual's dry mouth or a disorder characterized by reduced salivary flow in the oral cavity or a question about how often an individual has or had dry mouth or a question about whether an individual has or had a dry mouth or a question about an individual's distress from their dry mouth or dryness of the oral mucosa secondary to a decrease in saliva production ,  or a change in saliva composition .
a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between the duodenum and another organ or anatomic site or an abnormal communication between the duodenum and another organ or cavity .
a disorder characterized by bleeding from the duodenum or bleeding originating from the duodenum .
a disorder characterized by blockage of the normal flow of stomach contents through the duodenum or blockage of the normal flow of stomach contents through the duodenum .
a rupture in the duodenal wall due to traumatic or pathologic processes or a disorder characterized by a rupture in the duodenal wall .
a disorder characterized by a narrowing of the lumen of the duodenum or narrowing of the lumen of the duodenum .
a disorder characterized by a circumscribed ,  inflammatory and necrotic erosive lesion on the mucosal surface of the duodenal wall or an ulcer in the duodenal wall .
an uncomfortable ,  often painful feeling in the stomach ,  resulting from impaired digestion .
a symptom referring to difficulty in swallowing .
an inflammatory process affecting the small intestine and colon .
an abnormal communication between the urinary bladder and the intestine or a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between the urinary bladder and the intestine .
an abnormal communication between the esophagus and another organ or anatomic site or a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between the esophagus and another organ or anatomic site .
a disorder characterized by bleeding from the esophagus or bleeding originating from the esophagus .
a disorder characterized by a necrotic process occurring in the esophageal wall or a necrotic process involving the esophageal wall .
a disorder characterized by blockage of the normal flow of the contents in the esophagus or blockage of the normal flow of the contents in the esophagus .
painful sensation in the esophageal region or a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the esophageal region .
a disorder characterized by a rupture in the wall of the esophagus or the presence of a hole or other type of opening in the esophageal wall through which the contents of the esophagus can pass into the mediastinum .
a disorder characterized by a narrowing of the lumen of the esophagus or narrowing of the lumen of the esophagus .
a disorder characterized by a circumscribed ,  inflammatory and necrotic erosive lesion on the mucosal surface of the esophageal wall or an ulcerated lesion in the esophageal wall .
bleeding from esophageal varices or a disorder characterized by bleeding from esophageal varices .
a disorder characterized by inflammation of the esophageal wall or an acute or chronic inflammatory process affecting the esophageal wall .
a disorder characterized by inability to control the escape of stool from the rectum or involuntary passage of stool from the rectum .
a disorder characterized by a state of excessive gas in the alimentary canal or a state of excessive gas in the alimentary canal .
an abnormal communication between the stomach and another organ or anatomic site or a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between the stomach and another organ or anatomic site .
bleeding from the gastric wall or a disorder characterized by bleeding from the gastric wall .
a necrotic process affecting the gastric wall or a disorder characterized by a necrotic process occurring in the gastric wall .
a rupture in the gastric wall caused by traumatic or pathologic processes or a disorder characterized by a rupture in the stomach wall .
narrowing of the lumen of the stomach or a disorder characterized by a narrowing of the lumen of the stomach .
an ulcerated lesion in the mucosal surface of the stomach .
a disorder characterized by inflammation of the stomach or inflammation of the stomach .
a disorder characterized by reflux of the gastric and / or duodenal contents into the distal esophagus .
a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between any part of the gastrointestinal system and another organ or anatomic site or an abnormal communication between any part of the digestive system and another organ or cavity .
a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the gastrointestinal region or painful sensation in the gastrointestinal region .
a disorder characterized by an incomplete paralysis of the muscles of the stomach wall resulting in delayed emptying of the gastric contents into the small intestine or paralysis of the muscles of the stomach wall resulting in delayed emptying of the gastric contents into the small intestine .
painful sensation in the gingival region or a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the gingival region .
bleeding from the hemorrhoids or a disorder characterized by bleeding from the hemorrhoids .
a disorder characterized by the presence of dilated veins in the rectum and surrounding area or dilated veins in the anal canal .
a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between the ileum and another organ or anatomic site or an abnormal communication between the ileum and another organ or cavity .
a disorder characterized by bleeding from the ileal wall or bleeding originating from the ileal wall .
a disorder characterized by blockage of the normal flow of the intestinal contents in the ileum or blockage of the normal flow of the small intestinal contents in the ileum .
a rupture in the ileal wall due to traumatic or a pathologic processes or a disorder characterized by a rupture in the ileal wall .
narrowing of the lumen of ileum or a disorder characterized by a narrowing of the lumen of the ileum .
a circumscribed inflammatory and necrotic erosive lesion in the mucosa surface of the ileum or a disorder characterized by a circumscribed ,  inflammatory and necrotic erosive lesion on the mucosal surface of the ileum .
decrease in peristalsis in the absence of a mechanical bowel obstruction or a disorder characterized by failure of the ileum to transport intestinal contents .
bleeding within the abdominal cavity or a disorder characterized by bleeding in the abdominal cavity .
a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between the jejunum and another organ or anatomic site or an abnormal communication between the jejunum and another organ or cavity .
bleeding originating from the jejunal wall or a disorder characterized by bleeding from the jejunal wall .
blockage of the normal flow of the small intestinal contents in the jejunum or a disorder characterized by blockage of the normal flow of the intestinal contents in the jejunum .
a disorder characterized by a rupture in the jejunal wall or a rupture in the jejunal wall due to traumatic or pathologic processes .
narrowing of the lumen of jejunum or a disorder characterized by a narrowing of the lumen of the jejunum .
a circumscribed inflammatory and necrotic erosive lesion in the mucosa surface of the jejunum or a disorder characterized by a circumscribed ,  inflammatory and necrotic erosive lesion on the mucosal surface of the jejunum .
painful sensation in the lip or a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort of the lip .
bleeding from the lower gastrointestinal tract  ( small intestine ,  large intestine ,  and anus )  or a disorder characterized by bleeding from the lower gastrointestinal tract  ( small intestine ,  large intestine ,  and anus )  .
a syndrome resulting from the inadequate absorption of nutrients in the small intestine .
inflammation of the oral mucosa due to local or systemic factors or a disorder characterized by inflammation of the oral mucosal .
a disorder characterized by blockage of the normal flow of the contents in the stomach or blockage of the normal flow of the contents in the stomach .
an abnormal communication between the oral cavity and the adjacent tissues or a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between the oral cavity and another organ or anatomic site .
a disorder characterized by a burning or tingling sensation on the lips ,  tongue or entire mouth or a condition characterized by a burning or tingling sensation on the lips ,  tongue ,  or entire mouth .
bleeding originating from the mouth or a disorder characterized by bleeding from the mouth .
painful sensation in the mouth ,  tongue ,  or lips or a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the mouth ,  tongue or lips .
narrowing of the lumen of the pancreatic duct or a disorder characterized by a narrowing of the lumen of the pancreatic duct .
a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between the pancreas and another organ or anatomic site or an abnormal communication between the pancreas and another organ or cavity .
bleeding originating from the pancreas or a disorder characterized by bleeding from the pancreas .
a disorder characterized by a necrotic process occurring in the pancreas or a necrotic process affecting the pancreas .
inflammation of the pancreas or a disorder characterized by inflammation of the pancreas .
a disorder in the gingival tissue around the teeth or an inflammatory process of the gingival tissues and / or periodontal membrane of the teeth ,  resulting in an abnormally deep gingival sulcus ,  possibly producing periodontal pockets and loss of alveolar bone support .
a necrotic process affecting the peritoneum or a disorder characterized by a necrotic process occurring in the peritoneum .
a disorder characterized by inflammation of the rectum or an inflammatory process affecting the anus .
a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between the rectum and another organ or anatomic site or an abnormal communication between the rectum and another organ or cavity .
a disorder characterized by bleeding from the rectal wall and discharged from the anus or bleeding originating from the rectal wall and discharged from the anus .
an inflammatory process affecting the mucous membrane of the rectum or a disorder characterized by inflammation of the mucous membrane of the rectum .
a disorder characterized by a necrotic process occurring in the rectal wall or a necrotic process involving the rectal wall .
a disorder characterized by blockage of the normal flow of the intestinal contents in the rectum or blockage of the normal flow of the intestinal contents in the rectum .
pain in the rectal area or a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the rectal region .
a disorder characterized by a rupture in the rectal wall or an rupture in the rectal wall due to traumatic or pathologic processes .
narrowing of the rectal lumen or a disorder characterized by a narrowing of the lumen of the rectum .
a disorder characterized by a circumscribed ,  inflammatory and necrotic erosive lesion on the mucosal surface of the rectum or a circumscribed inflammatory and necrotic erosive lesion in the mucosa surface of the rectum .
bleeding originating in the retroperitoneal area or a disorder characterized by bleeding from the retroperitoneal area .
an inflammatory process affecting the salivary duct or a disorder characterized by inflammation of the salivary duct .
an abnormal communication between a salivary gland and another organ or anatomic site or a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between a salivary gland and another organ or anatomic site .
an inflammatory process affecting the mucous membrane of the small intestine or a disorder characterized by inflammation of the mucous membrane of the small intestine .
blockage of the normal flow of the small intestinal contents or a disorder characterized by blockage of the normal flow of the intestinal contents .
a rupture in the wall of the small intestine due to traumatic or pathologic processes or a disorder characterized by a rupture in the small intestine wall .
a disorder characterized by a narrowing of the lumen of the small intestine or narrowing of the lumen of small intestine .
a disorder characterized by a circumscribed ,  inflammatory and necrotic erosive lesion on the mucosal surface of the small intestine or a circumscribed inflammatory and necrotic erosive lesion in the mucosa surface of the small intestine .
a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the stomach or a painful sensation in the stomach .
a disorder characterized by a pathological process of the teeth occurring during tooth development or a disorder of the teeth arising during odontogenesis .
a change in tooth color .
a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the tooth or a painful sensation originating from a tooth .
inflammation of the cecum ,  usually accompanied by neutropenia or a disorder characterized by inflammation of the cecum .
a disorder characterized by bleeding from the upper gastrointestinal tract  ( oral cavity ,  pharynx ,  esophagus ,  and stomach )  or bleeding originating from the upper gastrointestinal tract  ( oral cavity ,  pharynx ,  esophagus ,  and stomach )  .
a question about whether an individual has been vomiting or a question about an individual's distress from their vomiting or a disorder characterized by the reflexive act of ejecting the contents of the stomach through the mouth or a question about whether an individual is or was bothered by vomiting or a question about the usual severity of an individual's vomiting or a question about how often an individual vomits or vomited or forceful ejection of the contents of the stomach through the mouth .
shivering or moderate tremors of the body often accompanied by a cold sensation or a disorder characterized by a sensation of cold that often marks a physiologic response to sweating after a fever .
a disorder characterized by cessation of life occurring during the first 28 days of life or death of a live newborn during the first 28 days of life .
swelling due to an excessive accumulation of fluid in facial tissues or a disorder characterized by swelling due to excessive fluid accumulation in facial tissues .
a disorder characterized by swelling due to excessive fluid accumulation in the upper or lower extremities or swelling due to an excessive accumulation of fluid in the upper or lower extremities .
swelling due to an excessive accumulation of fluid in trunk area or a disorder characterized by swelling due to excessive fluid accumulation in the trunk area .
painful sensation in the face or a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the face .
a disorder characterized by elevation of the body's temperature above the upper limit of normal or elevation of body temperature above normal due to inflammatory or immune responses .
a disorder characterized by a group of symptoms similar to those observed in patients with the flu .
a finding referring to walking difficulties or a disorder characterized by walking difficulties .
abnormally low body temperature or a disorder characterized by an abnormally low body temperature .
a reaction to the infusion of pharmacological or biological substances .
a disorder characterized by leakage of a pharmacologic or a biologic substance from the infusion site into the surrounding tissue .
feelings of annoyance ,  impatience ,  and anger or a disorder characterized by an abnormal responsiveness to stimuli or physiological arousal ;  may be in response to pain ,  fright ,  a drug ,  an emotional situation or a medical condition or excited response to stimuli .
swelling due to an excessive accumulation of fluid at a specific anatomic site or a disorder characterized by swelling due to excessive fluid accumulation at a specific anatomic site .
a feeling of general discomfort or uneasiness ,  an out - of - sorts feeling or a disorder characterized by a feeling of general discomfort or uneasiness ,  an out - of - sorts feeling .
a disorder characterized by progressive deterioration of the lungs ,  liver ,  kidney and clotting mechanisms or complete impairment of two or more organs or organ systems .
a disorder characterized by swelling due to an accumulation of excessive fluid in the neck or swelling due to an accumulation of excessive fluid in the neck .
a disorder characterized by discomfort in the chest unrelated to a heart disorder or pain in the chest unrelated to a heart disorder .
an unexpected cessation of life that cannot be attributed to a ctcae term associated with grade 5 .
a disorder characterized by a narrowing of the lumen of the bile duct or narrowing or stricture of the bile duct .
an abnormal communication between the bile ducts and another organ or cavity or a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between the bile ducts and another organ or anatomic site .
a disorder characterized by inflammation involving the gallbladder .
a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between the gallbladder and another organ or anatomic site or an abnormal communication between the gallbladder and another organ or cavity .
a disorder characterized by a necrotic process occurring in the gallbladder or a necrotic process occurring in the gallbladder .
blockage of the normal flow of the contents of the gallbladder or a disorder characterized by blockage of the normal flow of the contents of the gallbladder .
a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the gallbladder region or painful sensation in the gallbladder region .
a disorder characterized by a rupture in the gallbladder wall or a rupture in the gallbladder wall caused by traumatic or pathologic processes .
a disorder characterized by the inability of the liver to metabolize chemicals in the body .
bleeding originating from the liver or a disorder characterized by bleeding from the liver .
a disorder characterized by a necrotic process occurring in the hepatic parenchyma or a necrotic process affecting the hepatic parenchyma .
a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the liver region or a painful sensation in the liver .
a rupture in the wall of the extrahepatic or intrahepatic bile duct due to traumatic or pathologic processes or a disorder characterized by a rupture in the wall of the extrahepatic or intrahepatic bile duct .
increased blood pressure in the portal venous system .
the formation of a blood clot  ( thrombus )  in the portal vein or a disorder characterized by the formation of a thrombus  ( blood clot )  in the portal vein .
an immune response that occurs following re - exposure to an innocuous antigen ,  and that requires the presence of existing antibodies against that antigen .
progression of anaphylaxis into systemic shock ,  which is characterized by significant reduction in tissue perfusion which leads to hypoxia and hypotension ,  and can lead to death if untreated or an acute hypersensitive immune response that occurs from exposure to an allergen .
a disorder resulting from loss of function or tissue destruction of an organ or multiple organs ,  arising from humoral or cellular immune responses of the individual to his own tissue constituents .
a syndrome that occurs after therapeutic infusion of antibodies into the blood and is characterized by nausea ,  headache ,  tachycardia ,  hypotension ,  rash ,  and shortness of breath .
delayed - type hypersensitivity reaction to foreign proteins derived from an animal serum .
infection in the abdominal cavity resulting from injury ,  acute intestinal inflammation  ( e .g . ,  acute appendicitis )  ,  intestinal perforation ,  or complication of abdominal surgery or a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the abdominal cavity .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the anal area and the rectum or an infectious process affecting the anal area and the rectum .
a disorder characterized by acute inflammation to the vermiform appendix caused by a pathogenic agent or acute inflammation of the vermiform appendix .
acute appendicitis with gangrenous changes resulting in the rupture of the appendiceal wall .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving an artery or a bacterial or viral infectious process affecting an artery .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the biliary tract or an acute or chronic inflammatory process affecting the biliary tract .
an infectious process affecting the urinary bladder or a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the bladder or inflammation of the urinary bladder .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the bones or an acute or chronic infectious process affecting the bones .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the breast or inflammation of breast tissue during lactation or postpartum due to an obstructed duct or infection .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the bronchi or an acute or chronic inflammatory process affecting the bronchi .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process that arises secondary to catheter use or an infection that arises secondary to catheter use .
an infectious process affecting the cecum or a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the cecum .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the uterine cervix or an infectious process affecting the uterine cervix .
an infectious process affecting the conjunctiva or acute inflammation of the conjunctiva characterized by pink or red color in the eyes or a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the conjunctiva .
a viral or bacterial infectious process affecting the cornea .
an infectious process affecting a cranial nerve or a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving a cranial nerve .
an infectious disorder caused by the use of a medical device or a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the use of a medical device or a bacterial infection related to a device used to replace a missing body part .
an infectious process affecting the duodenum or a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the duodenum .
an acute infectious process that affects the brain tissue .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the brain and spinal cord tissues or an infectious process that affects the brain and spinal cord tissues .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the endocardial layer of the heart or an infectious process involving the endocardial layer of the heart .
an infectious process affecting the internal structures of the eye or a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the internal structures of the eye .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the small and large intestines or an infectious process affecting the small and large intestines .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the esophagus or an infectious process affecting the esophagus .
an infectious process affecting any part of the eye .
an acute or chronic infectious process affecting the gallbladder or a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the gallbladder .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the gums or an acute or chronic infectious process affecting the gums .
an acute or chronic infectious process affecting the liver or a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the liver .
an acute or chronic inflammation of the liver parenchyma caused by viruses .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the skeletal muscles or an infectious process affecting the skeletal muscles .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving a joint or an infectious process affecting a joint .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the kidney or an acute or chronic inflammatory process affecting the kidney .
an acute or chronic ,  bacterial or viral inflammatory process affecting the larynx .
an acute or chronic infectious process affecting the lips or a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the lips .
an acute or chronic infectious process affecting the lungs or a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the lungs .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the lymph nodes or acute or chronic inflammation of one or more lymph nodes .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the mediastinum or an acute or chronic infectious process affecting the mediastinum .
a disorder characterized by acute inflammation of the meninges of the brain and / or spinal cord or a disorder characterized by acute inflammation of the meninges of the brain and / or spinal cord .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving a mucosal surface or an acute or chronic infectious process affecting a mucosal surface .
an infectious process affecting the nail or a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the nail .
an infectious process affecting the ovary or a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the ovary .
an infectious process affecting the pancreas or a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the pancreas .
skin eruption consisting of papules and pustules ,  most often appearing in the face ,  scalp ,  and upper trunk .
an acute or chronic infection of the soft tissues around the nail .
pelvic inflammatory disease  ( pid )  is an acute or chronic inflammation in the pelvic cavity .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the penis or an infectious process affecting the penis .
an infectious process affecting the tissues around the orbit or a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the orbit of the eye .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the peripheral nerves or an infectious process affecting the peripheral nerves .
an infectious process affecting the peritoneum or a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the peritoneum .
a disorder characterized by of marked discomfort in the throat or inflammation of the throat most often caused by viral and bacterial infections .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the vein .
an infectious process affecting the pleura or a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the pleura .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the prostate gland or an acute or chronic infectious process affecting the prostate gland .
elevated skin lesions associated with the presence of purulent material or a disorder characterized by a circumscribed and elevated skin lesion filled with pus .
an inflammatory process affecting the nasal mucosa ,  usually caused by viruses  ( e .g . ,  rhinovirus ,  adenovirus ,  parainfluenza virus ,  and coronavirus )  .
a viral  ( such as mumps )  or bacterial infectious process affecting the salivary gland .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the scrotum or a bacterial ,  fungal or viral infectious process affecting the scrotum .
a disorder characterized by the presence of pathogenic microorganisms in the blood stream that cause a rapidly progressing systemic reaction that may lead to shock or the presence of pathogenic microorganisms in the blood stream causing a rapidly progressing systemic reaction that may lead to shock .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the mucous membranes of the paranasal sinuses or an acute or chronic inflammatory process affecting the mucous membranes of any sinus cavity .
an inflammatory process affecting the skin ,  caused by bacteria ,  viruses ,  parasites ,  or fungi .
an infectious process affecting the small intestine or a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the small intestine .
a bacterial infectious process affecting the soft tissues .
an infectious process affecting the spleen .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving a stoma  ( surgically created opening on the surface of the body )  or an infectious process affecting a surgically created opening in the surface of the body .
an infectious process affecting a tooth or a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving a tooth .
an inflammatory process affecting the wall of the trachea or bacterial infectious process with formation of mucopurulent membranes affecting the trachea .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the upper respiratory tract  ( nose ,  paranasal sinuses ,  pharynx ,  larynx ,  or trachea )  or an infectious process affecting the upper respiratory tract  ( nose ,  paranasal sinuses ,  pharynx ,  larynx ,  or trachea )  .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the urethra or a bacterial ,  viral ,  or fungal infectious process affecting the urethra .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the urinary tract ,  most commonly the bladder and the urethra or a bacterial infectious process affecting any part of the urinary tract ,  most commonly the bladder and the urethra .
an acute or chronic ,  usually bacterial infectious process affecting the endometrium .
an infectious process affecting the vagina .
a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the vulva or an infectious process affecting the vulva .
infection of a break in the skin or other tissue or a disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the wound .
traumatic or pathological injury to the ankle joint in which the continuity of an ankle bone is broken .
a finding of damage to the aorta or damage to the aorta from traumatic or pathologic processes .
a finding of damage to an artery or damage to an artery from traumatic or pathologic processes .
leakage of bile due to breakdown of a biliary anastomosis or a finding of leakage of bile due to breakdown of a biliary anastomosis  ( surgical connection of two separate anatomic structures )  .
leakage of urine due to breakdown of a bladder anastomosis or a finding of leakage of urine due to breakdown of a bladder anastomosis  ( surgical connection of two separate anatomic structures )  .
a finding of injury of the soft tissues or bone characterized by leakage of blood into surrounding tissues or injury of the soft tissues or bone without breaking the skin that is characterized by blood leakage into the surrounding area .
a traumatic injury involving interruption of tissue cohesiveness that results from exposure to caustic chemicals ,  extreme heat ,  extreme cold or excessive radiation or a finding of impaired integrity to the anatomic site of an adverse thermal reaction .
a finding of cutaneous inflammatory reaction occurring as a result of exposure to biologically effective levels of ionizing radiation or a cutaneous inflammatory reaction occurring as a result of exposure to biologically effective levels of ionizing radiation .
leakage due to breakdown of an esophageal anastomosis or a finding of leakage due to breakdown of an esophageal anastomosis  ( surgical connection of two separate anatomic structures )  .
a finding of sudden movement downward ,  usually resulting in injury or the season between the autumnal equinox and the winter solstice or a sudden movement downward ,  usually resulting in injury .
a finding of leakage due to breakdown of a fallopian tube anastomosis  ( surgical connection of two separate anatomic structures )  or leakage due to breakdown of a fallopian tube anastomosis .
a finding of rupture of the fallopian tube wall or a rupture of the fallopian tube wall due to tubal pregnancy ,  or other traumatic or pathologic processes .
a finding of traumatic injury to the bone in which the continuity of the bone is broken or a traumatic injury to the bone in which the continuity of the bone is broken .
a finding of leakage due to breakdown of a gastric anastomosis  ( surgical connection of two separate anatomic structures )  or leakage due to breakdown of a gastric anastomosis .
a finding of leakage due to breakdown of a gastrointestinal anastomosis  ( surgical connection of two separate anatomic structures )  or leakage due to breakdown of a gastrointestinal anastomosis .
a finding of a necrotic process occurring in the gastrointestinal tract stoma or a necrotic process affecting the post - operative stoma area in the gastrointestinal tract .
a traumatic break in one or more of the bones that compose the bony structure of the pelvis or a finding of traumatic injury to the hip in which the continuity of either the femoral head ,  femoral neck ,  intertrochanteric or subtrochanteric regions is broken or traumatic or pathological injury to the hip in which the continuity of either the femoral head ,  femoral neck ,  intertrochanteric or subtrochanteric regions is broken .
damage to the carotid artery .
damage to the inferior vena cava from traumatic or pathologic processes or a finding of damage to the inferior vena cava .
damage to the jugular vein from traumatic or pathologic processes or a finding of damage to the jugular vein .
damage to the superior vena cava from traumatic or pathologic processes or a finding of damage to the superior vena cava .
leakage of contents from the intestinal stoma or a finding of leakage of contents from an intestinal stoma  ( surgically created opening on the surface of the body )  .
a finding of blockage of the normal flow of the contents of the intestinal stoma or a blockage of the intestinal stoma .
a finding of blood leakage from the intestinal stoma or a finding of blood leakage from the intestinal stoma .
damage to an artery during a surgical procedure or a finding of damage to an artery during a surgical procedure .
a finding of damage to the breast parenchyma during a surgical procedure or damage to the breast parenchyma during a surgical procedure .
damage to the heart during a surgical procedure or a finding of damage to the heart during a surgical procedure .
a finding of damage to the ear during a surgical procedure or damage to the ear during a surgical procedure .
damage to an endocrine gland during a surgical procedure or a finding of damage to the endocrine gland during a surgical procedure .
a finding of damage to the gastrointestinal system during a surgical procedure or damage to any part of the digestive system during a surgical procedure .
damage to head and neck during a surgical procedure or a finding of damage to the head and neck during a surgical procedure .
a finding of uncontrolled bleeding during a surgical procedure or uncontrolled bleeding during a surgical procedure .
a finding of damage to the hepatic parenchyma and / or biliary tract during a surgical procedure or damage to the hepatic parenchyma and biliary tract during a surgical procedure .
damage to any part of the musculoskeletal system during a surgical procedure or a finding of damage to the musculoskeletal system during a surgical procedure .
a finding of damage to the nervous system during a surgical procedure or damage to any part of the nervous system during a surgical procedure .
damage to the eye during a surgical procedure or a finding of damage to the eye during a surgical procedure .
damage to the kidney during a surgical procedure or a finding of damage to the kidney during a surgical procedure .
a finding of damage to the reproductive organs during a surgical procedure or damage to the reproductive organs during a surgical procedure .
damage to the respiratory system during a surgical procedure or a finding of damage to the respiratory system during a surgical procedure .
damage to the skin during a surgical procedure or a finding of damage to the skin during a surgical procedure .
damage to the spleen during a surgical procedure or a finding of damage to the spleen during a surgical procedure .
a finding of damage to the urinary system during a surgical procedure or damage to any part of the urinary system during a surgical procedure .
a finding of damage to a vein during a surgical procedure or damage to a vein during a surgical procedure .
a finding of leakage of urine due to breakdown of a kidney anastomosis  ( surgical connection of two separate anatomic structures )  or leakage of urine due to breakdown of a kidney anastomosis .
leakage due to breakdown of a large intestinal anastomosis or a finding of leakage due to breakdown of an anastomosis  ( surgical connection of two separate anatomic structures )  in the large intestine .
leakage due to breakdown of a pancreatic anastomosis or a finding of leakage due to breakdown of a pancreatic anastomosis  ( surgical connection of two separate anatomic structures )  .
a finding of leakage due to breakdown of a pharyngeal anastomosis  ( surgical connection of two separate anatomic structures )  or leakage due to breakdown of a pharyngeal anastomosis .
a finding of bleeding occurring after a surgical procedure or bleeding occurring after completion of a surgical procedure ,  which may occur immediately or may be delayed ,  and which may or may not be wound related .
any disorder occurring postoperatively as a consequence of a thoracic procedure or a finding of a previously undocumented problem that occurs after a thoracic procedure .
an intestinal stoma complication characterized by protrusion of the intestine above the abdominal surface or a finding of protrusion of the intestinal stoma  ( surgically created opening on the surface of the body )  above the abdominal surface .
displacement of the urostomy or a finding of displacement of the urostomy .
a finding of acute skin inflammatory reaction caused by drugs ,  especially chemotherapeutic agents ,  for weeks or months following radiotherapy .
leakage due to breakdown of a rectal anastomosis or a finding of leakage due to breakdown of a rectal anastomosis  ( surgical connection of two separate anatomic structures )  .
a collection of serum in the body or a finding of tumor - like collection of serum in the tissues .
a finding of leakage due to breakdown of an anastomosis  ( surgical connection of two separate anatomic structures )  in the small bowel or leakage due to breakdown of a small intestinal anastomosis .
leakage due to breakdown of a spermatic cord anastomosis or a finding of leakage due to breakdown of a spermatic cord anastomosis  ( surgical connection of two separate anatomic structures )  .
traumatic or pathological injury to the spine in which the continuity of a vertebral bone is broken .
narrowing of the lumen of a gastrointestinal stoma or a finding of narrowing of the gastrointestinal stoma  ( surgically created opening on the surface of the body )  .
an ulcer that develops in the jejunal mucosa close to the anastomosis site following a gastroenterostomy procedure or a disorder characterized by a circumscribed ,  inflammatory and necrotic erosive lesion on the jejunal mucosal surface close to the anastomosis site following a gastroenterostomy procedure .
a finding of bleeding from the trachea or bleeding originating from the trachea .
a finding of blockage of the lumen of the trachea or blockage of the lumen of the trachea .
a finding of blood leakage from the tracheostomy site or bleeding from the tracheostomy site .
a finding of leakage due to breakdown of a ureteral anastomosis  ( surgical connection of two separate anatomic structures )  or leakage due to breakdown of a ureteral anastomosis .
a finding of leakage due to breakdown of a urethral anastomosis  ( surgical connection of two separate anatomic structures )  or leakage due to breakdown of a urethral anastomosis .
a finding of leakage of contents from a urostomy or leakage of contents from a urostomy .
a finding of blockage of the urostomy or blockage of the urostomy .
a finding of bleeding from the urostomy site or hemorrhage from the urostomy site .
narrowing of the opening of a urostomy or a finding of narrowing of the opening of a urostomy .
leakage due to breakdown of a uterine anastomosis or a finding of leakage due to breakdown of a uterine anastomosis  ( surgical connection of two separate anatomic structures )  .
a rupture in the uterus due to traumatic or pathologic processes or a disorder characterized by a rupture in the uterine wall .
leakage due to breakdown of a vaginal anastomosis or a finding of leakage due to breakdown of a vaginal anastomosis  ( surgical connection of two separate anatomic structures )  .
leakage due to breakdown of a vas deferens anastomosis or a finding of leakage due to breakdown of a vas deferens anastomosis  ( surgical connection of two separate anatomic structures )  .
complications related to damage at the vascular access site .
a finding of damage to a vein or damage to a vein from traumatic or pathologic processes .
a medical condition that develops at the site of an existing wound .
a finding of separation of the approximated margins of a surgical wound or splitting of the sutured margins of a surgical wound .
traumatic injury to the wrist joint in which the continuity of a wrist bone is broken .
an abnormal laboratory test result in which the partial thromboplastin time is found to be greater than the control value .
a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate an increase in the level of alanine aminotransferase  ( alt or sgpt )  in the blood specimen or an increase in the level of alanine aminotransferase in the blood .
a laboratory test result which indicates an increased level of alkaline phosphatase in a biological specimen or a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate an increase in the level of alkaline phosphatase in a blood specimen .
an increase in the level of aspartate aminotransferase in the blood or a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate an increase in the level of aspartate aminotransferase  ( ast or sgot )  in a blood specimen .
a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate abnormal levels of antidiuretic hormone in the blood specimen or a laboratory test result which indicates abnormal levels of antidiuretic hormone in the blood .
abnormally high level of bilirubin in the blood .
a laboratory test result which indicates decreased levels of corticotrophin in the blood or a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate an decrease in levels of corticotrophin in a blood specimen .
a laboratory test result which indicates abnormal levels of gonadotrophin hormone in the blood or a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate abnormal levels of gonadotrophin hormone in a blood specimen .
a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate abnormal levels of prolactin hormone in a blood specimen or a laboratory test result which indicates abnormal levels of prolactin hormone in the blood .
a finding based on lung function test results that indicate  a decrease in the lung capacity to absorb carbon monoxide or a lung function test result in which the lung capacity to absorb carbon monoxide is decreased .
a laboratory test result which indicates increased levels of cardiac troponin i in a biological specimen or a laboratory test result which indicates increased levels of cardiac troponin i in a biological specimen .
a laboratory test result which indicates increased levels of cardiac troponin t in a biological specimen or a laboratory test result which indicates increased levels of cardiac troponin t in a biological specimen .
a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate an decrease in levels of cd4 lymphocytes in a blood specimen or a laboratory test result which indicates decreased levels of cd4 lymphocytes in a biospecimen .
a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate higher than normal levels of cholesterol in a blood specimen or a laboratory test result indicating an increased amount of cholesterol in the blood .
a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate an increase in levels of creatine phosphokinase in a blood specimen or a laboratory test result which indicates increased levels of creatine phosphokinase in a biological specimen .
a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate increased levels of creatinine in a biological specimen or a laboratory test result demonstrating an increased concentration of creatinine in a biological specimen .
a finding indicating a decrease in the volume of blood ejected during ventricular heart contraction or the percentage computed when the amount of blood ejected during a ventricular contraction of the heart is compared to the amount that was present prior to the contraction .
a finding of a cardiac dysrhythmia characterized by an abnormally long corrected qt interval or an electrocardiographic finding in which the qtc interval corrected for heart rate is prolonged .
a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate an decrease in levels of fibrinogen in a blood specimen or a laboratory test result which indicates decreased levels of fibrinogen in a biological specimen .
a decrease in the fraction of the forced vital capacity that is exhaled in a specific number of seconds or a finding based on test results that indicate a relative decrease in the fraction of the forced vital capacity that is exhaled in a specific number of seconds .
increase in the level of the enzyme gamma - glutamyltransferase in the blood ,  which catalyzes the transfer of a gamma glutamyl group from a gamma glutamyl peptide to another peptide ,  aminoacids ,  or water or a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate higher than normal levels of the enzyme gamma - glutamyltransferase in the blood specimen .
a laboratory test result which indicates abnormal levels of growth hormone in a biologic specimen or a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate abnormal levels of growth hormone in a biological specimen .
a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate an decrease in levels of haptoglobin in a blood specimen or a laboratory test result which indicates decreased levels of haptoglobin in a biological specimen .
a laboratory test result which indicates increased levels of hemoglobin in a biological specimen or a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate increased levels of hemoglobin in a biological specimen .
a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate an increase in the ratio of the patient's prothrombin time to a control sample in the blood or a laboratory test result demonstrating an increased ratio of the patient's prothrombin time to a control sample .
a laboratory test result which indicates increased levels of lipase in a biologic specimen or a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate an increase in the level of lipase in a biological specimen .
a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate a decrease in number of lymphocytes in a blood specimen or an abnormally small number of lymphocytes in the circulating blood .
a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate an abnormal increase in the number of lymphocytes in the blood ,  effusions or bone marrow or a laboratory test result indicating an abnormal increase in the number of lymphocytes in the peripheral blood ,  effusions ,  or bone marrow .
a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate a decrease in number of neutrophils in a blood specimen or a decrease in the number of neutrophils in the peripheral blood .
a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate an decrease in levels of pancreatic enzymes in a biological specimen or a laboratory test result which indicates decreased levels of pancreatic enzymes in a biologic specimen .
a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate a decrease in number of platelets in a blood specimen or a laboratory test result indicating that there is an abnormally small number of platelets in the circulating blood .
a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate an increase in the levels of amylase in a serum specimen or a laboratory test indicating increased levels of amylase in the serum .
a finding based on test results that indicate urine production is less relative to previous output or a finding indicating that the urine production is less than 500 milliliters during a 24 hour period .
a pulmonary function test result indicating an abnormal vital capacity as compared to the predicted value or a finding based on pulmonary function test results that indicate an abnormal vital capacity  ( amount of exhaled after a maximum inhalation )  when compared to the predicted value .
a question about whether an individual is or was bothered by weight gain or an increase in total body weight or a finding characterized by an increase in overall body weight ;  for pediatrics ,  greater than the baseline growth curve .
a laboratory test result indicating a decreased number of white blood cells in the peripheral blood or a finding based on laboratory test results that indicate an decrease in number of white blood cells in a blood specimen .
an abnormally high acidity of the blood and other body tissues .
a disorder characterized by an increase in sensitivity to the adverse effects of alcohol ,  which can include nasal congestion ,  skin flushes ,  heart dysrhythmias ,  nausea ,  vomiting ,  indigestion and headaches or increased sensitivity to the adverse effects of alcohol ,  which can include nasal congestion ,  skin flushes ,  heart dysrhythmias ,  nausea ,  vomiting ,  indigestion and headaches .
an abnormally high alkalinity  ( low hydrogen - ion concentration )  of the blood and other body tissues or a disorder characterized by abnormally high alkalinity  ( low hydrogen - ion concentration )  of the blood and other body tissues .
loss of appetite or a disorder characterized by a loss of appetite .
a condition resulting from the excessive loss of water from the body .
the inability to regulate blood glucose levels resulting in hyperglycemia or a disorder characterized by an inability to properly metabolize glucose .
abnormally high concentration of calcium in the peripheral blood or a disorder characterized by laboratory test results that indicate an elevation in the concentration of calcium  ( corrected for albumin )  in blood .
a disorder characterized by laboratory test results that indicate an elevation in the concentration of blood sugar .
a disorder characterized by laboratory test results that indicate an elevation in the concentration of potassium in the blood ;  associated with kidney failure or sometimes with the use of diuretic drugs or higher than normal levels of potassium in the circulating blood ;  associated with kidney failure or sometimes with the use of diuretic drugs .
higher than normal levels of magnesium in the circulating blood or a disorder characterized by laboratory test results that indicate an elevation in the concentration of magnesium in the  blood .
higher than normal levels of sodium in the circulating blood or a disorder characterized by laboratory test results that indicate an elevation in the concentration of sodium in the  blood .
a laboratory test result indicating elevated triglyceride concentration in the blood or a disorder characterized by laboratory test results that indicate an elevation in the concentration of triglyceride concentration in the blood .
a disorder characterized by laboratory test results that indicate an elevation in the concentration of uric acid or elevated blood concentrations of uric acid .
a disorder characterized by laboratory test results that indicate a low concentration of albumin in the blood or concentration of serum albumin below normal limits for the age related normal range .
lower than normal levels of calcium in the circulating blood or a disorder characterized by laboratory test results that indicate a low concentration of calcium  ( corrected for albumin )  in the  blood .
a disorder characterized by laboratory test results that indicate a low concentration of glucose in the blood or abnormally low level of glucose in the blood .
a disorder characterized by laboratory test results that indicate a low concentration of potassium in the  blood or lower than normal levels of potassium in the circulating blood .
a disorder characterized by laboratory test results that indicate a low concentration of magnesium in the  blood or lower than normal levels of magnesium in the circulating blood .
a disorder characterized by laboratory test results that indicate a low concentration of sodium in the blood or lower than normal levels of sodium in the circulating blood .
a disorder characterized by laboratory test results that indicate a low concentration of phosphates in the  blood or lower than normal levels of phosphates in the circulating blood .
an adverse event resulting in accumulation of iron in the tissues or accumulation of iron in the tissues .
having a high amount of body fat  ( body mass index  [ bmi ]  of 30 or more )  or a disorder characterized by having a high amount of body fat .
a disorder characterized by metabolic abnormalities that result from a spontaneous or therapy - related cytolysis of tumor cells or a condition of metabolic abnormalities that result from a spontaneous or therapy - related cytolysis of tumor cells .
a necrotic process occurring in the soft tissues of the abdominal wall or a disorder characterized by a necrotic process occurring in the soft tissues of the abdominal wall .
a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in a joint or pain in a joint .
a disorder characterized by inflammation involving a joint or an inflammatory process affecting a joint .
necrotic changes in the bone tissue due to interruption of blood supply .
a disorder characterized by marked discomfort sensation in the back region or painful sensation in the back region .
a disorder characterized by marked discomfort sensation in the buttocks or painful sensation in the buttocks .
painful sensation in the chest wall region or a disorder characterized by marked discomfort sensation in the chest wall region .
non - neoplastic overgrowth of bone or a disorder characterized by non - neoplastic overgrowth of bone .
a disorder characterized by fibrotic degeneration of the deep connective tissues or fibrotic degeneration of the deep connective tissues .
painful sensation in the region below the ribs and above the hip or a disorder characterized by marked discomfort sensation on the lateral side of the body in the region below the ribs and above the hip .
a reduction in the strength of muscles in multiple anatomic sites or a disorder characterized by a reduction in the strength of muscles in multiple anatomic sites .
a disorder characterized by of stature that is smaller than normal as expected for age or stature that is smaller than normal as expected for age .
a disorder characterized by a necrotic process occurring in the soft tissues of the head or a necrotic process affecting the soft tissues of the head .
abnormally increased amount of fluid in a joint cavity ,  usually as a result of joint inflammation or a disorder characterized by excessive fluid in a joint ,  usually as a result of joint inflammation .
a disorder characterized by a decrease in joint flexibility of any joint or decreased joint flexibility .
decreased flexibility of a cervical spine joint or a disorder characterized by a decrease in flexibility of a cervical spine joint .
decreased flexibility of a lumbar spine joint or a disorder characterized by a decrease in flexibility of a lumbar spine joint .
abnormally increased curvature of the thoracic portion of the spine or a disorder characterized by an abnormal increase in the curvature of the thoracic portion of the spine .
abnormally increased curvature of the lumbar portion of the spinal column or a disorder characterized by an abnormal increase in the curvature of the lumbar portion of the spine .
a disorder characterized by a reduction in the strength of the muscles on the left side of the body or a reduction in the strength of the muscles in the left side of the body .
a reduction in the strength of the lower limb muscles or a disorder characterized by a reduction in the strength of the lower limb muscles .
a reduction in the strength of the muscles in the right side of the body or a disorder characterized by a reduction in the strength of the muscles on the right side of the body .
a disorder characterized by a reduction in the strength of the trunk muscles or a reduction in the strength of the trunk muscles .
a disorder characterized by a reduction in the strength of the upper limb muscles or a reduction in the strength of the upper limb muscles .
a disorder characterized by of a malformation of the musculoskeletal system or congenital or acquired deformity of the musculoskeletal system .
a disorder characterized by marked discomfort sensation originating from a muscle or group of muscles or painful sensation originating from a muscle or group of muscles .
an inflammatory process affecting the skeletal muscles .
painful sensation in the neck area or a disorder characterized by marked discomfort sensation in the neck area .
a necrotic process affecting the soft tissues of the neck or a disorder characterized by a necrotic process occurring in the soft tissues of the neck .
a disorder characterized by a necrotic process occurring in the bone of the mandible or an area of necrotic bone in the mandible or maxilla .
a condition of reduced bone mass ,  with decreased cortical thickness and a decrease in the number and size of the trabeculae of cancellous bone  ( but normal chemical composition )  ,  resulting in increased fracture incidence .
painful sensation in the upper or lower extremities or a disorder characterized by marked discomfort sensation in the upper or lower extremities .
a necrotic process affecting the soft tissues of the pelvis or a disorder characterized by a necrotic process occurring in the soft tissues of the pelvis .
a disorder characterized by a malformed ,  lateral curvature of the spine or a congenital or acquired spinal deformity characterized by lateral curvature of the spine .
a disorder characterized by a necrotic process occurring in the soft tissues of the lower extremity or a necrotic process affecting the soft tissues of the lower extremity .
a disorder characterized by a necrotic process occurring in the soft tissues of the upper extremity or a necrotic process affecting the soft tissues of the upper extremity .
fibrotic degeneration of the superficial soft tissues or a disorder characterized by fibrotic degeneration of the superficial soft tissues .
a disorder characterized by lack of ability to open the mouth fully due to a decrease in the range of motion of the muscles of mastication or lack of ability to open the mouth fully due to decreased range of motion of the muscles of mastication .
a disorder characterized by of a discrepancy between the lengths of the lower or upper extremities or discrepancy between the lengths of the lower or upper extremities .
a leukemia arising as a result of the mutagenic effect of chemotherapy agents that are used for the treatment of a malignant tumor or a disorder characterized by leukemia arising as a result of the mutagenic effect of chemotherapy agents .
myelodysplastic syndrome is an nci cancer therapeutic evaluation program  ( ctep )  simplified disease classification  ( sdc )  category used to organize cancer - related disease coding that harmonizes with and supports reporting based on the global standard medical dictionary for drug regulatory reporting  ( meddra )  terminology or a clonal hematopoietic disorder characterized by dysplasia and ineffective hematopoiesis in one or more of the hematopoietic cell lines .
the development of a malignant neoplasm in response to medical or surgical treatment ,  induced by the treatment itself or a disorder characterized by development of a malignancy most probably as a result of treatment for a previously existing malignancy .
a painful sensation caused by the tumor growth or a disorder characterized by marked discomfort from a neoplasm that may be pressing on a nerve ,  blocking blood vessels ,  inflamed or fractured from metastasis .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the abducens nerve  ( sixth cranial nerve )  or a disorder characterized by involvement of the abducens nerve  ( sixth cranial nerve )  .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the accessory nerve  ( eleventh cranial nerve )  or a disorder characterized by involvement of the accessory nerve  ( eleventh cranial nerve )  .
a disorder characterized by involvement of the acoustic nerve  ( eighth cranial nerve )  or a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the acoustic nerve .
an uncomfortable feeling of inner restlessness and inability to stay still .
a disorder characterized by systematic and extensive loss of memory or systematic and extensive loss of memory caused by organic or psychological factors .
a disorder characterized by the inability to speak .
a disorder characterized by inflammation of the arachnoid membrane and adjacent subarachnoid space or inflammation of the arachnoid membrane and adjacent subarachnoid space .
lack of coordination of muscle movements resulting in the impairment or inability to perform voluntary activities .
a disorder characterized by regional paresthesia of the brachial plexus ,  marked discomfort and muscle weakness ,  and limited movement in the arm or hand or a brachial plexus disorder characterized by regional paresthesia ,  pain and muscle weakness ,  and limited movement in the arm or hand .
a disorder characterized by a necrotic process occurring in the brain and / or spinal cord or a necrotic process affecting the brain and / or spinal cord .
a disorder characterized by loss of cerebrospinal fluid into the surrounding tissues or the loss of cerebrospinal fluid into the surrounding tissues .
a notable change in cognitive function or a disorder characterized by a conspicuous change in cognitive function .
a disorder characterized by a deterioration in the ability to concentrate or deterioration in the ability to concentrate .
a neurologic state characterized by decreased ability to perceive and respond or a disorder characterized by a decrease in ability to perceive and respond .
a question about the usual severity of an individual's dizziness or a disorder characterized by a disturbing sensation of lightheadedness ,  unsteadiness ,  giddiness ,  spinning or rocking or a sensation of lightheadedness ,  unsteadiness ,  turning ,  spinning or rocking or a question about whether an individual has or had dizziness or a question about how often an individual feels or felt dizzy or a question about an individual's distress from their dizziness .
slow and slurred speech resulting from inability to coordinate the muscles that are used in speech .
a disorder characterized by distortion of sensory perception ,  resulting in an abnormal and unpleasant sensation or distortion of a sense resulting in an abnormal and unpleasant sensation ,  usually described as burning ,  tingling ,  or numbness .
persistence of unpleasant taste or a disorder characterized by abnormal sensual experience with the taste of foodstuffs ;  it can be related to a decrease in the sense of smell .
a disorder characterized by impairment of verbal communication skills ,  often resulting from brain damage or impairment of verbal communication skills ,  often resulting from brain damage .
swelling due to an excessive accumulation of fluid in the brain or a disorder characterized by swelling due to an excessive accumulation of fluid in the brain .
a functional and / or structural disorder of the brain caused by diseases  ( e .g .
a disorder characterized by abnormal ,  repetitive ,  involuntary muscle movements ,  frenzied speech and extreme restlessness or a movement disorder caused by defects in the basal ganglia .
a reduction in the strength of the facial muscles or a disorder characterized by a reduction in the strength of the facial muscles .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the facial nerve  ( seventh cranial nerve )  or a disorder characterized by involvement of the facial nerve  ( seventh cranial nerve )  .
a disorder characterized by involvement of the glossopharyngeal nerve  ( ninth cranial nerve )  or a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the glossopharyngeal nerve  ( ninth cranial nerve )  .
a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in various parts of the head ,  not confined to the area of distribution of any nerve or pain in various parts of the head ,  not confined to the area of distribution of any nerve .
a disorder characterized by an abnormal increase of cerebrospinal fluid in the ventricles of the brain or a disorder characterized by an abnormal increase of cerebrospinal fluid in the ventricles of the brain .
a disorder characterized by characterized by excessive sleepiness during the daytime or a sleep disorder characterized by excessive sleepiness .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the hypoglossal nerve  ( twelfth cranial nerve )  or a disorder characterized by involvement of the hypoglossal nerve  ( twelfth cranial nerve )  .
a disorder characterized by bleeding from the cranium or bleeding within the cranium .
a disorder characterized by a decrease or absence of blood supply to the brain caused by obstruction  ( thrombosis or embolism )  of an artery resulting in neurological damage or diminished or absent blood supply to the brain caused by obstruction  ( thrombosis or embolism )  of an artery resulting in neurologic damage .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the trochlear nerve  ( ivth cranial nerve )  or a disorder characterized by involvement of the trochlear nerve  ( fourth cranial nerve )  .
decreased consciousness characterized by mental and physical inertness or a disorder characterized by a decrease in consciousness characterized by mental and physical inertness .
white matter changes first described in children with leukemia ,  associated with radiation and chemotherapy injury ,  often associated with methotrexate ;  pathologically characterised by diffuse reactive astrocytosis with multiple areas of necrotic foci without inflammation or a disorder characterized by diffuse reactive astrocytosis with multiple areas of necrotic foci without inflammation .
deterioration in memory function or a disorder characterized by a deterioration in memory function .
the symptoms of neck stiffness ,  headache ,  and photophobia resulting from meningeal irritation .
a disorder characterized by uncontrolled and purposeless movements or uncontrolled and purposeless movements .
an inflammatory process affecting the spinal cord .
intense painful sensation along a nerve or group of nerves .
involuntary movements of the eyeballs .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the oculomotor nerve  ( third cranial nerve )  or a disorder characterized by involvement of the oculomotor nerve  ( third cranial nerve )  .
a disorder characterized by involvement of the olfactory nerve  ( first cranial nerve )  or a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the olfactory nerve  ( first cranial nerve )  .
abnormal cutaneous sensations of tingling ,  numbness ,  pressure ,  cold ,  and warmth that an individual experiences without the presence of a stimulus .
a disorder characterized by inflammation or degeneration of the peripheral motor nerves or inflammation or degeneration of the peripheral motor nerves .
inflammation or degeneration of the sensory nerves or a disorder characterized by inflammation or degeneration of the peripheral sensory nerves .
a disorder characterized by marked discomfort related to a limb or an organ that is removed from or is not physically part of the body or painful sensation related to a limb or an organ that is removed from or is not physically part of the body .
a disorder characterized by an episode of lightheadedness and dizziness which may precede an episode of syncope or an episode of lightheadedness and dizziness which may precede an episode of syncope .
dysfunction of the corticospinal  ( pyramidal )  tracts of the spinal cord .
an inflammatory process affecting a nerve root .
paralysis of the recurrent laryngeal nerve .
a disorder characterized by headaches ,  mental status changes ,  visual disturbances ,  and seizures associated with imaging findings of posterior leukoencephalopathy .
a disorder characterized by a sudden ,  involuntary skeletal muscular contractions of cerebral or brain stem origin or sudden ,  involuntary skeletal muscular contractions of cerebral or brain stem origin .
painful sensation in the face ,  between the eyes ,  or upper teeth originating from the sinuses .
a disorder characterized by characterized by excessive sleepiness and drowsiness or a sleep disorder characterized by excessive sleepiness and drowsiness .
increased involuntary muscle tone caused by central nervous system disorders that affect the regions interfering with voluntary movement .
a disorder characterized by a sudden loss of sensory function due to an intracranial vascular event or a sudden loss of neurological function secondary to hemorrhage or ischemia in the brain parenchyma due to a vascular event .
a spontaneous loss of consciousness caused by insufficient blood supply to the brain or a disorder characterized by spontaneous loss of consciousness caused by insufficient blood supply to the brain .
a disorder characterized by a brief attack  ( less than 24 hours )  of cerebral dysfunction of vascular origin ,  with no persistent neurological deficit or a brief attack  ( from a few minutes to an hour )  of cerebral dysfunction of vascular origin ,  with no persistent neurological deficit .
the shaking movement of the whole body or just a certain part of it ,  often caused by problems of the neurons responsible for muscle action or a disorder characterized by the uncontrolled shaking movement of the whole body or individual parts .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the trigeminal nerve  ( fifth cranial nerve )  or a disorder characterized by involvement of the trigeminal nerve  ( fifth cranial nerve )  .
a disorder characterized by involvement of the vagus nerve  ( tenth cranial nerve )  or a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the vagus nerve  ( tenth cranial nerve )  .
a disorder characterized by a sudden drop of the blood pressure ,  bradycardia ,  and peripheral vasodilation that may lead to loss of consciousness .
death of a fetus after 10 weeks gestation or a disorder characterized by death in utero ;  failure of the product of conception to show evidence of respiration ,  heartbeat ,  or definite movement of a voluntary muscle after expulsion from the uterus ,  without possibility of resuscitation .
a disorder characterized by inhibition of fetal growth resulting in the inability of the fetus to achieve its potential weight or a fetus that does not grow beyond the 10th percentile of conventionally accepted weight for gestational age .
birth when a fetus is less than 37 weeks and 0 days gestational age or a disorder characterized by delivery of a viable infant before the normal end of gestation .
a pregnancy that was not desired or was timed incorrectly at the time that the conception occurred or a disorder characterized by an unexpected pregnancy at the time of conception .
a disorder characterized by a state of restlessness associated with unpleasant feelings of irritability and tension or a state of restlessness associated with unpleasant feelings of irritability and tension .
inability to achieve orgasm or a disorder characterized by an inability to achieve orgasm .
a mental state characterized by a lack of clear and orderly thought and behavior or a disorder characterized by a lack of clear and orderly thought and behavior .
a disorder characterized by sexual dysfunction characterized by a delay in climax or sexual dysfunction characterized by a delay in climax .
a disorder characterized by the acute and sudden development of confusion ,  illusions ,  movement changes ,  inattentiveness ,  agitation ,  and hallucinations .
a disorder characterized by false personal beliefs held contrary to reality ,  despite contradictory evidence and common sense or false personal beliefs held contrary to reality ,  despite contradictory evidence and common sense .
an exaggerated feeling of well - being which is disproportionate to events and stimuli .
a false sensory perception in the absence of an external stimulus ,  as distinct from an illusion which is a misperception of an external stimulus or a disorder characterized by a false sensory perception in the absence of an external stimulus .
a disorder characterized by difficulty in falling asleep and / or remaining asleep or a sleep disorder characterized by difficulty in falling asleep and / or remaining asleep or a question about an individual's sleep quality .
decreased sexual desire or a disorder characterized by a decrease in sexual desire .
a disorder characterized by an increase in sexual desire or increased sexual desire .
excitement of psychotic proportions manifested by mental and physical hyperactivity ,  disorganisation of behaviour and elevation of mood or a disorder characterized by excitement of psychotic proportions manifested by mental and physical hyperactivity ,  disorganization of behavior and elevation of mood .
a noticeable change in a person's behavior and thinking .
a disorder characterized by personality change ,  impaired functioning ,  and loss of touch with reality .
a disorder characterized by an inability to rest ,  relax or be still or an inability to rest ,  relax ,  or be still .
thoughts of taking one's own life or a disorder characterized by thoughts of taking one's own life .
a disorder characterized by self - inflicted harm in an attempt to end one's own life or self - inflicted harm in an attempt to end one's own life .
sudden and sustained deterioration of the kidney function characterized by decreased glomerular filtration rate ,  increased serum creatinine or oliguria or a disorder characterized by the acute loss of renal function and is traditionally classified as pre - renal  ( low blood flow into kidney )  ,  renal  ( kidney damage )  and post - renal causes  ( ureteral or bladder outflow obstruction )  .
a disorder characterized by a rupture in the bladder wall or a rupture in the bladder wall due to traumatic or pathologic processes .
a disorder characterized by a sudden and involuntary contraction of the bladder wall or a sudden and involuntary contraction of the bladder wall .
impairment of the renal function secondary to chronic kidney damage persisting for three or more months or a disorder characterized by gradual and usually permanent loss of kidney function resulting in renal failure .
a disorder characterized by inflammation of the bladder which is not caused by an infection of the urinary tract or an inflammation of the bladder which is not caused by an infection of the urinary tract .
a disorder characterized by laboratory test results that indicate blood in the urine or blood in the urine .
a disorder characterized by laboratory test results that indicate the presence of free hemoglobin in the urine or a laboratory test result which indicates free hemoglobin in the urine .
the presence of abnormal amounts of protein in the urine .
a disorder characterized by the formation of crystals in the pelvis of the kidney or the presence of a calculus in the pelvis of the kidney ;  this is most often composed of mineral salts and proteins or crystals in the pelvis of the kidney .
a disorder characterized by paroxysmal and severe flank marked discomfort radiating to the inguinal area .
bleeding originating from the kidney or a disorder characterized by bleeding from the kidney .
a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between any part of the urinary system and another organ or anatomic site or an abnormal communication between any part of the urinary system and another organ or cavity .
urination at short intervals ;  it may result from increased urine formation ,  decreased bladder capacity ,  or lower urinary tract irritation or a disorder characterized by urination at short intervals .
a disorder characterized by inability to control the flow of urine from the bladder or involuntary passage of urine outside the body .
a disorder characterized by accumulation of urine within the bladder because of the inability to urinate or accumulation of urine within the bladder because of the inability to urinate .
a disorder characterized by blockage of the normal flow of contents of the urinary tract or blockage of the normal flow of contents of the urinary tract .
painful sensation in any part of the urinary tract or a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the urinary tract .
an acute and compelling urge to urinate or a disorder characterized by a sudden compelling urge to urinate .
a disorder characterized by a change in the color of the urine or change in the color of the urine .
a disorder characterized by laboratory test results that indicate complete absence of spermatozoa in the semen or complete absence of spermatozoa in the semen .
involution of the breast parenchyma or a disorder characterized by underdevelopment of the breast .
a disorder characterized by marked discomfort sensation in the breast region or painful sensation in the breast region .
abnormally painful abdominal cramps during menstruation or a disorder characterized by abnormally painful abdominal cramps during menses .
a disorder characterized by painful or difficult coitus or painful or difficult coitus .
a disorder characterized by problems related to ejaculation .
a disorder characterized by the persistent or recurrent inability to achieve or to maintain an erection during sexual activity or a disorder characterized by the persistent or recurrent inability to achieve or to maintain an erection during sexual activity or persistent or recurrent inability to achieve or to maintain an erection during sexual activity .
a disorder characterized by blockage of the normal flow of the contents in the fallopian tube or blockage of the normal flow of the contents in the fallopian tube .
a disorder characterized by a narrowing of the fallopian tube lumen or narrowing of the lumen of the fallopian tube .
a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between a female reproductive system organ and another organ or anatomic site or an abnormal communication between a female reproductive system organ and another organ or cavity .
the development of secondary female sex characteristics in males due to extrinsic factors or a disorder characterized by the development of secondary female sex characteristics in males due to extrinsic factors .
a disorder characterized by swelling due to an excessive accumulation of fluid in the genitals or swelling due to an excessive accumulation of fluid in the genitals .
a disorder characterized by excessive development of the breasts in males or development of breast tissue in males .
the presence of blood in a fallopian tube or a disorder characterized by the presence of blood in a fallopian tube .
deviations from the normal process ;  e .g .
a disorder not necessarily related to pregnancy that is observed in females and males .
heavy bleeding during regular menstruation or a disorder characterized by abnormally heavy vaginal bleeding during menses .
a disorder characterized by a malformation of the nipple or a congenital or acquired deformity of the nipple .
decreased number of spermatozoa in the semen or a disorder characterized by a decrease in the number of spermatozoa in the semen .
a disorder characterized by bleeding from the ovary or bleeding originating from the ovary .
tearing or disruption of the ovarian tissue or a disorder characterized by tearing or disruption of the ovarian tissue .
painful sensation in one side of the abdomen between menstrual cycles ,  around the time of the discharge of the ovum from the ovarian follicle or a disorder characterized by marked discomfort sensation in one side of the abdomen between menstrual cycles ,  around the time of the discharge of the ovum from the ovarian follicle or painful sensation in one side of the abdomen between menstrual cycles ,  around the time of the discharge of the ovum from the ovarian follicle .
a disorder characterized by a reduction in the strength of the muscles of the pelvic floor or a reduction in the strength of the muscles of the pelvic floor .
painful sensation in the pelvis or a disorder characterized by marked discomfort sensation in the pelvis .
a disorder characterized by marked discomfort sensation in the penis or painful sensation in the penis .
a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the area between the genital organs and the anus or painful sensation in the perineal area .
a disorder characterized by ovarian failure before the age of 40 .
bleeding originating from the prostate gland or a disorder characterized by bleeding from the prostate gland .
a disorder characterized by compression of the urethra secondary to enlargement of the prostate gland .
a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the prostate gland or pain in the prostate gland .
painful sensation in the scrotal area or a disorder characterized by marked discomfort sensation in the scrotal area .
bleeding originating from the spermatic cord or a disorder characterized by bleeding from the spermatic cord .
blockage of the normal flow of the contents of the spermatic cord or a disorder characterized by blockage of the normal flow of the contents of the spermatic cord .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the testis .
bleeding originating from the testis or a disorder characterized by bleeding from the testis .
a painful sensation in the testis or a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the testis .
an abnormal communication between the uterus and another organ or a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between the uterus and another organ or anatomic site .
bleeding originating from the uterus or a disorder characterized by bleeding from the uterus .
blockage of the uterine outlet .
a painful sensation in the uterus or a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the uterus .
a disorder characterized by vaginal secretions .
an uncomfortable feeling of itching and burning in the vaginal opening resulting from inadequate vaginal lubrication .
a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between the vagina and another organ or anatomic site or an abnormal communication between the vagina and another organ or cavity .
a disorder characterized by bleeding from the vagina or bleeding originating from the vagina .
a disorder characterized by inflammation involving the vagina .
a disorder characterized by blockage of vaginal canal or congenital or acquired blockage of the vagina .
a disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the vagina or a painful sensation in the vagina .
a disorder characterized by a rupture in the vaginal wall or a rupture in the vaginal wall due to traumatic or pathologic processes .
narrowing of the vaginal lumen or a disorder characterized by a narrowing of the vaginal canal .
tightness of the vaginal wall during vaginal penetration including sexual intercourse .
progressive and life - threatening pulmonary distress in the absence of an underlying pulmonary condition ,  usually following major trauma or surgery .
inflammation of the nasal mucous membranes caused by an ige - mediated response to external allergens .
a disorder characterized by cessation of breathing or transient cessation of respiration .
procedure using suction ,  usually with a thin needle and syringe ,  to remove bodily fluid or tissue or accidental inhalation of a foreign material into the lungs or a disorder characterized by inhalation of solids or liquids into the lungs or the entry of foreign material past the trachea ,  and into the lower respiratory tract .
a disorder characterized by the collapse of part or the entire lung or the collapse of part or the entire lung due to airway obstruction ,  infection ,  tumor ,  or general anesthesia .
a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between the bronchus and another organ or anatomic site or an abnormal communication between the bronchus and another organ or anatomic site .
a disorder characterized by blockage of a bronchus passage ,  most often by bronchial secretions and exudates or blockage of a bronchus passage most often by bronchial secretions and exudates .
narrowing of a bronchial tube or a disorder characterized by a narrowing of the bronchial tube .
an abnormal communication between a bronchus and the pleural cavity or a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between a bronchus and the pleural cavity .
a disorder characterized by bleeding from the bronchial wall and / or lung parenchyma or bleeding from the bronchial wall and / or lung parenchyma .
sudden contraction of the smooth muscles of the bronchial wall or a disorder characterized by a sudden contraction of the smooth muscles of the bronchial wall .
a disorder characterized by milky pleural effusion  ( abnormal collection of fluid )  resulting from accumulation of lymph fluid in the pleural cavity or a milky pleural effusion resulting from accumulation of lymph fluid in the pleural cavity .
a sudden ,  often repetitive ,  spasmodic contraction of the thoracic cavity ,  resulting in violent release of air from the lungs ,  and usually accompanied by a distinctive sound or a question about the frequency of an individual's cough or a question about the usual severity of an individual's cough or a disorder characterized by sudden ,  often repetitive ,  spasmodic contraction of the thoracic cavity ,  resulting in violent release of air from the lungs and usually accompanied by a distinctive sound or a question about an individual's distress from their cough or a question about whether an individual is or has been coughing .
a disorder characterized by an uncomfortable sensation of difficulty breathing or an uncomfortable sensation of difficulty breathing .
a disorder characterized by bleeding from the nose or bleeding from the nose .
a disorder characterized by repeated gulp sounds that result from an involuntary opening and closing of the glottis .
a disorder characterized by harsh and raspy voice arising from or spreading to the larynx or harsh and raspy voice secondary to laryngeal infection ,  voice overuse ,  irritants inhalation ,  vocal cord paralysis ,  vocal cord polyps ,  and malignant neoplasms arising from or spreading to the larynx .
a decrease in the amount of oxygen in the body .
swelling due to an excessive accumulation of fluid in the larynx or a disorder characterized by swelling due to an excessive accumulation of fluid in the larynx .
a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between the larynx and another organ or anatomic site or an abnormal communication between the larynx and another organ or cavity .
bleeding originating from the larynx or a disorder characterized by bleeding from the larynx .
a disorder characterized by an inflammation involving the mucous membrane of the larynx or an inflammatory process affecting the mucous membrane of the larynx .
a disorder characterized by blockage of the laryngeal airway or blockage of the laryngeal airway passage .
narrowing of the laryngeal airway or a disorder characterized by a narrowing of the laryngeal airway .
a disorder characterized by an uncomfortable persistent sensation in the area of the laryngopharynx or a disorder characterized by an uncomfortable persistent sensation in the area of the laryngopharynx .
paroxysmal spasmodic muscular contraction of the vocal cords .
a disorder characterized by bleeding from the mediastinum or bleeding originating from the mediastinum .
a disorder characterized by obstruction of the nasal passage due to mucosal edema or the blockage of the nasal passage due to mucosal edema .
an abnormal communication between the pharynx and another organ or anatomic site or a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between the pharynx and another organ or anatomic site .
a disorder characterized by bleeding from the pharynx or bleeding originating from the pharynx .
a disorder characterized by an inflammation involving the mucous membrane of the pharynx or an inflammatory process affecting the mucous membrane of the pharynx .
a necrotic process affecting the pharynx or a disorder characterized by a necrotic process occurring in the pharynx .
a disorder characterized by a narrowing of the pharyngeal airway or narrowing of the pharyngeal airway .
a disorder characterized by marked discomfort sensation in the pharyngolaryngeal region or painful sensation in the pharyngolaryngeal region .
a disorder characterized by an increase in amounts of fluid within the pleural cavity .
a disorder characterized by bleeding from the pleural cavity or a collection of blood in the pleural cavity .
a disorder characterized by marked discomfort sensation in the pleura or painful sensation in the pleura .
an inflammatory process affecting the lung parenchyma .
abnormal presence of air in the pleural cavity or a disorder characterized by abnormal presence of air in the pleural cavity resulting in the collapse of the lung .
excessive mucous secretion in the back of the nasal cavity or throat ,  causing sore throat and / or coughing .
a cough accompanied by expectorated secretions or a disorder characterized by expectorated secretions upon coughing .
accumulation of fluid in the lung tissues causing disturbance of the gas exchange that may lead to respiratory failure .
chronic progressive interstitial lung disorder characterized by the replacement of the lung tissue by connective tissue ,  leading to progressive dyspnea ,  respiratory failure ,  or right heart failure .
an abnormal communication between the lung and another organ or anatomic site or a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between the lung and another organ or anatomic site .
increased pressure within the pulmonary circulation due to lung or heart disorder or a disorder characterized by an increase in pressure within the pulmonary circulation due to lung or heart disorder .
the significant impairment of gas exchange within the lungs resulting in hypoxia ,  hypercarbia ,  or both ,  to the extent that organ tissue perfusion is severely compromised .
a syndrome observed in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia treated with all - trans retinoic acid .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the paranasal sinuses .
cessation of breathing for short periods during sleep .
a symptom consisting of the involuntary expulsion of air from the nose or a disorder characterized by the involuntary expulsion of air from the nose .
a disorder characterized by a high pitched breathing sound due to laryngeal or upper airway obstruction or a symptom resulting from laryngeal obstruction .
a disorder characterized by an abnormal communication between the trachea and another organ or anatomic site or an abnormal communication between the trachea and another organ or anatomic site .
a disorder characterized by an inflammation involving the mucous membrane of the trachea or an inflammatory process affecting the mucous membrane of the trachea .
narrowing of the lumen of the trachea or a disorder characterized by a narrowing of the trachea .
a disorder characterized by a change in the sound and / or speed of the voice or change in the sound and / or speed of the voice .
a disorder characterized by a high - pitched ,  whistling sound during breathing .
hair loss usually from the scalp .
body smell resulting from the growth of bacteria on the body or a disorder characterized by an abnormal body smell resulting from the growth of bacteria on the body .
a disorder characterized by inflammation of the skin characterized by the presence of bullae which are filled with fluid or inflammation of the skin characterized by the presence of bullae which are filled with fluid .
a disorder characterized by flaky and dull skin ;  the pores are generally fine ,  the texture is a papery thin texture or the pores are generally fine with a papery thin texture that feels dry to the touch .
a hypersensitivity reaction characterized by the sudden appearance of symmetrical cutaneous and mucocutaneous macular or papular lesions which evolve into lesions with bright red borders  ( target lesions )  .
a disorder characterized by generalized inflammatory erythema and exfoliation .
a disorder characterized by shrinking of adipose tissue or shrinking of adipose tissue .
a disorder characterized by the presence of excess hair growth in women in anatomic sites where growth is considered to be a secondary male characteristic and under androgen control  ( beard ,  moustache ,  chest ,  abdomen )  or male - pattern hair growth on a female .
a disorder characterized by excessive perspiration or excessive perspiration .
a disorder characterized by hair density or length beyond the accepted limits of normal in a particular body region ,  for a particular age or race or excessive hair growth anywhere on the body .
reduced sweating .causes include burns ,  dehydration ,  radiation ,  and leprosy or a disorder characterized by reduced sweating .
a disorder characterized by hypertrophy of the subcutaneous adipose tissue at the site of multiple subcutaneous injections of insulin or hypertrophy of the subcutaneous adipose tissue at the site of multiple subcutaneous injections of insulin .
a disorder characterized by a change in the color of the nail plate or a change in the color of the nail .
a disorder characterized by loss of all or a portion of the nail or loss of all or a portion of a nail .
straight elevated lines on the nail surface .
painful sensation in the skin or a disorder characterized by marked discomfort sensation in the skin .
a disorder characterized by redness ,  marked discomfort ,  swelling ,  and tingling in the palms of the hands or the soles of the feet or a condition characterized by redness ,  pain ,  swelling ,  and tingling in the palms of the hands or the soles of the feet .
swelling due to an excessive accumulation of fluid around the orbits of the face or a disorder characterized by swelling due to an excessive accumulation of fluid around the orbits of the face .
a disorder characterized by an increase in sensitivity of the skin to light or increased sensitivity of the skin to light exposure .
a disorder characterized by an intense itching sensation or an intense itching sensation .
a disorder characterized by hemorrhagic areas of the skin and mucous membrane .
a disorder characterized by an eruption of papules and pustules ,  typically appearing in face ,  scalp ,  upper chest and back or cutaneous eruptions resembling acne ,  characterized by the presence of papulonodules ,  pustules ,  comedones ,  or cysts in the face ,  trunk ,  and extremities .
a skin condition consisting of both macules and papules or a disorder characterized by the presence of macules  ( flat )  and papules  ( elevated )  .
painful sensation in the skin covering the top and the back of the head or a disorder characterized by marked discomfort sensation in the skin covering the top and the back of the head .
the degeneration and thinning of the epidermis and dermis .
a disorder characterized by an area of hardness in the skin or an area of hardness in the skin .
a disorder characterized by circumscribed ,  inflammatory and necrotic erosive lesion on the skin or a circumscribed and often suppurating skin crater which usually includes loss of skin integrity of the superficial skin or the mucous membranes .
a systemic ,  serious ,  and life - threatening disorder characterized by lesions in the skin and mucous membranes that may lead to necrosis .
local dilatation of small vessels resulting in red discoloration of the skin or mucous membranes or a disorder characterized by local dilatation of small vessels resulting in red discoloration of the skin or mucous membranes .
a disorder characterized by greater than 30% total body skin area separation of dermis .
a disorder characterized by an itchy skin eruption characterized by wheals with pale interiors and well - defined red margins or a transient ,  itchy skin eruption characterized by wheals with pale interiors and red margins .
a disorder characterized by the permanent cessation of menses ,  usually defined by 12 consecutive months of amenorrhea in a woman over 45 years of age or the permanent cessation of menses ,  usually defined by 6 to 12 months of amenorrhea in a woman over 45 years of age .
a disorder characterized by leakage of intravascular fluids into the extravascular space .
reddening of the skin from a transient increase in blood flow or a disorder characterized by episodic reddening of the face .
a disorder characterized by a localized collection of blood ,  usually clotted ,  in an organ ,  space ,  or tissue ,  due to a break in the wall of a blood vessel or a localized collection of blood ,  usually clotted ,  in an organ ,  space ,  or tissue ,  due to a break in the wall of a blood vessel .
a disorder characterized by an uncomfortable and temporary sensation of intense body warmth ,  flushing ,  sometimes accompanied by sweating upon cooling or a temporary feeling of intense body warmth ,  flushing ,  sometimes accompanied by sweating .
blood pressure that is abnormally high .
blood pressure that is abnormally low or a disorder characterized by a blood pressure that is below the normal expected for an individual in a given environment .
the loss of lymph into the surrounding tissue or body cavity or a disorder characterized by the loss of lymph fluid into the surrounding tissue or body cavity .
a disorder characterized by excessive fluid collection in tissues that causes swelling or excess fluid collection in tissues ,  causing swelling .
a cystic lesion containing lymph .
a disorder characterized by impaired circulation to an extremity or deficient blood distribution to the limbs caused by narrowing or obstruction of the lumen of the peripheral arteries .
inflammation of a vein or a disorder characterized by inflammation of the wall of a vein .
a disorder characterized by a blood clot and inflammation involving a superficial vein of the extremities or thrombosis and inflammation of a superficial vein of the extremities .
a disorder characterized by obstruction of the blood flow in the superior vena cava .
occlusion of the lumen of a vessel by a thrombus that has migrated from a distal site via the blood stream or a disorder characterized by occlusion of a vessel by a thrombus that has migrated from a distal site via the blood stream .
an inflammatory process involving the wall of the vessels  ( large ,  medium ,  or small - sized vessels )  .
a disorder characterized by a decrease in blood supply due to narrowing or blockage of a visceral  ( mesenteric )  artery or decreased blood supply to the small or large intestine due to narrowing or blockage of a visceral  ( mesenteric )  artery .
