a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities
a quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to move freely .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's scalar absolute value of the rate of change of the bearer's position .
a time quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of how long the bearer has existed .
a composite chromatic quality composed of hue ,  saturation and intensity parts .
a chromatic scalar - circular quality inhering in an object that manifests in an observer by virtue of the dominant wavelength of the visible light ;  may be subject to fiat divisions ,  typically into 7 or 8 spectra .
a scalar optical property that is the intensity ,  value or amount of perceived light .
a scalar chromatic property that is the degree of purity of perceived light .
a luminous flux quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's emitting longer wavelength light following the absorption of shorter wavelength radiation ;  fluorescence is common with aromatic compounds with several rings joined together .
a chromatic property that is the relative position of different hues or degrees of saturation .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to harmonious coexistence .
a single physical entity inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's quantities or relative ratios of subparts .
a quality inhering in a substance by virtue of the amount of the bearer's there is mixed with another substance .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's density ,  firmness ,  or viscosity .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's orientation in space .
a quality that is the extent of space between two entities .
a quality of a physical entity inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer's molecules are being perceived by a taste and odorant receptors .
a physical quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the number of the bearer's repetitive actions in a particular time .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to undergo sexual reproduction in order to differentiate the individuals or types involved .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resistance to pressure ,  being broken ,  or pierced
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's possessing or displaying a distinctive feature in type or degree or effect or force .
a time quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's expected maximum age .
a quality of a single physical entity inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's size or shape or structure .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ratios of distances between its features  ( points ,  edges ,  surfaces and also holes etc )  .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to synthesize a particular organic compound required for its growth .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's molecules being are aerially dispersed and perceived by an odorant receptor .
a parental quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of exhibiting the characteristic of a parent .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting repetition of placement of its parts .
a sleep quality defined by the mathematic properties of the relative time frames of the sleep cycle .
a texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having hair or bristles .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
the number of entities of this type that are part of the whole organism .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer's disposition to react to a stimulus or an agent .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's movement or variation characterized by the regular recurrence or alternation of different quantities or conditions .
a physical quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the size of the bearer's maximum displacement from the 'normal' position ,  when periodic motion is taking place .
a rhythm quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the repetitiveness of bearer's rhythm .
a quality that exists by virtue of being a particular point in the time of a cycle .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to detect or perceive external stimulation .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical magnitude .
a 1 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's vertical dimension of extension .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the distance between two points .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the proportion of the bearer's amount of matter .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer that has mass near a gravitational body .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's placement which is defined by the angle between the bearer and an axis ,  or the angle between the bearer and another object .
a morphological quality pertaining to the degree to which an object contains an opening ,  aperture ,  orifice or vent .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial location relative to other objects in the vicinity .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative position ,  shape ,  arrangements and connectivity of an organism's various parts ;  the pattern underlying its form .
a physical quality of the thermal energy of a system .
a morphologic quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative size ,  organization and distribution of its surface elements or the representation or invention of the appearance of its surface ;  visual and tactile surface characteristics .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's sensitivity towards a fixed location or value where a change is observed ;  upper limit .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence per unit time .
a quality in which events occur in sequence .
a limited ,  often assigned period of activity .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of the bearer's disposition to survive and develop normally or the number of surviving individuals in a given population .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of having physical steadiness .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's behavior aggregate of the responses or reactions or movements in a given situation .
a relational quality of occurrent inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to consume a resource .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or lacking skillful and effective interaction of movement .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer's disposition to perceive differences between two or more stimuli .
a quality of a single physical entity which is held by a bearer when the latter exhibits a state of growth ,  differentiation ,  or development .
a reproductive quality inhering in an organism or population by virtue of the bearer's potential reproductive capacity ad measured by the number of gametes .
a reproductive quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's initiating ,  sustaining ,  or supporting reproduction .
a reproductive quality inhering in the young of an animal by virtue of their number .
a fertility quality inhering in a female by virtue of the bearer's disposition to initiate ,  sustain ,  or support reproduction .
a fertility quality of inhering in a male by virtue of the bearer's disposition to initiate ,  sustain ,  or support reproduction .
a quality of a process which ends earlier than the natural end time or reference process .
a mobility quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to move freely .
a mobility quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being incapable to move freely .
a speed which is relatively high .
a speed which is relatively low .
an age which is relatively high .
an age which is relatively low .
a color that lacks any hues as parts .
a color hue with low wavelength of that portion of the visible spectrum lying between green and indigo ,  evoked in the human observer by radiant energy with wavelengths of approximately 420 to 490 nanometers .
a color consisting of green and blue hue .
a color hue with medium - low wavelength of that portion of the visible spectrum lying between yellow and blue ,  evoked in the human observer by radiant energy with wavelengths of approximately 490 to 570 nanometers .
a color consisting of red and blue hues .
a color hue with high wavelength of the long - wave end of the visible spectrum ,  evoked in the human observer by radiant energy with wavelengths of approximately 630 to 750 nanometers .
an achromatic color of maximum brightness ;  the color of objects that reflect nearly all light of all visible wavelengths .
a color hue with medium wavelength of that portion of the visible spectrum lying between orange and green ,  evoked in the human observer by radiant energy with wavelengths of approximately 570 to 590 nanometers .
a color brightness which is relatively low .
a color saturation which is of low purity .
a color pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's being marked with irregularly shaped spots or blots of a different hue or degree of saturation .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude of or the relationships between its repeated parts lack consistency .
a color quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being altered or spoiled in color .
a color pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's being marked with a round area of different hue or degree of saturation .
a color quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having color .
a color quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking color .
a compatibility quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable of harmonious coexistence .
a compatibility quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being incapable of harmonious coexistence .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's direction from a higher to a lower point .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's direction that is similar to the direction of an object to the north when it faces east .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's direction that is similar to the direction of an object to the north when it faces west .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's direction from a lower to a higher point .
a distance which is greater relative to the normal or average .
a distance which is lesser relative to the normal or average .
a frequency which is relatively high .
a frequency which is relatively low .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population that only produces gametes that can be fertilised by male gametes .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population whose sex organs contain only male gametes .
a hardness quality of being rigid and resistant to pressure .
a hardness quality of giving little resistance to pressure .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a sudden onset ,  sharp rise ,  and short course .
an intensity which is less than moderate in type or degree or effect or force .
an intensity which is less than extreme in type or degree or effect or force .
an intensity which is extremely bad or unpleasant in type or degree or effect or force .
a branchiness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having branches .
a concave quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling a groove or fissure .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curled or wound  ( especially in concentric rings or spirals )  .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having parallel chains in undulate fashion on the border .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or being marked by a curve or smoothly rounded bend .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a horizontal surface without a slope ,  tilt ,  or curvature .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting an equatorial diameter greater than its polar diameter .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having leaflets or leaflets - like structures on each side of a common axis .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being such that every part of the surface or the circumference is equidistant from the center .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an equal - sided rectangular form .
a branchiness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking branches .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being not curled or wound  ( especially in concentric rings or spirals )  .
a nutritional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's inability to synthesize a particular organic compound required for its growth .
a nutritional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to synthesize a particular organic compound required for its growth .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurring or appearing again or repeatedly .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's once or in or a few unpredictable instances .
a parental quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of exhibiting the characteristic of a father .
a parental quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of exhibiting the characteristic of a mother .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking or not exhibiting variation .
a pattern quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a repeatable or predictable placement .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's marked by tedious repetition .
a sleep pattern quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's inability to sleep .
a sleep pattern quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disrupted sleep during normal sleeping period ;  often accompanied by cataplexy ,  sleep paralysis .
a pilosity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lack of hairs or bristles .
a pilosity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being covered with hair or hairlike projections .
a maturity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having arrived at the onset of puberty  ( the age at which sex glands become functional )  but not yet fully mature .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's deviation from normal or average .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting no deviation from normal or average .
a quality denoting the lack of an entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of being clearly visible .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of not being clearly visible .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's existence .
an amount which is relatively high .
a response quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to react to a stimulus or an agent .
a response quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lack of reaction to a stimulus or an agent .
a duration quality of a process which is relatively high .
a duration quality of a process which is relatively low .
a phase which occurs earlier than the natural start time .
a phase which occurs during dark cycle .
a quality of a process which starts later than the natural start time or the reference process .
a phase which occurs during the light cycle .
a rhythm quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking rhythm .
a rhythm quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having rhythm .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking sensitivity toward an external stimulus .
a resistance quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its disposition to endure or being insensitive to a stimulus .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having sensitivity toward an external stimulus .
a photosensitivity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking photosensitivity .
a photosensitivity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting photosensitivity .
a height which is relatively low .
a height which is relatively high .
a length quality which is relatively large .
a length quality which is relatively small .
a weight which is relatively high .
a weight which is relatively low .
an increased size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting enlargement of a cell or constituent group of cells  ( for example ,  organ )  .
a decreased size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting reduced size of a cell or constituent group of cells  ( for example ,  organ )  .
a size quality which is relatively high .
a size quality which is relatively low .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being a remnant structure from earlier development or evolution .
a thickness which is relatively high .
a thickness which is relatively low .
a volume which is relatively high .
a volume which is relatively low .
a width which is relatively small .
a width which is relatively large .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's affording blocked passage or view .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's affording not completed blocked passage or view .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's affording unobstructed passage or view .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking orientation .
a pattern where all the repeated elements are oriented in the same direction .
an anterioralized quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing only what are normally anterior structures .
a symmetry quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking symmetry .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one or more angle ( s )  in its length .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two sides ;  two - sided .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being overfilled .
a dorsalized quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing only what are normally dorsal structures .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being upright in position or posture .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's protruding or projecting from the body .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's becoming joined together with an additional entity .
an oriented quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being reversed in position ,  order ,  or condition .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being moved or displaced to one side so as to make lateral .
a spatial pattern quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being confined or restricted to a particular location .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's being changed in abnormal position .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having mistakenly taken course ,  way ,  or passage ;  ill - routed .
a posterioralized quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing only what are normally posterior structures .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being stretched out and lying at full length along the ground .
a symmetry quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable of division by a longitudinal plane into similar halves .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being not overfilled .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's involvement of only one part or side .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being confined or restricted to a particular location .
a ventralized quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing only what are normally ventral structures .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of blebbing of the nucleus and dna fragmentation due to the cell undergoing a specific form of programmed cell death termed apoptosis .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer whose structure deteriorates or is lost over time due to an active pathological process .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting an alteration in size ,  shape or organization of its constituent cells .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being merged with another entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's bodily structure that has protruded through an abnormal opening in the wall that contains it .
a increased size quality inhering in an organ or tissue by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting increased number of cells .
a decreased size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting reduced number of cells within an organ or tissue .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being distorted during formation .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's undergoing unprogrammed cell death .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being blocked or filled with obstacles or an obstacle .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being no longer merged with another entity .
a color brightness which is relatively high .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not occurring or existing at the same time or having the same period or phase .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being uninterrupted in time ,  sequence ,  substance ,  or extent .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by breaks or interruptions .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's origin or development at an unusual time or out of the regular sequence .
a quality of a process which starts earlier than the natural start time or the reference process .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurring or existing at the same time or having the same period or phase .
a texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's irregular surface .
a texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processing a surface free of roughness or irregularities .
a threshold which is relatively high .
a threshold which is relatively low .
a viability quality inhering in a population by virtue of the bearer's long term survival inability .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of the bearer's ability to survive or the long term survival ability of a given population .
a balance quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having balance .
a balance quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking balance .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting paralytic behaviour when subjected to mechanical shock .
a behavioral quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting increased activity .
a behavioral quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting reduced activity .
diminished ,  damaged ,  or weakened .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being affected by loss of the ability to move a body part .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's receiving or being subjected to an action without responding or initiating an action in return .
a consumption which is relatively high .
a consumption which is relatively low .
a coordination quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having skillful and effective interaction of movement .
a coordination quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking skillful and effective interaction of movement .
a preference quality in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disliking a perceived stimulus .
a preference quality in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having no preference to a perceived stimulus .
a discrimination quality in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's liking a perceived stimulus .
a female fertility quality inhering in a female by virtue of the bearer's disposition to initiate ,  sustain ,  or support reproduction .
a male fertility quality inhering in a male by virtue of the bearer's being incapable of initiating ,  sustaining ,  or supporting reproduction .
a male fertility quality inhering in a male by virtue of the bearer's being capable of initiating ,  sustaining ,  or supporting reproduction .
a female fertility quality inhering in a female by virtue of the bearer's being incapable of initiating ,  sustaining ,  or supporting reproduction .
a rate which is relatively low .
a rate which is relatively high .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the dimension through an object as opposed to its length or width .
a 3 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of 3 - dimensional space it occupies .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the distance from one side of an object to another side which is opposite .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being sensitivity to the action of radiant energy .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's terminating abruptly by having or as if having an end or point cut off .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking organisation .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting organisation .
a structural quality inhering in a cytoplasm that contains fluid filled cavities .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a sharp or tapered end or point .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a downward bending of its leaves or other plant parts .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a somewhat elongated form with approximately parallel sides .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being oval with two axes of symmetry ,  as produced by a conical section .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a sinus or rounded lobe at the base .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being abnormally flattened or coalesced .
a color between white and black colors .
a color that falls about midway between red and blue in hue .
a color consisting of dark orange ,  red ,  of very low intensity .
a color hue with high - medium wavelength that of that portion of the visible spectrum lying between red and yellow ,  evoked in the human observer by radiant energy with wavelengths of approximately 585 to 620 nanometers .
red color having medium to high brightness and low to moderate saturation .
a fertility quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable of initiating ,  sustaining ,  or supporting reproduction .
a fertility quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being incapable of initiating ,  sustaining ,  or supporting reproduction .
an optical quality which obtains by virtue of the ability of the bearer to absorb visible light .
a optical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being clear ;  not transmitting or reflecting light or radiant energy .
a optical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking opacity .
a pattern quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the correspondence in size ,  shape ,  and relative position of the bearer's parts on opposite sides of a dividing line or median plane or about a center or axis .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a sinuate margin and rippled surface .
a size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being abnormally small .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being permeated or pervaded by a gas or liquid  ( as by osmosis or diffusion )  .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to admit the passage of gas or liquid through pores or interstices .
a permeability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable to be permeated or pervaded by a gas or liquid  ( as by osmosis or diffusion )  .
a permeability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being incapable of being permeated or pervaded by a gas or liquid  ( as by osmosis or diffusion )  .
a porosity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable of admitting the passage of gas or liquid through pores or interstices .
a porosity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being incapable of admitting the passage of gas or liquid through pores or interstices .
a physical quality of a liquid inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to internal resistance to flow .
a viscosity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having viscosity .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's successive change from one thing or state to another and back again .
a time quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the time it elapses for the bearer to respond to a stimulus .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a physical quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of some influence is exerted by the bearer's mass per unit size .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer has been harmed or injured or spoiled .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's capacity to do work .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the amount of momentum caused a certain force will produce over time .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's velocity multiplied by its mass .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's rate of doing work .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of force per unit area it exerts .
a physical quality which is equal to the energy transferred by a force to a moving object .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the rate of change of the bearer's velocity in either speed or direction .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of ratio of the bearer's output to the bearer's input .
a physical quality that exists by virtue of the rate of flow of the bearer across a given surface .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to recover its size and shape after deformation in any way .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the relative change in the bearer's length or the bearer's volume when being stretched or squashed .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's rate of change of momentum .
a quality inhering in an entity by virtue of the bearer's propensity to resist an external stimulus .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to resist to a stimulus .
an angle which is less than 90 degrees .
an angle which is between 90 degrees and 180 degrees to another entity .
an angle which is less than 180 degrees to another entity .
a convex angle that is inside two adjacent sides of a polygon .
an angular placement quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's placement at an angle that is greater than 180 degrees but less than 360 degrees to another entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having susceptibilty toward an external stimulus .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking susceptibilty toward an external stimulus .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's length being notably higher than its width .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting concentration .
a concentration which relatively low .
a concentration which is higher relative to the normal or average .
a concentration which is lower relative to the normal or average .
a physical quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting density .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being harmed or injured or spoiled ,  such that its functionality is impaired .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of not being harmed or injured or spoiled .
an elasticity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to recover its size and shape after deformation in any way .
an elasticity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's inability to recover its size and shape after deformation in any way .
a resistance quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resistance to a stimulus .
a maturity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's indirect development ,  undergoing metamorphosis .
a maturity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being at the age immediately before puberty .
a maturity quality inhering in a insect by virtue of the bearer's being in the chrysalis  ( cocoon )  or post larval stage .
a maturity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being in an inactive stage in the development of some insects ,  between the larval and the pupal stages .
a maturity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being between the onset of puberty and maturity .
a maturity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's being not fully grown or developed .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the middle relative to another entity .
a response quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's excessive reaction to a stimulus or an agent .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the side relative to another entity .
a response quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's limited reaction to a stimulus or an agent .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located more centrally than another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the abdomen of an organism relative to another entity .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being narrow ,  with the two opposite margins parallel .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped in the form of the letter t .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped in the form of the letter y .
a surface feature shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having toothlike projections in the margin .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of having sharp straight - edged teeth pointing to the apex .
an odor quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking odour .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits variation or change .
a color saturation which is of high purity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's power or force .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the back or upper surface of an organism relative to another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located further from a more centrally located entity .
a quality which inheres in an process .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a physical quality which is equal to the distance between repeating units of a wave pattern .
a color consisting of blue hue and high brightness .
a color consisting of blue hue and low brightness .
a color consisting of brown hue and low brightness .
a color consisting of brown hue and high brightness .
a color consisting of cyan hue and high brightness .
a color consisting of cyan hue and low brightness .
a color consisting of green hue and low brightness .
a color consisting of green hue and high brightness .
a color consisting of grey color and low brightness .
a color consisting of grey color and high brightness .
a color consisting of magenta color and high brightness .
a color consisting of magenta with low brightness .
a color consisting of orange hue and high brightness .
a color consisting of orange color and low brightness .
pink color having high brightness and moderate saturation .
pink color having medium brightness and moderate saturation .
a color consisting of purple color and low brightness .
a color consisting of purple color and high brightness .
a color consisting of red hue and low brightness .
a color consisting of red hue and high brightness .
a color consisting of yellow hue and low brightness .
a color consisting of yellow hue and high brightness .
a color consisting of blue hue and high saturation .
a color consisting of blue hue and low saturation .
a color consisting of brown hue and high saturation .
a color consisting of brown hue and low saturation .
a color consisting of cyan colour and high saturation .
a color consisting of cyan colour and low saturation .
a color consisting of green hue and high saturation .
a color consisting of green hue and low saturation .
a color consisting of grey color and high saturation .
a color consisting of grey color and low saturation .
a color consisting of magenta color and high saturation .
a color consisting of magenta color and low saturation .
a color consisting of orange hue and high saturation .
a color consisting of orange hue and low saturation .
pink color having medium brightness and low saturation .
a color consisting of purple color and high saturation .
a color consisting of purple color and low saturation .
a color consisting of red hue and high saturation .
a color consisting of red hue and low saturation .
a color consisting of yellow hue and high saturation .
a color consisting of yellow hue and low saturation .
a color consisting of red and brown hue .
a color consisting of red and brown hue and low brightness .
a color consisting of red and brown hue and high brightness .
a fluorescence quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of emitting light during exposure to radiation from an external source .
a physical quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with electromagnetic radiation .
an em radiation quality that is independent of the em wavelength range .
a scalar em radiation quality which obtains by the capacity of the bearer to retain radiation .
a scalar em radiation quality which obtains by the capacity of the bearer to scatter or reflect radiation .
a reflective quality restricted to a particular wavelength .
a scalar optical quality which obtains by the magnitude of the light emitted by the bearer .
a radiation reflective quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the ratio of the energy of a wave reflected from its surface to the energy possessed by the wave striking the bearer's surface .
a fluorescence in which the emittence continues after the absorption has ceased .
a scalar em radiation quality which obtains by the capacity of the bearer to emit radiation .
an em radiation quality in which the em radiation is within the fiat range of the spectrum visible deemed to be light .
an optical quality that is the mixture ,  purity or pattern of wavelengths of light perceived by the observer .
a color consisting of red and orange hue with a slight amount of gray .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to varying or changing .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits temperature variation or change .
a temperature which is relatively high .
a temperature which is relatively low .
a variability of temperature which is relatively low .
a variability of temperature which is relatively high .
a process quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude of the temporal extent between the starting and ending point .
a duration quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's duration of exhibition of thermal energy .
a duration of temperature which is lesser relative to the normal or average enduring or continuing in time .
a duration of temperature which is greater relative to the normal or average in respect to the quality of temperature of enduring or continuing in time .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking or not exhibiting variation of temperature .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or exhibiting variation of temperature .
a temperature which is increased by a low degree .
a temperature which is increased by a medium degree .
a temperature which is increased by a high degree .
a discrimination quality in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being incapable perceiving differences between two or more stimuli .
a discrimination quality in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable of perceiving differences between two or more stimuli .
a pilosity quality of being covered with short hairs or soft down .
an angle which is 90 degrees to another entity .
an angle which is 180 degrees to another entity .
a 2 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's two dimensional extent .
a symmetry quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being symmetric about a plane running from its frontal end to its caudal end  ( head to tail )  ,  and has nearly identical right and left halves .
a symmetry quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having equal proportion around a central point or axis .
a symmetry quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable of division into symmetrical halves by only one longitudinal plane passing through the axis .
a symmetry quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable of division into symmetrical halves by any longitudinal plane passing through the axis .
a flavor quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having flavour .
a flavor quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking flavour .
an odor quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having odour .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lack of distinct morphology .
a quality of a process which ends later than the natural end time .
a length quality which is equal to the length of any straight line segment that passes through the center of a circle and whose endpoints are on the circular boundary .
a mating type that indicates whether the f plasmid has integrated into the chromosome .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual whose sex is unknown .
a yeast mating type .
a biological sex quality inhering in a population of multiple sexes .
a composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's homogeneity of a biomaterial .
a biological sex quality inhering in an organism or a population with both male and female sexual organs in one individual .
a s . cerevisiae mating type cells that secrete a pheromone that in alpha haploids stimulates processes that lead to mating .
a s . cerevisiae mating type .
a s . pombe mating type determined by the gene configuration on the mat1 locus .
a s . cerevisiae mating type cells that secrete a pheromone that stimulates a haploids .
a s . pombe mating type determined by the mat1 - mc and mat1 - mi on the mat1 locus .
a s . pombe mating type determined by the mat1 - pc and mat1 - pi on the mat1 locus .
a bacterial mating type indicating the presence of f plasmid in a bacterial cell .
a bacterial mating type indicating the absence of f plasmid in a bacterial cell .
a mating type that indicates that the f plasmid has integrated into the chromosome .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the rate of change of the bearer's angular velocity .
a density quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of some influence exerted by the bearer's mass on a given area .
a density quality which is equal to the mass exerting an influence on a one - dimensional object .
a density quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of some influence exerted by the bearer's mass on a given volume .
a optical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting low opacity .
a shape quality that obtains by virtue of the bearer having inward facing edges ;  having a surface or boundary that curves or bulges outward ,  as the exterior of a sphere .
a shape quality inhering in a cell by virtue of the bearer's ability to take on two or more different shapes during its life cycle .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped like a cushion or has a marked convex cushion - like form .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a knob or knoblike protuberance .
a surface feature shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having many wrinkles or creases on the surface .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having thin filamentous extensions at its edge .
a texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being covered with warts or projections that resemble warts resulting in a hard rough surface .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being easily damaged or destroyed .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having root like extensions radiating from its center .
a surface feature shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having spines ,  thorns or similar thin projections on its surface .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being small and resembling a point .
a surface feature shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having deeply undulating edges forming lobes .
a surface feature shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an irregularly toothed edge .
a shape quality inhering in a colony by virtue of the bearer's appearing above the medium surface with terraced edges .
a coating quality which is sticky or clammy .
a composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's consistency of mucus .
a physical quality that inheres in propagating wave  ( light or sound )  virtue of the bearer's change in direction when passing from one medium to another .
a reflectivity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's reflecting lots of light .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's number of homologous sets of chromosomes in the nucleus or primary chromosome - containing compartment of the cell ,  each set essentially coding for all the biological traits of the organism .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing a single set of homologous chromosomes .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing a single set of unique homologous chromosomes .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing more than two homologous sets of chromosomes .
a polyploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing chromosomes derived from a single species .
a polyploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing chromosomes derived from different species .
a polyploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an ancient polyploid ancestor .
a polyploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing three homologous sets of chromosomes .
a polyploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing four homologous sets of chromosomes .
a polyploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing five homologous sets of chromosomes .
a polyploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing six homologous sets of chromosomes .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing a non - integral multiple of the monoploid number ,  due to extra or missing chromosomes .
an aneuploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing only one chromosome from a pair in a cell's nucleus .
an aneuploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing only two chromosome from a pair in a cell's nucleus .
a disomy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing two copies of the chromosome from one of the parents  ( with no contribution from the other parent )  .
an aneuploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing three ,  instead of two ,  chromosomes of a particular numbered type in an organism .
a trisomy quality inhering in a bearer when part of the bearer's extra chromosome is attached to one of the other chromosomes ,  or if one of the bearer's chromosomes has two copies of part of its chromosome .
a trisomy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having extra chromosomal material in only some of it's cells .
a polyploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's chromosome number being increased by endomitosis and for which the degree of ploidy is proportional to the number of times that endomitosis has taken place .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing an integral multiple of the monoploid number ,  possibly excluding the sex - determining chromosomes .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two copies  ( homologs )  of each chromosome ,  usually one from the mother and one from the father .
a diploidy quality inhering in a bearer in by virtue of belonging in a species whose one of the sexes has haploid cells and the other has diploid cells .
a monadic quality of continuant that exists at the cellular level of organisation .
a cellular quality that arises by virtue of whether the bearer's disposition to differentiate into one or more mature cell types .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having the ability to go through numerous cycles of cell division while maintaining the undifferentiated state .
a cellular potency that is the capacity to produce differentiated cell types of all three primary germ layers and extraembryonic cell types .
a cellular potency that is the capacity to produce only one differentiated cell type .
a cellular potency that is the capacity to form multiple differentiated cell types of a specific lineage and lack self renewing capacity .
a cellular potency that is the capacity to form multiple differentiated cell types .
a cellular potency that is the capacity to produce differentiated cell types of all three primary germ layers but not extraembryonic cell types .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's number of nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having no nucleus .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one nucleus .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having thin ,  tail - like projections extending outwards from the cell body .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling a long tapered rod .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by narrow lines or grooves ,  usually parallel .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having distinct structure .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking distinct structure .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the rate of the bearer's angular movement about an axis ;  the angle rotated in a given time .
a physical quality inhering in a catalyst by virtue of the amount of the catalyst's action .
a quality inhering in a population by virtue of the proportion of its members that are ill at a given time .
a duration which has regular start and / or end times .
a duration quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's duration which has irregular start and / or end times .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being deficient in alertness or activity .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's terminating in a point or edge .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to rise or float in a fluid medium such as water or air .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's condition before death .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the cessation of the bearer's life .
a reflectivity quality inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to refract light .
a color hue with very low wavelength of that portion of the visible spectrum lying between reddish blue or bluish purple ,  evoked in the human observer by radiant energy with wavelengths of approximately 420 to 380 nanometers .
a color hue consisting of red hue and yellow hue and high brightness .
a color consisting of purple and brown hue .
a concentration quality inhering in compound by virtue of the bearer's tendency to act as a hydron donor .
a concentration quality inhering in a medium by virtue of the bearer's tendency to hydronate a specific reference base .
an medium acidity quality inhering in a solution by virtue of the bearer's a high concentration of h +  ions .
an medium acidity quality inhering in a solution by virtue of the bearer's a low concentration of h +  ions .
an emergent molecular quality that arises by virtue of the bearer's disposition to exhibit molecular attraction to another entity in contact .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's decomposition into component parts .
a quality of a single process which describes the growth of an organism ,  structure ,  or group of organisms .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to produce new life or offspring .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having connection or association with another entity .
an attachment quality inhering in a flower by virtue of the bearer's lacking a stalk ,  as in flowers or leaves that grow directly from the stem .
a attachment quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's inability to move about .
a attachment quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or being supported by a pedicel or pedicle .
a contractile quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's elastic tension that facilitate response to stimuli .
a cellular adhesivity quality inhering in a molecule in one cell by virtue of the bearer's attachment to an identical molecule in an adjacent cell .
a cellular adhesivity quality inhering in a molecule in one cell by virtue of the bearer's attachment to an nonidentical molecule in an adjacent cell .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer includes all its components .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's components no longer being in a single contiguous unit .
a wholeness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being taken apart into its constituent parts .
a wholeness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's including all its components .
a composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's being encrusted or impregnated with calcium carbonate  ( chebi:3311 )  .
a composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's being hardened by the deposition of calcium into bone .
a composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's cartilage quantities .
a structural quality which is held by a bearer when the latter exhibits an excessive accumulation of extracellular fluid .
an extended swelling in plant organs caused primarily by an excessive accumulation of water .
an attachment quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking connection or association with another entity .
a sensitivity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's dependence on oxygen .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's dependence on oxygen .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's independence on oxygen .
a quality of a process inhering in bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to respond to stimulation .
a sensitivity of a process quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's unfolding in a location with or without oxygen .
a sensitivity of a process inhering in a biological process by virtue of the process unfolding in a location with oxygen .
a sensitivity of a process inhering in a biological process by virtue of the process unfolding in a location without oxygen .
a physical quality inhering in a liquid by virtue of the bearer's ability to attraction of molecules at its surface as a result of unbalanced molecular cohesive forces .
a quality inhering in a cell's plasma membrane by virtue of the electrical potential difference across it .
a quality inhering in a cell's plasma membrane by virtue of a brief fluctuation in the bearer's potential caused by the rapid opening and closing of voltage - gated ion channels .
a quality that is equal to the potential energy per unit charge associated with a static  ( time - invariant )  electric field ,  also called the electrostatic potential .
a malformed quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's all - encompassing ,  grotesque morphological defects .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved towards the front of an organism .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved towards the part of the body from which the tail arises .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved towards the back or upper surface of an organism .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved towards the abdomen of an organism .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude in respect to a related entity .
a depth which is relatively low .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being present in two copies .
an oriented quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's axis being positioned forward .
a position which is relatively high .
a positional which is relatively low .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being drawn in or pulled back from any given point .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being broken down ;  caved in .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling a sponge in elasticity ,  absorbency ,  or porousness .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an oblique or slanted direction .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's standing out or projecting beyond a surface or line .
absence of an organ ,  tissue or cell due to failure to develop from a primordium or precursor cell .
a quality of a process which occurs near to or not long before the present .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being thicker or more closely packed together ;  pressed tightly together .
an age quality that exists by virtue of the time  ( years and months )  that the bearer has existed .
a time quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's growing old ;  aging .
a cellular quality inhering in a cell by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits the ability to move spontaneously .
a growth quality of a process inhering in an organism ,  structure ,  or group of organisms by virtue of the bearer's reduced or increased growth .
a paedomorphic growth quality which is due to a reduced rate .
a concave quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's shape being a v - shaped cut .
a reproductive quality inhering in the young of an animal by virtue of the bearer's being cared for at one time .
a reproductive quality inhering in the young of an animal by virtue of the bearer's disposition to survive and develop normally .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling a ball  ( a sphere whose equatorial diameter is equal to the polar diameter )  .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being gradually narrower or thinner toward one end .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking complete growth ,  differentiation ,  or development .
a monadic quality of continuant inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being intricate and compounded .
a complexity quality in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having few parts or being complicated or compound .
a complexity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being intricate and compounded .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being in contact with another entity ,  or of no longer being connected or joined with another entity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's separation of normally joined parts ,  such as the separation of adjacent bones without fracture or of certain abdominal muscles during pregnancy .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being interrupted of its normal course .
a quality of a single physical entity that arises by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits the ability to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a functionality quality held by the bearer when the latter is able to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a disfunctional quality held by the bearer when the latter is unable to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a pattern inhering in a surface by virtue of the bearer's being marked by the presence of dots ,  punctures ,  points or pits .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking some outer layer .
a color quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being uneven in color .
an optical quality where light rays originating from a point on the object converge .
an optical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having focus .
an optical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking focus .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of vibration ,  as perceived by the sense of hearing .
the frequency of transmitted vibrations .
a physical quality inhering in a sound wave by virtue of the maximum magnitude  ( value without regard to sign )  of its disturbance .
a physical quality inhering in sound by virtue of the bearer's travelling speed in a given medium under specified conditions .
a physical quality which is equal to the quotient of the speed of a sound wave divided by its wavelength .
a sound frequency in the range of 0 - 20 hz .
a sound frequency in the range of 20 to 20 .000 hz .
a sound frequency in the range of 20 000  +  hz .
a sound amplitude which is relatively low .
a sound amplitude which is relatively high .
a spatiotemporal quality inhering in a cell .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's behavior .
a cellular quality that exists by virtue of the disposition of the cell to adhere to other cells and molecules ,  through the emergent action of the molecular parts of the cell surface .
a color pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one hue .
a color pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's having two or more hues or degrees of saturation .
a color pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's having 3 or more hues or degrees of saturations .
a color pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's being marked with small spots ,  patches ,  or specks of hue or degree of saturation differing from that of the background .
a molecular quality that inheres in a molecular entity by virtue of the bearer's disposition to dissolve in a liquid .
a solubility quality inhering in a substance by virtue of the bearer's disposition to dissolve in a liquid .
a solubility quality inhering in a substance by virtue of the bearer's inability of a substance to dissolve in a liquid .
a compositional quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's quantities or relative ratios of amylose of the inhering entity .
an amylose composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's having negligible or no amylose content .
an amylose composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's having high amount of amylose content .
a phase which starts later than natural start point .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being turned ,  bowed ,  or twisted without breaking .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability of being turned ,  bowed ,  or twisted without breaking .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's inability of being turned ,  bowed ,  or twisted without breaking .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting the physical characteristics of an entity characterized by particles arranged such that their shape and volume are relatively stable .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting the physical characteristics of an entity consisting of particles that have neither a defined volume nor defined shape .
a physical quality inhering in an entity exhibiting the physical characteristics of an amorphous  ( non - crystalline )  form of matter between a gas and a solid that has a definite volume ,  but no definite shape .
a sensitivity toward an external stimulus which is higher than normal / average .
a sensitivity toward an external stimulus which is lower than normal / average .
a sensitivity of a process which is higher than normal or average .
a sensitivity of a process which is lower than normal or average .
a sensitivity of occurrent to oxygen which is higher than normal or average .
a sensitivity of a process to oxygen which is lower than normal or average .
the number of parts of a particular type that the bearer entity has .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a processual part as specified by the additional entity .
a functionality quality which is held by the bearer when the latter is able to perform additional or different function ( s )  .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having additional processual parts .
a mass which is lower than normal or average .
a mass which is higher than normal or average .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processual parts .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being spread out or scattered about or divided up .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being spread out or scattered about or divided up .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having fewer processual parts .
a size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being made wider or larger in all dimensions .
a symmetry quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having equal dimensions or measurements .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's motion characteristic .
a pressure which is relatively low .
a pressure which is relatively high .
a permeability which is relatively high .
a permeability which is relatively low .
a physical quality that is the ability to contract or shrink .
a contractility which is relatively high .
a contractility which is relatively low .
a spatial quality inhering in an inactive muscle or muscle fibers by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting gradual lengthening .
a variability which is relatively low .
a variability which is relatively high .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to transmit of an entity through a medium .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits rate variation or change .
a variability of rate which is relatively high .
a variability of rate which is relatively low .
increased ,  intensified .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's coinciding spatially ,  partially or wholly with another entity .
a surface shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a degree of bending .
a curvature which is relatively high .
a curvature which is relatively low .
a concave quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's forming or resembling an arch .
a 1 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's downward or backward or inward dimenision .
a depth quality which is relatively high .
an oriented quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being turned outward in placement .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's extending out above or beyond a surface or boundary .
an oriented quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being relocated around an axis .
a rotation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of being rotated towards the rear of organism .
a rotation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of being rotated towards the front of an organism .
a size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being abnormally expanded or increased in size .
a life span which is relatively high .
a life span which is relatively low .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being in disarray ;  extremely disorderly .
a coating which is oily and slippery .
a tangled quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being not possible to unravel .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by ,  consisting of ,  or diversified with patches .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being scattered ;  spread irregularly ,  and at a distance from each other .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits color variation or change .
a variability of color which is relatively high .
a variability of color which is relatively low .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking or not exhibiting variation of color .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or exhibiting variation of colour .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being distorted in form .
a tonicity which is relatively high .
a tonicity which is relatively low .
a structural quality inhering in a cell or blood vessel or capillary by virtue of the bearer's being in a rigid state of fullness resulting from pressure of the contents against the wall or membrane .
a turgor which is relatively low .
a turgor which is relatively high .
a size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of a part or parts of the bearer's being decreased in size due to reduction in tissue mass through wasting .
a functionality quality held by the bearer when the latter exhibits decreased ability to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a functional quality held by the bearer when the latter exhibits increased ability to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer has enough functionality .
a wholeness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's has enough functionality .
a wholeness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacks enough functionality .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being gathered or tending to gather into a mass or whole .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being distributed or spread over a considerable extent .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the front of an organism relative to another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the rear of an organism relative to another entity .
a quality of a single physical entity inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer is essential or indispensable .
a necessity quality  ( continuant )  inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being essential or indispensable .
a necessity quality  ( continuant )  inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being non - essential or dispensable .
a quality of single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer is essential or indispensable .
a necessity quality inhering in a process by virtue of the bearer's being essential or indispensable .
a necessity quality inhering in a process by virtue of the bearer's being non - essential or dispensable .
a size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a short ,  stocky build .
a quality inhering into a bearer by virtue of the bearer's extending out above or beyond its surface or boundary into the surface or boundary of another entity .
a quality inhering into a bearer by virtue of the bearer's extending out above or beyond its surface or boundary and outwards in relation to the physical space occupied by another entity .
an 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the length of the closed curve of a circle .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved towards the side .
a resistance to a stimulus which is relatively high .
a resistance to a stimulus which is relatively low .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial positioning with respect to an additional entity .
an alignment quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being in a proper spatial positioning with respect to an additional entity .
an alignment quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being in a improper spatial positioning with respect to an additional entity .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of osmoles of solute per liter of solution .
a osmolarity which is relatively low .
a osmolarity which is relatively high .
a rotatiotion quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of being rotated towards the back or upper surface of an organism .
a rotation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of being rotated towards the abdomen of an organism .
an action potential which is relatively low .
an action potential which is relatively high .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being damaged or destroyed .
a solubility which is relatively high .
a solubility which is relatively low .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located near a surface .
an attachment quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's connection or association with another entity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being in close proximity and physically interacting with another entity .
a susceptibility toward an external stimulus which is higher than normal / average .
a susceptibility toward an external stimulus which is lower than normal / average .
a distribution which is relatively high .
a distribution which is relatively low .
structure quality that is the presence of closed epithelium bounded capsules containing one or more liquid or solid organism substances .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's catalytic activity divided by the volume of the system .
an efficiency which is relatively low .
an efficiency which is relatively high .
an efficiency quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking efficiency .
an efficiency quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having efficiency .
a volume quality inhering in a mass of substance by virtue of the amount of 3 - dimensional space it occupies .
a volume quality inhering in a homogeneous substance containing 6 .02 x 1023 atoms or molecules by virtue of the amount of 3 - dimensional space it occupies .
a physical quality that inheres in a homogeneous substance containing 6 .02 x 1023 atoms or molecules .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to exert an attractive or repulsive force on other entities .
a magnetism which is relatively high .
a magnetism which is relatively low .
a magnetic quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to exert magnitism .
a magnetic quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's inability to exert magnitism .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's vertical distance of a point above or below a reference surface .
an elevation which is relatively high .
an elevation which is relatively low .
a contractility quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability of contracting or being contracted .
a contractility quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's inability of contracting or being contracted .
a viscosity which relatively high .
a viscosity which relatively low .
a fecundity which is relatively high .
a fecundity which is relatively low .
a photosensitivity which is relatively low .
a photosensitivity which is relatively high .
a sleep pattern which has regular start and / or end times .
a sleep pattern which has irregular start and / or end times .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting complete growth ,  differentiation ,  or development .
a color consisting of violet hue and high saturation .
a color consisting of violet hue and low saturation .
a color consisting of violet hue and high brightness .
a color consisting of violet hue and low brightness .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to lack activity .
a behavioral quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting marked activity .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in one dimension .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in two dimensions .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in three dimensions .
an 1 - d extent quality inhering in two - dimensional bearer by virtue of being equal to the distance around it .
a perimeter which is relatively high .
a perimeter which is relatively low .
a diameter which is relatively large .
a diameter which is relatively small .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to withstand great strain without tearing or breaking .
a radiation emitting quality which obtains by the intensity of the bearer emitted radiation .
a quality that exists by virtue of the luminous intensity per unit area projected in a given direction .
a behavioral quality which holds by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits the ability to receive another agentitive entity .
a behavioral quality which holds by virtue of extent of the receptiveness of a female to male advances .
a behavioral quality which holds by virtue of extent of the receptiveness of a male to female advances .
a female receptivity which is relatively high .
a female receptivity which is relatively low .
a male receptivity which is relatively high .
a male receptivity which is relatively low .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's prevailing tendency ,  mood ,  or inclination .
a disposition inhering in a multi - cellular organism .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to lose an entitity by natural process .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to shed body parts .
a quality inhering in a plant by virtue of the bearer's disposition to shed foliage .
a quality inhering in a plant by virtue of the bearer's disposition to not shed any body part .
a quality inhering in a plant by virtue of the bearer's disposition to retain foliage .
a quality inhering in a plant by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being between evergeen and deciduous .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's parts having the arrangement which exhibits characteristics of liquids .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's parts having the arrangement which exhibits characteristics of solids .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's parts having the arrangement which exhibits characteristics of gases .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking physically interaction with another entity .
a quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with radiation .
a radiation quality inhering in a radioactive substance by virtue of its transformation  ( disintegration )  rate .
a radiation quality inhering in bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting or being caused by radioactivity .
a radioactivity which is relatively low .
a radioactivity which is relatively high .
a radiation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of what the bearer receives as a result of being exposed to ionizing radiation .
a radiation exposure quality inhering in a substance by virtue of the radiation energy  \ "deposited \ " in a kilogram of a substance .
a radiation exposure quality inhering in a tissue by virtue of the relation between the absorbed dose to the effective biological damage of the radiation to that tissue .
a radiation exposure quality inhering in an organ by virtue of the multiplication of an equivalent dose to that organ multiplied by the tissue weighting factor for that organ .
a shape quality in which a portion of the outermost boundary of an entity folds in space such that a portion that was originally convex is now concave .
a heterochronic growth quality inhering in an organism ,  structure ,  or group of organisms by virtue of the bearer's reduced growth .
a paedomorphic growth quality which is due to a delayed onset .
a paedomorphic growth quality which is due to an ealier offset .
a heterochronic growth quality inhering in an organism ,  structure ,  or group of organisms by virtue of the bearer's increased growth .
a peramorphic growth quality which is due to an increased rate .
a peramorphic growth quality which is due to an earlier onset .
a peramorphic growth quality which is due to a delayed offset .
a conductivity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to spontaneous transfer of thermal energy from a region of higher temperature to a region of lower temperature .
a conductivity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to convey electricity .
a conductivity quality inhering in motor and sensory nerves by virtue of the bearer's ability to convey electricity .
a composition quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing granules .
an age which is high relative to the normal or average .
an age which is low relative to the normal or average .
a cellular quality inhering in a cell by virtue of its anisotropic intracellular organization .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of some of it's members' inability to survive to reproduce .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's location of features or characteristics along an axis .
a viability quality inhering in a population by virtue of some of it's members' ability to survive .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being extended on all sides of another entity simultaneously .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having only one phase or stage .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or existing in many phases .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's location of features or characteristics along the dorsal - ventral axis .
a flexibility which is relatively high .
a flexibility which is relatively low .
a strength which is relatively high .
a strength which is relatively low .
a size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being abnormally developed ,  usually due to malnutrition .
a thickness quality which lacks pattern .
an intensity which is relatively high .
an intensity which is relatively low .
a branched quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being divided into two branches .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved outward .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being divided or broken up into parts or divisions .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved around an axis .
a density which is higher relative to the normal or average .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a shape resembling a dome .
a density which is lower relative to the normal or average .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being confined or restricted to multiple locations .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located on left side of from the a another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located on right side of a another entity .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being wound in a continuous series of loops .
a coiling which is relatively high .
a coiling which is relatively low .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having multiple angles in its length .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting disturbance of its smoothness or regularity .
a composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the quantities or relative ratios of water of the inhering entity .
a composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the reduction in amount of water the bearer contains .
a pattern quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being compact or dense in arrangement .
a photosensitivity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being susceptible to damage by light .
a texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being covered or partially covered with scales .
a texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's formed or tending to form flakes or thin ,  crisp fragments .
a sensitivity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exposure to radiation .
a sensitivity to irradiation which is relatively low .
a sensitivity to irradiation which is relatively high .
a pattern quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being compact or dense in arrangement .
a grooved texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by one or more creases in a normally smooth surface .
a relaxation which is relatively high .
a relaxation which is relatively low .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lack elastic tension that facilitate response to stimuli .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's impaired elastic tension that facilitate response to stimuli .
a strength quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to lose strength .
a fatigability which is relatively high .
a fatigability which is relatively low .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's increasing over time .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's absence or closure of a normal body orifice or tubular passage .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having no opening .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer's being covered by a liquid .
a wetness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being covered by a liquid .
a wetness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being covered by a liquid .
a wetness quality that is relatively high .
a wetness quality that is relatively low .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population by virtue of having internal reproductive organs of one sex and external sexual characteristics of the other sex .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population by virtue of having internal reproductive organs of male and external sexual characteristics of female .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population by virtue of having internal reproductive organs of female and external sexual characteristics of male .
a female fertility which is relatively low .
a female fertility which is relatively high .
a male fertility which is relatively high .
a male fertility which is relatively low .
a fertility which is relatively low .
a fertility which is relatively high .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer with some kind of aperture or opening that is blocked or clogged .
a flow that is relatively low .
a fluid flow that is relatively high .
an intensity which is characterized by temporary abatement in severity .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing acid  ( hydrogen ions )  .
an acidity which is relatively low .
an acidity which is relatively high .
a rhythm quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking rhythm lacking pattern .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being entwined and difficult to unravel .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being drawn together ,  compressed or squeezed physically .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved asymmetrically .
a texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of a portion of the bearer's surface being scraped away .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being fibrous tissue that replaces normal tissue destroyed by injury or disease .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting transient abnormal enlargement ,  not due to cell proliferation .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being out of its usual or proper place ,  or position .
a structural quality which is held by a bearer when the latter exhibits an excessive accumulation of cerebral spinal fluid .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being situated at right angles to the horizon .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being in the plane of the horizon .
an oriented quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being turned inward upon itself .
a shape quality in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's curving inward .
a functionality quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of being not completely paralysed .
a coordination which is relatively high .
a coordination which is relatively low .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's forming a bundle of aligned anatomical fibers ,  as of muscle or nerve .
a fertility quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to make its offspring sterile .
a duration quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having slow progressive course of indefinite duration .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a quadric surface in three dimensions obtained by rotating an ellipse about one of its principal axes .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a polar diameter longer than its equatorial diameter .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of it being a quadrilateral polygon in which all four angles are right angles .
a fluorescence quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting fluorescence which is self - induced .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being abnormal and having a destructive effect on living tissue .
a shape quality inhering in a circular disk by virtue of the bearer's having a segment of another circle removed from its edge ,  so that what remains is a shape enclosed by two circular arcs of different diameters which intersect at two points  ( usually in such a manner that the enclosed shape does not include the center of the original circle )  .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having the shape of a kidney .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resemblance to a cube  ( a 3 - d shape with a square cross section )  .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a consistently - sized round cross section .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being cylindrical ,  in which the height is less than the diameter .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having three angles .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two parts ,  roughly spherical and of equal size ,  connected by a bar .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped like a lance - head ,  considerably longer than wide ,  tapering towards the tip from below the middle ;  attached at the broad end .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of two curves ,  in opposite directions .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped in the form of the letter u .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a tail or tail - like projection .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's forming two equal obtuse triangles with a short side in common .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling a slug .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gradually becoming thicker towards the end .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's disposition to being water - repellent ;  tending to repel and not absorb water .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking affinity for water ;  tending to repel and not absorb water ;  tending not to dissolve in or mix with or be wetted by water .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's disposition to having an affinity for water ;  it is readily absorbing or dissolving in water .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to having a strong affinity for water ;  tending to dissolve in ,  mix with ,  or be wetted by water .
a quality of a liquid inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to mix with  ( dissolve in )  another liquid .
a surface feature shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having the border ,  edge ,  or outline cut into a series of segments of circles resembling a scallop - shell .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being divided into three branches .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a continuous convex surface with an axis of symmetry and one axis longer than the other ;  egg - shaped .
an odor quality of having decreased odor .
an odor quality of having increased odor .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical expression of sexual characteristics .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population that undergo sexual reproduction .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking of a three dimensional space surrounded by one or more anatomical structures and containing one or more anatomical substances .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a three dimensional space surrounded by one or more anatomical structures and containing one or more anatomical substances .
a circumference which is relatively high .
a circumference which is relatively low .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's direction that is similar to the direction of an object to the south when it faces north .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's direction that is similar to the direction of an object to the north when it faces south .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one direction only .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two directions .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's direction approximating the shape of a circle .
the bearer of this quality has_part = n ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's participation in movement .
a surface feature shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being like the surface of a compact mass of grapes .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having more than one nucleus .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having three nuclei .
a surface feature shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's one part being layered over another connected part .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting movement in a circular course .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the state of bearer's mechanical ,  physical ,  and biochemical processes .
a physiological state which is characterized by periods of high - frequency high amplitude electrical activity in neuronal tissue .
a physiological state which is characterized by normal electrical activity in neuronal tissue .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the front and upper surface of an organism relative to another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the rear and upper surface of an organism relative to another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the front and abdomen of an organism relative to another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the rear and abdomen of an organism relative to another entity .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards the back or upper surface of an organism .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards the abdomen of an organism .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards the front of an organism .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards the rear of an organism .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards the side of an organism .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards the middle of an organism .
a surface shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's shape of features present on its surface or outer shell .
a fluorescence which is higher than normal .
a fluorescence which is lower than normal .
a texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of a local accumulation of fluid underneath the surface of the bearer .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits shape variation or change .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's having or exhibiting variation its shape .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking or not exhibiting variation of shape .
a pattern quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being placed alternately one above the other .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned on opposite sides on the same plane .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being perfectly circular .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being roundish ,  a little inclining to be oblong .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being egg - shaped and flat ,  with the narrow end attached to the base .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being oblong ,  with the lower end very much attenuated .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being oval and a little angular in the middle .
a size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being many folds greater relative to the normal average .
a color consisting of yellow and green hues .
a color consisting of brown and green hues .
a purple color which has low saturation and low brightness .
a color consisting of yellow and orange hue .
a moderate yellow - orange to orange color .
a color pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's exhibiting transverse stripes of one hue or degree of saturation crossing another .
a color pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's being covered with reticulated lines of a different hue or degree of saturation .
a grooved texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by two or more parallel channels .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's terminating abruptly in a little point .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's terminating gradually in a rounded end .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being in opposition round a common axis .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being arranged in two opposite rows  ( and hence in the same plane )  .
a pattern quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of paired parts that alternately cross each other .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being linear ,  very narrow ,  tapering to a very fine point from a narrow base .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being narrowly triangular ,  wider at the apex and tapering toward the base .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits size variation or change .
a variability of size which is relatively low .
a variability of size which is relatively high .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's in which bundles of aligned anatomical fibers have become separated .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's parts or projections being interlocked ;  for example ,  the fingers of two hands that are clasped .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's touching another entity .
a curled quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's edges of its surface being rolled inwards spirally on each side .
a curled quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's edges of its surface being rolled backwards spirally on each side .
a curled quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's edges of its surface being rolled spirally downwards .
a curled quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's edges of its surface being bent down upon their stalk .
a curled quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's one edge of its surface being wholly rolled up in another .
a branched quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having three or more primary branches diverging radially from a single point .
a branched quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two or more parallel primary branches originate beside each other and converge apically .
a branched quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having secondary branches terminating at the margin .
a branched quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having secondary branches joined together in a series of prominent arches .
a branched quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having secondary branches freely branching toward the margin .
a branched quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having secondary branches branching into a reticulum toward the margin .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being tapering gradually into a rigid point .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's terminating in a round end ,  the centre of which is depressed .
a surface feature shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking sharp straight - edged teeth pointing to the apex .
a surface feature shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or lacking sharp straight - edged teeth pointing to the apex .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having at least one salient angle on the margin .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being regularly divided by deep incisions .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being partly divided into a determinate number of regions .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having distinct parts arising from a common point or center .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a shape resembling an ear .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gradually tapering to a slender point .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's two basal lobes being united together .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being prolonged below the point of insertion .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being kept below its freezing point .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's passing into solution .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a three dimensional cavity with a narrow or no opening ,  and often containing an anatomical substance .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having four angles and four sides .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having many curves and turns .
a duration quality of a process inhering in a disease by virtue of the bearer's duration of an impairment of health or of a condition of abnormal functioning .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being capable of indefinite growth or division .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting cells .
a cellularity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of more than one cell .
a cellularity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of exactly one cell .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
an amount which is relatively low .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its visibility .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
a quality of physical entities inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a physical part as specified by the additional entity .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n and has_part  >  0 of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
the bearer of this quality has_part  >  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
a quality that inheres in an entire population or part of a population .
a shape that inheres in a part of a surface .
surface shape that refers to the inward or outward curvature of the surface .
a shape that inheres in a 2 dimensional entity ,  such as a cross section or projection of a 3 dimensional entity .
a complete three dimensional shape in which for every line connecting pair of points on the object is within the object .
a complete three dimensional shape in which there is a line connecting pair of points on the object that lies outside the object .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the degree to which there are subdivisions or offshoots in a bearer entity .
a texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's bing full of small openings or gaps .
a structural quality which is held by a bearer when the latter's disposition the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells .
a texture quality that exists through a liquid cover on the surface of the bearer .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer forms a bundle of anatomical fibers ,  as of muscle or nerve .
a structural quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing hollow areas .
a growth quality of occurrent in which the growth of an organism ,  structure or group of organisms does not occur .
pink color having high brightness and low saturation .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling a cone  ( a 3 - d shape with a round cross section that tapers )  .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling a minute projection  ( villus )  .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's location of features or characteristics along an apical - basal axis .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's location of features or characteristics along the anterior - posterior axis .
a convex angle that is formed by one side of a polygon and a line extended from an adjacent side .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not increasing over time .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of osmoles of solute per kilogram of solvent .
an osmolality which is relatively low .
an osmolality which is relatively high .
a molecular quality that inheres in a molecular entity by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits the ability of a probe to react precisely with a specific target molecule .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved or tilted such that the tip points upwards .
a reflectivity quality inhering in light by virtue of the bearer's scattering occurring at small angle to the incident beam .
a reflective quality that is the light scattering occurring at wide angle  ( around 90 degrees )  to the incident beam .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being unseparated into parts or divisions .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being on the same side in relation to another structure .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located towards the central axis of the organism or an extremity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer exhibiting deterioration of its structure .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer whose structure which does not deteriorate .
a concave quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's curving inward on both sides or surfaces .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being convex on both sides or surface .
a diameter that is along the anterior - posterior axis .
an anterior - posterior diameter quality which is relatively small .
an anterior - posterior diameter quality which is relatively large .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being a quadrilateral with two parallel sides .
a branched quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having smaller branches arising from larger branches .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being away from or on the opposite side of the central axis .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located on the side nearest to the axis of an organ or organism .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two or more cell populations that differ in genetic makeup .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved around an axis and towards the side .
an amount which normal .
an occurrence which is relatively high .
an occurrence which is relatively low .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being flattened along dorso - ventral axis .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being flattened along transverse axis .
a fragility which is relatively high .
a fragility which is relatively low .
an area which is relatively high .
an area which is relatively low .
the specific wavelength of light emitted by a fluorescent molecule ,  such as a labelled probe ,  upon absorption of light at the  ( higher )  excitation wavelength .
the specific wavelength of radiation that can be retained by a bearer .
a shape inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being elongated and cylindrical .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's delimited by a surface with holes .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being arranged like rays or radii ;  radiating from a common center .
a solid configuration inhering in a material entity by virtue of its constituent atoms ,  molecules ,  or ions being arranged in an orderly repeating pattern extending in all three spatial dimensions .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's layered configuration .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a layered configuration .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a layered configuration .
a molecular quality that arises from the molecular attraction exerted between two atoms or compounds .
an affinity which is relatively high .
an affinity which is relatively low .
a molecular quality that arises from the synergistic strength of bond affinities between multiple bond interactions .
an avidity which is relatively high .
an avidity which is relatively low .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's movement .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned with multiple entities of the same type above and below .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an empty space or cavity within .
a broken quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being seperated into two contiguous wholes .
a broken quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being broken into multiple contiguous wholes .
a broken quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being still one contiguous whole but structurally damaged such that in danger of become two or more .
having extra or fewer parts .
the period after death of the organism .
the period before death of the organism .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being short and wide and tapered distally .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's body consisting of one sac .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's body containing more than one cyst  -  formations of an epithelium bounded cavity not associated with neoplasia .
a morphology quality inhering in a tumour by virtue of the bearer's exhbiting the morphological characteristics of a glandular epithelial cell .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an onset and time course between acute and chronic .
a morphology quality inhering in a neoplastic cell by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting breakdown of cell - cell interaction maintaining tissue architecture ,  proliferative dysregulation and bizarre modification to nucleus size and shape .
a volume quality inhering in a degenerating cell by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting an increase in volume associated with cytoplasmic abnormalities .
an affinity inhering in a tissue constituent by virtue of the bearer exhibiting a molecular interaction for basic dyes under specific ph conditions .
a disposition inhering in a tumour to progress or fail to progress during it's life time .
a disposition inhering in a tumour by virtue of the bearer's disposition not to progress ,  invade surrounding tissues or metastasize .
a disposition inhering in a tumour by virtue of the bearer's disposition to progress ,  invade surrounding tissues or metastasize .
a disposition inhering in a tumour by virtue of the bearer's disposition to spread and invade distant tissues .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its stable specialization to a particular cell type .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of having not yet acquired a special structure of function .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of having changed from one fully differentiated state into another .
a cellular quality inhering in a cell that arises by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits the ability to grow and proliferate in number through cell division .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's penetrating or permeating another substance or area .
a compositional quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's infiltration by leukocytes ,  local edema and accumulation of plasma proteins .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting excessive discharge of blood from the blood vessels .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its lacking most of the cellular characteristics which would allow it to be fully differentiated .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being at the edge or boundary of a related entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling small nipple like projection .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling cheese .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its having most of the cellular characteristics of the tissue of origin .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its lacking few of the cellular characteristics which would allow it to be fully differentiated .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a hole or holes ,  especially a row or array of small holes .
perforated like a sieve .
a composition quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing excess lipid .
a composition quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing fibrin .
a composition quality inhering in exudate by virtue of the bearer's containing fibrin .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhbiting the morphological characteristics of a gland .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being present in more than two copies .
a structural quality which is held by a bearer when the latter exhibits an excessive accumulation of intracellular fluid .
a quality inhering a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to generate pus .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's structureresembling an irregular meshwork with cross - linking struts .
a composition quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being composed of more than one identifiable entities .
being smallest in amount ,  extent or degree .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processing the form of a thin plate sheet or layer .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting a knot - like mass .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing bone .
a hardness quality of being rigid and resistant to pressure and fibrous .
a quality inhering a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing or resembling serum .
a disposition inhering in a tumour by virtue of the bearer's disposition to invade surrounding tissues .
a disposition inhering in a tumour by virtue of the bearer's disposition to invade surrounding tissues to a large extend .
a displaced angular placement quality inhering in a body part by virtue of the bearer's movement away from the medial plane of the body .
a disposition inhering in a tumour by virtue of the bearer's disposition not to invade surrounding tissues .
a displaced angular placement quality inhering in a body part by virtue of the bearer's movement closer the medial plane of the body .
a composition quaity inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing of or pertaining to fibrils ,  or nanoscale fibers .
a duration quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's delay to complete the closure of the opening of an anatomical entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative inability of electromagnetism to pass through a particular material ,  particularly x - rays .
a readiopacity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's prevention of the passage of electromagnetic radiation .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being fit to be eaten .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being suitable for use as food .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer not being suitable for use as food .
a density quality which lacks pattern .
a radiopacity that is relatively high .
a radiopacity that is relatively low .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the severity of infectious disease caused by the bearer in a target organism .
a virulence that is relatively low .
a virulence that is relatively high .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer exhibiting increased density resulting in exhibiting increased degree of radiopacity  ( in x - rays )  .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved outwards from the part of the body from which the tail arises .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved outwards from the back or upper surface of an organism .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved outwards from the side .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved outwards the front of an organism .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved outwards the abdomen of an organism .
a rotation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of being rotated towards the middle of an organism .
a rotation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of being rotated towards the side of an organism .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being slightly out of its usual or proper place ,  or position .
having two horns or horn - shaped branches .
a concave quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's forming or resembling an arch of an increased apical height .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's bodily structure that has protruded through an abnormal opening in the wall that contains it into the surface or boundary of another entity .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved towards the middle .
to bent or hang downwards .
a duration quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's premature completion of the closure of the opening of an anatomical entity .
a protruding quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's bodily structure that has protruded out of the surface or boundary of another entity .
an angular placement quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being changed in position in relation to another entity .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being split along the median axis .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being split asymmetrically on one side .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being split on two side .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being split along the radial axis .
an alignment quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being in a improper spatial positioning towards an additional entity .
an alignment quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being in a improper spatial positioning away from an additional entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's changed direction of position towards another entity .
a deviation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's changed direction of position towards the side .
a deviation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's changed direction of position towards the middle .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being out of its usual or proper place ,  or position around a central point or axis .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards to point of attachment or origin .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being free of curves ,  bends ,  or angles .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's being changed in position .
a quality which inheres in a molecular entity ,  a single molecule ,  atom ,  ion ,  radical etc .
a molecular quality that inheres in a molecular entity by virtue of whether that there is a presence of cycles in the connection of the atoms within the molecular entity .
cyclic cyclicity inheres in a molecule when the atoms of the molecule do contain at least one cycle in the atom - atom connection paths  ( through bonds )  .
acyclic cyclicity inheres in a molecule when the atoms within the molecule do not contain at least one cycle in the atom - atom connection paths  ( through the bonds )  .
a molecular quality that inheres in a molecular entity by virtue of whether or not the molecular entity has a separation of electric charge which leads to the molecule having an electric dipole .
polar polarity is a quality that inheres in a molecular entity when the molecular entity is polar ,  i .e .
a molecular quality which inheres in a molecular entity when the molecular entity does not possess an electrical dipole .
the ease of distortion of the electron cloud of a molecular entity by an electric field .
a molecular quality that inheres in a molecular entity by virtue of the presence of a conjugated ring of unsaturated bonds ,  lone pairs ,  or empty orbitals that exhibit a stabilization stronger than would be expected by the stabilization of conjugation alone .
a molecular quality that inheres in a molecular entity when it possesses at least one ring that is aromatic ,  i .e .
a quality that inheres in a molecular entity by virtue of the molecule possessing no rings that are aromatic .
a molecular quality that inheres in a molecular entity by virtue of the overall electric charge of the molecule ,  which is due to a comparison between the total number of electrons and the total number of protons .
a quality which inheres in a molecular entity by virtue of the molecular entity possessing the same amount of electrons overall as protons ,  thus having an overall neutral charge .
a quality which inheres in a molecular entity by virtue of the molecular entity possessing more protons overall than electrons ,  thus having an overall positive charge .
a quality which inheres in a molecular entity by virtue of the molecular entity possessing more electrons overall than protons ,  thus having an overall negative charge .
a quality that describes the power of an atom to attract electrons to itself  .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its constitution .
a quality which inheres in a substance by virtue of the ease with which the substance can be changed from a solid to a liquid state especially by the application of heat .
a quality which inheres in a substance by virtue of the ease with which the substance can be changed into a gaseous state .
a behavioral quality inhering ina bearer by virtue of the bearer's unequal distribution of fine motor skill between its left and right hands or feet .
handedness where the organism preferentially uses the left hand or foot for tasks requiring the use of a single hand or foot or a dominant hand or foot .
handedness where the organism preferentially uses the right hand or foot for tasks requiring the use of a single hand or foot or a dominant hand or foot .
handedness where the organism exhibits no overall dominance in the use of right or left hand or foot in the performance of tasks that require one hand or foot or a dominant hand or foot .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to hold an electrical charge .
a maturity quality inhering to a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being at the point or short after birth .
a quality that is the distance between the end of the inserted object and the surface of the object into which it penetrates .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped in the form of a spoon .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having the shape of an incisor tooth .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling a teardrop .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved backward or inward .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being small or narrow in circumference or width in proportion to length or height .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's shape being inversely clavate .
a lobed quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being divided into or having two lobes .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having the shape of a scythe or sickle .
a molecular quality that pertains to the post - translational modification of a protein by the covalent attachment of one or more ubiquitin monomer .
a molecular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being combined ,  or impregnated ,  with nitric acid ,  or some of its compounds .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's loss of myelin sheath .
a quality inhering in a bearer that is shaped in the form of a fan .
a quality inhering in a protein or a molecule by virtue of the bearer's having a phosphate  ( po4 )  group .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being phosphorylated to a more than normal extent ,  or fully saturated with phosphate groups .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being phosphorylated to a lesser than normal extent ,  or less than fully .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having reacted with oxygen ,  or been modified by oxidation  ( the reaction in which the atoms of an element lose electrons and the valence of the element increases )  .
an angular shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a single angle in its length giving the bearer the form of the letter v .
an angular shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a single angle in its length giving the bearer the form of the letter l .
a cylindrical shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being imperfectly cylindrical or approximately cylindrical .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's shape form resembling the shape of a cup .
a tapered shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's tapering gradually to a sharp point .
a quadrangular shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being approximately rectangular .
a triangular shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being nearly ,  but not perfectly ,  triangular .
a split shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or being divided into many lobes or similar segments .
a 2 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having shape or form of half a circle .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located far  ( not close to )  in space in relation to another entity .
a notched shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a notched tip or edge .
a tapered shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being flat ,  slender ,  and tapering to a point .
shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped like a wing .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved backward or downward .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved forward or upward .
a concave 3 - d shape that inheres in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's nearly )  symmetric shape wide at its ends and narrow in the middle ,  resembling the figure of number 8 .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's shape resembling falling drop .
a lobed quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being divided into or having three lobes .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's rate of change of the position .
a physical quality inhering in a fluid  ( liquid or gas )  by virtue of the amount of fluid which passes through a given surface per unit time .
a flow rate quality inhering in a substance by virtue of the mass of substance which passes through a given surface per unit time .
a force which relative high .
a force which is relative low .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or lacking of substances produced by living organisms that have a color resulting from selective color absorption .
a degree of pigmentation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having substances produced by living organisms that have a color resulting from selective color absorption .
a degree of pigmentation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking substances produced by living organisms that have a color resulting from selective color absorption .
a degree of pigmentation quality that is relatively high .
a degree of pigmentation quality that is relative low .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being flattened along the antero - posterior axis .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being roundish ,  flattish shape ,  possibly with a slightly angled edge .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's surface becoming more extended in a plane .
texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked with one or more channels .
a cuscpidate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer possessing three cusps .
a cuscpidate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer possessing more than one cusp .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a point .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located near in space in relation to another entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being partially upright in position or posture .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's location within another entity .
a quality inhering in a protein or a molecule by virtue of the addition of a phosphate  ( po4 )  group to the bearer .
a quality inhering in a protein or a molecule by virtue of the bearer's lacking a phosphate  ( po4 )  group .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being arranged in a systematic fashion .
a behavioral quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to exhibit marked activity .
a shape that inheres in a 3 dimensional entity .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located in a position equidistant from edges .
a structural quality of the collection or massing of one physical object within another physical object .
an increased number of physical objects that are accumulated within another physical object usually as a result of a failure to break down or remove objects in a timely manner .
an accumulation which is relative low .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located at the same continuous distance relative to another object .
multicolored quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being colored with a variegated pattern resembling marble ,  .
multicolored quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being dappled with spots ,  patches ,  or blotches of different colors .
a color pattern quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's color pattern in which light and dark colors  ( for example white and black )  are codistributed to create a visual impression .
a color pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's exhibiting vertical bars of one hue or degree of saturation crossing another .
a quality of certain surfaces which appear to change colour as the angle of view changes .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's participating in a joint with another entity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being strongly articulated with another entity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's possessing a broad surface in articulation with another entity .
a cuscpidate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer possessing two cusps .
a mobility which is relative high .
a mobility which is relative low .
a physical quality that pertains by virtue of a pulling force that is directed away from the bearer and attempts to stretch or elongate the bearer .
branchiness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of increasing the degree to which there are subdivisions or offshoots in a bearer entity .
branchiness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of decreasing the degree to which there are subdivisions or offshoots in a bearer entity .
an elasticity which is relatively high .
an elasticity which is relatively low .
a hairy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being covered with setae .
absence of a tissue or organ due to failure to develop .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's underlying structure being capable of change .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's underlying structure not changing over time .
a texture that is uniformly covered in short ,  oblong ,  or trench - like depressions .
a surface feature shape inhering in a surface by virtue of the bearer's being divided by ridge - like structures into a number of small ,  irregular spaces .
a texture quality inhering in a surface by virtue of the bearer's being marked by the presence of small ,  shallow ,  regular depressions called fovae .
a cellular motility which is lower relative to the normal or average .
a cellular motility which is higher relative to the normal or average .
a cylindrical shape that is hollow .
a quality that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a triangular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having all sides of the same length .
a triangular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two sides have the same length .
a triangular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having all sides of unequal length .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a consistently sized and approximately round cross - section along its length ,  which is many times larger than its diameter .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being strong ,  thick or sturdy .
having a fringe or border of hairlike or fingerlike projections .
consisting of segments or similar parts arranged in a longitudinal series .
having or resembling the shape of a telescope .
having the nature or characteristic of ,  a ligament ;  composed of the tissue proper to ligaments .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling the end of a brush with a multitude of bristles .
being separate or discrete from other skeletal elements .
a convex quadrilateral is a parallelogram if and only if any one of the following statements are true: \ n1 .
a shape constituting a transition between a rectangle and a circle ;  a closed curve ,  of which the circle and ellipse are special cases ,  whose parametric equation is x = a .cos2 / rt ,  y = b .cos2 / rt
a shape with properties between those of a square and those of a circle .
a superelptic shape inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's shape resembling a diamond .
a temporal distribution pattern of process occurrences within a regulation / reference process .
the temporal relation between the end of the process with respect to a reference process .
the temporal relation between the start of the process with respect to a reference process .
an orientation inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's placement at an angle .
an angle which is relatively high .
an angle which is relatively low .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a upward bending of its leaves or other plant parts .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being extended along a straight line ,  and is shaped like a reversed lance - point ,  with the tapering point attached to the leafstalk .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer exhibiting molecular attraction to another entity in contact .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer not exhibiting molecular attraction to another entity in contact .
a adhesivity which is relatively high .
a adhesivity which is relatively low .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being dome - shaped .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having triangular faces that meet at a common point and containing a polygonal shaped base .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a continuous convex surface with an axis of symmetry and one axis longer than the other ;  characterized with an egg - shaped form crossed with a lance - head shaped form .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped like a lance - head ,  considerably longer than wide ,  tapering towards the tip from below the middle together forming three angles ;  attached at the broad end .
a quality of being covered with stiff or rough hairs .
a quality of being minutely hispid .
a quality of being covered with short ,  dense ,  matted hairs .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being a cupule ,  with a structure similar to a cup that also encloses the ovule in partiality .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lying or growing on the ground but with erect or rising tips .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being characterized by fine ,  entangled hairs giving the appearance of cobweb .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a quadric surface in three dimensions obtained by rotating less than half of a circular arc about an axis passing through the endpoints of the arc
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two connected parts ,  roughly spherical ,  of different sizes .
a conical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling a cone ,  with the pointed end attached to an organism .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer resembling wood .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the base of an organism relative to another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the stalk of an organism relative to another entity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer resembling or containing flesh .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's upper parts die back to the rootstock at the end of the growing season .
a quality that inheres in a bearer in virtue of its realizing one of its functions .
a quality of an physical object that is currently realizing one of its functions .
a quality of a physical object that is currently realizing none of its functions .
a quality of a physical object that has been constantly realizing some of its functions .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a strait side and an arched side giving the bearer the form of the letter d .
an elongated raised margin or border .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's width being notably higher than its length .
a disposition that can be compared on a linear scale  -  that is that it can be increased or decreased .
a tendency which is relatively high .
a tendency which is relatively low .
a medium brown color with a metallic sheen ,  resembles the actual alloy bronze .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's length being notably lower than its width .
female quality of having complete ,  unaltered reproductive organs
male quality of having complete ,  unaltered reproductive organs .
male quality of being incapable to reproduce because of functional loss of the testicles from surgical removal or chemical means .
a viviparous organism having never given birth .
a viviparous organism that has given birth two or more times .
the number of time that a viviparous organism has given birth .
a viviparous organism having given birth one time .
a viviparous organism that has given birth five or more times .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's location of features or characteristics along the mediolateral axis .
recurrent and often more or less cyclic alteration .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's shape form resembling the shape of a trumpet .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being filled with air .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being not filed with air .
having a shape that resembles a many - lobed  \ "berry ,  \ " such as a raspberry .
a female fertility quality inhering in a female by virtue of the bearer's not being capable of reproducing because of surgical removal of ovaries and uterus .
a female fertility quality inhering in a female by virtue of the bearer's not being capable of reproducing because of surgical removal of ovaries .
a composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the presence of long chain aliphatic lipids on the surface of an organism .
a waxiness which is relatively high .
a waxiness which is relatively low .
presence of long chain aliphatic lipids on the surface of an organism .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by narrow lines ,  usually parallel ,  with at least one salient angle on the margin
a concave 3 - d shape that inheres in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's shape that is wider at one end and narrow in the middle .
extremely acute and aggressive onset of a pathological process .
being supported by a peduncle or stalk .
growing horizontal to the ground without setting roots .
a length quality which is equal to the length of any straight line segment that passes from the center of a circle to any endpoint on the circular boundary .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having three rays or radiating branches .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located on a sloping line joining two nonconsecutive points of an entity relative to another entity .
a tolerance quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's increased ability to endure a stimulus .
a tolerance quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's decreased ability to endure a stimulus .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned away from the axis of an organism .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards the axis of an organism .
a circular shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being nearly ,  but not perfectly ,  circular .
a rotation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of being rotated towards the front and the middle of an organism .
having a spindle - like shape that is wide in the middle and tapers at both ends .
characterised by an unidentifiable pattern .
multiple lesions some interconnecting with each other .
affecting all regions without specificity of distribution .
affecting a segment or segments .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to be reduced to smaller pieces with little effort .
easily reduced to powder or easily fragmentable or crumbly .
having become firm or hard especially by increase of fibrous elements .
having the consistency of water .
bounded structure filled with fluid .
a colour that is very pale yellowish brown .
a color consisting of yellow and brown hue .
a color consisting of yellow and brown hue and low brightness .
a color consisting of yellow and brown hue and high brightness .
a quality of duration having progressive course of indefinite duration with active ,  acute - like elements .
single lesion with expansion into surrounding tissue .
flattened from above downward ;  below the normal level or the level of the surrounding parts .
extending through or affecting the entire thickness of the wall of an organ or cavity or boundary .
an affinity inhering in a tissue constituent by virtue of the bearer exhibiting a molecular interaction for acidic dyes under specific ph conditions .
an affinity inhering in a tissue constituent by virtue of the bearer exhibiting a molecular interaction for eosin dye .
having both hydrophilic and hydrophobic  ( or lipophilic )  groups .
having or resembling the characteristic of a cicatrix  -  a scar resulting from formation and contraction of fibrous tissue .
pertaining to the individual parts making up an aggregate fruit like a many - lobed  \ "berry ,  \ " such as a raspberry .
a round or lobulated protruding form resembling a nipple .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two or more entities that extend from a common point in different directions .
open to view or not covered by another entity .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped like a boat .
a surface feature shape having numerous very small circular rounded projections or protuberances .
a 3 - d shape with three supports or legs .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped in the form of the letter x .
a shape quality in which the bearer is shaped like a narrow band ;  ligulate .
a shape quality in which the bearer possesses a gradual ,  yet distinct ,  thinning from a wide starting point .
a shape that is in the form of a spade .
a surface feature shape marked by large amounts of relief ,  often with multiple ridges and grooves in close association .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located at a right angle relative to another entity .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer touching another entity along a border or with a projecting part .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's position being displaced from a reference point .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being locked together or interconnected to another entity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located or placed beneath the skin .
an angular shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two angles in its length giving the bearer the form of the letter w .
a surface feature shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the degree of the bearer's highly topographical with ridges ,  pits ,  rugosity or other surface structures .
a surface feature shape in which the bearer's surface is highly topographical with ridges ,  pits ,  rugosity or other surface structures .
a surface feature shape in which the bearer's surface is lacking ridges ,  pits ,  rugosity or other surface structures .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located at the same level as another entity .
a composition quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being composed of or possessing inorganic material .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being twisted or turned .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a shape resembling an anchor .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being divided into four parts .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being aligned or positioned towards another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the rear and mid - line surface of an organism relative to another entity .
a hardness quality of giving significant resistance to pressure .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a phenotypic difference between males and females of the same species .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being thinner or more losely packed .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer bring gradually worn away .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's similarity to the appearance of a carpel .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's architecture bearing resemblence to a corymb type of inflorescence .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's similarity to the appearance of an inflorescence .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's similarity to the appearance of a leaf .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being thin and lacking outgrowths .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's similarity to the appearance of a sepal , 
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being smaller and contracted ,  expecially due to loss of moisture .
to bend or hang downwards due to loss of water
a composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of collagen .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of some aspect of the bearer extending to the position of another entity .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of some aspect of the bearer extending past the position of another entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling a prism .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer resembling a keyhole .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer resembling a thin narrow strip .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable of swelling or stretching .
structural quality inhereing in a bearer in which a joint has apposed bony surfaces united by fibrous tissue ,  permitting no movement ;  found only between bones .
a morphological quality between two bearers inhering that one bearer is subject to change the nature ,  function ,  or condition of itself to become the other .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's increased rate of change of the position .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's decreased rate of change of the position .
a disposition inhering in a tumour by virtue of the bearer's disposition to spontaneously arise .
a flavor quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an acrid ,  sharp ,  or disagreeable flavor .
a position quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's existing near the end of another entity .
a position quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's forming the end of another entity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to breaks without significant deformation  ( strain )  when subjected to stress .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by narrow lines or grooves ,  usually parallel ,  that are oriented transversely relative to the long axis of the bearer .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by narrow lines or grooves ,  usually parallel ,  that are oriented obliquely relative to the long axis of the bearer .
a quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's possessing only minor levels of ossification .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a slanting direction or position : neither perpendicular nor parallel .
shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer exhibiting a narrow and elongate opening .
positional quality in which an entity is located outside of another entity .
an angular shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a single angle in its length giving the bearer the form of an inverted letter v .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's possessing two sides that are at the same continuous distance relative to each other .
a quality inhering in a process by virtue of that process having two or more organisms as participants .
a quality inhering in a process by virtue of that process having exactly one organism as a participant .
overlap with quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned over another entity so as to cover some portion of it .
overlap with quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned under another entity so as to be covered by some portion of it .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed anteriorly .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed anterodorsally .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed anterolaterally .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed anteroventrally .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed distally .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed dorsally .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed dorsolaterally .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed laterally .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed medially .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed posteriorly .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed ventrolaterally .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed ventrally .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed transversely .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed posterolaterally .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed posterodorsally .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one or more nucleus .
a surface feature shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not having undulating edges forming lobes .
a composition quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of keratin .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being hidden from view .
a 2 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having six angles and six sides .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being divided into multiple parts .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's similarity to the appearance of a cane .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer flowing or coming together with another entity .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a slanting direction  ( neither perpendicular nor parallel )  relative to another entity .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed anteromedially .
an elevation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's being in a high position relative to another entity .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being hidden from view or covered by another entity .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's similarity to the appearance of a saddle .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being level or even with another surface .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an open ,  latticed ,  or porous structure ;  used especially of bone .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being shaped like a scute or an osteoderm .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's similarity to the appearance of a funnel .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having an elongate structure ,  similar to a ridge ,  that extends longitudinally along an anatomical entity .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located at a right angle relative to another entity and to the horizon .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed mesiolaterally .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being in a position that produces a separation in ,  or acting to separate ,  another entity .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed anterodistally .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed posterodistally .
a multipartite quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being divided into two parts .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped like a plowshare .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a short and stout cylindrical shape .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a shape like a boomerang ,  with two arms connected at an angle .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a shape not quite ovoid .
a shape quality that obtains by virtue of the bearer being concave on one side and convex on the other .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a shape like a ring  ( a circular shape enclosing a space )  .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's possessing a small ,  spike - like shape .
pertaining to the ability or tendency of an organism or cell to maintain internal equilibrium by adjusting its physiological processes .
an intensity which is borderline in it its effect or force as compared to baseline or normal .
an intensity which is characterized by being very severe .
an occurrence quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a course that occurs occasionally .
an occurrence of a process during which time there is an inability to change the course ,  extent ,  or repetition of the process .
a quality in which the effect or outcome is not primary or the focus of the observation .
a 3 - d shape that is half of a sphere .
a variability quality inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer having a variable number or count of an entity .
having the shape of a pear ;  tapering near the top and bulging toward the base or bottom .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling the form of a paddle .
a shape that is almost an ellipse .
shape quality inhering in a bearer expanding outward ,  or having parts expanding outward ,  from a center point .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being morphologically distinguishable from another entity .
a 3 - d shape inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having dentition characterized by high - crowned teeth and enamel which extends far past the gum line ,  which provides extra material for wear and tear .
a 3 - d shape inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having dentition characterized by low - crowned teeth .
a 3 - d shape inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an entity in the form of a molar tooth .
a branched quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having many fine filaments or branches that give a feathery appearance: for example ,  resembling a feather .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer possessing an uninterrupted or unbroken connection or spatial distribution relative to the position of another entity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being fully formed compared to entities lacking parts .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking parts or having a reduced form compared to fully formed entities .
a spheroid shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being nearly ,  but not perfectly ,  spherical .
a size quality inhering in an entity or set of entities in which size increases or decreases along the extent of the entity or set .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being enclosed on all sides by another entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being compressed from the side facing the lips to the side facing the tongue .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being compressed from the side facing the midline of the jaw to the side opposite the midline .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved towards the tongue .
a shape quality inhering on a bearer by virtue of a bearer's shape lacking in pattern or uniformity ;  for example ,  it may have sides of different lengths ,  different curvatures ,  or unequal angles .
cuspidate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's possessing a single cusp .
a diameter that remains constant throughout the extent of an entity .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is in the parasagittal plane .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed along the longitudinal or anterior - posterior axis .
a structural quality inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer consisting of a single ,  maximally connected structure .
a structural quality inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer consisting of multiple structures lacking any physical connection to each other .
the velocity of spatial propagation of a process .
a propagation velocity that is higher than normal .
a propagation velocity that is lower than normal .
a physical quality of a process that is its spatial distribution .
absence due to a degenerative process .
the ability of a process to produce its output .
a decrease in the ability of a process to produce its output .
a increase in the ability of a process to produce its output .
slender and spirally coiled .
a quality inhering in a structure by virtue of it consisting of many of repeated ,  similar or identical subunits ,  arranged in some orderly array .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the degree to which the bearers stands out or projects beyond a surface or line .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the extent to which the bearer is capable of being stretched or swollen .
a quality inhering in air by virtue of the partial pressure exerted by the bearer's water vapour content .
an increase in humidity .
an decrease in humidity .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting the physical characteristics of an entity consisting of roughly equal proportions of positively and negatively charged particles ,  having neither a defined volume nor defined shape ,  having internal magnetic fields ,  and being electrically conductive .
the degree to which the bearer is exposed to visible light .
an increase in illumination .
an decrease in illumination .
having a shape or form that resembles a step of a stairway  ( e .g . ,  a ledge or offset margin )  .
a physical quality inhering in an entity by virtue of a portion of the bearer's molecular or polymolecular constituents present in one phase being dispersed in a portion of the bearer's constituents present in another phase .
a physical quality inhering in an entity by virtue of the bearer's solid or liquid constituents being suspended in a gas .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped in the form of the letter c .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped in the form of the letter j .
the propensity of a material to undergo combustion .
an increase in combustibility .
an decrease in combustibility .
an increase in porosity .
an decrease in porosity .
quality ,  state ,  or degree of being stable .
an increase in stability .
a decrease in stability .
a physical quality inhering in an entity by virtue of the bearer's solid or liquid constituents being transiently dispersed in a solid ,  liquid ,  or gas before settling due to gravity or centrifugal forces .
a shape that ineres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's mass being distributed in a feather - like fashion .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual based upon genotypic composition of sex chromosomes .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual based upon genotypic composition that confers the capability for an organism to differentiate male gonads .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population based upon genotypic composition that confers the capability for an organism to differentiate female gonads .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being fit to be used as a safe means of hydration .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer not being suitable for use as a safe means of hydration .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being suitable for use as a safe means of hydration .
a malformed quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing what are normally anterior structures and missing some or all of what are normally posterior structures .
a malformed quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing what are normally dorsal structures and missing some or all of what are normally ventral structures .
a malformed quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing what are normally posterior structures and missing some or all of what are normally anterior structures .
a malformed quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing what are normally ventral structures and missing some or all of what are normally dorsal structures .
an anterioralized quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing what are normally anterior structures and missing some but not all of what are normally posterior structures .
a dorsalized quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing what are normally dorsal structures and missing some but not all of what are normally ventral structures .
a posterioralized quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing what are normally posterior structures and missing some but not all of what are normally anterior structures .
a ventralized quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing what are normally ventral structures and missing some but not all of what are normally dorsal structures .
an oriented quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being abnormally placed or arranged .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of some aspect of that bearer beginning from a position on another entity .
the ability of a pathogen to produce an infectious disease or disorder in an another organism .
a texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being covered or partially covered with hair that has increased thickness and softness .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed posteroventrally .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a shape like a crown .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a shape like a shell .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an ornamental border consisting of short straight or twisted threads or strips hanging from cut or raveled edges or from a separate band .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped in the form of a bowl .
mobility relative to a second entity .
immobility relative to a second entity .
a shape that is in the form of a plug ,  being tube - like and expanded on one end .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed dorsomedially .
a shape that is in the form of a narrow strip encircling an object .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's shape resembling that of a trough ,  being narrow ,  long ,  and boxlike in shape .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having five angles and five sides .
a growth quality of occurrent in which the growth of an organism ,  structure or group of organisms is abnormal .
fibrosis is the formation of excess fibrous connective tissue in an organ or tissue in a reparative or reactive process .
female quality of being incapable to reproduce because of functional loss of the ovaries and / or uterus from surgical removal .
the bearer of this quality has_part n=1 of the indicated entity type ,  where n is bilaterally paired for a comparable organism . .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being expanded laterally and or opened outward in shape .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed distomedially ,  ie ,  pertaining to an inside aspect ,  but also farther away from the center of the body .
the bearer of this quality has_part n=2 of the indicated entity type ,  where n is unpaired for a comparable organism .
a structural quality which is held by a bearer where a localized pathological or traumatic structural change ,  damage ,  deformity ,  or discontinuity of tissue ,  organ ,  or body part is present .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by interruptions or gaps .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's haploid cells undergo chromosome doubling .
an organismal quality of having successfully reproduced .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of that bearer being shielded from visible light .
a width and length quality which is relatively small ,  where both width and length are decreased .
a width and length quality that is relatively large ,  where both width and length are increased .
a distance traveled in a specific time that is relatively high .
a distance traveled in a specific time that is relatively low .
a broken quality where an entity is cracked or broken ,  usually a bone .
a fractured quality where the fracture traverses the bone perpendicular to the axis of the bone .
a fractured quality in which one of the fragments is driven into another fragment .
a fractured quality where the fracture runs parallel to the long axis of a bone .
a fractured quality where the fracture occurs at a plane oblique to the long axis of the bone .
a fractured quality that occurs when torque  ( a rotating force )  is applied along the axis of a bone .
a fractured quality that is caused by a loss of bone mass  ( osteoporosis )  that occurs as part of aging .
a fractured quality in which the fragment of bone tears away from the main mass of bone as a result of physical trauma .
a proportionality quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's decreased magnitude in respect to a related entity .
a proportionality quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's increased magnitude in respect to a related entity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's components being torn ,  typically used for soft tissues or membranes .
existing or functioning as though broken into separate parts ;  disorganized ;  disunified .
a rate which is relatively normal .
a quality of an object that has a value that is normal or average .
an acidity which is relatively normal .
a adhesivity which is relatively normal or average .
an affinity which is relatively normal or average .
an age which is relatively normal or average .
an avidity which is relatively normal or average .
a behavioural quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting normal or average activity .
a cellular motility which is normal or average .
a coiling which is normal or average .
a concentration which is relatively normal or average .
a contractility which is relatively normal or average .
a coordination which is relatively normal or average .
a curvature which is relatively normal or average .
a distance which is relatively normal or average .
an efficiency which is relatively normal or average .
an elasticity which is relatively normal or average .
a fecundity which is relatively normal or average .
a female fertility which is relatively normal or average .
a female receptivity which is relatively normal or average .
a fertility which is relatively normal or average .
a flexibility which is relatively normal or average .
a fluid flow which is relatively normal or average .
a fluorescence which is relatively normal or average .
a force which is relatively normal or average .
a fragility which is relatively normal or average .
a life span which is relatively normal or average .
a magnetism which is relatively normal or average .
a male fertility which is relatively normal or average .
a male receptivity which is relatively normal or average .
a mass which is relatively normal or average .
a density which is relatively normal or average .
a mobility which is relatively normal or average .
an odor quality of having relatively normal or average odor .
an osmolality which is relatively normal or average odor .
an osmolarity which is relatively normal or average odor .
a permeability which is relatively normal or average .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being phosphorylated to a normal or average extent .
a photosensitivity which is relatively normal or average
a degree of pigmentation quality which is relatively normal or average
a position which is relatively normal or average
an angle which is relatively normal or average
a distribution which is relatively normal or average
an elevation which is relatively normal or average
a pressure which is relatively normal or average
a radioactivity which is relatively normal or average
a radiopacity which is relatively normal or average
a resistance to a stimulus which is relatively normal or average
a sensitivity to irradiation which is relatively normal or average
a sensitivity toward an external stimulus which is relatively normal or average
a size quality which is relatively normal or average
an area which is relatively normal or average
a depth quality which is relatively normal or average
a height which is relatively normal or average
a length quality which is relatively normal or average
a diameter which is relatively normal or average
an anterior - posterior diameter which is relatively normal or average
a perimeter which is relatively normal or average
a circumference which is relatively normal or average
a thickness which is relatively normal or average
a volume which is relatively normal or average
a width which is relatively normal or average
a solubility which is relatively normal or average
a speed which is relatively normal or average
a strength which is relatively normal or average
a fatigability which is relatively normal or average
a susceptibility toward an external stimulus which is relatively normal or average
a temperature which is relatively normal or average
a tendency which is relatively normal or average
a threshold which is relatively normal or average
a tolerance to an external stimulus which is relatively normal or average
a tonicity which is relatively normal or average
a turgor which is relatively normal or average
a quality of aprocess that has a value that is normal or average .
a variability which is relatively normal or average
a variability of color which is relatively normal or average
a variability of rate which is relatively normal or average
a variability of size which is relatively normal or average
a variability of temperature which is relatively normal or average
a velocity which is relatively normal or average
a virulence which is relatively normal or average
a viscosity which is relatively normal or average
a waxiness which is relatively normal or average
a wetness which is relatively normal or average
a duration quality of a process which is relatively normal .
a duration quality of temperature quality of a process which is relatively normal .
an occurrence which is relatively normal .
a frequency which is relatively normal .
a sensitivity of a process which is relatively normal .
a sensitivity of occurrent to oxygen which is relatively normal .
the four cardinal directions or cardinal points are the directions north ,  east ,  south ,  and west ,  commonly denoted by their initials ,  n ,  e ,  s ,  w . east and west are at right angles to north and south ,  with east being in the clockwise direction of rotation from north and west being directly opposite east .
north is one of the four compass points or cardinal directions .
east is one of the four cardinal directions or points of the compass .
south is one of the four cardinal directions or compass points .
west is one of the four cardinal directions or points of the compass .
the number of repeated events per unit time ,  occurring in a repeating series .
the rate of output of a continuous process .
a spatial distribution of a process in which the process occupies a smaller length ,  area ,  or volume than the reference process .
a spatial distribution of a process in which the process occupies a greater length ,  area ,  or volume than the reference process .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being present in one sex and absent from the other in members of the same species .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being present in males and absent from females in members of the same species .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being present in females and absent from males in members of the same species .
the breakdown ,  disintegration ,  destruction of an entity due to the breaking of cell membranes by any means .
q1 similar_in_magnitude_relative_to q2 if and only if magnitude ( q1 )  =~ magnitude ( q2 )  .
an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
a continuant that is a bearer of quality and realizable entity entities ,  in which other entities inhere and which itself cannot inhere in anything .
an occurrent that has temporal proper parts and for some time t ,  p s - depends_on some material entity at t .
a continuant that inheres in or is borne by other entities .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
a location ,  relative to cellular compartments and structures ,  occupied by a macromolecular machine when it carries out a molecular function .
a component of a cell contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane .
a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
the membrane surrounding a cell that separates the cell from its external environment .
a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface and of some cytoplasmic parts .
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
a lipid bilayer along with all the proteins and protein complexes embedded in it an attached to it .
a nonmembrane - bound oligomeric protein complex that participates in bidirectional transport of molecules  ( cargo )  along axonemal microtubules .
a stable assembly of two or more macromolecules ,  i .e .
a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
the part of a cell encompassing the cell cortex ,  the plasma membrane ,  and any external encapsulating structures .
a membrane that is a  ( regional )  part of the plasma membrane .
any protein complex that is part of a membrane .
any protein complex that is part of the plasma membrane .
a part of a cellular organism that is either an immaterial entity or a material entity with granularity above the level of a protein complex but below that of an anatomical system .
a prolongation or process extending from a cell and that is bounded by plasma membrane ,  e .g .
a stable assembly of two or more macromolecules ,  i .e .
a quality of a single cell inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's size or shape or structure .
red due to increase blood circulation in a defined area .
a rate of occurrence that is relatively high .
a rate of occurrence that is relatively low .
a rate of output of a continuous process that is relatively high .
a rate of output of a continuous process that is relatively low .
a degree of pigmentation quality that is diversified with patches ,  or irregularity .
a cell morphology that inheres in neurons which have a small round soma ,  a large number of short ,  smooth ,  or slightly beaded primary dendrites that give rise to only a few secondary branches ,  and a branched axon that establishes a dense axonal mesh with thin shafts .
a cell morphology that inheres in neurons which are large and non - spiny ,  with dendrites radiating in a multipolar or bitufted pattern ,  often favouring the descending side ,  and axons that ascend directly from the superficial side of the soma ,  and travel upward without branching .
a martinotti cell morphology that inheres in neurons which have axons that form a horizontal ramification ,  making it t - shaped .
a martinotti cell morphology that inheres in neurons which have axons that form a fan - like plexus .
a cell morphology that inheres in neurons that have dendritic processes radiating from the cell body forming a star - like shape .
a cell morphology that inheres in neurons which are small and round ,  and make highly specialized synapses with the axon initial segments of pyramidal neurons ,  wrapping them with candle - shaped synaptic cartridges .
a cell morphology that inheres in neurons which have tufts of dendrites extending from two opposite poles of the soma ,  and have axons that form a plexus which spreads widely ,  usually descending .
a cell morphology that inheres in neurons which have spiny basal dendrites and resemble pyramidal cells but lose their apical dendrites as they mature .
a cell morphology that inheres in neurons which have a pyramidal shaped soma ,  a single axon ,  a large apical dendrite and multiple basal dendrites .
a pyramidal family morphology that inheres in neurons which have an apical tree which is oriented parallel to the pia .
a pyramidal family morphology that inheres in neurons which have a standard pyramidal shape with its apical dendrite aligned vertically .
a pyramidal cell morphology that inheres in neurons which have a distinct tuft formation ,  distal from the soma .
a pyramidal cell morphology that inheres in neurons which lack a clear tuft formation but extend to large radial distances .
a pyramidal cell morphology that inheres in neurons which lack a tuft formation but extend to small radial distances forming a star - like shape .
a pyramidal cell morphology that inheres in neurons which have an apical tree which is oriented towards the white matter .
an osmolarity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the total amount of ionic salts dissolved in the bearer .
