controlled vocabularies originally created for protein protein interactions ,  extended to other molecules interactions .
method to determine the interaction .
method to determine the molecules involved in the interaction .
method to determine the features of the proteins involved in the interaction .
this class of approaches is characterised by the use of affinity resins as tools to purify molecule of interest  ( baits )  and their binding partners .
this approach is used to identify the residues that are involved in an interaction .
a specific antibody for the molecule of interest  ( bait )  is available ,  this is used to generate a high affinity resin to capture the endogenous bait present in a sample .
a specific antibody for the molecule of interest is not available ,  therefore the bait protein is expressed as a hybrid protein fused to a tag peptide / protein for which efficient and specific antibodies or a specific ligand are available .
in this class of methodologies ,  the molecules to be tested are presented ordered in an array format  ( typically at high density )  on planar supports .
the protein of interest is presented on the outer membrane of gram negative bacteria by expressing it as a fusion partner to peptide signals that direct heterologous proteins to the cell surface .
beta - galactosidase activity can be used to monitor the interaction of chimeric proteins .
this strategy is based on a protein fragment complementation assay  ( pca )  of the enzyme tem - 1 beta - lactamase .
in this variation of the fret assay the donor fluorophore is replaced by a luciferase  ( typically renilla luciferase )  .
the application of physical principles and methods to biological experiments .
adenylate cyclase is encoded by the cyaa gene and contains a catalytic domain which can be proteolytically cleaved into two complementary fragments ,  t25 and t18 ,  which remain associated in the presence of calmodulin in a fully active ternary complex .
circular dichroism  ( cd )  is observed when optically active molecules absorb left and right hand circularly polarized light slightly differently .
proteins contain endogenous fluorophores such as tryptophan residue and heme or flavins groups .
the classical two - hybrid system is a method that uses transcriptional activity as a measure of protein - protein interaction .
in this approach an antibody ,  specific for the molecule of interest  ( bait )  or any tag expressed within a fusion protein ,  is used to separate the bait from a molecular mixture or a cell lysate and to capture its ligand simultaneously .
during the treatment for microscope analysis a tissue section is incubated with high - specificity antibodies coupled to heavy metals  ( gold )  .
two proteins can be localised to cell compartments ,  in the same experiment ,  if they are expressed as chimeric proteins fused to distinct proteins fluorescing at different wavelengths  ( green fluorescent protein and red fluorescent protein for example )  .
the subcellular location of a protein can be demonstrated by treating cells fixed on a microscope slide with an antibody specific for the protein of interest .
techniques enabling the identification of the subcellular localisation of a protein or complex .
text mining is used to support interactions which have been determined by other methods .
approaches designed to separate cell components on the basis of their physicochemical properties .
pairs of multiple alignments of orthologous sequences are used to identify potential interacting partners as proteins that show covariation of their residue identities between different species .
separation of a mixture of molecules under the influence of a force such as artificial gravity .
the ultracentrifuge can be used to characterise and / or purify macromolecules in solution according to their mass and hydrodynamic properties .
sedimentation through a density gradient measures the sedimentation rate of a mixture of proteins through either a glycerol or sucrose gradient .
analysis of complexes obtained by input of energy or chemical treatments ,  or by introducing cysteines followed by oxidation to promote the formation of covalent bonds among molecules in close proximity .
cross - linking agents induce the formation of covalent bonds among proteins that are neighbours .
the strategy to determine the complete amino acid sequence of a protein by mass spectrometry relies on the generation of a nested set of fragments differing by one amino acid .
in this approach ,  once a molecule is demonstrated to participate in an interaction ,  several deletion derivatives are produced and tested in the binding assay to identify the minimal fragment  ( domain )  that can still support the interaction .
all the methods that permit the physical linking of a protein / peptide to its coding sequence .
predicts the structure of a molecular complex from the unbound structures of its components .
the rosetta stone ,  or domain fusion procedure ,  is based on the assumption that proteins whose homologues in other organisms happen to be fused into a single protein chain are likely to interact or to be functionally related .
this approach uses a protein interaction network of a given organism to infer interaction in another organism using information about the interacting region .
in dynamic light scattering ,  particle diffusion in solution gives rise to fluctuations in the intensity of the scattered light on the microsecond scale .
in this procedure the n - terminus amino acid is cleaved from a polypeptide and identified by high - pressure liquid chromatography .
electron microscopy methods provide insights into the structure of biological macromolecules and their supramolecular assemblies .
a combination of nmr and epr .
epr  ( also called esr ,  electron spin resonance )  spectroscopy is analogous to nmr ,  but is based on the excitation of unpaired electrons instead of nuclei .
a form of spectroscopy in which the absorption of microwave by a sample in a strong magnetic field is used to study atoms or molecules with unpaired electrons .
methods based on laboratory experiments to determine an interaction .
predictive algorithms that rely on the information obtained by experimental results .
proteins are fractionated by page  ( sds - polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis )  ,  transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane and tested for the ability to bind to a protein ,  a peptide ,  or any other ligand .
filamentous phages  ( m13 ,  f1 ,  fd )  have been extensively used to develop and implement the technology of phage display .
a method in which separation depends upon the ability of one participant to bind to a filter or membrane which the other participants do not .
the protein of interest is expressed as a fusion to the peptide dykddddkv for which antibodies are commercially available .
techniques based upon the measurement of the emission of one or more photons by a molecule activated by the absorption of a quantum of electro - magnetic radiation .
fcs monitors the random motion of fluorescently labelled molecules inside a defined volume irradiated by a focused laser beam .
because of the long lifetimes of excited fluorescent molecules  ( nanoseconds )  ,  fluorescence can be used to monitor the rotational motion of molecules ,  which occurs on this timescale .
cells in suspension flow through a laser beam ,  the scattered light or emitted fluorescence is measured ,  filtered and converted to digital values .
fret is a quantum mechanical process involving the radiationless transfer of energy from a donor fluorophore to an appropriately positioned acceptor fluorophore .
sequencing occurs during the course of the experiment .
gene pairs that show a conserved topological neighbourhood in many prokaryotic genomes are considered by this approach to encode interacting or functionally related proteins .
methods that require fully sequenced genomes either because they are based on the comparison of genome topology or on the identification of orthologous sequences in different genomes .
the bait protein is expressed and purified as a fusion to the glutathione s - tranferase protein .
the protein of interest is expressed as a fusion to the peptide ypydvpdya  ( a fragment of the influenza hemaglutinin protein )  for which antibodies are commercially available . \ nobsolete redundant term .
the bait protein is expressed and purified fused to an amino or carboxyterminal tail containing a variable number of histidines .
the protein of interest is expressed as a fusion to a poly - his tail .
computational methods to predict an interaction .
protein interactions ,  experimentally detected in an organism ,  are extended to a second organism assuming that homologue proteins ,  in different organisms ,  maintain their interaction properties .
isothermal titration calorimetry  ( itc )  measures directly the energy associated with a chemical reaction triggered by the mixing of two components .
morphologically classified as one of the siphoviridae ,  lambda is a temperate bacteriophage of e .coli ,  with a double - stranded dna genome .
dynamic and static laser light scattering probes the size ,  shape ,  and structure of biological macromolecules or of their assemblies .
mass spectrometry can be used to characterise chemical modifications within peptides .
mass spectrometric approaches to the study of macromolecular complexes permits the identification of subunit stoichiometry and transient associations .
protein modifications can be identified by gel electrophoresis since any change in the mass and / or the charge of the protein can alter its mobility in page .
in sizing columns  ( gel filtration )  ,  the elution position of a protein or of a complex depends on its stokes radius .
western blot assay carried out using monospecific antibodies produced in the supernatant of a cell line obtained by fusing a lymphocyte b to a myeloma cell line or selected by phage display technology .
this method relies on the covalent coupling of mrna to the nascent polypeptide .
mutant molecules are produced by random or directed techniques and assayed for their ability to support binding .
the protein of interest is expressed as a fusion to the peptide eukliseed  ( a fragment of the myc oncogene protein )  for which antibodies are commercially available .
neural networks are trained on the properties of residues belonging to a cluster of residues that are neighbours in space on protein surface .
nuclear magnetic resonance  ( nmr )  is an effect whereby magnetic nuclei in a magnetic field absorb and re - emit electromagnetic  ( em )  energy .
identification of a nucleotide sequence .
experimental methods that could not be assigned to the other large group of technologies . \ nobsolete use biochemical  ( mi:0401 )  instead .
genes are recognised by hybridization of a probe with a fragment of the gene sequence .
the peptide synthesis methods offer numerous opportunities to synthesise and subsequently screen large arrays of synthetic peptides on planar cellulose supports .
this approach leads to protein identification by matching peptide masses ,  as measured by mass spectrometry ,  to the ones calculated from in silico fragmentation of a protein sequence database .
when one of the partners participates in the interaction with a relatively short peptide fragment ,  it is often convenient to precisely identify the minimal region that supports the interaction by synthesising a series of overlapping peptides and by testing them in the binding assay .
peptide sequences or entire proteins can be displayed on phage capsids by fusion to coat proteins to generate a library of fusion phages each displaying a different peptide .
the phylogenetic profile of a protein stores information about the presence and the absence of that protein in a set of genomes .
western blot assay carried out using a mixture of different antibodies that represent the immune response ,  normally in an experimental animal ,  to the protein of interest .
methods based on natural language processing to detect possible interactions between proteins  ( direct physical interactions or indirect genetic interactions )  .
sequences can be identified in a dna mixture by launching a pcr  ( polymerase chain reaction )  controlled by sequence specific primers .
the protein array technology allows the screening of biochemical activities or binding abilities of hundreds or thousands of protein samples in parallel .
in the protein - fragment complementation assay ,  the proteins of interest  (  \ "bait \ " and  \ "prey \ " )  are covalently linked at the genetic level to incomplete fragments of a third protein  ( known as the  \ "reporter \ " )  and are expressed in vivo ,  interaction between the  \ "bait \ " and the  \ "prey \ " proteins brings the fragments of the  \ "reporter \ " protein in close enough proximity to allow them to reform and become the functional reporter protein .
used to separate and / or analyse complex mixtures .
protein in situ array is a method by which protein arrays are rapidly generated in one step directly from dna ,  by cell - free protein expression and simultaneous in situ immobilisation at a surface .
single amino acid identification along a protein sequence .
a wide range of dyes have been used over the years to visualise proteins in polyacrylamide gels  -  coomasie blue and silver - staining being two classical methods .
proteinchip ( r )  array technology is a surface - enhanced laser desorption / ionization  ( seldi )  approach  ( ciphergen biosystems inc . fremont ,  ca ,  usa )  for sample fractionation accomplished by retentate chromatography .
a specific affinity chromatography method where a molecule of interest  ( bait )  is bound to a column ,  often via an affinity tag expressed as a protein fusion   ( gst ,  his tag and others )  or chemically linked to the bait molecule  .
in this complementation approach the bait can be any membrane protein  ( for example a receptor or a channel protein )  ,  the prey is cloned as a fusion protein of any cdna from a library and the coding sequence of cytoplasmic ras  ( cdc25 in yeast )  .
this method permits the coupling of phenotype to genotype via the formation of a non - covalent ternary complex between mrnas and their encoded polypeptides while they are translated in an in vitro system .
spa relies upon the fact that a beta particle emitted from a radioisotope decay can excite a fluorophore only when it is at a very short distance in water solution  ( few micrometers )  .
multiple alignments of orthologous sequences in the same species and their corresponding phylogenetic trees are built .
computational methods based on evolutionary hypothesis ,  used as criteria to browse sequences and predict interacting pairs .
this approach leads to protein identification by combining mass measurement and short amino acid sequence information obtained by tandem mass spectrometry .
a standard procedure to identify dna fragments containing specific gene sequences .
in static light scattering ,  the average intensity of scattered light at multiple angles is measured .
methods based on 3d structure information .
surface patches are built using 6 criteria: solvation potential ,  residue interface propensity ,  hydrophobicity ,  planarity ,  protrusion and accessible surface area .
this method measures formation of complex by monitoring changes in the resonance angle of light impinging on a gold surface as a result of changes in the refractive index of the surface .
t7 is a double stranded dna bacteriophage with a thin - walled icosahedral capsid ,  ~550 angstrom in diameter ,  which is decorated by 415 copies of the capsid protein ,  the product of gene 10 . gp10 can tolerate insertions at the carboxyterminus without loosing its ability to be inserted into functional phage capsids .
the tap method involves the fusion of the tap tag  ( encoding a calmodulin binding peptide ,  a tev cleavage site ,  and the staphylococcus aureus protein a )  to the target protein and the introduction of the construct into the host cell or organism ,  maintaining the expression of the fusion protein at ,  or close to ,  its natural level .
text mining methods can be used to predict or confirm interactions by automated processing of scientific literature .
the gene for dhfr is rationally dissected into two fragments called f [ 1 , 2 ]  and f [ 3 ]  .
the split - ubiquitin system provides a method for examining the interactions of membrane proteins .
western blot is a procedure to identify and quantify proteins .
analysis of a diffraction pattern generated by a single crystal .
the proteins are displayed on the surface of the yeast s . cerevisiae by fusion to signal sequences for protein secretion .
property of a subsequence that may interfere with the binding of a molecule .
a region of a molecule or a component of a complex identified as being involved in an interaction .
a change in a sequence or structure in comparison to a reference entity due to a  insertion ,  deletion or substitution event .
region of a molecule whose mutation or deletion decreases significantly interaction strength  or rate  ( in the case of interactions inferred from enzymatic reaction )  .
residue covalent modifications occurring in the specific protein form involved in an interaction . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00000 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00394 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00050 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00359 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00780 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00051 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00052 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00054 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00053 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00055 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00781 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00056 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00782 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00057 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00064 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00058 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00784 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00059 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00060 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00061 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00785 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00062 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00063 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00674 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00091 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00493 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00030 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00428 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:01155 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00111 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00113 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00069 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00115 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00068 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00087 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00427 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00070 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00071 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00077 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00237 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00080 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00081 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00085 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00084 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00083 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00073 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00074 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00696 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00227 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00042 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00043 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00046 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00047 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00048 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00032 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00031 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00530 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:01169 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00179 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00126 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00125 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00129 .
residue modification due to a cross - link between a lysine and a glycine from the ubiquitine protein . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00134 .
connection between molecule .
physical association among molecules . \ nobsolete since too non - specific .
reaction ,  that can affect k , c , a , d , e , q , g , i , k , m , p , s , t , y , v residues .
irreversible reaction that can affect a , r , n , d , c , q , e , g , h , i , l , k , m , f , p , s , t , w , y or v residues .
covalent bond breakage in a molecule leading to the formation of smaller molecules .
interaction leading to the formation of covalent bond within an autocatalytic molecule or between partners .
physical interaction mediated by covalent bond rearrangement . \ nobsolete use covalent binding  ( mi:0195 )  instead .
n6 - acetyl - l - lysine or s - acetyl - l - cysteine are cleaved and return k or c residues .
s - farnesyl - l - cysteined is cleaved and returns a c residue .
n6 - formyl - l - lysine is cleaved and returns a k residue .
s - geranylgeranyl - l - cysteine is cleaved and returns a c residue .
n6 - myristoyl - l - lysine is cleaved and returns a k residue .
s - palmitoyl - l - cysteine ,  n6 - palmitoyl - l - lysine ,  o - palmitoyl - l - threonine or o - palmitoyl - l - serine are cleaved and return c , k , t or s residues .
phosphoresidues are cleaved and return d , c , h , s , t , y or r residues .
cleavage of the g - k bond and release of ubiquitin or ubiquitin like proteins .
dissociation of partners interacting via non - covalent bond . \ nobsolete because considered misleading .
reversible reaction that can affect c residue .
reaction that can affect k or g residues .
an effect in which two genetic perturbations ,  when combined ,  result in a phenotype that does not appear to be merely explained by the superimposition or addition of effects of the original perturbations . \ nab  ( not= )  e
attachment of one or two 20 - carbon lipophilic geranylgeranyl isoprene units from geranylgeranyl diphosphate to one or more cysteine residue ( s )  .reversible reaction that can affect c residue .
irreversible introduction of a hydroxyl group that can affect k , p , y or r residues .
covalent or non covalent binding of lipid group on a protein residue .
cleavage of a lipid group covalently bound to a protein residue .
the covalent attachment of a methyl residue to one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological polymer .
irreversible covalent addition of a myristoyl group via an amide bond to the alpha - amino group of an amino acid .
interaction mediated by non - covalent ,  weak forces rearrangement . \ nobsolete use physical interaction  ( mi:0218 )  instead .
covalent attachment of palmitic acid to the cysteine residues of membrane proteins .
reversible reaction that can affect d , c , h , s , t , y , r residues .
interaction among molecules that can be direct or indirect . \ nobsolete: splitted to 'association' mi:0914 and 'physical association' mi:0915 .
death phenotype observed on cells carrying combination of two independently silent mutations . \ nobsolete: remap to cv intraction type 'synthetic interaction' mi:0794 and external cv for phenotype description  ( lethal fbcv:0000351 ) 
reversible reaction that create a covalent bond between a c - terminus g of ubiquitin and a k residue of the target .
synthesis rate of a molecule under investigation described in comparison with its naturally occurring expression level in a cell .
a molecule whose synthesis is under control of its natural gene promoter or estimated to be expressed at a similar rate .
a molecule is estimated to be expressed at lower levels than in physiological condition .
the method combines a modified chromatin immunoprecipitation  ( chip )  procedure ,  with dna microarray analysis .
stable complexes and their component proteins can be separated on the basis of their net charge by ion - exchange chromatography .
reverse phase chromatography operates on the basis of hydrophilicity and lipophilicity .
protein complementation assay performed by dissecting a cytoplasmic protein activity and restoring it through the two hybrid proteins interaction .
obsolete remap to mi:0090 protein complementation assay .
the mappit ( mammalian protein - protein interaction trap )  is a screening method for protein - protein interaction in mammalian cells ,  based on the reconstitution of a membrane stat  ( signal transducers and activators of transcription )  receptor .
protein complementation assay performed by dissecting a transcription factor activity  ( dna binding domain and transcription activation domain )  its restoration through the two hybrid proteins interaction that lead to a reporter gene expression .
a stable set of interacting protein and dna that can be copurified and operate as a functional unit .
molecule labelled with 131 radio isotope of iodine atoms .
molecule labelled with the radio isotope 14 of carbon atoms .
molecule labelled with the radio isotope 32 of phosphorus atoms .
molecule labelled with the radio isotope 33 of phosphorus atoms .
molecules labelled with isotope 3 of hydrogen atoms .
biotin ,  a 244 dalton vitamin found in tissue and blood ,  binds with high affinity to avidin and streptavidin protein .
the protein under study is expressed as a fusion with a labelling protein ,  having either fluorescence properties or an enzymatic activity that facilitates its purification ,  identification ,  localisation or quantification .
protein is fused to horseradish peroxidase ,  and the measure of this enzyme activity can be taken as indicative of presence of protein .
this qualifier is used when the crossreference is imported from the gene ontology tag definition_reference .
reference to the master sequence from which this isoform has been derived .
collection of functional complexes within reactome  -  a knowledgebase of biological processes . \ nhttp: /  / www .reactome .org /  .
collection of protein within the reactome database  -  a knowledgebase of biological processes . \ nhttp: /  / www .reactome .org /  .
cabri cell lines catalogue available at . \ nhttp: /  / www .cabri .org / 
new ebi web taxonomy . \ nhttp: /  / www .ebi .ac .uk / newt obsolete: consider remapping to uniprot taxonomy mi:0942
the resid database of protein modifications is a comprehensive collection of annotations and structures for protein modifications including amino - terminal ,  carboxyl - terminal and peptide chain cross - link post - translational modifications . \ nhttp: /  / www .ebi .ac .uk / resid / index .html
a database of human unidentified gene - encoded large proteins analyzed by kazusa human cdna project . \ nhttp: /  / www .kazusa .or .jp / huge / 
a genomic region  ( or regions )  that includes all of the sequence elements necessary to encode a functional transcript .
reference of a protein object pointing to its genomic or nucleic acid sequence .
property of a subsequence that may be involved with or interfere with the binding of a molecule and are supported by experimental evidences .
one of several nuclides having the same number of protons in their nuclei and hence having the same atomic number ,  but differing in the number of neutrons and therefore ,  in the mass number .
this term refers to methods that aim at interfering with the activity of a specific gene by altering the gene regulatory or coding sequences .
this term refers to methods designed to interfere with gene expression at post - transcriptional level rather than with the gene itself .
rna interference  ( rnai )  is a post - transcriptional gene silencing method reproducing a naturally occurring phenomena .
this approach is based on the observation that expression of rna that is complementary to a specific mrna can decrease the synthesis of its gene product either by increasing the degradation of the targeted mrna or by interfering with its translation .
intracellular or extracellular expression of antibodies is used to target specific gene products in order to inactivate them .
this approach is based on the expression of peptides that bind to specific target proteins thereby interfering with their activity .
protein activity is inhibited by small inorganic molecules  ( drugs )  that specifically bind to their targets .
an effect in which two genetic perturbations ,  when combined ,  result in a phenotype that is less severe / penetrant than the most severe phenotype of the original perturbations ,  in effect making the organism more  \ "wild type \ " in character with regards to the phenotype in question .
a given  ( suppressed )  mutation phenotype is reverted by a supressor gene mutation . \ nobsolete: remap to cv intraction type 'suppressive interaction' mi:0793 and genetic experimental form 'mutated gene' mi:0804 .
knocked out gene is the suppressor of a phenotype . \ nobsolete: remap to cv intraction type 'suppressive interaction' mi:0793 and genetic experimental form 'knock out' mi:0788 .
a mutation is the partial suppressor of a mutant phenotype . \ nobsolete: remap to cv intraction type 'suppressive interaction' mi:0793 and genetic experimental form 'knock down' mi:0789 .
an altered expression is the suppressor of a phenotype . \ nobsolete: remap to cv intraction type 'suppressive interaction' mi:0793 and genetic experimental form 'expression level alteration' mi:0803 .
overexpression is the suppressor of a phenotype . \ nobsolete: remap to cv intraction type 'suppressive interaction' mi:0793 and genetic experimental form 'over expressed' mi:0506 .
level of over / underexpression scales the 'extend' of a phenotype . \ nobsolete: remap to cv intraction type 'suppressive interaction' mi:0793 and genetic experimental form 'expression level alteration' mi:0803 .
underexpression is the suppressor of a phenotype . \ nobsolete: remap to cv intraction type 'suppressive interaction' mi:0793 and genetic experimental form 'under expressed' mi:0223 .
two silent mutations show an altered phenotype when they co - occur on the same cell . \ nobsolete: remap to cv intraction type 'synthetic interaction' mi:0794 .
two silent mutations show a conditional synthetic lethal phenotype when they co - occur on the same cell . \ nobsolete: remap to cv intraction type 'synthetic interaction' mi:0794 and external cv for phenotype description  ( lethal fbcv:0000351 ) 
two silent mutations show a temperature sensitive lethal phenotype when they co - occur on the same cell . \ nobsolete: remap to cv intraction type 'synthetic interaction' mi:0794 and external cv for phenotype description  ( fbcv:0000310 'temperature conditional' ) 
two silent mutations show altered growth effect when they co - occur on the same cell . \ nobsolete: remap to cv intraction type 'synthetic interaction' mi:0794 and external cv for phenotype description  (  fbcv:0000427 'cell growth defective' ) 
two silent mutations show growth defect when they co - occur on the same cell . \ nobsolete: remap to cv intraction type 'synthetic interaction' mi:0794 and external cv for phenotype description  (  fbcv:0000427 'cell growth defective' ) 
two silent mutations show growth increase when they co - occur on the same cell . \ nobsolete: remap to cv intraction type 'synthetic interaction' mi:0794 and external cv for phenotype description  (  fbcv:0000427 'cell growth defective' ) 
blue native page  ( bn - page )  permits a high - resolution separation of multi - protein complexes under native conditions .
descriptor of type of nomenclature used to describe interactor .
gene name .
gene name synonym .
synonym as used in gene ontology .
isoform synonym .
a name used to represent an orf in a completely sequenced genome or chromosome .
a name temporarily attributed by a sequencing project to an open reading frame .
method by which molecule is delivered or engineered into a cell .
method for temporarily permeabilising cell membranes so as to facilitate the entry of large or hydrophilic molecules  ( as in transfection )  .
a cassette coding for a protein tag is inserted by homologous recombination onto the genomic copy of an open reading frame .
molecule introduced into a cell via an external organism ,  usually a virus or bacteria .
the insertion of a substance into a cell through a microneedle .
introducing dna into eukaryotic cells ,  such as animal cells ,  is called transfection .
molecular species involved in the interaction .
set of interacting molecules that can be copurified .
a stable set of interacting proteins that can be copurified and operate as a functional unit .
a macromolecular complex containing both protein and rna molecules .
previously described interaction now being used as an interactor to describe hierarchical build - up of complexes .
linear polymers of nucleotides ,  linked by 3' , 5' phosphodiester linkages .
polymer formed by the deoxyribose sugar group ,  and the nucleotides bases adenine ,  guanine ,  thymine and cytosine .
polymer formed by ribose sugar group ,  and the bases of the nucleotides adenine ,  guanine ,  uracil and cytosine .
species of rna that catalyses cleavage or trans - esterification of the phosphodiester link .
small rna molecules that hybridize to specific mrnas and direct their rna editing .
a heterogeneous mixture of rna molecules with a rapid turnover rate that occurs in cell nuclei during protein synthesis ;  it is the form of rna synthesized in eukaryotes by rna polymerase ii ,  which is translated into protein .
single - stranded rna molecule that specifies the amino acid sequence of one or more polypeptide chains .
the low molecular weight rnas that specifically bind amino acids by aminoacetylation to form aminoacyl trna and which possess a special nucleotide triplet ,  the anticodon .
a linear polymer of amino acids joined by peptide bonds in a specific sequence .
chains of amino acids joined by peptide bonds .
molecule not part of or directly encoded by the genome ,  encompasses any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer ,  etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
any type of molecule ,  including complexes ,  that may be observed but not identified .
defines whether molecule is endogenously expressed or has in any way been altered ,  in sequence or expression level ,  from its native state .
molecule has been added into system from an external source or altered within the cell .
unaltered endogenous molecule in its naturally occurring state .
describes sequence positions resolution of a given participant feature .
term describing the last amino acid of a peptide chain .
position within the sequence clearly defined .
partially determined sequence position known to be in a location higher than a given position .
partially determined sequence position known to be in a position lower than a given position .
describes a sequence position known to be in a certain range ,  where the exact position is unclear .
term describing a completely unknown or unspecified sequence position .
term describing the first amino acid of a peptide chain .
mixture of protein forms where n - terminus has been progressively truncated .
indicates the sample context in which each interacting molecule is presented to its partner .
mixed population of cdnas  ( complementarydna )  made from mrna from a defined source ,  usually a specific cell type .
cell has been physically or chemically broken open and molecule present in resulting mixture of cellular components .
name assigned to a molecule by the authors within a paper that may differ from the reference database .
set of terms to describe the participant experimental treatment and status .
cells has been fixed by treatment with organic solvent ,  staining and inclusion in a resin for microscopic analysis .
molecule is observed within in a living cell .
molecule has undergone one or more purification steps to isolate it from the cellular environment .
the author states a molecule is completely pure ,  i .e .
the author states a molecule is only partially purified ,  i .e .
qualifier to describe the type of information a cross - reference is pointing to .
cross reference pointing to a gene ontology  - 'cellular component' term .
cross reference pointing to a gene ontology  - 'molecular function' term .
reference to the corresponding object in another database .
reference to a related paper which more fully describes either the experimental method or one or more of the interactors used within the experiment .
used to indicate the pmid from which the experimental data is extracted .
cross reference pointing to a gene ontology  - 'cellular process' term .
reference to the corresponding object in another database  ( like identity xref qualifier )  but the identifier used in the external database is a secondary identifier or former accession number .
related object within the same database or pointing to an external database .
evidence based on human assumption ,  either when the complete experimental support is not available or when the results are extended by homology to closely related orthologues sequences .
evidence based on the author of a paper assumption ,  either when the complete experimental support is not available or when the results are extended by homology to closely related orthologues sequences .
evidence based on a curator assumption ,  either when the complete experimental support is not available or when the results are extended by homology to closely related orthologues sequences .
molecule under study is fused to an enzyme ,  for example alkaline phosphatase ,  and measure of enzyme activity can be taken as indicative of presence of protein .
protein is fused to alkaline phosphatase ,  and the measure of this enzyme activity can be taken as indicative of presence of protein .
the green fluorescent protein of organisms such as the bioluminescent jellyfish aequorea victoria can be fused to individual proteins which then acquire fluorescence excitation and emission spectra virtually identical to those of the native .
yellow fluorescent protein from species such as vibrio fischeri can be fused to individual proteins which then acquire fluorescence excitation and emission spectra virtually identical to those of the native .
the method is based on the repression of a reporter gene activity by two lexa dna binding domains with different binding specificities .
this assay allow identification of interactions in the inner membrane of e . coli .
molecule labelled with 35 radio isotope of sulfur .
cell lysates are partially fractionated to isolate a specific subcellular fraction .
dye coupled to a molecule allowing its identification isolation and monitoring .
the organic polymethine  cyanine dyes which ,  depending on  structure ,  cover the spectrum from ir to uv .s .
the organic cyanine cy3 emits maximally at 570 nm .
the organic cyanine cy5 emits maximally at 670 nm .
fluorescein isothiocyanate is a yellow - green coloured low molecular weight dye which couples to proteins via reaction with primary amine groups at high ph .
molecule can be labelled including rare isotopes among its constituent atoms that can be used to identify ,  localize or quantify the full molecule .
molecules labelled with isotope 13 of carbon atoms .
molecules labelled with isotope 15 of nytrogen atoms .
molecules labelled with isotope 2 of hydrogen atoms .
region of a molecule whose mutation or deletion increases significantly interaction strength or rate  ( in the case of interactions inferred from enzymatic reaction )  .
molecule consisting of a specific sequence of amino acidic or nucleotidic monomers strung together through chemical bonds .
all alexa dyes are fluorescent iodoacetamide dyes that can be conjugated with the primary amines of biomolecules .
alexa fluorescent dye analogue to amca  ( 7 - amino - 4 - methylcoumarin - 3 - acetic acid )  with an approximate excitation wavelength maximum of 350 nm .
alexa fluorescent dye analogue to lucifer yellow with an approximate excitation wavelength maximum of 430 nm .
alexa fluorescent dye analogue to oregon green 488 with an approximate excitation wavelength maximum of 488 nm .
alexa fluorescent dye analogue to rhodamine 6g with an approximate excitation wavelength maximum of 532nm .
alexa fluorescent dye analogue to cy3 with an approximate excitation wavelength maximum of 546nm .
alexa fluorescent dye analogue to rhodamine red - x with an approximate excitation wavelength maximum of 568nm .
alexa fluorescent dye analogue to texas red - x with an approximate excitation wavelength maximum of 594nm .
molecule whose sequence identity is not checked and has been assumed from external or previous experimental evidence ( s )  .
two - hybrid screening can be done in a colony array format ,  in which each colony expresses a defined pair of proteins .
in the pooling strategy sets of either both bait and prey hybrid vectors are mated or ,  more commonly ,  individual baits are mated against pools of preys .
individual baits are mated against pools of random fragmented preys .
techniques which depend upon the strength of the interaction between two entities .
the application of chemical principles and methods to biological experiments to demonstrate an interaction .
chromatin immunoprecipitation  ( chip )  is a powerful approach that allows one to define the interaction of factors with specific chromosomal sites in living cells .
coincident occurrence of molecules in a given subcellular fraction observed with a low resolution methodology from which a physical interaction among those molecules cannot be inferred .
comigration by non denaturing gel electrophoresis .
competitive binding experiments measure equilibrium binding of a single concentration of ligand at various concentrations of an unlabeled competitor .
measures the catalysis of the hydrolysis of an acetyl group or groups from a substrate molecule .
interaction between molecules that are in direct contact with each other .
covalent bond mediated by 2 sulfur atoms .
experimental method used to identify the region of a nucleic acid involved in an interaction with a protein .
three - dimensional  ( 3d )  reconstruction of single ,  transparent objects from a collection of projection images recorded with a transmission electron microscope .
following non - covalent binding of a purified primary ligand to a solid phase ,  a blocking reagent is added to prevent any non - specific binding .
the emsa supershift is a emsa experiment carried out using a third lane loaded with the radiolabeled nucleic acid ,  a protein mixture and an antibody for a specific protein .
this method proves the interaction between a nucleic acid and a protein partner .
terms aiming to represent biochemical reactions referring to their resulting product modifications .
participants are enzyme or substrate in a biochemical reaction .
fluorescent microscopy uses a high intensity light to illuminate the sample .
footprinting analysis is used to identify regions of molecules involved in binding other macromolecules and therefore protected from the effects of degradative enzymes ,  chemical treatment or other deleterious treatments .
methods supporting genetic interactions . \ nobsolete as too unspecific use genetic interference instead mi:0254 .
measures the catalysis of the reaction: gtp  +  h2o = gdp  +  phosphate .
measures quenching of the nonradiative energy transfer between fluorescent long - lifetime lanthanide chelates and different acceptors .
antibody mediated participant identification .
method using an antibody coupled with some colouring agent to detect a specific protein within a cell or tissue sample .
substrate protein radio - labelled by kinase transferring an isotope of phosphate from the nucleotide .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a protein substrate .
relies on the radiolabelling of a peptide substrate immobilized on a scintillant coated spa - bead .
light visible microscopy uses environmental light to illuminate the sample and produce a magnified image of the sample .
identification by mass spectrometry .
methods that provide images of molecules at various resolution depending on the technology used .
a sequence range within a molecule identified as being absolutely required for an interaction .
nucleic acids are incubated with purified proteins or a protein mixture and then exposed to a chemical cross - linking agent that may be activated by uv light exposure .
deprecated terms . \ nobsolete term replaced by the default obo class 'obsolete' .
protein - dna complementation assay where a single promoter act as bait and is screened against a library of prey transcription factors .
partial protein sequence identification .
measures the catalysis of the reaction: a phosphosubstrate  +  h2o = a substrate  +  phosphate .
measures the enzymatic hydrolysis of a peptide bond within a peptide or protein substrate .
protein footprinting is a technique for identifying structural changes modulated by protein - ligand binding ,  and mapping protein - ligand interfaces this technique involves attaching cutting reagents randomly to amino acid residue  ( e .g .
two hybrid assay performed with a third protein component co - transfected into a recombinant yeast strain together with a bait and a prey construct .
in vivo reconstruction of specific rna - proteins interactions .
a technique used to detect genetic interactions between 2  ( or more )  genes in a sporulating organism by scoring a large population of haploid spores for a phenotype and correlating the phenotype with the presence of single vs double  ( multiple )  mutations .
saturation binding experiments measure specific ligand binding at equilibrium at various concentrations of the ligand .
identification of genetic interactions by generation of an organism harbouring mutations in 2 or more genes and scoring for a phenotype ,  such as loss of viability ,  that is not observed for any of the mutations in isolation .
binding will occur when this sequence range is present within a molecule or part of a molecule .
interaction concerning ubiquitin that is covalently attached to any lys residue of its interaction partner . \ nobsolete remap to ubiquitination reaction  ( mi:0220 )  or describe ubiquitine as a participant on the interaction using physical interaction  ( mi:0218 )  or covalent binding  ( mi:0195 )  as interaction type .
database citation list names of databases commonly used to cross reference interaction data .
databases acting as a source of literature information .
pubmed is designed to provide access to citations from biomedical literature .
a database describing a feature on a molecule .
the objective of gene ontology  ( go )  is to provide controlled vocabularies for the description of the molecular function ,  biological process and cellular component of gene products . \ nhttp: /  / www .ebi .ac .uk / go
interpro combines a number of databases  ( referred to as member databases )  that use different methodologies and a varying degree of biological information on well - characterised proteins to derive protein signatures that predict family membership and domain composition of naive protein sequences . \ nhttps: /  / www .ebi .ac .uk / interpro / 
the conserved domain database may be used to identify the conserved domains present in a protein sequence . \ nhttp: /  / www .ncbi .nlm .nih .gov / structure / cdd / cdd .shtml
pfam is a large collection of multiple sequence alignments and hidden markov models covering many common protein domains . \ nhttp: /  / www .sanger .ac .uk / software / pfam
pirsf is a classification system based on evolutionary relationship of whole proteins . \ nhttp: /  / pir .georgetown .edu / pirwww / dbinfo / pirsf .shtml
prints is a compendium of protein fingerprints .
the prodom protein domain database consists of an automatic compilation of homologous domains . \ nhttp: /  / protein .toulouse .inra .fr / prodom .html
prosite is a database of protein families and domains .
superfamily is a library of profile hidden markov models that represent all proteins of known structure .
smart  ( a simple modular architecture research tool )  allows the identification and annotation of genetically mobile domains and the analysis of domain architectures . \ nhttp: /  / smart .embl - heidelberg .de / 
tigrfams is a collection of protein families ,  featuring curated multiple sequence alignments ,  hidden markov models  ( hmms )  and annotation . \ nhttp: /  / www .tigr .org / tigrfams
mmdb  ( molecular modeling database )  ,  is a subset of three - dimensional structures obtained from the protein data bank . \ nhttp: /  / www .ncbi .nlm .nih .gov / structure
the rcsb pdb provides a variety of tools and resources for studying the structures of biological macromolecules and their relationships to sequence ,  function ,  and disease .
databases that contain experimental or predictive molecular interaction data .
the biomolecular interaction network database  ( bind )  is a collection of records documenting molecular interactions . \ nhttp: /  / www .blueprint .org / bind
the general repository for interaction datasets  ( biogrid )  is a database of genetic and physical interactions . \ nhttp: /  / thebiogrid .org
the mips comprehensive yeast genome database  ( cygd )  aims to present information on the molecular structure and functional network of the entirely sequenced ,  well - studied model eukaryote ,  the budding yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae .
the database of interacting protein  ( dip )  database stores experimentally determined interactions between proteins .
ecocyc is a bioinformatics database that describes the genome and the biochemical machinery of e . coli k12 mg1655 . \ nhttp: /  / ecocyc .org / 
the reactome project is a collaboration among cold spring harbor laboratory ,  the european bioinformatics institute ,  and the gene ontology consortium to develop a curated resource of core pathways and reactions in human biology . \ nhttp: /  / www .reactome .org / 
the human protein reference database represents a centralized platform to visually depict and integrate information pertaining to domain architecture ,  post - translational modifications ,  interaction networks and disease association for each protein in the human proteome . \ nhttp: /  / www .hprd .org / 
interaction database  ( intact )  provides an open source database and toolkit for the storage ,  presentation and analysis of molecular interactions . \ nhttp: /  / www .ebi .ac .uk / intact
kegg  ( kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes )  is a knowledge base for systematic analysis of gene functions ,  linking genomic information with higher order functional information and also supplies information about chemical compounds ,  enzyme molecules and enzymatic reactions . \ nhttp: /  / www .genome .ad .jp / kegg / 
the molecular interaction database  ( mint )  is a relational database designed to store interactions between biological molecules . \ nhttp: /  / mint .bio .uniroma2 .it
the protein data bank in europe  -  the european project for the collection ,  management and distribution of data about macromolecular structures ,  derived in part from the protein data bank  ( pdb )  . \ nhttp: /  / www .ebi .ac .uk / pdbe / 
database of molecules participating in molecular interactions .
a definitive ,  freely available database of chemical compounds of biological interest  ( chebi )  . \ nhttp: /  / www .ebi .ac .uk / chebi / 
ddbj embl genbank nucleotide sequence database collaboration exchange new and updated data on a daily basis to achieve optimal synchronisation . \ nhttp: /  / www .ebi .ac .uk / embl / contact / collaboration
ensembl is a joint project between the embl - ebi and the wellcome trust sanger institute that aims at developing a system that maintains automatic annotation of large eukaryotic genomes . \ nhttp: /  / www .ensembl .org
locuslink provides a single query interface to curated sequence and descriptive information about genetic loci . \ nhttp: /  / www .ncbi .nlm .nih .gov / locuslink / 
flybase is a comprehensive database for information on the genetics and molecular biology of drosophila . \ nhttp: /  / flybase .org
mouse genome informatics  ( mgi )  provides integrated access to data on the genetics ,  genomics ,  and biology of the laboratory mouse . \ nhttp: /  / www .informatics .jax .org / 
online mendelian inheritance in man  ( omim )  is a catalogue of human genes and genetic disorders ,  with links to literature references ,  sequence records ,  maps ,  and related databases . \ nhttp: /  / www .ncbi .nlm .nih .gov / entrez / query .fcgi?db=omim
the reference sequence  ( refseq )  collection aims to provide a comprehensive ,  integrated ,  non - redundant set of sequences ,  including genomic dna ,  transcript  ( rna )  ,  and protein products ,  for a number of organisms . \ nhttp: /  / www .ncbi .nlm .nih .gov / refseq / 
rfam is a large collection of multiple sequence alignments and covariance models covering many common non - coding rna families . \ nhttp: /  / www .sanger .ac .uk / software / rfam / 
the rat genome database  ( rgd )  curates and integrates rat genetic and genomic data . \ nhttp: /  / rgd .mcw .edu / 
sgd is a scientific database of the molecular biology and genetics of the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae . \ nhttp: /  / www .yeastgenome .org / 
uniprot archive  ( uniparc )  is part of uniprot project .
uniprot  ( universal protein resource )  is the world's most comprehensive catalogue of information on proteins .
wormbase is the central worm database that houses the gene reports ,  locus reports ,  translation reports ,  expression pattern data and genome browser . \ nhttp: /  / www .wormbase .org / 
psi - mi .
database that originally provided the interaction record for exchange purposes .
describes the location of the experiment . \ nobsolete as a full host organisms description is recommended using tax id ==  - 1 as convention to refer to 'in vitro' interaction .
results generated by predictive bioinformatics approaches rather than experimental data . \ nobsolete as a full host organisms description is recommended using tax id ==  - 1 as convention to refer to 'in vitro' interaction .
experiments performed with participants removed from the cellular environment e .g .
experiment undertaken within a cellular environment ,  although this may not be the natural host of the proteins in the study . \ nobsolete as a full host organisms description is recommended using tax id ==  - 1 as convention to refer to 'in vitro' interaction .
literally ,  in place i .e .
role played by the participant within the experiment .
molecule experimentally treated to capture its interacting partners .
molecule role in an experimental setting that does not have an embedded asymmetry .
molecule experimentally identified as being captured by a given bait .
role not specified or not applicable to the data .
physiological role of an interactor in a cell or in vivo environment ,  which is reproduced in the current experiment .
molecule catalyzing a modification on its interacting partner .
molecule that is the target of its binding partner catalytic activity .
molecule that makes intramolecular interactions .
the form of a molecule that was actually used to experimentally demonstrate the interaction ,  that may differ from the sequence described by the identifying accession number .
a molecule is estimated to be expressed at higher levels than in physiological condition .
small molecules ,  peptides or full proteins that can be used as label as they confer some property that facilitates identification purification and monitoring to the labeled molecule .
measures the release of radiolabelled acetic acid from a pre - labeled molecule .
measures quenching of the nonradiative energy transfer between fluorescent long - lifetime lanthanide chelates and different acceptors .
methods based on the exceptionally long fluorescence lifetime characteristics of certain fluorophores ,  which allows the elimination of the effects of background fluorescence .
measures quenching of the nonradiative energy transfer between fluorescent long - lifetime lanthanide chelates and different acceptors .
samples run on a gelatine containing gels under non - reducing condition ,  gels then incubated under conditions in which the enzyme is active .
measures the amount of radiolabel released into the medium when enzyme is added onto a film of isotope - labelled collagen .
substrate pre - radiolabelled either synthetically or through the action of a kinase transferring an isotope of phosphate from a nucleotide .
measures the catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group to an acceptor molecule .
measures the transfer of a radiolabelled methyl group of a donor ,  for example s - adenosyl - l - methionine  ( sam )  to a carboxyl group of an acceptor .
a radiolabelled molecule has radio isotopes among its constituent atoms that can be used to identify ,  localize or quantify the full molecule .
the protein of interest is expressed as a fusion to the peptide dykddddkv for which antibodies are commercially available .
the protein is expressed and purified as a fusion to the glutathione s - tranferase protein .
the protein of interest is expressed as a fusion to the peptide ypydvpdya  ( a fragment of the influenza hemagglutinin protein )  for which antibodies are commercially available .
the protein of interest is expressed as a fusion to a poly - his tail .
the protein of interest is expressed as a fusion to the peptide eukliseed  ( a fragment of the myc oncogene protein )  for which antibodies are commercially available .
the protein of interest is expressed as a fusion to the peptide masmtggqqmg for which antibodies are commercially available .
tag encoding a calmodulin binding peptide ,  a tev cleavage site ,  and the staphylococcus aureus protein a fused to a target protein .
the protein of interest is expressed as a fusion to the peptide gkpipnpllgldst for which antibodies are commercially available .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00723 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00752 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00177 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00178 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00300 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00242 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00236 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00693 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00131 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00163 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00164 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00332 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00160 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00818 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00172 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00167 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00168 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00169 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00170 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00171 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00173 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:01110 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00663 .
artificial residue modification enabling studies of cysteine binding status . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00660 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00041 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00461 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00235 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00181 .
residue modification due to a cross - link between a lysine and a glycine from the sumo  ( small ubiquitin - related modifier )  protein . \ nobsolete remap to mod:01149 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00890 .
gln - lys cross - link catalyzed by a transglutaminase .
involves the addition of one or more adp - ribose moieties to proteins .
reaction catalyzed by pngase ,  a deglycosylating enzyme that promotes the hydrolysis of the beta - aspartylglycosylamine bond of aspargine - linked glycopeptides and glycoproteins .
the covalent attachment of a glycosyl residue to one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological polymer .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00438 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00440 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00665 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00658 .
residue modification . \ nobsolete remap to mod:00078 .
residue modification due to a cross - link between a lysine and a glycine from the nedd8 protein family . \ nobsolete remap to mod:01150 .
reversible reaction that create a covalent bond between a c - terminus g of an ubiquitine like sumo protein and a k residue of the target .
reversible reaction that create a covalent bond between a glycine residue of an ubiquitine like nedd8 protein and a lysine residue of the target .
cleavage of the g - k bond and release of the sumo ubiquitin like proteins .
cleavage of the g - k bond and release of the nedd8 ubiquitin like proteins .
covalent modification of a polypeptide occuring during its maturation or its proteolytic degradation .
any process by which a pre - mrna or mrna molecule is cleaved at specific sites or in a regulated manner .
covalent bond breakage of a dna molecule leading to the formation of smaller fragments .
region of a molecule whose mutation or deletion totally disrupts an interaction strength or rate  ( in the case of interactions inferred from enzymatic reaction )  . .
identifier of a publication prior to pubmed indexing .
alliance for cellular signaling  ( afcs  - nature )  store yeast 2 - hybrid interaction data and expression data .
method to identify domain - domain interactions within the same resolved structure .
group of method taking advantage of 3d structure to calculate and infer the feature of interacting molecules .
the protein is expressed and purified as a fusion to the glutathione maltose - binding protein  ( mbp )  .
any molecule that is able to transfer an electron to another chemical species .
molecule to which an electron may be transferred from an electron donor .
a gene whose genetic perturbation suppresses the phenotype resulting from a different genetic perturbation .
a gene whose genetic perturbation phenotype is suppressed by a different genetic perturbation .
fluorophore which emits electromagnetic radiation of given wavelength .
fluorophore able to absorb the electromagnetic radiation at given wavelength from a specific donor fluorophore ,  then re - emiting its own characteristic fluorescence .
intenz is the name for the integrated relational enzyme database and is the official version of the enzyme nomenclature .
molecule inhibiting an interaction by interacting with one or more of its participants .
molecule being identified as target of an inhibitor . \ nobsolete as term is deprecated to describe the target of an inhibitor that can have any other biological role .
group of methods based on complementation assay where a third participant is shown to be necessary for the binding of a given bait prey pair .
protein sample collected by in vitro translation of its mrna taking advantage of purified translation machinery .
collection of topics describing the free text stored as an attribute value .
the experimental condition text description ,  should contain information about the organisms hosting the interaction .
web resource that allows the investigation of protein interactions in the protein data bank structures at the level of pfam domains and amino acid residues .
xref pointing to a go process term describing the start and end location of a migrating molecule ,  for instance see go:0006611 ,  'protein - nucleus export' .
xref pointing to a go compartment term describing the start location of a migrating molecule .
xref pointing to a go compartment term describing the end location of a migrating molecule .
free text description of all the tags and artificial process undergone by a molecule during an experiment .
the feature text description may include information about the feature detection method .
the feature constraint free text will specificity whether a biological feature is shown to be possible  ( just observed )  or required  ( experimentally demonstrated to be necessary for an interaction )  .
text pointing to a specific paper figure legend where the experimental evidences for an interaction are to be found .
two silent mutations show a nutrition sensitive lethal phenotype when they co - occur on the same cell . \ nobsolete: remap to cv intraction type 'synthetic interaction' mi:0794 and external cv for phenotype description .
the sequence ontology  ( so )  is a structured controlled vocabulary for the parts of a genomic annotation .
binding sites are identified by altered reactivity of a complex to a chemical treatment compared to the unbound molecules .
dimethylsulphate  ( dms )  is the most commonly used chemical to study dna - protein interactions .
potassium permanganate bind to single - stranded pyrimidine residues ,  it is commonly used to detect promoters opening regions in vivo .
binding sites are identified by altered reactivity of a complex to an enzymatic probe compared to the unbound molecules .
deoxyribonuclease i  ( dnase i )  does not have high specificity for given sequences or residues ,  thus footprinting with dnase i permits the exact delineation of the protein - dna binding site .
these rna molecules are relatively short  ( less than 200 nucleotides each )  ,  and there are five of them  ( u1 ,  u2 ,  u4 ,  u5 ,  and u6 )  involved in the major form of pre - mrna splicing .
rna that is transcribed from the dna of the nucleolus and is found ,  together with characteristic proteins ,  in the ribosomes .
the small nucleolar rnas ,  are stable rna contained in the nucleoli and these rnas exist as snorna: protein complexes called snornps  ( also called 'snorps' )  .
ribonucleic acid used in rnai study .
small  ( 300 nucleotides )  stable rnas transcribed by rna pol iii that are part of the signal - recognition particle  ( srp )  .
comment for public view .this attribute can be associated to interaction ,  experiment ,  cv term ,  an organism and any participant .
biological function of a participant or of an interaction .
url / web address describing an experiment ,  an interaction ,  a cv term or an organism .
search engine url associated to cv database terms .
example generally associated to cv terms .
the interaction has a known or demonstrated disease association .
warning about errors or grounds for confusion .
refers to the metabolic or signalling pathway involving an interaction or a complex .
search url to retrieve an external entry in ascii format .
confidence classification assigned by the author of the publication to a specific interaction .
description of confidence assessment method generally associated to the experiment .
the interaction between the proteins or the formation of a complex is disrupted by a biological molecule or by a modification of the interactors .
reaction occurs at a faster rate in the presence of this compound or molecule i .e .
any chemical applied externally to cells or any type of environmental condition ,  such as hypoxia ,  that stimulates an interaction ,  potentially by causing modification of one or more of the interactors .
any chemical applied externally to cells or any type of environmental condition ,  such as hypoxia ,  that inhibits an interaction ,  potentially by alteration of amount or binding affinity of one or more of the interactors .
modifications of the standard experimental method described in the cv .
regular expression used to check the validity of cross references' identifier .
information on the complex being annotated .
comments on the 3d structure .
free r - factor and working r - factor for the quality of the crystallographic model .
resolution of the 3d structure .
information about how the data was processed .
e - mail address to contact the author or organisation which has produced the data .
free text notes on how to contact the author or organisation which has produced the data this attribute is generally associated to an experiment .
list of authors associated to a publication .
participant isoform's comment .this attribute can be attached to interactions or participants .
post translational modification required for an interaction to occur .
post translational modification occurs subsequently to an interaction .
parameter for enzymatic or binding kinetic studies .
molar concentration of an antagonist which produces 50% of the maximum possible inhibitory response for that antagonist .
molar concentration of an agonist which produces 50% of the maximum possible response for that agonist .
equilibrium constant for dissociation of an inhibitor .
michaelis - menten constant: concentration of substrate at which the reaction rate is equal to half the maximal rate  ( i .e .
the number of substrate molecules converted to product in a given unit of time ,  on a single enzyme molecule when the enzyme is saturated with substrate .
the equilibrium dissociation constant of a receptor / ligand or proteina / proteinb complex .
controlled vocabulary for kinetic constant units .
molarity is the number of moles of solute dissolved in one liter of solution .
the second is the duration of 9 192 631 770 periods of the radiation corresponding to the transition between the two hyperfine levels of the ground state of the cesium - 133 atom .
10e - 3 moles per liter of solution . \ nobsolete: term redundant with the schema exponent attribute of the parameter .
10e - 6 moles per liter of solution . \ nobsolete: term redundant with the schema exponent attribute of the parameter .
10e - 9 moles per liter of solution . \ nobsolete: term redundant with the schema exponent attribute of the parameter .
10e - 12 moles per liter of solution . \ nobsolete: term redundant with the schema exponent attribute of the parameter .
10e - 15 moles per liter of solution . \ nobsolete: term redundant with the schema exponent attribute of the parameter .
a protein of interest  ( the bait )  is fused to the full - length bacteriophage lambda repressor protein  ( lambdaci ,  237 amino acids )  ,  containing the amino terminal dna - binding domain and the carboxylterminal dimerization domain .
peptide whose sequence is experimentally identified and can lead to a full protein identification .
rna and cdna constructs with variable central sequences and a constant flanking region are collected in a complex library .
mudpit is a method for rapid and large - scale protein identification by multidimensional liquid chromatography associated with tandem mass spectrometry .
experimental method by which a feature is detected or identified .
feature detection based on computational analysis .
experimental participant identification .
imex primary identifier that is assigned to an experiment record by the database that created the record in the context of imex consortium .
a confocal is a standard epifluorescence microscope with improvement essentially coming from the rejection of out - of - focus light interference .
attribute name of annotation associated to an interaction element .
attribute name of annotation associated to an experiment element .
attribute name of annotation associated to a participant element .
attribute name of annotation associated to a cv term .
attribute name of annotation associated to a feature element .
attribute name of annotation associated to an organism element .
international molecular interaction exchange .
this annotation topic should contain information about antibodies when specific antibodies  ( monoclonal or polyclonal raised against specific regions of the proteins or purified in a specific manner )  have been used .
this annotation topic will be used to store information about the cdna library .
alternative names to describe a complex .
describe a cross reference pointing to a peptide parent sequence .
ipi provides a top level guide to the main databases that describe the proteomes of higher eukaryotic organisms .
tandem affinity purification allows rapid purification under native conditions of complexes ,  even when expressed at their natural level .
a tandem tag consists of the concatenation of simple distinct tags that is engineered to be cloned as a unique element onto a sequence of interest .
a microarray consisting of antibodies spotted on a solid support in appropriate orientation is incubated with a biological sample  ( or antigen )  .
a sequence of adenine nucleotides that is added to the 3' end of some primary transcript messenger rna molecules in eukaryotes during post - transcriptional processing .
dna that consists of only one chain of nucleotides rather than the two base pairing strands found in dna in the double helix form .
dna that consists of two base pairing strands .
a cofactor is a small molecule required for the catalysis of an enzyme .
database collecting nucleic or amino acid sequences mainly derived from genomic or mrna sequencing .
molecule required for an observed binary interaction to occur .
publication or document describing the originating resource where an interaction ,  or other curated information ,  was first described .
yet to be identified interaction detection method associated with interaction data imported from a third party database .
protein having well characterized fluorescence excitation and emission spectra used as fusion with a protein under study to facilitate its  localisation or identification .
part of a transcription factor responsible for the binding of gene regulatory region prior to their transcription .
part of a transcription factor responsible for the activation of dna transcription .
part of the yeast transcription factor gal4  ( amino acids 766 - 881 )  specifically responsible for dna transcription activation .
full viral protein vp16 exclusively responsible for preferential transcriptional activation of viral genes .
b42 is an acidic sequence of 89 residues  derived from escherichia coli acting as weak transcription activation domain .
part of the yeast transcription factor gal4  ( amino acids 11 - 38 )  specifically responsible for dna binding of a 17 base - pair long sequence in the upstream activating sequence of galactose - induced genes . \ n
amino terminal  ( 1 - 220 )  part of the escherichia coli lexa repressor ,  binding to 16 base pair palindromic dna sequences .
antibody array where proteins retained by the arrayed antibodies are identified using a detector antibody .
measures the catalysis of the transfer of a free nucleotidyl group to a nucleic acid chain .
measures the catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  ;  the synthesis of dna from deoxyribonucleotide triphosphates in the presence of a dna template or primer .
measures the catalysis of the reaction: nucleoside triphosphate  +  rna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  rna ( n + 1 )  .
measures the catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  .
measures the catalysis of the reaction: nucleoside triphosphate  +  rna  ( n )  = diphosphate  +  rna  ( n + 1 )  ;  uses an rna template .
the process by which a dna strand is synthesized from template dna by the action of polymerases ,  which add nucleotides to the 3' end of the nascent dna strand .
the panther  ( protein analysis through evolutionary relationships )  classification system is a unique resource that classifies genes by their functions using published scientific experimental evidence and evolutionary relationships to predict function even in the absence of direct experimental evidence . \ nwww .pantherdb .org / 
the gene3d database provides a combined structural ,  functional and evolutionary view of the protein world .
method by which nucleic acids are delivered or engineered into a cell .
western blot assay performed when specific antibodies for the protein of interest are not available .
transformation is the genetic alteration of a cell resulting from the introduction ,  uptake and expression of foreign genetic material incorporated into the cell's genome  ( dna or rna )  .
immunostaining assay performed when specific antibodies for the protein of interest are not available .
a monospecific antibody for the protein of interest is available ,  this is used to detect a specific protein within a cell or tissue sample .
immunostaining assay carried out using a mixture of different antibodies that represent the immune response ,  normally in an experimental animal ,  to the protein of interest .
stable introduction and expression of nucleic acid carried out by treatment with divalent cation .
electroporation ,  or electropermeabilization ,  is a significant increase in the electrical conductivity and permeability of the cell plasma membrane caused by externally applied electrical field .
microinjection refers to the process of using a micro needle to insert substances at a microscopic level into a single living cell .
nucleic acid entrance into cells that does not involved specific treatments but rely on natural cellular processes .
transduction is the process by which bacterial dna is moved from one bacterium to another by a virus .
bacterial conjugation is the transfer of genetic material between bacteria through cell - to - cell contact .
entrance of molecules into cells that does not involved specific treatments but relies on natural cellular processes .
lipofection  ( or liposome transfection )  is a technique used to inject genetic material into a cell by means of liposomes which are vesicles that can easily merge with the cell membrane since they are both made of a phospholipid bilayer .
transient introduction and expression of nucleic acid carried out by treatment with chemicals .
transient introduction and expression of nucleic acid carried out by treatment with calcium phosphate .
nucleic acid introduced into a cell via an external organism ,  usually a virus or bacteria . .
method by which proteins are delivered into a cell .
method for temporarily permeabilising cell membranes in order to facilitate the entry of a protein .
microinjection refers to the process of using a micro needle to insert substances at a microscopic level into a single living cell .
proteins are delivered into cells by treatment with cationic lipids .
protein introduced into a cell via an external organism ,  usually a virus or bacteria .
yeast strains are generated in which expression of db - x / ad - y or dbpx hybrid proteins is toxic under particular conditions  ( negative selection )  .
yeast two - hybrid system using escherichia coli lexa amino acids 1 - 202 as the dna - binding domain  ( bd )  ,  e . coli b42 acidic sequence as the activation domain  ( ad )  ,  and two reporters ,  lacz and leu2 ,  each containing upstream lexa binding elements .
a chimeric protein consisting of the gal4 dna - binding domain  ( aa 1 - 147 of gal4 )  and a transcriptional activation domain from the herpes simplex virus protein vp16  ( either aa 411 - 490 or aa 411 - 455 )  can specifically activate transcription of a reporter gene located downstream ofgal4 dna binding sites and the e1b minimal promoter .
this strategy uses a luciferase enzyme fused to proteins of interest ,  which are then coexpressed with individual epitope - tagged partners in mammalian cells .
ncbi's pubchem database identification number  ( if molecule is in pubchem )  . \ nobsolete as redudant with mi:0730
the aim of 3d repertoire is to determine the structures of all amenable complexes in a cell at medium or high resolution ,  which will later serve to integrate in toponomic and dynamic analyses of protein complexes in a cell .
the red fluorescent protein derived from ,  for example ,  marine anemone discosoma striata and reef corals belonging to the class anthozoacan can be fused to individual proteins which then acquire fluorescence excitation and emission spectra virtually identical to those of the native .
the cyan fluorescent protein derived from anthozoa reef coral can be fused to individual proteins which then acquire fluorescence excitation and emission spectra virtually identical to those of the native .
variation of the green fluorescent protein derived from the bioluminescent jellyfish aequorea victoria ,  can be fused to individual proteins which then acquire fluorescence excitation and emission spectra virtually identical to those of the native .
tag derived from the transactivating  ( tat )  protein of human immunodeficiency virus 1  ( hiv - 1 )  that can enter cells efficiently when added exogenously in tissue culture .
proteins entrance into cells that does not involved specific treatments but rely on natural cellular processes .
database storing sequences detected by peptide identification methods .
pride is a public repository of protein and peptide identifications for the proteomics community . \ nhttp: /  / www .ebi .ac .uk / pride / 
membrane shuttling peptide derived from the drosophila homeobox protein antennapedia: rqikiwfqnrrmkwkk
the peptides named cpps vary greatly in size ,  amino acid sequence ,  and charge ,  but share the common feature that they have the ability to rapidly translocate the plasma membrane and enable delivery to the cytoplasm or nucleus .
peptideatlas addresses these needs by identifying peptides by tandem mass spectrometry  ( ms / ms )  ,  statistically validating those identifications and then mapping identified sequences to the genomes of eukaryotic organisms . \ nhttp: /  / www .peptideatlas .org / 
global proteome machine aim to improve the quality of analysis ,  make the results portable and to provide a common platform for testing and validating proteomics results . \ nhttp: /  / www .thegpm .org
descriptor of an experimental form involved in a genetic interaction
the gene has been completely removed e .g .
the gene expression has been significantly reduced compared to wild - type by introduction of an external substance ,  e .g .
the gene function has been partially improved compared to wild - type by altering its sequence .
the gene function has been partially reduced compared to wild - type by altering its sequence e .g .
the gene function has been antagonized by a mutation in another copy of the gene .
the gene function has been abolished by mutation ,  though the type of mutation is not known .
an effect in which two genetic perturbations ,  when combined ,  result in a mutant phenotype that is not observed  ( to any degree )  as a result of any of the individual perturbations . \ nwt = a = b = e  ( not= )  ab
an effect in which individual perturbations of different genes and their combination result in the same mutant phenotype ,  to the same degree of severity / penetrance .
an effect in which individual perturbations of two different genes result in different mutant phenotypes ,  and the resulting phenotype of their combination  ( the double mutant )  is equal to that of only one of the perturbations .
the phenotype resulting from genetic perturbation of a has an effect only in the b background ,  or the b mutant has an effect only in the a background .
single - mutant phenotype effects combine to give a double - mutant effect different from the wild type and different from single mutant effect .
the phenotype resulting from genetic perturbation of b shows opposing effects in the wt and a backgrounds  ( for example ,  b  >  wt and ab  <  a )  ;  or ,  a shows opposing effects in the wt and b backgrounds ,  but not both .
the phenotype resulting from genetic perturbation of both a and b show opposing effects in the wt background and the background with the other mutant gene .
the a genetic perturbation enhances the phenotype of the b perturbation ,  or vice versa  ( e .g .
synthesis rate of a molecule under investigation differs from its naturally occurring expression level in a cell .
the gene is mutated in some unknown manner
the worldwide protein data bank  ( wwpdb )  consists of organizations that act as deposition ,  data processing and distribution centers for pdb data .
pdbj ( protein data bank japan )  maintains the database for the protein structures with financial assistance from the institute for bioinformatics research and development of japan science and technology corporation ( bird - jst )  ,  collaborating with the research collaboration for structural bioinformatics ( rcsb )  and the msd in the european bioinformatics institute ( msd - ebi )  in eu .
the interaction of two molecules is determine by their very close proximity or the overlap of their relative bands in a gel .
a method allowing the detection of strong interactions between two or more molecules as running ,  all of them ,  within a single band in a denaturing gel .
the bimolecular fluorescence complementation  ( bifc )  is an assay for determination of protein interactions and / or their location in living cells .
in this approach ,  once a molecule is demonstrated to participate in an interaction ,  several substitution mutants are produced and tested in the binding assay to identify the residues which identity is crucial for the interaction .
in this approach ,  once a molecule is demonstrated to participate in an interaction ,  several insertion derivatives are produced and tested in the binding assay to detect the regions that are important for the interaction .
the protein is expressed and purified as a fusion to the calmoduling - binding protein .
upon binding of two proximity probes  ( usually antibodies conjugated to dna )  to the same target protein complex ,  the oligonucleotides on the proximity probes are brought close together .
in protease accessibility laddering  ( pal )  tagged proteins are purified on magnetic beads in their natively folded  state .
molecule whose sequence identity is derived from their molecular weight
molecule whose sequence identity is derived from their molecular weight after a comigration in a gel with molecular weight marker .
molecule whose sequence identity is derived from their molecular weight after a comigration in a gel with molecular weight marker and staining of the molecules with silver .
molecule whose sequence identity is derived from their molecular weight after a comigration in a gel with molecular weight marker and staining of the molecules with comassie dye .
molecule whose sequence identity is derived from their molecular weight after a comigration in a gel with molecular weight marker and staining of the molecules with bromide dyes .
molecule whose sequence identity is derived from their molecular weight after a comigration in a gel with molecular weight marker and staining of the molecules with sybr dyes .
molecule whose sequence identity is derived from their molecular weight after a comigration in a gel with molecular weight marker and staining by autoradiography .
molecule whose sequence identity is derived from their molecular weight after a comigration in a gel with molecular weight marker and staining of the molecules with hoechst dyes .
feature detection not verified in the context of an experiment but assumed from external or previous experimental evidence ( s )  .
analysis of a diffraction pattern generated by an isotropic sample composed of many randomly oriented crystals .
analysis of the diffraction pattern of a partially ordered sample composed of fibers oriented parallel to each other using x - ray .
method where the internal structure of a sample is derived from the intensity distribution of the scattered monochromatic x - ray beam at very low scattering angles .
x - ray tomography is a branch of x - ray microscopy .
subpart of a polyprotein that is naturally cleaved in vivo .
this qualifier is used  for hybrid or composite molecules with more than one cross - reference to parent molecules .
list of tissue used as  topic in uniprot rc line . \ nhttp: /  / www .expasy .org / cgi - bin / lists?tisslist .txt
ontology of cell types . \ nhttp: /  / obo .sourceforge .net / cgi - bin / detail .cgi?cell
a protein modification that is effectively either one half of a cystine cross - link ,  or a cysteine residue with one hydrogen atom or proton removed
experimental method by which radiolabel is detected by exposure to a photographic emulsion forming a pattern on the film .
association rate constant or rate of complex formation .
dissociation rate constant measuring the stability of a complex .
temperature at which interaction was determined .
ph at which interaction was determined .
a scale that measures an object's temperature over absolute zero ,  the theoretical coolest temperature where all molecular and atomic motion ceases .
per mole per second ,  unit for association rate constant .
molecule stimulating an interaction by interacting with one or more of the participants .
measures the rate of a phosphate transfer between two molecules .
any molecule that is able to transfer a phosphate group to another chemical species .
molecule to which a phosphate group may be transferred from a phosphate donor .
reaction where a phosphate is transferred between two proteins of a phosphorelay system .
paramagnetic fragment ,  most often a cyclic nitroxide derivative ,  covalently attached to a molecule of interest .
paramagnetic molecule  ( 1 - oxyl - 2 , 2 , 5 , 5 - tetramethylpyrroline -  \ n3 - methyl )  - methanethiosulfonate .
dansyl is the acronym of 5 - dimethylaminonaphthalene - 1 - sulfonyl radical group reacting with any nh2 groups .
molecule labelled with 125 radio isotope of iodine atoms .
the ncbi taxonomy database indexes over 55 000 organisms that are represented in the sequence databases with at least one nucleotide or protein sequence .
encode  ( the encyclopedia of dna elements )  seeks to identify all protein - coding genes .
genbank identifier or gi numbers for proteins .
genbank identifier or gi numbers for nucleotide .
an overhang is a stretch of unpaired nucleotides in the end of a dna molecule .
an overhang is a stretch of unpaired nucleotides in the end of a 3' strand of a dna molecule .
an overhang is a stretch of unpaired nucleotides in the end of a 5' strand of a dna molecule .
a fluorophore is a component of a molecule which causes a molecule to be fluorescent .
dye label containing a  fluorophore  which  absorb energy of a specific wavelength and re - emit energy at a different  ( but equally specific )  wavelength .
method involving consecutive coimmunoimmunoprecipitations on the same sample ,  a control  where an interaction is detected ,  and other coips where the sample is previously treated with a specific antibody that precipitates a candidate interactor and leads to the suppression of an interaction or a change in composition of a complex .
a single - molecule technique that measures the behavior of a molecular complex under stretching or torsional mechanical force .
 edit
the protein a is a bacterial cell wall  isolated from staphylococcus aureus that  binds to mammalian iggs mainly through fc regions .
the zz tag is a tag made out of two tandem repeats of the protein a igg binding domain .
thiol - reactive lanthanide complexes have been synthesized that are luminescent when bound to terbium and / or europium .
a structured controlled vocabulary for the source of an enzyme .
pair of fluorophores attached to the same molecule used in a fret  experiment to observe the details of conformational  changes .
molecule whose sequence identity is not checked after the interaction but its presence is detected through its tag .
the molecule is produced fused to a tag containing a fluorophore ,  such as gfp tagged to a recombinant protein ,  or a fluorophore has been chemically attached to the molecule .
author published identifier .
identifier assigned when the record was created by a source database .
measures the catalysis of the hydrolysis of an methyl group from a substrate molecule .
the cleavage of a methyl group from a polypeptide .
the atomic force microscope  ( afm )  is a very high - resolution type of scanning probe microscope ,  with demonstrated resolution of fractions of a nanometer ,  more than 1000 times better than the optical diffraction limit .
annotation of a published paper which has been externally requested .
targeted curation dataset grouping experiments by topic or dataset origin .
data directly submitted by the authors to a database prior to publication .
measures the catalysis of the hydrolysis of a nucleoside triphosphate into a nucleoside diphosphate plus phosphate .
measures the catalysis of the hydrolysis of atp +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a  nucleoside triphosphate into a nucleoside diphosphate plus phosphate .
catalysis of the hydrolisis of atp +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate .
catalysis of the hydrolisis of gtp +  h2o = gdp  +  phosphate .
epitope tag derived from vesicular stomatitis virus  ( vsv )  glycoprotein .
name and details of a journal from which paper has been taken .
year of publication of a paper .
in histone acetylation the histones are acetylated on lysine residues in the n - terminal tail as part of gene regulation .
during a sans experiment a beam of neutrons is directed at a sample .
measures the catalysis of the addition of an acetyl group to a target molecule .
qdot are nanocrystals fluorophores  .nanocrystals a are extremely efficient materials for generating and they have a highly customizable surface for directing their bioactivity ,  producing a fluorescent probe that outperforms traditional dyes in many fluorescence applications .
analysis of diffraction pattern of a partially ordered sample composed of fibers oriented parallel to each other using neutron beam .
assay where at least one molecule under analysis is bound to a solid surface ,  such as a microplate wall or the sides of a tube ,  the other reactants being free in solution .
analysis of diffraction pattern using neutron beam
analysis of diffraction pattern using electron beam .
this method uses renilla luciferase  ( rluc )  - based protein fragment complementation assay  ( pca )  that is designed specifically to investigate dynamic protein complexes  ( association and dissociation )  .
renilla luciferase ,  is an enzyme of the sea pansy catalyzing the oxidation of the coelenterazine pigment )   that produces light .
catalogue of covalent modification of ,  or a change resulting in an alteration of the measured molecular mass of ,  a peptide or protein amino acid residue .
molecule that is reported to self - interact but the experimental condition does not allow to resolve whether the interaction is intramolecular  ( true self interaction )  or intermolecular  ( homodimer )  .
piii is one of the minor coat proteins that decorates in five copies the emerging tip of filamentous phage .
pviii is the major coat protein of filamentous phage .
exposed amino acid residues undergo a rapid exchange of a specific radio - isotope e .g .
any process by which an rna molecule is cleaved at specific sites or in a regulated manner .
the microbial protein - protein interactions database  ( mpdib )  aims to collect and provide all known physical prokaryotic interactions .
a polysaccharide is a complex polymer of carbohydrate monormers .
alphascreen relies on the use of donor and acceptor beads that are coated with a layer of hydrogel providing functional groups for bioconjugation .
the protein of interest is expressed as a fusion to the peptide dtyryi for which antibodies are commercially available .
statement about the native / denatured conformation of the protein .
altered conformation state of the protein as a result of heat or chemical modification resulting in a changed structure of the protein .
state of the protein without interference i .e .
covalent bond breakage of a nucleic acid molecule leading to the formation of smaller fragments .
a variety of crosslinkers are used to analyze subunit structure of proteins ,  protein interactions and various parameters of protein function .
n  - succinimidyl 3 -  ( 2 - pyridyldithio )  - propionate ,  is heterobifunctional ,  thiol - cleavable  \ nand membrane permeable crosslinkers .
succinimidyl 6 -  ( 3 -  [ 2 - pyridyldithio ]  - propionamido ) hexanoate ,  is an heterobifunctional ,  thiol - cleavable  \ nand membrane permeable crosslinkers .
interaction between molecules that may participate in formation of one ,  but possibly more ,  physical complexes .
interaction between molecules within the same physical complex .
yeast two - hybrid system using escherichia coli lexa amino acids 1 - 202 as the dna - binding domain  ( bd )  ,  and a transcriptional activation domain from the herpes simplex virus protein vp16  ( either aa 411 - 490 or aa 411 - 455 )  that can specifically activate transcription of a reporter gene located downstream .
knowledgebase of the extracellular matrix storing experimentally determined interactions involving extracellular biomolecules .
molecule which emits active chemical groups ,  electrons or ions that are transfered to an acceptor molecule .
molecule able to receive active chemical groups ,  electrons or ions from a donor molecule .
measures the catalysis of the hydrolysis of phosphodiester bonds in chains of rna .
this array technology allows the screening of binding abilities of hundreds or thousands of biomolecules  ( small molecule ,  peptide ,  protein ,  sugar ,  lipid ,  nucleic acid ,  and their fragments )  printed onto the gold - coated chip by using an instrument  ( micro - arrayer )  that is capable of spotting liquid samples in a reproducible manner onto a planar support .
experimental evidence supporting an interaction curated and released under the imex agreement .
irefindex provides an index of protein interactions available in a number of primary interaction databases including bind ,  biogrid ,  dip ,  hprd ,  intact ,  mint ,  mpact ,  mppi and ophid .
camjedb is a comprehensive database for information on the genome of campylobacter jejuni . \ nhttp: /  / www .sanger .ac .uk / projects / c_jejuni / 
post translational modification observed on a protein in the context of an interaction .
this fluorescent label is a small ligand  membrane - permeant and nonfluorescent until it binds with high affinity and specificity to the tetracysteine domain .
iaedans is fluorescent tag that bind to cysteines .
biomolecules are mixed in a buffer and the resulting mixture is \ npassed through a filter .
a standard procedure to identify rna fragments containing specific \ nsequences .
an effect in which individual perturbations of two different genes result in different mutant phenotypes ,  and the resulting phenotype of their combination  ( the double mutant )  is equal to that of only one of the perturbations .
two genes a and b present an genetic interaction defined by inequality  if the phenotypes of the two single mutants a and b ,  the double mutant  ab and the wild - type wt can be measured quantitatively and described  relative to each other by an inequality relationship .
the observation that ,  when tested ,  no interaction was observed between two or more genes ,  for a given phenotype .
an effect in which two genetic perturbations ,  when combined ,  result in a phenotype that is more severe / penetrant than expected given the phenotypes of the individual perturbations .
an effect in which the observed phenotype of individual perturbations and / or the double perturbation collectively exhibit values both greater than and less than wild type  ( on the same scale )  .
an effect in which two genetic perturbations ,  when combined ,  result in a phenotype that is less severe / penetrant than would be expected from the original phenotypes ,  in effect making the organism more  \ "wild type \ " in character with regards to the phenotype in question .
the electron microscopy data bank  ( emdb )  contains experimentally determined three - dimensional maps and associated experimental data and files .
this peptide is a 314 to 319 amino acids fragment of the middle t antigen of mouse polymavirus .
characterization of viscoelastic properties of biomolecule solution is used to infer interactions between molecules .
fluorescence label used to monitor the presence of a protein .
fluorescein - 5 - maleimide is one of the most popular fluorescent dyes for thiol modifications of proteins at cysteine residues that either are intrinsically present or result from reduction of cystines .
binds to an interacting molecule in competition with other interaction candidates ,  for example at a shared binding site .
based on ncbo taxonomy but adapted for uniprot \ nhttp: /  / www .uniprot .org / taxonomy / 
'study of interactions by an analytical technique based on measurements of mass - to - charge ratio of charged particles in a mass spectrometer .
mass spectroscopy based measurement of the rate and / or extent of the hydrogen / deuterium exchange .
an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
combines on - chip in - vitro protein synthesis with an in situ microfluidic affinity assay .
binding of proteins bound to beads leads to a measurable aggregation of the beads .
a brief description  ( such as temp ,  ph )  of the conditions under which a kinetic measurment has been performed .
experiments monitoring \ ninteractions of gtp - gdp exchange factors with their cognate gtpases .
permits the identification of substrates of enzymes by mutating residues ,  usually in the active site such that the enzyme will bind but not act on its substrate .
reference to the master sequence from which this chain has been derived .
deprecated imex identifiers should be exchanged in imex records and stored as cross reference with this qualifier .
interaction inferred by monitoring polymerization / depolymerization of an interactor
an assessment of the depth and extent to which a paper has been curated
assessment of the depth to which a paper has been curated
assessment to the extent of interactions captured in this paper
all interactions which can be ascribed to an unambiguous identified in this paper have been captured .
not all interactions which can be ascribed to an unambiguous identified in this paper have been captured .
paper has been curated to full imex specifications
paper has been curated to meet mimix specifications
minimal interaction data has been extracted from the paper
the protein of interest is expressed with a strepii fusion peptide ser - ala - trp - ser - his - pro - gln - phe - glu - lys  ( sawshpqfek )  .
a specific pull down method where the protein of interest  ( bait )  is endogenously expressed with at least two affinity tags  ( gfp ,  flag or others )  .
subset of spectroscopy that deals with the infrared region of the electromagnetic spectrum .
two - dimensional infrared correlation spectroscopy analysis is the application of 2d correlation analysis on infrared spectra .
ultraviolet - visible spectroscopy or ultraviolet - visible spectrophotometry  ( uv - vis or uv / vis )  involves the spectroscopy of photons in the uv - visible region .
chembl focuses on mapping the interactions of small molecules binding to their macromolecular targets .
a biosensor is a device for the detection of an analyte that combines a biological component with a physicochemical detector component
bli is an optical analytical technique that analyzes the interference pattern of white light reflected from two surfaces: a layer of immobilized protein on the biosensor tip ,  and an internal reference layer
inchikeys consist of 14 characters resulting from a hash of the connectivity information of the inchi ,  followed by a hyphen ,  followed by 9 characters resulting from a hash of the remaining layers of the inchi ,  followed by a single character indication the version of inchi used ,  another hyphen ,  followed by single checksum character
the posttranslational phosphopantetheinylation of peptidyl - serine to form peptidyl - o - phosphopantetheine - l - serine .
assay of the posttranslational phosphopantetheinylation of peptidyl - serine to form peptidyl - o - phosphopantetheine - l - serine .
databases that contain curated experimental interaction data and exchanging it with other imex databases .
human and mouse experimentally verified interactions and pathways involved in innate immunity .
a fusion protein tag consisting of a portion of the constant region of igg .
used to study surface - associated interactions at the molecular level .
prevents export of experiment and associated interactions to imex
author given name for a participant ,  not commonly found in source databases .
catalysis of oxido - reductions .the substrate oxidized is regarded as the hydrogen or electron donor .
the protein is expressed as a hybrid protein fused to a tag containing an enzyme activity e .g .
the protein is expressed as a hybrid protein fused to a tag containing a peroxidase activity .
any method which relies on the motion of particles relative to a matrix under the influence of an electrical field .
gemma is a method to study protein complexes in solution: a diluted protein sample is transmitted \ ninto the gas phase by a charged reduced electrospray process .
the measurement of the removal of an amine group from a molecule .
the removal of an amine group from a molecule .
the lengthening of a strand of a nucleic acid by the systematic addition of bases by a polymerase .
the process by which an rna strand is synthesized from template dna by the action of polymerases ,  which add nucleotides to the 3' end of the nascent rna strand .
synthetic peptide consisting of 8 amino acids trp - ser - his - pro - gln - phe - glu - lys  ( wshpqfek )  .
the measurement of the addition of an amine group to a molecule .
the cleavage of a biomolecule either into its component parts or sub - parts .
the cleavage of a lipid molecule from a larger biomolecule .
measures the removal of s - farnesyl - l - cysteined ,  which is cleaved and returns a c residue .
measures the removal of s - geranylgeranyl - l - cysteine ,  which is cleaved and returns a c residue .
measures the removal of n6 - myristoyl - l - lysine ,  which is cleaved and returns a k residue .
measures the removal of s - palmitoyl - l - cysteine ,  n6 - palmitoyl - l - lysine ,  o - palmitoyl - l - threonine or o - palmitoyl - l - serine ,  which are cleaved and return c , k , t or s residues .
measures the removal of n6 - formyl - l - lysine ,  which is cleaved and returns a k residue .
measures the reversible reaction that creates a covalent bond between a c - terminus g of ubiquitin and a k residue of the target .
measures the cleavage of the g - k bond and release of ubiquitin or ubiquitin like proteins .
measurement of the reaction that can affect k or g residues .
measurement of the irreversible introduction of a hydroxyl group that can affect k , p , y or r residues .
the covalent binding of a lipid group to a peptide chain .
measurement of the irreversible covalent addition of a myristoyl group via an amide bond to the alpha - amino group of an amino acid .
measurement of the attachment of one or two 20 - carbon lipophilic geranylgeranyl isoprene units from geranylgeranyl diphosphate to one or more cysteine residue ( s )  .
measurement of the covalent attachment of palmitic acid to a protein .
measurement of the addition of one or more adp - ribose moieties to molecules .
measurement of the removal of a glycosyl residue to one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological polymer .
measurement of the covalently attachment of glycosyl residues to one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological polymer .
measurement of the reversible reaction that creates a covalent bond between a c - terminus g of an ubiquitine like sumo protein and a k residue of the target .
measurement of the reaction that breaks a covalent bond between a c - terminus g of an ubiquitine like sumo protein and a k residue of the target .
measurement of a reversible reaction that create a covalent bond between a glycine residue of an ubiquitine like nedd8 protein and a lysine residue of the target .
measurement of the reaction that breaks a covalent bond between a glycine residue of an ubiquitine like nedd8 protein and a lysine residue of the target .
38 amino acid  ( mdekttgwrgghweglageleqlrarlehhpqgqrep )  streptavidin binding peptide .
genome browser complementary to ensembl which extends the search space across a broader taxonomic range . \ nhttp: /  / www .ensemblgenomes .org
string is a database and web resource dedicated to protein interactions ,  including both physical and functional interactions .
dictybase  ( http: /  / dictybase .org )  is the model organism database for dictyostelium discoideum .
slow rate of frap recovery when molecule is bound to another compared to inert ,  non - binding molecule taken as a measure of an interaction .
proteins are crosslinked to nucleic acids ,  for example by the addition of formaldehyde .
a database of protein post translational modifications .
measures the catalysis of the reaction: a phosphoprotein  +  h2o = a protein  +  phosphate .
a carbonyl - reactive fluorescent labelling dye .
nonfluorescent dye ,  act as a quencher in fret assays .
a separation technique where a field is applied to a mixture perpendicular to the mixtures flow .
a  nonfluorescent ,  biarsenical derivative of fluorescein .
a type of electron microscope that images the sample surface by scanning it with a high - energy beam of electrons  in a raster scan pattern .
a database of protein modifications for mass spectrometry .
measurement of a modification that converts an l - histidine residue to diphthamide .
a modification that converts an l - histidine residue to diphthamide .
chromatin - bound protein networks isolated using magnetic beads coated with antibodies .
specific nucleic acid probes are fixed to solid supports  ( e .g .
excimer  ( excited - dimer )  fluorescence is produced by complexes formed by two molecules ,  at least one of which is in an excited state .
a change in the rate of protein folding / unfolding is taken as a measure of chaperone protein binding .
fluorescent tag  -  maleimide couples to thiols .
fluorescent tag  -  maleimide couples to thiols .
measures the cleavage of phosphodiesterase bonds between the nucleotide subunits of nucleic acids .
measures the catalysis of the hydrolysis of phosphodiester bonds in chains of dna .
experiments monitoring \ ninteractions of nucleotide exchange factors with their cognate nucleotidases .
the n - terminal portion of synthetic renilla luciferase  ( hrluc )  is attached to one protein through the linker peptide  ( gggs ) 2 and c - terminal portion of synthetic renilla luciferase is connected to the second protein through the linker  ( ggggs ) 2 .
measures selective electrical response to molecules binding to the immobilised bait .
the c - terminal region of a sequence ,  exact coordinates not available .
the n - terminal region of a sequence ,  exact coordinates not available .
alternative name or descriptor for an entity .
pubmed central is the us national institute of health free digital archive of biomedical and life science journals .
a repository for collecting ,  storing and and searching the annotation of gene or protein expression patterns in drosophila melongaster .
nsf funded annotation project .
indicates source ,  depth and standards by which an entry has been  added to a database .
defines an interaction by the type of binary molecule pairs it can generates .
interaction between a protein or peptide and a corresponding protein or peptide .
interaction between a small molecule and a corresponding protein or peptide .
interaction between a nucleic acid and a corresponding protein or peptide .
provides an indication of the level of post - processing of experimental data relating to specific binary pairs
binary pair is defined by a single piece of experimental evidence .
binary pair is defined by multiple pieces of experimental evidence which have been clustered together .
the source of the data entered into the database .
data has been directly curated into the database from the paper describing the experimental evidence or by direct submission by the experimenter .
data has been directly curated into this database from the paper describing the experimental evidence
the data has been entered into the database following extraction from the literature by a computational process .
the interaction has been predicted using a specific algorithm .
the data has been imported into the database form an external resource .
the method by which complex n - ary data is expanded into binary data .
complex n - ary data has been expanded to binary using the spoke model .
complex n - ary data has been expanded to binary using the spoke model .
complex n - ary data has been expanded to binary using the bipartite model .
consensuspathdb - human integrates functional interaction networks including complex protein - protein ,  metabolic ,  signaling and gene regulatory interaction networks in homo sapiens .
a method used to derive a numerical or empirical measure of confidence in a particular interaction ,  or in the identification of the participants in an interaction .
methods based on counting the number of replicates in which an interaction has been observed .
confidence score based on similarity to interacting molecules of known structure ,  presence of known interacting domains etc .
confidence in an interaction is based on shared functionality of interacting molecules e .g .
confidence in an interaction is based on shared functionality of interacting molecules e .g .
network - based confidence scoring systems assign confidence based on multiple parameters ,  potentially shared by interacting proteins e .g .
confidence scoring system based on comparison to a 'gold standard' set of known interacting molecules .
confidence in an interaction is based on co - occurrence of an interacting pair or molecules in the same article ,  or sentence within an article ,  usually identified by text - mining .
the confidence of an interaction is assessed on the number of different methods by which it is observed .
confidence in an interaction is based on a measure of the probability of these molecules interacting .
the protein of interest is expressed as a fusion to a rgs ( his ) n tag .
the beilstein database is in the field of organic chemistry ,  in which compounds are uniquely identified by their beilstein registry number .
the einecs database provides general information such as cas number ,  einecs number ,  substance name and chemical formula for 100 , 204 chemical substances .
comprehensive information on chemicals ,  drugs ,  and biologicals .
plantgdb  develops plant species - specific est and gss databases ,  to provide web - accessible tools and inter - species query capabilities ,  and to provide genome browsing and annotation capabilities .
the rat genome database ratmap  ( http: /  / ratmap .org or http: /  / ratmap .gen .gu .se )  has been one of the main resources for rat genome information since 1994 .
the arabidopsis information resource  ( tair )  maintains a database of genetic and molecular biology data for the model higher plant arabidopsis thaliana  .
the j . craig venter institute was formed in october 2006 through the merger of several affiliated and legacy organizations including the institute for genomic research  ( tigr )  .
extensive information on danio rerio ,  including genomics databases ,  developmental stages ,  publications and molecular tools .
clusters of orthologous groups of proteins  ( cogs )  were delineated by comparing protein sequences encoded in complete genomes ,  representing major phylogenetic lineages .
any molecule that is able to transfer a photon to another chemical species .
molecule to which a photon may be transferred from an photon donor .
two chambers are separated by a dialysis membrane .
method to block a binding site on a molecule ,  such as a protein ,  using a monoclonal antibody to test that the binding site is involved in an interaction with another molecule .
assays that are used to determine interactions by monitoring ,  for example activation of a certain pathway when screening for inhibitors of a given receptor .
method to detect interaction by inducing nuclear localization of one participant ,  which would then pull an interacting participant along with it into the nucleus .
bromobimanes are low molecular weight non - fluorescent alkyl halides which react with thiol groups to produce highly fluorescent derivatives .
title of the publication .
fluorescent dyes  -  spectral range 500 to 700 nm .
attributes specific to the publication .
databases which are the responsible for the maintenance and subsequent annotation of one or more genomic sequences .
hgnc is the nomenclature committee responsible for the naming of human genes .
databases dedicated to the collection and annotation of protein sequences .
uniprot is a centralized repository of protein sequences with comprehensive coverage and a systematic approach to protein annotation ,  incorporating ,  interpreting ,  integrating and standardizing data from numerous sources and is the most comprehensive catalog of protein sequences and functional annotation .
uniprot  ( universal protein resource )  is the world's most comprehensive catalogue of information on proteins .
uniprot  ( universal protein resource )  is the world's most comprehensive catalogue of information on proteins .
molecules showing activity in a living system but not encoded by a genomic sequence .
the standard inchikey has five distinct components ,  a 14 - character hash of the basic  ( mobile - h )  inchi layer ,  an 8 - character hash of the remaining layers  ( except for the  / p segment ,  which accounts for added or removed protons: it is not hashed at all ;  the number of protons is encoded at the end of the standard inchikey . ) 
sequence has been computationally remapped following removal or update of the original sequence in the underlying sequence database .
nmr solution state analysis provides useful data regarding the type ,  quantity and arrangement of different atoms in chemical systems ,  liquids and solids .
solid - state nmr  ( ssnmr )  does not require that the sample be soluble or form a crystal ,  and the approach can be used to study molecules larger than 100 kd .
biocyc is a collection of  pathway / genome databases .
databases which primarily exist to display biomolecular information in structured pathways .
curated collection of information about known biomolecular interactions and key cellular processes assembled into signaling pathways .
biocarta ,  whose core business is in assays and reagents ,  has also developed a collection of diagrams representing molecular and cellular signal transduction pathways .
primarily nomenclature / cross - reference databases ,  used by curators to establish a link between a gene and protein id .
interaction has been predicted by either interologue mapping ,  by an algorithm or by a computational method .
individual baits are mated against pools of preys ,  or pools of baits are mated against individual preys .
individual baits are mated against pools of preys .
a database of viral - host interactions .
spike
genemania predicts interactions based on multiple evidences including physical and genetic interactions ,  pathways ,  co - localisation ,  co - expression and protein domain similarity .
topfind provides information on protein n -  and c - termini .
a variation of yellow fluorescent protein derived from egfp .
n - terminal fragment of yellow fluorescent protein used as a tag in bimolecular fluorescence complementation  ( bifc )  .
c - terminal fragment of yellow fluorescent protein used as a tag in bimolecular fluorescence complementation  ( bifc )  .
c - terminal fragment of enhanced yellow fluorescent protein used as a tag in bimolecular fluorescence complementation  ( bifc )  .
n - terminal fragment of enhanced yellow fluorescent protein used as a tag in bimolecular fluorescence complementation  ( bifc )  .
bindingdb is a web - accessible public database of experimentally determined protein - ligand binding affinities for drug discovery .
allows the user to browse and search pathways across multiple public pathway databases . \ nhttp: /  / www .pathwaycommons .org
the defined region of protein which makes physical contact with the interacting partner .
intra - molecular interaction between two or more regions of the same molecule .
interaction between two or more regions of possibly the same molecule but it is also possible that the observation is due to an interaction between two identical molecules .
region of a molecule whose mutation or deletion totally disrupts an interaction strength .
region of a molecule whose mutation or deletion totally disrupts an interaction  rate  ( in the case of interactions inferred from enzymatic reaction )  . .
region of a molecule whose mutation or deletion decreases significantly interaction rate  ( in the case of interactions inferred from enzymatic reaction )  .
region of a molecule whose mutation or deletion increases significantly interaction rate  ( in the case of interactions inferred from enzymatic reaction )  .
region of a molecule whose mutation or deletion increases significantly interaction strength .
region of a molecule whose mutation or deletion decreases significantly interaction strength .
mcherry is a red monomer which matures extremely rapidly ,  making it possible to see results very soon after activating transcription .
introduction of a point mutation into aequorea - derived yfp ,  the substitution of leucine for phenylalanine at position 46  ( f46l )  ,  produced  venus .
monomeric coral fluorescent reporter protein .
the measurement of a the introduction of a carboxylic acid group into a substrate .
the measurement of a the introduction of a carboxylic acid group into a substrate .
carboxylation is a posttranslational modification of glutamate residues ,  to gamma - carboxyglutamate ,  in proteins .
decarboxylation is a chemical reaction that releases carbon dioxide  ( co2 )  .
s - tag is the name of an oligopeptide derived from pancreatic ribonuclease a  ( rnase a )  .
the measurement of the addition of an aminoacyl group to a compound .
aminoacylation is the process of adding an aminoacyl group to a compound .
protein a tag is visualized by interacting with igg antibodies  ( or their derivatives )  that are specifically recognized by protein a .
a phospholipase is an enzyme that hydrolyzes phospholipids into fatty acids and other lipophilic substances .
measurement of the hydrolysis of phospholipids into fatty acids and other lipophilic substances .
formation of phosphodiester or phosphoramide ester of amp on tyr  ( resid:aa0203 )  ,  lys  ( resid:aa0227 )  ,  thr  ( resid:aa0267 )  ,  his  ( resid:aa0371 )  and other amino acids
ampylation ,  previously known as adenylylation ,  is formation of a \ nphosphodiester or phosphoramide ester of amp on tyr  ( resid:aa0203 )  ,  lys \ n ( resid:aa0227 )  ,  thr  ( resid:aa0267 )  ,  his  ( resid:aa0371 )  and other amino \ nacids .
a set of molecular binding events that influence each other either positively or negatively through allostery or pre - assembly .
for an interaction that has a cooperative effect on a subsequent interaction ,  this term indicates which subsequent interaction is affected .
referring to a previously described interaction as a participant allows the description of ordered assembly of molecular complexes in psi - mi2 .5 .
this value quantifies the cooperative effect of an interaction on a subsequent interaction .
for an interaction that has a cooperative effect on a subsequent interaction ,  this term indicates whether this effect is positive or negative ,  i .e .
this term specifies that an interaction augments a subsequent interaction .
this term specifies that an interaction diminishes a subsequent interaction .
for an interaction that has a cooperative effect on a subsequent interaction ,  this term indicates the process that mediates this effect .
reciprocal energetic coupling between two binding events at distinct sites on the same molecule .
a non - allosteric mechanism where the strength of an interaction depends on whether or not a particular molecular complex already exists .
a molecule whose binding or catalytic properties at one site are altered by allosteric post - translational modification or binding of an allosteric effector at a distinct site .
a ligand that elicits an allosteric response upon binding to a target molecule .
this term describes the effect of an allosteric binding event .
an allosteric response in which the affinity of a molecule is altered .
an allosteric response in which catalysis  ( kcat or vmax )  of an enzyme is altered .
the process that mediates the allosteric response of a molecule upon allosteric post - translational modification or binding of an allosteric effector .
the allosteric mechanism where changes in the local structure of an allosteric molecule result in altered binding or catalytic properties .
the allosteric mechanism where changes in the local dynamics of an allosteric molecule result in altered binding or catalytic properties .
this term indicates the chemical relationship between the two ligands whose binding is allosterically coupled .
the type of allostery that occurs when the two ligands whose binding is allosterically coupled are not chemically identical .
the type of allostery that occurs when the two ligands whose binding is allosterically coupled are chemically identical .
this term describes the way in which preformation of a molecular complex has a non - allosteric cooperative effect on subsequent interactions of its components .
the preformation of a complex results in the generation of a continuous binding site that spans more than one component of this complex .
the addition of a ptm to an interaction interface affects the physicochemical compatibility of the binding site with its binding partner .
the occurrence of overlapping or adjacent ,  mutually exclusive binding sites promotes competitive binding .
multivalent ligands form multiple discrete interactions with one or more binding partners .
a post - translational modification that elicits an allosteric response upon addition to a target molecule .
sequence analysis of the regulatory region of a gene used to predict specific elements ,  transcription factor binding sites  ( tfbs )  ,  where binding of specific transcription factors can occur .
sequence analysis based on multiple homologous alignments of the regulatory region of a gene used to predict specific elements ,  transcription factor binding sites  ( tfbs )  ,  where binding of specific transcription factors can occur .
computational methods based on evolutionary hypothesis ,  used as criteria to browse sequences and predict a transcription factor using structural and sequence features of the protein ,  e .g . ,  by evaluating if the potential transcription factor protein contains a dna - binding domain that is known to bind to some regulatory elements ,  or prediction of transcription factor functional domains  ( dna binding ,  transcription factor dimerization ,  etc .
identification of a part of a nucleotide sequence ,  usually then related to the full length sequence by alignment .
identification of a part of a dna sequence ,  usually then related to the full length sequence by alignment .
paired - end tags  ( pet )  are the short sequences at the 5 prime and 3 prime ends of the dna fragment of interest ,  which can be a piece of genomic dna or cdna .
sequencing occurs during the course of the experiment .
binding of a molecule to a strand of nucleic acid protects that region of nucleic acid from the action of a nuclease .
dna adenine methyltransferase identification is used to map the binding sites of dna -  and chromatin - binding proteins in eukaryotes .
proteins of interest are tagged with escherichia coli dna adenine methyltransferase  ( dam )  .
the protein of interest is fused to escherichia coli dna adenine methyltransferase  ( dam )  .
a mutant form of dna adenine methyltransferase  ( damk9a )  from e . coli is fused to the protein of interest and expressed .
a mutant form of dna adenine methyltransferase  ( damk9a )  from e . coli is fused to the protein of interest and expressed .
in interference assays ,  the dna will be methylated before the binding assay .
hydroxyl radicals are created from the fenton reaction ,  which involves reducing fe2 +  with h2o2 to form free hydroxyl molecules .
ultraviolet irradiation excites nucleic acids and creates photoreactions ,  which results in damaged bases in the dna strand .
this approach is based on the observation that  a synthesized nucleic acid that is complementary to a specific mrna can decrease the synthesis of its gene product either by increasing the degradation of the targeted mrna or by interfering with its translation .
identification of a part of a rna sequence ,  usually then related to the full length sequence by alignment .
reverse transcription pcr  ( rt - pcr )  is used for amplifying dna from rna .
quantitative pcr  ( q - pcr )  is used to measure the quantity of a pcr product  ( commonly in real - time )  .
technique used to measure the quantity of dna amplified from rna .
to perform a radioimmunoassay ,  a known quantity of an antigen is made radioactive ,  frequently by labeling it with gamma - radioactive isotopes of iodine attached to tyrosine .
method using an antibody coupled with some colouring agent to detect a specific protein within a tissue sample .
method using an antibody coupled with some colouring agent to detect a tag fused to a specific protein within a tissue sample .
method using an antibody coupled with some colouring agent to detect a specific protein within a cell .
method using an antibody coupled with some colouring agent to detect a specific tag fused to a protein within a cell .
synthetic peptide tag  ( sawshpqfek -  ( gggs ) 2 - sawshpqfek ) 
two proteins of interest ,  a bait and prey ,  which are genetically fused to amino -  and carboxy - terminal fragments of luciferase ,  are transiently expressed .
two proteins of interest ,  a bait and prey ,  which are genetically fused to amino -  and carboxy - terminal fragments of firefly  ( photinus pyralis )  luciferase ,  are transiently expressed .
luciferase is a generic term for the class of oxidative enzymes used in bioluminescence and is distinct from a photoprotein .
the n - terminus of the renilla luciferase protein ,  fused to a protein of interest for use in the split luciferase complementation assay .
the c - terminus of the renilla luciferase protein ,  fused to a protein of interest for use in the split luciferase complementation assay .
firefly luciferase ,  is an enzyme from beetles  ( photinus pyralis )  catalyzing the oxidation of the lucifering pigment  ( reaction with atp or oxygen )   that produces light .
the c - terminus of the firefly luciferase protein ,  fused to a protein of interest for use in the split luciferase complementation assay .
the n - terminus of the firefly luciferase protein ,  fused to a protein of interest for use in the split luciferase complementation assay .
lipid binding proteins incubated with liposomes of known lipid content .
a fixed - size datum calculated  ( by using a hash function )  for a molecular sequence or structure ,  typically for purposes of error detection or indexing .
n - terminal region of the venus fusion protein ,  created by the introduction of a point mutation into aequorea - derived yfp ,  the substitution of leucine for phenylalanine at position 46  ( f46l )  .
c - terminal region of the venus fusion protein ,  created by the introduction of a point mutation into aequorea - derived yfp ,  the substitution of leucine for phenylalanine at position 46  ( f46l )  .
fusion protein which consists of either the n -  or c - terminal sequence of a fluorescent or luciferase protein .
c - terminal fragment of green fluorescent protein used as a tag in bimolecular fluorescence complementation  ( bifc )  .
n - terminal fragment of green fluorescent protein used as a tag in bimolecular fluorescence complementation  ( bifc )  .
chromosome conformation capture ,  [ 1 ]  or 3c ,  is a high - throughput molecular biology technique used to analyze the organization of chromosomes in a cell's natural state .
enzyme - mediated activation of radical sources is used  to identify partners of a given molecule on the cell surface in living cells activation of the cross - linking reagent arylazide - biotin tag is accomplished  by an enzyme ,  horseradish peroxidase is featured by radical formation of the labelling reagent by horseradish peroxidase  ( hrp )  .
the protein is expressed as a hybrid protein fused to a tag containing a luciferase activity .
a score generated by an author ,  usually only relevant for that particular dataset .
mbinfo is a wiki based ,  multimedia ,  educational resource providing up to date reviews on topics relating to mechanobiology  ( http: /  / www .mechanobio .info /  )  .
post translational modification on a protein observed to decrease the strength or rate of an interaction .
post translational modification on a protein observed to increase the strength or rate of an interaction .
post translational modification on a protein observed to disrupt the strength or rate of an interaction .
tag encoding green fluorescent protein  ( gfp )   ,  a tev cleavage site ,  and a second purification tag such as s peptide or 6xhis .
a polyoma virus - derived  ( pyo )  epitope tag  ( amino acids meympme )  .
measures  the formation of a phosphodiester or phosphoramide ester of ump and an amino acid  ( mod:01166 )  .
the formation of a phosphodiester or phosphoramide ester of ump and amino acid  ( mod:01166 )  .
amc  ( aminomethylcoumarin  )  is a blue fluorescent tag with reactive derivatives that are used as contrasting probes for double -  and triple - labeling in immunofluorescence microscopy ,  arrays and in situ hybridization and can be attached to proteins or small molecules for reaction monitoring .
an interaction between two proteins is inferred from monitoring the effect of the presence of one of them  on the aggregation state of the second .
the cleavage which results due to the action of a proteolytic enzyme on its substrate .
silac  ( stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture )  can be used to detect  features  ( typically ptms )  required for a given interaction .
ligand binding to a target protein can stabilize a protein's native state ,  as shown in the increase of the bound protein's melting temperature .
measurment of the  conversion between cis -  and trans -  peptide bonds formed by the amine group of a proline .
the conversion between cis -  and trans -  peptide bonds formed by the amine group of a proline .
heavy / light isotope - labelled subunits are prepared and allowed to form their respective mature oligomeric structure .
a naturally - occuring amino - acid variation to the reference sequence ,  including polymorphisms ,  variations between strains ,  isolates or cultivars ,  disease - associated mutations and rna editing events .
a naturally - occuring amino - acid variation to the reference sequence which results in the organism developing ,  or becoming susceptible to a particular disease condition .
a natural change in a sequence or structure in comparison to a reference entity .
a fusion protein tag consisting of a portion of the constant region of igg1 .
a fusion protein tag consisting of a portion of the constant region of igg2 .
monomeric far - red fluorescent protein generated from the wild - type rfp from sea anemone entacmaea quadricolor .
monomeric far - red fluorescent protein generated from the wild - type rfp from sea anemone entacmaea quadricolor .
im - ms analysis is performed by first ionizing the protein complex of interest followed by ion mobility separation according to their cross - section - to - charge  ( q / z )  ratio .
measurement of the directed movement of particles in a microscopic temperature gradient .
composed of dipyrromethene complexed with a disubstituted boron atom ,  typically a bf2 unit .
measurement of the catalysis of the structural rearrangement of isomers .
the catalysis of the structural rearrangement of isomers .
the catalysis of the conversion of methylmalonyl - coa to succinyl - coa by transfer of the carbonyl group .
the catalysis othe conversion of methylmalonyl - coa to succinyl - coa by transfer of the carbonyl group .
fluorescent tag  -  maleimide couples to thiols .
fluorescent tag  -  maleimide couples to thiols .
1 , 2 - diphenylethene
luminescent dyes such as cyanines , commonly used for dna labelling .
rhodamines are supplements to fluoresceins ,  as they offer longer wavelength emission maxima and provide opportunities for multicolor labeling or staining .
tetramethyl rhodamine  -  a derivative of rhodamine .
the thiol reactive acrylodan  ( 6 - acryloyl - 2 - dimethylaminonaphthalene )  generally reacts with thiols more slowly than iodoacetamides or maleimides ,  but does form very strong thioether bonds that are expected to remain stable under conditions required for complete amino acid analysis .
pyrene is a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon  ( pah )  consisting of four fused benzene rings ,  resulting in a flat aromatic system .
oregon green 488 and oregon green 514 dyes are fluorinated analogs of fluoresceins
interologous interaction database is an on - line database of known and predicted mammalian and eukaryotic protein - protein interactions .
molecular connections private limited is an in silico discovery services company  with expertise in drug - discovery ,  informatics and information technology .
norwegian university of science and technology .
in the split - ubiquitin system ,  two integral membrane proteins to be studied are fused to two different ubiquitin moieties: a c - terminal ubiquitin moiety  ( residues 35 - 76 )  and an n - terminal ubiquitin moiety   ( residues 1 - 34 )  .
a c - terminal ubiquitin moiety  ( cub ,  residues 35 - 76 )  plus a  transcription factor that can be cleaved off by ubiquitin specific proteases .
n - terminal ubiquitin moiety  ( nub ,  residues 1 - 34 )  .
n - terminal ubiquitin moiety  ( residues 1 - 34 )  containing a ile13gly mutation .
an identical protein sequence is coded for by the multiple genes within the same organism .
contains a polyhistidine sequence ,  the xpress epitope  ( part of bacteriophage t7 gene 10 protein )  and an enterokinase cleavage site .
an effect in which the phenotype of one genetic perturbation is enhanced by a second perturbation to a severity / penetrance beyond  ( further from wild type )  that expected by the superimposition or addition of effects of the individual perturbations .
an effect in which individual perturbations of two different genes result in different mutant phenotypes  ( which are traits measured on the same quantitative scale but each significantly deviating ,  in the same direction ,  from wild type )  ,  and the resulting phenotype of their combination is equal to that of only one of the perturbations .
an effect in which individual perturbations of two different genes result in the same mutant phenotype to varying degrees of severity / penetrance and the resulting phenotype of their combination is equal in severity / penetrance to the most severe / penetrant of the individual perturbations .
an effect in which individual perturbations of two different genes result in the same mutant phenotype to varying degrees of severity / penetrance and the resulting phenotype of their combination is equal in severity / penetrance to the least severe / penetrant of the individual perturbations .
an effect in which individual perturbations of two different genes result in different mutant phenotypes  ( which are either traits measured on the same quantitative scale but each significantly deviating ,  in opposite directions ,  from wild type ,  or completely  ( qualitatively )  different phenotypes )  ,  and the resulting phenotype of their combination is equal to that of only one of the perturbations .
an effect in which individual perturbations of two different genes result in opposite mutant phenotypes  ( traits measured on the same scale but each on opposing sides relative to the wild type phenotype )  ,  and the resulting phenotype of their combination is equal to that of only one of the perturbations .
an effect in which individual perturbations of two different genes result in different mutant phenotypes  ( which are traits that cannot be measured on the same scale and ,  hence ,  qualitatively different )  ,  and the resulting phenotype of their combination is equal to that of only one of the perturbations .
an effect in which individual perturbations of different genes result in the same mutant phenotype  ( but ,  perhaps ,  to varying degrees of severity / penetrance )  and the resulting phenotype of their combination is more severe / penetrant  ( further from wild type )  than expected by the superimposition or addition of effects of the individual perturbations .
an effect in which the phenotype of one genetic perturbation is enhanced by a second perturbation  ( which ,  on its own ,  has no effect on the phenotype in question )  to a severity / penetrance beyond  ( further from wild type )  that of the original phenotype .
an effect in which individual perturbations of different genes result in the same mutant phenotype  ( but ,  perhaps ,  to varying degrees of severity / penetrance )  and the resulting phenotype of their combination is less severe / penetrant than expected from the original phenotypes .
an effect in which individual perturbations of different genes result in the same mutant phenotype  ( but ,  perhaps ,  to varying degrees of severity / penetrance )  and the resulting combination is wild type .
an effect in which individual perturbations of different genes result in the same mutant phenotype  ( but ,  perhaps ,  to varying degrees of severity / penetrance )  and the resulting phenotype of their combination is less severe / penetrant than expected ,  but not wild type .
an effect in which individual perturbations of different genes result in the same mutant phenotype to varying degrees of severity / penetrance and the resulting phenotype of their combination has a phenotype more severe / penetrant than the least severe / penetrant and less severe / penetrant than the most severe / penetrant of the individual perturbations .
an effect in which individual perturbations of two different genes result in different mutant phenotypes  ( which are traits measured on the same quantitative scale but each significantly deviating ,  in any direction ,  from wild type )  ,  and the resulting phenotype of their combination is equal to that of only one of the perturbations .
an effect in which the observed phenotype of a double perturbation is opposite  ( relative to the wild type phenotype )  to that which is expected upon the double perturbation .
an effect in which individual perturbations of different genes result in the same mutant phenotype  ( but ,  perhaps ,  to varying degrees of severity / penetrance )  and the resulting phenotype of their combination is opposite  ( relative to wild type )  to that expected from the original phenotypes .
an effect in which two individual perturbations result in opposite mutant phenotypes  ( relative to wild type )  and their combination results in a phenotype that is more severe than the phenotype observed with the same directionality .
an effect when two individual perturbations result in opposite mutant phenotypes  ( relative to wild type )  and their combination results in a phenotype that is intermediate to the individual mutant phenotypes ,  but greater or less than wild type .
an effect in which the perturbation of one gene results in complete suppression  ( to wild type )  of the mutant phenotype caused by perturbation of another gene .
an effect in which the perturbation of one gene results in the amelioration or lessening of the severity / penetrance of a mutant phenotype caused by perturbation of another gene ,  in effect making the organism more ,  but not completely ,   \ "wild type \ " in character with regards to the phenotype in question .
an effect in which the perturbation of one gene ,  which has no effect on the phenotype in question ,  is combined with the perturbation of another gene ,  which causes the mutant phenotype in question ,  and results in the amelioration or lessening of the severity / penetrance of the mutant phenotype ,  in effect making the organism more  \ "wild type \ " in character with regards to the phenotype in question .
an effect in which the perturbation of one gene ,  which has no effect on the phenotype in question ,  is combined with the perturbation of another gene ,  which causes the mutant phenotype in question ,  and results in the complete suppression  ( to wild type )  of the mutant phenotype .
an effect in which the perturbation of one gene ,  which has no effect on the phenotype in question ,  is combined with the perturbation of another gene ,  which causes the mutant phenotype in question ,  and results in the amelioration or lessening of the severity / penetrance of the mutant phenotype ,  in effect making the organism more ,  but not completely ,   \ "wild type \ " in character with regards to the phenotype in question .
an effect in which the perturbation of one gene  ( which has no individual effect on the phenotype in question )  ,  when combined with a perturbation of another gene  ( which causes the phenotype in question )  ,  results in a mutant phenotype opposite  ( relative to wild type )  to that of the original phenotype .
the presence of particular residues , for example those altered through post - translational modification ,  can be identified by amino acid analysis .
the presence of amino acid residues phosphorylated as a result of post - translational modification ,  can be identified by amino acid analysis .
a classification of the structural characteristics of a macromolecular complex .
a description of the molecule types of which a macromolecular complex is composed .
the protein chains present in the complex are not found as independent stable structures in vivo .
protein chains present in the complex may also be found as independent stable proteins in vivo .
a stable set  ( 2 or more )  of interacting molecules which can be co - purified and have been shown to exist as a functional unit in vivo .
a macromolecular complex of which the participants associate and dissociate in vivo .
a group of molecules linked by a high degree of similarity of sequence and / or function and not easily separated by participant identification methods .
a group of interactors hypothesized to perform a specified function .
a group of interactors that can be counted in principle but not in practice ,  such as mrna or long - chain fatty acid .
two or more interactors ,  grouped to denote interchangeable function .
used to specify the identity of the residue  ( or residues )  introduced by mutation or variant  ( of child terms )  .
hydrolytic reactions that release adp - ribose .
measure of  hydrolytic reactions that release adp - ribose .
differential scanning calorimetry  ( dsc )  is a thermoanalytical technique in which the difference in the amount of heat required to increase the temperature of a sample and reference in solution is measured as a function of temperature .
method allowing the detection of interactions between two molecules by their very close proximity or the overlap of their relative bands in a sds gel containing urea as an additional denaturing agent .
methods depend on a modification that only takes place with the close proximity of two molecules  -  a protein fused to the bait can then modify any neighbouring prey proteins ,  for example .
a promiscuous biotin protein ligase is fused to the bait protein ,  neighbouring prey are then biotinylated .
the most accepted name in the literature for this complex .
a name for a complex built of the component parts of that complex .
the elm resource provides a database of curated short linear motif classes and instances ,  as well as a sequence analysis tool to detect putative short linear motif instances in query sequences .
any molecule that is able to transfer a sulphate group to another chemical species .
molecule to which a sulphate group may be transferred from a sulphate donor .
traditional yeast two hybrid assays are not suitable for the analysis of membrane proteins ,  as they require the interactions to occur in the nucleus .
upon interaction of n - terminal generated ire1p - fusions ,  the ire1p kinase domains oligomerize ,  transphosphorylate and activate their c - terminal rnasel domains ,  which specifically splice the mrna of a transcriptional activator ,  hac1 .
fluorescent tag  -  maleimide couples to thiols .
the protein is expressed as a hybrid protein fused to a tag containing an alkaline phosphatase activity .
molecule present in media harvested from cultured cells .
measures the rate of a sulphate molecule transfer between two molecules .
reaction where a phosphate is transferred between two proteins of a phosphorelay system .
reaction where a sulfate group is transferred between two proteins
a class of labels derived from the benzopyrone coumarin .
the thiol - reactive coumarin ,  cpm is very weakly fluorescent until reacted with thiols producing a conjugate with excitation / emission maxima of ~384 / 470 nm .
fluorescent dye .also acts as an uncoupler of oxidative phosphorylation in the mitochondria .
the evidence ontology  ( eco )  describes types of scientific evidence within the realm of biological research that can arise from laboratory experiments ,  computational methods ,  manual literature curation ,  and other means .
the cardiovascular gene annotation initiative represents a collaboration between university college london and the european bioinformatics institute  ( ebi )  ,  funded by the british heart foundation .
seguid's are sha - 1 keys written in canonical base64 form with trailing = characters removed .
a global unique identifier to identify interactions that are identical .
host - pathogen database .hpidb integrates experimental ppis from several public databases into a single ,  non - redundant web accessible resource .
databases that contain information used to add additional information to experiments  ( meta - data )  .
the experimental factor ontology provides a systematic description of many experimental variables ,  combining parts of several biological ontologies to additional new terms .
glu - glu - phe epitope tag ,  allowing its detection with rat monoclonal antibody yl1 / 2
mutated green fluorescent protein with altered net charge and thus altered intermolecular properties ,  such as resistence to aggregation .
a central resource of single - colony ,  fully - sequenced cloned human orfs which can be readily transferred to gateway compatible destination vectors for various functional proteomics studies .
indicates that this protein is a member of a set of proteins with similar sequence and / or function .
the quartz crystal microbalance is a physical technique that detects changes in the resonance frequency of an electrically driven quartz crystal with changes in mass .
regulatory subunits of enzyme complexes can determine the activity level or specificity of catalytic subunits .
fluoresceine - derived label .
a 9 - amino acid peptide representing c terminus of bovine rhodopsin widely used as an epitope tag .
database for nmr spectroscopy information on biomolecules hosted at the university of wisconsin ,  madison ,  us .
pro provides an ontological representation of protein - related entities by explicitly defining them and showing the relationships between them .
chembl focuses on mapping the interactions of small molecules binding to their macromolecular targets .
chembl focuses on mapping the interactions of small molecules binding to their macromolecular targets .
orphanet is a reference portal for information on rare diseases and orphan drugs .
refers to the original experimentally verified object from which the described object has been derived .
in uracil interference assays ,  the dna will be amplified by pcr in the presence of a mixture of ttp and dutp to randomly replace thymine by deoxyuracil residues before the binding assay .
epitope tag engineered onto the n -  or c -  terminus of a protein of interest so that the tagged protein can be analyzed and visualized by immunochemical methods .
cleavage  ( hydrolysis )  of a lipid molecule .
reaction monitoring the cleavage  ( hydrolysis )  or a lipid molecule .
the protein pairs ,  often initially identified by a separate 2 - hybrid screening methodology ,  are subjected to a rigorous re - analysis which may include independent re - screening of the entire search space ,  retesting the  assay in different strain backgrounds ,  and multiple retesting of identified protein pairs reversing bait - prey orientations .
provides unified access to the ncrna sequence data supplied by the expert databases .
drugbank accession number consisting of the 4 letter prefix and a 5 number suffix .
standard name of drug or any reagent as provided by its manufacturer .
alternate names of the drug ,  brand names from different manufacturers .
brand names and composition of mixtures that include the drug described in this drugcard file .
description of the drug  ( for biotech drugs )  describing its composition and / or preparation .
iupac or standard chemical name for a drug ,  or a chemical .
chemical formula describing atomic or elemental composition
image of the drug structure  ( if small molecule )  or its sequence  ( if biotech drug ) 
iupac international chemical identifier  ( inchi )   -  a machine - readable character string describing a chemical structure ,  developed by iupac and the inchi trust as a standard to allow interoperability and linking between chemical resources .
chemical abstract service identification number
kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes compound identification number  ( if molecule is in kegg ) 
pharmacogenomics knowledge base identification number  ( if molecule is in pharmgkb ) 
bind database small molecule identification number  ( if molecule is in bind ) 
the het records are used to describe non - standard residues ,  such as prosthetic groups ,  inhibitors ,  solvent molecules ,  and ions for \ nwhich coordinates are supplied .
drug identification number  ( canadian drug id system ) 
hyperlink to rxlist entry for the given drug  ( if it exists ) 
material safety data sheet  ( if it exists )  .
number of the patent describing a drug's synthesis or use .
molecular weight in g / mol ,  determined from molecular formula or sequence .
the melting point of a solid is the temperature range at which it changes state from solid to liquid .
water solubility in mg / ml or g / l
water / octanol partition coefficient  of a small molecule .
the isoelectric point  ( pi )  is the ph at which a particular molecule or surface carries no net electrical charge .
physical property of a molecule  ( known as a hydrophobe )  that is repelled from a mass of water .
the boiling point of a liquid is the temperature at which the vapor pressure of the liquid equals the environmental pressure surrounding the liquid .
smiles string corresponding to drug structure
type of drug  ( approved ,  experimental ,  biotech ,  nutraceutical ) 
therapeutic category or general category of drug  ( anti - convulsant ,  antibacterial ,  etc .
description or common names of diseases that the drug is used to treat .
text description of how the drug works at a clinical or physiological level .
description of how the drug works or what it binds to at a molecular level .
determination of how quickly and how much of a drug reaches its intended target  ( site )  of action .
the ld50 is the dose that kills half  ( 50% )  of the animals tested
percentage of the drug that is bound in plasma proteins
the chemical conversion of drugs to other compounds in the body ,  excluding degradation due to any inherent chemical instability of drugs in biological media .
rate the time it takes for the body to eliminate or breakdown half of a dose of a pharmacologic agent ,  in practice the time taken for plasma concentration to reduce by 50% .
how the drug is dispensed  ( tablets ,  capsules ,  solutions )  ,  packing material .
information on the disease indications and treatment regime for the drug .
cautions or conditions indicating why or when the drug should not be taken or prescribed .
general on - line reference to other details about a drug or other bioactive entity .
chemical stability occurs when a substance is in a  ( dynamic )  chemical equilibrium with its environment .
potential ability of a substance to dissolve in a liquid .
names of organisms which are affected ,  positively or negatively ,  by the drug .
chemical and physical properties of a molecule .
properties of a chemical tested or used as a drug ,  herbicide ,  insecticide etc .
human artefact to describe and report the structure of a molecule .
therapeutic category or general category of drug  - anti - convulsant
therapeutic category or general category of drug  - anti - bacterial
a drug licensed for sale in the usa by the fda .
a drug which has yet to be formally approved for the indication which it is currently being used to treat .
a natural product ,  such as a protein or peptide ,  which is produced used biotechnology as a drug .
a drug which may also be regarded as a foodstuff .
negative decimal logarithm of ka ,  acid dissociation equilibrium constant for the dissociation of a weak acid .
the degree of ionization refers to the proportion of neutral particles such as those in a gas or aqueous solution ,  that are ionized into charged particles .
the logd is the ratio of the equilibrium concentrations of all species  ( unionized and ionized )  of a molecule in octanol to same species in the water phase at a given temperature ,  normally 25 c . it differs from logp in that ionized species are considered as well as the neutral form of the molecule .ph 7 .4
solubility ph 7 .4
solubility in dmso
diffusion coefficient d is proportional to the velocity of the diffusing particles ,  which depends on the temperature ,  viscosity of the fluid and the size of the particles according to the stokes - einstein relation .
chemical stability at ph 2
the rate of dissolution is a key target for controlling the duration of a drug's effect ,  and as such ,  several dosage forms that contain the same active ingredient may be available ,  differing only in the rate of dissolution .
determination of the fate of substances administered externally to a living organism i .e .
the permitting or activating of the passage of substances into ,  out of ,  or through cells .
the volume of distribution is the amount of drug in the body divided by the concentration in the blood .
accumulation of a drug or chemical substance in various organs  ( including those not relevant to its pharmacologic or therapeutic action )  .
substrate of a carrier system allowing the intake of an agent into an organ or part of body .
the ratio of excretion is or measure of the speed at which a constituent is lost from the body .
the renal clearance ratio or fractional excretion is a measure of the speed at which a constituent of urine passes through the kidneys ,  in this context the rate at which a pharmacological agent is lost from the body via urine .
the clearance of a drug is the volume of plasma from which the drug is completely removed per unit time .
the maximum absorbable dose  ( mad )  represents the amount of drug that can permeate across a barrier .
water soluble compounds are absorbed in the small intestine mainly via two pathways ,  the transcellular and the paracellular pathways .
ratio between the time value at cmax  ( maximum concentration )  in a dose response curve ,  and the cmax value itself .
substrate for the representitive member of the abc transprorter family abcb1  ( mdr1 ,  pgy1 ,  p08183 )  .
substrate of the bile acid carrier system in both the intestinal tract and the liver .
inhibitor of one or more of the family of cytochrome p450 enzymes ,  probably the most important elements of oxidative metabolism of exogenous compounds .
identification of the breakdown products of a substance ,  either through chemical instability or the actions of enzymes within the body
derivative molecule which has formed from a reaction with glutathione .
neutralization of a compound occuring via its glucuronidation or sulfatation .
the mechanism by which a substance can harm humans or animals .
binds to the herg  ( human ether - a - go - go related gene )   ( q12809 )  which encodes the kv11 .1 potassium ion channel responsible for the repolarizing ikr current in the cardiac action potential .
tendency of a bioactive entity to induce damage at the level of the gene .
tendency of a bioactive entity to induce genetic mutations at the nucleotide level e .g .
tendency of a bioactive entity to induce a cancer .
tendency of a bioactive entity to induce damage at the level of the chromosome e .g .
tendency of a bioactive entity to affect liver function .
causes excess phospholipids to accumulate within cells .
solubility ph  6 .5 .
solubility ph 2 .0
chemical stabilityat at ph 7 .4
a drug currently under clinical development .
a drug for which the licencing for prescriptive use has been withdrawn .
a drug which has not been approved for sale ,  a drug taken for recreational purposes or a licensed drug sold without a prescription .
effect of additional drug treatments on a given drug action .
effect of food ingestion on a given drug treatment .
hyperlink to pdrhealth entry for the given drug  ( if it exists ) 
hyperlink to wikipedia entry for the given drug  ( if it exists ) 
molecular weight in g / mol ,  determined from molecular formula or sequence .
molecular weight in g / mol ,  determined from molecular formula or sequence .
water solubility in mg / ml or g / l .
water solubility in mg / ml or g / l
solubility of a molecule in a given solvant .
experimental derived value for the solubility of a molecule in a given solvant .
experimentally derived value for ability of a  compound to cross epithelial and endothelial cell barriers using the caco2 cell line derived from a human colorectal adenocarcinoma .
reference assigned to a molecule by sequence homology with another similar sequence .
the membrane - based interactome network database  ( mind )  holds a network of over 25 , 000 putative ppi  ( pppi )  obtained by screening of over 3 , 000 unique arabidopsis orfs for pair - wise interactions using the yeast mating - based split - ubiquitin system  ( mbsus )  .
the arabidopsis interactions viewer of bar  ( the bio - array resource for plant biology )  queries a database of 70944 predicted and 28556 confirmed arabidopsis interacting proteins .
the arabidopsis interactome network map is a proteome - wide binary protein - protein interaction map for the interactome network of the plant arabidopsis thaliana containing ~6 , 200 highly reliable interactions between ~2 , 700 proteins . \ n http: /  / interactome .dfci .harvard .edu / a_thaliana / index .php
in the kinetic exclusion assay one of the interaction components  ( bait )  is immobilized to a solid phase  ( beads )  and is used to capture the prey from a solution containing free molecules of both the prey and the bait that has reached kinetic equilibrium .
the interaction is detected through labelling of a specific site  - which can be an active site -  that is only accessible once the participants are interacting .
techniques based upon the measurement of the emission of one or more photons in a bioluminescent reaction .
the bimolecular luminescence complementation  ( bilc )  is an assay for determination of protein interactions and / or their location in living cells .
this technology is based on quantifying the bret between a pair of participants bearing complementation tags and a participant tagged with a bioluminescent enzyme or a fluorescent tag .
aspgd is an organized collection of genetic and molecular biological information about the filamentous fungi of the genus aspergillus .
candida genome database is a resource for genomic sequence data and gene and protein information for candida albicans and related species .
community annotation portal associated with porteco  ( formerly ecolihub ,  http: /  / porteco .org /  )  .
the genedb project is a core part of the sanger institute's pathogen genomics activities .
gramene is a curated ,  open - source ,  integrated data resource for comparative functional genomics in crops and model plant species .
pombase is a comprehensive database for the fission yeast schizosaccharomyces pombe ,  providing structural and functional annotation ,  literature curation and access to large - scale data sets .
the arabidopsis genome initiative comprises tair ,  tigr and mips .
reference to the corresponding object in another database .
agbase is a curated ,  open - source ,  web - accessible resource for functional analysis of agricultural plant and animal gene products .
the community assessment of community annotation with ontologies  ( cacao )  is a project to do large - scale manual community annotation of gene function using the gene ontology as a multi - institution student competition . \ nhttp: /  / gowiki .tamu .edu / wiki / index .php / category:cacao
database dedicated to annotating gene function related to human fetal development using the gene ontology for functional annotation . \ nhttp: /  / bcb .cs .tufts .edu / dflat / 
the go consortium coordinated an effort to maximize and optimize go annotations for a large and representative set of key genomes ,  known as 'reference genomes' .
collection and refinement of physiological data on mycobacterium tuberculosis in the form of go annitations .
the parkinson's uk gene ontology project represents a collaboration between university college london and the european bioinformatics institute  ( ebi )  ,  funded by parkinson's uk .
the alzheimers - university of toronto project adds functional annotation to alzheimer's related gene products using the gene ontology . \ nhttp: /  / www .ims .utoronto .ca / 
the roslin institute uses the gene ontology to add functional annotation to different gene products . \ nhttp: /  / www .roslin .ac .uk / 
photoactivatable - ribonucleoside - enhanced crosslinking and immunoprecipitation  ( par - clip )  is a biochemical method used for identifying the binding sites of cellular rna - binding proteins  ( rbps )  and microrna - containing ribonucleoprotein complexes  ( mirnps )  .
low - affinity interaction detection method designed specifically to detect interactions between extracellular proteins .
non - protein coding transcripts longer than 200 nucleotides and that can be involved in a number of functions ,  like transcription ,  post - translational and epigenetic regulation .
combination of cross - linking and co - immunoprecipitation aimed to find protein - rna interactions .
this method combines uv cross - linking and immunoprecipitation with high - throughput sequencing to identify binding sites of rna - binding proteins . \ nhttps: /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / hits - clip
iclip allows for the stringent purification of uv cross - linked protein - rna complexes ,  using immunoprecipitation followed by sds - page and membrane transfer .
combination of uv cross - linking and affinity purification where the protein of interest bears a tag used for pull - down or immunoprecipitation .
this method is a variation of crac where after combined cross - linking and affinity purification of protein - rna complexes ,  rna - rna interactions are specifically detected .
a method that monitors ligand binding by measuring the change in frequency of a quartz crystal resonator resulting from the addition or removal of a small mass of a ligand specifically binding at the surface of the resonator .
an assay that uses molecular probes ,  such as ions ,  small molecules or antibodies to monitor interactions between biomolecules under study .
the interaction is inferred from the effect it exerts on specific chemical labelling of one of the interacting partners .
the interaction is detected through selective ,  chemical blockage of a specific site  - which can be an active site -  that becomes inaccessible once the participants are interacting .
primesdb is a systems biology platform that is developed to enable the collection ,  integration and analysis of state - of - the - art genomics ,  proteomics and mathematical modelling data being generated by the primes project .
chemical alterations occurring at the nucleotide level in the specific dna molecule involved in an interaction .
chemical alterations occurring at the nucleotide level in the specific rna molecule involved in an interaction .
primer extension can be used to determine the 3' end of a given sequence of rna .
a micro rna  ( abbreviated mirna )  is a small non - coding rna molecule  ( containing about 22 nucleotides )  found in plants ,  animals ,  and some viruses ,  which functions in rna silencing and post - transcriptional regulation of gene expression .
the pir - international protein sequence database  ( pir - psd )  was the world's first database of classified and functionally annotated protein sequences that grew out of the atlas of protein sequence and structure  ( 1965 - 1978 )  edited by margaret dayhoff .
chemical modification observed on a nucleic acid molecule in the context of an interaction .
chemical modification observed on an rna molecule resulting subsequently of an interaction .
chemical modification observed on a nucleic acid molecule required for an interaction to occur .
chemical modification observed on a nucleic acid molecule observed to decrease the strength or rate of an interaction .
chemical modification observed on a nucleic acid molecule observed to disrupt an interaction .
chemical modification observed on a nucleic acid molecule observed to increase the strength or rate of an interaction .
the proteomexchange consortium was set up to provide a single point of submission of ms proteomics data to the main existing proteomics repositories ,  and to encourage the data exchange between them for optimal data dissemination .
super - resolution microscopy is a form of light microscopy that allows images to be taken with a higher resolution than the diffraction limit .
signor ,  the signaling network open resource ,  organizes and stores in a structured format signaling information published in the scientific literature .
this method allows screening of a full matrix of protein pairs in a single multiplexed strain pool .
measurement of de - ampylation ,  the removal of a phosphodiester or phosphoramide ester of amp from tyr  ( resid:aa0203 )  ,  lys  ( resid:aa0227 )  ,  thr  ( resid:aa0267 )  ,  his  ( resid:aa0371 )  and other amino \ nacids .
the c - terminus of a luciferase protein ,  fused to a protein of interest for use in the split luciferase complementation assay .
the n - terminus of a luciferase protein ,  fused to a protein of interest for use in the split luciferase complementation assay .
gaussia luciferase ,  is an enzyme from the crustacean gaussia princeps catalyzing the oxidation of coelenterazine to coelenteramide  that produces light .
the c - terminus of the gaussia luciferase protein ,  fused to a protein of interest for use in the split luciferase complementation assay .
the n - terminus of the gaussia luciferase protein ,  fused to a protein of interest for use in the split luciferase complementation assay .
socio - affinity index provides a single measure of the association between each pair of proteins based on an entire ap - ms dataset ,  considering both the spoke  ( when one protein retrieves another when tagged )  and the matrix  ( when two proteins are retrieved by another )  evidence ,  and the overall frequency of each protein in the data set .
this method measures co - purification of proteins through several orthogonal purification steps ,  deriving a set of correlation measures that are then computationally weighted and combined to infer interacting pairs .
in this method predicted rna - rna pairings are tested by knocking down one of the two interacting rnas and then experimentally determine if its presence is required for the other to be chemically modified .
zinc is a database of commercially available compounds for virtual screening .
a change in a sequence or structure in comparison to a reference entity due to a  insertion ,  deletion or substitution event that does not have any effect over an interaction when compared with the wild - type .
a change in a sequence or structure in comparison to a reference entity due to a  insertion ,  deletion or substitution event that enables an interaction when compared with the wild - type ,  which does not interact .
interactions and complexes curated by scientists at the central european institute of technology  ( ceitec )  .
interaction between a nucleic acid and a gene region .
interaction between a nucleic acid and a corresponding nucleic acid .
this approach infers interacting pairs of proteins looking at expression data coming from transcript expression datasets .
a particular way two or more molecules influence one another .
binary causative relationships between biological entities .
the effect of modulator entity a on a modulated entity b .
the effect of a modulator entity a on a modulated entity b that  increases the concentration and / or frequency and / or rate and / or extent of the molecular function of b .
the effect of a modulator entity a on a modulated entity b that  increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the molecular function of b ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding  ( go:0044093 )  .
the effect of a modulator entity a on a modulated entity b that  increases the concentration of the modulated entity b .
the effect of a modulator entity a on a modulated entity b that  increases the concentration of the modulated entity b ,  by promoting its gene expression .
the effect of a modulator entity a on a modulated entity b that  increases the concentration of the modulated entity b by preventing its degradation .
the effect of a modulator entity a on a modulated entity b that  decreases the concentration and / or frequency and / or ate and / or extent of molecular function of b .
the effect of a modulator entity a on a modulated entity b that  decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the molecular function of b ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding  ( go:0044093 )  .
the effect of a modulator entity a on a modulated entity b that  decreases the concentration of the modulated entity b .
the effect of a modulator entity a on a modulated entity b that  decreases the concentration of the modulated entity b ,  by preventing its gene expression .
the effect of a modulator entity a on a modulated entity b that  decreases the concentration of the modulated entity b by promoting its degradation .
type of relationship between entities involved in a causal interaction .
the effect of a modulator entity a on a modulated entity b that  occurs when a is not immediately upstream of b .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions resulting in the transcription of dna to rna and gene activity regulation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna .
any process that control gene expression at the rna level ,  between the transcription and the translation of the gene .
the effect of a modulator entity a on a modulated entity b that  occurs when a is immediately upstream of b .
direct binding of a dbtf to a dna regulatory sequence that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions resulting in the transcription of dna to rna and gene activity regulation .
the process mediated by guanine nucleotide exchange factors  ( gefs )  that catalyze the exchange of bound gdp with cytosolic gtp .
a family of cellular proteins able to increases the activity of a gtpase .
the effect of a chemical compound that results in the activation or in an increased activation of a target molecule .
the effect of a chemical compound that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the activity of a target molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation ,  breakdown ,  modification of small molecules .
molecule that encompasses any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer ,  etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity ,  which is not physiologically part of a cell ,  tissue ,  organ ,  or organism .
entity involved in a causative relationship .
any detectable change in the internal or external environment of a cell ,  tissue ,  organ ,  or organism .
cellular phenotype is the conglomerate of multiple cellular processes involving gene and protein expression that result in the elaboration of a cell's particular morphology and function .
the modification of a subsequence that regulates the concentration and / or frequency and / or rate and / or extent of the molecular function of an entity .
reaction that create a covalent bond between a nitrogen monoxide group and the thiol group of cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively add a tyrosine residues to the c - terminal end of alpha - tubulin .
a protein modification that effectively remove an acyl group from a protein .
a protein modification that effectively remove a phosphate group  from a protein by hydrolysis .
a protein modification that effectively cleaves the g - k bond and releases sumo proteins .
a protein modification that effectively removes one or more methyl groups from a protein .
a protein modification that effectively cleaves the g - k bond and releases ubiquitin or ubiquitin like proteins .
signalink 2 .0 is a signaling pathway resource with multi - layered regulatory networks . \ nhttp: /  / signalink .org
edam  ( embrace data and methods )  is an ontology of bioinformatics operations  ( tool ,  application ,  or workflow functions )  ,  types of data ,  topics  ( application domains )  ,  and data formats . \ nhttp: /  / edamontology .org / 
reversible reaction that add a tyrosine residue to an amino - acid .
reversible reaction that add a tyrosine residues to the c - terminal end of alpha - tubulin .
entity whose activity exerts an effect on the concentration ,  frequency ,  rate or extent of the target entity .
entity whose concentration ,  frequency ,  rate or extent are regulated by the regulator entity .
chemical alterations occurring in the specific carbohydrate molecule involved in an interaction .
this method uses cre recombinase as a two - hybrid protein - protein interaction reporter that functions intracellularly to covalently and unidirectionally link interacting bait and prey plasmids via specialized loxp sites that flank the protein - coding sequences .
length of a repetitive polymer chain .
the complex portal is a manually curated ,  encyclopaedic resource of macromolecular complexes from a number of key model organisms ,  entered into the intact molecular interaction database  .
reaction in which an amide functional group in the side chain of the amino acids asparagine or glutamine is removed or converted to another functional group .
assay to measure the catalysis of the reaction: a monocarboxylic acid amide  +  h2o = a monocarboxylate  +  nh3 .
complex object unique primary identifier that is assigned to a complex in the complex portal .
southwestern blotting ,  is a lab technique which involves identifying and characterizing dna - binding proteins by their ability to bind to specific oligonucleotide probes ,  generally radioactively labeled .
indicates that the cross - referenced molecule is a component of a containing complex .
the method is based on the functional effect of the binding of the microrna on the target  ( mrna or lncrna )  ,  which is the repression of the expression of the target .
binary relationship between biological entities when one of them modulates the other in terms of function ,  expression ,  degradation or stability of the other and the relationship between the partners cannot be ascertained as direct ,  so intermediate steps are implicitly present .
identity of the participant was established  ( or confirmed )  by \ nfitting its molecular model to the experimentally determined \ nelectron density .
dap - seq is an in vitro tf - dna binding assay in which a dap - seq gdna library is prepared by attaching a short dna sequencing adaptor onto purified and fragmented gdna .
the bait fused to a viral protein  ( e .g .
optical tweezers are instruments that use a focused laser beam to apply force  to particles suspended in a liquid medium .
molecules adsorbed on a solid surface are picked up by a microscopic tip  ( nanometers wide )  that is located at the end of an elastic cantilever .
magnetic tweezers are instruments that use a set of magnets to apply forces to physically hold and move individual molecules attached to ferromagnetic beads .
term describing the upstream end of a nucleotide sequence .
term describing the upstream region of a nucleotide sequence ,  exact coordinates not available .
term describing the downstream end of a nucleotide sequence .
term describing the downstream region of a nucleotide sequence ,  exact coordinates not available .
chemical alterations occurring in the specific carbohydrate molecule involved in an interaction that enables an interaction when compared with the unaltered carbohydrate ,  which does not interact .
chemical alterations occurring in the specific carbohydrate molecule involved in an interaction that does not have any effect over an interaction when compared with the unaltered form .
chemical alterations occurring in the specific carbohydrate molecule involved in an interaction that decreases significantly interaction strength  or rate  ( in the case of interactions inferred from enzymatic reaction )  when compared with the unaltered carbohydrate .
chemical alterations occurring in the specific carbohydrate molecule involved in an interaction that decreases significantly interaction rate  ( in the case of interactions inferred from enzymatic reaction )  when compared with the unaltered carbohydrate .
chemical alterations occurring in the specific carbohydrate molecule involved in an interaction that decreases significantly interaction strength when compared with the unaltered carbohydrate .
chemical alterations occurring in the specific carbohydrate molecule involved in an interaction that disrupts interaction strength  or rate  ( in the case of interactions inferred from enzymatic reaction )  when compared with the unaltered carbohydrate .
chemical alterations occurring in the specific carbohydrate molecule involved in an interaction that disrupts interaction strength when compared with the unaltered carbohydrate .
chemical alterations occurring in the specific carbohydrate molecule involved in an interaction that disrupts interaction rate  ( in the case of interactions inferred from enzymatic reaction )  when compared with the unaltered carbohydrate .
chemical alterations occurring in the specific carbohydrate molecule involved in an interaction that increases significantly interaction strength  or rate  ( in the case of interactions inferred from enzymatic reaction )  when compared with the unaltered carbohydrate .
chemical alterations occurring in the specific carbohydrate molecule involved in an interaction that increases significantly interaction strength when compared with the unaltered carbohydrate .
chemical alterations occurring in the specific carbohydrate molecule involved in an interaction that increases significantly interaction rate  ( in the case of interactions inferred from enzymatic reaction )  when compared with the unaltered carbohydrate .
carbohydrate species chemically attached to proteins ,  or other organic molecules .
carbohydrate species chemically attached to proteins ,  or other organic molecules involved in an interaction that enables an interaction when compared with the non - glycosylated molecule ,  which does not interact .
carbohydrate species chemically attached to proteins ,  or other organic molecules involved in an interaction that has no effect over an interaction when compared with the non - glycosylated molecule ,  which does not interact .
carbohydrate species chemically attached to proteins ,  or other organic molecules involved in an interaction that decreases significantly interaction strength  or rate  ( in the case of interactions inferred from enzymatic reaction )  when compared with the non - glycosylated molecule .
carbohydrate species chemically attached to proteins ,  or other organic molecules involved in an interaction that increases significantly interaction strength  or rate  ( in the case of interactions inferred from enzymatic reaction )  when compared with the non - glycosylated molecule .
carbohydrate species chemically attached to proteins ,  or other organic molecules involved in an interaction that increases significantly interaction strength when compared with the non - glycosylated molecule .
carbohydrate species chemically attached to proteins ,  or other organic molecules involved in an interaction that increases significantly interaction rate  ( in the case of interactions inferred from enzymatic reaction )  when compared with the non - glycosylated molecule .
carbohydrate species chemically attached to proteins ,  or other organic molecules involved in an interaction that disrupts interaction rate  ( in the case of interactions inferred from enzymatic reaction )  when compared with the non - glycosylated molecule .
carbohydrate species chemically attached to proteins ,  or other organic molecules involved in an interaction that disrupts interaction strength when compared with the non - glycosylated molecule .
carbohydrate species chemically attached to proteins ,  or other organic molecules involved in an interaction that disrupts interaction strength or rate  ( in the case of interactions inferred from enzymatic reaction )  when compared with the non - glycosylated molecule .
a technique that measures forces generated by interactions between molecules .
a technique that measures interaction force between two surfaces as they are brought together and retracted .
the alzheimer's research uk gene ontology project represents a collaboration between university college london ,  the european bioinformatics institute  ( ebi )  and the university of manchester ,  funded by alzheimer's research uk .
high - throughput  ( a .k .a . \ "next - generation \ " )  sequencing applies to  methods that allow for sequencing of genome - scale number of bases .
this method generates several billion bases of accurate nucleotide sequence per experiment at low cost .
kiss  ( kinase substrate sensor )  is a protein complementation technology that allows in situ analysis of protein - protein interactions in intact mammalian cells .
dbsnp contains human single nucleotide variations ,  microsatellites ,  and small - scale insertions and deletions along with publication ,  population frequency ,  molecular consequence ,  and genomic and refseq mapping information for both common variations and clinical mutations .
nanoluc luciferase  ( nluc )  is a small  ( 19 kda )  ,  highly stable ,  atp independent ,  bioluminescent protein derived from the luciferase complex of the deep - sea shrimp o . gracilirostris .
the n - terminus of the nanoluc luciferase protein ,  fused to a protein of interest for use in the split luciferase complementation assay .
the c - terminus of the nanoluc luciferase protein ,  fused to a protein of interest for use in the split luciferase complementation assay .
the snap - tag protein is an engineered version of the ubiquitous mammalian enzyme agt ,  encoded in humans by the o - 6 - methylguanine - dna methyltransferase  ( mgmt )  gene .
hydrophobic interaction chromatography  ( hic )  separates proteins according to differences in their surface hydrophobicity by utilizing a reversible interaction between these proteins and the hydrophobic surface of a hic matrix .
covalent attachment of the small ubiquitin - like modifier  ( sumo )  protein as a fusion protein .
a bacteriophage library of genes encoding proteins or peptides fused to a phage coat protein that are expressed on the surface of the phage virion .
paramagnetic molecule formed by a gadolinium complex based on 4 - mercaptomethyl - dipicolinic acid  ( 4mmdpa )  attached to a cysteine side chain .
a change in a sequence or structure in comparison to a reference entity due to a  insertion ,  deletion or substitution event that has a complex effect over the interaction when compared with the wild - type .
fluorophore or luminiscence source which emits electromagnetic radiation of given wavelength .
fluorophore able to absorb the electromagnetic radiation at given wavelength from a specific luminescence donor ,  then re - emit its own characteristic fluorescence .
pair of luminescence donor - fluorophore or fluorophores attached to the same molecule used in a bret or fret  experiment to observe the details of conformational  changes .
luminiscence source which emits electromagnetic radiation of given wavelength through a chemical process .
three - dimensional  ( 3d )  reconstruction of single ,  transparent objects from a series of projection images from a tilt series recorded with a transmission electron microscope .
three - dimensional  ( 3d )  reconstruction of single ,  transparent objects from a collection of images of randomly oriented particles recorded with a transmission electron microscope .
three - dimensional  ( 3d )  reconstruction of helical objects from a collection of fiber images recorded with a transmission electron microscope .
fluorophore able to absorb the electromagnetic radiation at given wavelength from a specific luminescence donor and then act as a donor via re - emission of its own characteristic fluorescence .
reference to the corresponding object in another database .
coordinates of a reference dna sequence in the genome ,  providing information about the chromosome name ,  start and end of the sequence ,  optionally including the strand as well if it applies .
rhea is an expert curated resource of biochemical reactions designed for the annotation of enzymes and genome - scale metabolic networks and models .
the protein is fused to a 12 - residue peptide segment  ( gvampgaeddvv )  derived from human podoplanin plag domain for which antibodies are available .
protein is fused to a 21 amino acid residues - long peptide  ( ypgqypgqypgqypgqypgqv )  derived from human par - 4 n - terminal peptide .
biorxiv is a free online archive and distribution service for unpublished preprints in the life sciences ,  operated by cold spring harbor laboratory .
in sequential bret - fret  ( bret combined with fret )  bioluminiscence generated by a luciferase triggers acceptor excitation by bret and subsequent energy transfer to a fret acceptor .
clinvar is a freely accessible ,  public archive of reports of the relationships among human variations and phenotypes ,  with supporting evidence .
empiar ,  the electron microscopy public image archive ,  is a public resource for raw ,  2d electron microscopy images .
a gene whose genetic perturbation enhances the phenotype resulting from a different genetic perturbation .
a gene whose genetic perturbation phenotype is enhanced by a different genetic perturbation .
a gene whose genetic perturbation masks the phenotype resulting from a different genetic perturbation .
'entity a' part_of 'entity b' implies that 'entity a' is a part of the structure of 'entity b' .
an effect in which two genetic perturbations ,  when combined ,  result in a phenotype that does not appear to be merely explained by the superimposition or addition of effects of the original perturbations . \ nab  ( not= )  e
a supressed gene mutation cause of an altered phenotype that is reverted to wild type phenotype when cell also carry a suppressor gene with a specific mutation or altered expression level . \ nobsolete: remap to cv intraction type 'suppressive interaction' mi:0793 .
an effect in which two genetic perturbations ,  when combined ,  result in a mutant phenotype that is not observed  ( or minimally observed )  as a result of any of the individual perturbations . \ nwt = a = b = e  ( not= )  ab
an effect in which individual perturbations of different genes and their combination result in the same mutant phenotype ,  to the same degree of severity / penetrance .
an effect in which two genetic perturbations ,  when combined ,  result in a phenotype that is less severe / penetrant than the most severe phenotype of the original perturbations ,  in effect making the organism more  \ "wild type \ " in character with regards to the phenotype in question .
an effect in which individual perturbations of two different genes result in different mutant phenotypes ,  and the resulting phenotype of their combination  ( the double mutant )  is equal to that of only one of the perturbations .
the observation that ,  when tested ,  no interaction was observed between two or more genes ,  for a given phenotype .
an effect in which two genetic perturbations ,  when combined ,  result in a phenotype that is more severe / penetrant than expected given the phenotypes of the individual perturbations .
obsolete: an effect in which the observed phenotype of individual perturbations and / or the double perturbation collectively exhibit values both greater than and less than wild type  ( on the same scale )  .
an effect in which two genetic perturbations ,  when combined ,  result in a phenotype that is less severe / penetrant than would be expected from the original phenotypes ,  in effect making the organism more  \ "wild type \ " in character with regards to the phenotype in question .
an effect in which the phenotype of one genetic perturbation is enhanced by a second perturbation to a severity / penetrance beyond  ( further from wild type )  that expected by the superimposition or addition of effects of the individual perturbations .
an effect in which individual perturbations of two different genes result in different mutant phenotypes  ( which are traits measured on the same quantitative scale but each significantly deviating ,  in the same direction ,  from wild type )  ,  and the resulting phenotype of their combination is equal to that of only one of the perturbations .
an effect in which individual perturbations of two different genes result in the same mutant phenotype to varying degrees of severity / penetrance and the resulting phenotype of their combination is equal in severity / penetrance to the most severe / penetrant of the individual perturbations .
an effect in which individual perturbations of two different genes result in the same mutant phenotype to varying degrees of severity / penetrance and the resulting phenotype of their combination is equal in severity / penetrance to the least severe / penetrant of the individual perturbations .
obsolete: an effect in which individual perturbations of two different genes result in different mutant phenotypes  ( which are either traits measured on the same quantitative scale but each significantly deviating ,  in opposite directions ,  from wild type ,  or completely  ( qualitatively )  different phenotypes )  ,  and the resulting phenotype of their combination is equal to that of only one of the perturbations .
an effect in which individual perturbations of two different genes result in opposite mutant phenotypes  ( traits measured on the same scale but each on opposing sides relative to the wild type phenotype )  ,  and the resulting phenotype of their combination is equal to that of only one of the perturbations .
an effect in which individual perturbations of two different genes result in different mutant phenotypes  ( which are traits that cannot be measured on the same scale and ,  hence ,  qualitatively different )  ,  and the resulting phenotype of their combination is equal to that of only one of the perturbations .
an effect in which individual perturbations of different genes result in the same mutant phenotype  ( but ,  perhaps ,  to varying degrees of severity / penetrance )  and the resulting phenotype of their combination is more severe / penetrant  ( further from wild type )  than expected by the superimposition or addition of effects of the individual perturbations .
an effect in which the phenotype of one genetic perturbation is enhanced by a second perturbation  ( which ,  on its own ,  has no effect on the phenotype in question )  to a severity / penetrance beyond  ( further from wild type )  that of the original phenotype .
an effect in which individual perturbations of different genes result in the same mutant phenotype  ( but ,  perhaps ,  to varying degrees of severity / penetrance )  and the resulting phenotype of their combination is less severe / penetrant than expected from the original phenotypes .
an effect in which individual perturbations of different genes result in the same mutant phenotype  ( but ,  perhaps ,  to varying degrees of severity / penetrance )  and the resulting combination is wild type .
an effect in which individual perturbations of different genes result in the same mutant phenotype  ( but ,  perhaps ,  to varying degrees of severity / penetrance )  and the resulting phenotype of their combination is less severe / penetrant than expected ,  but not wild type .
an effect in which individual perturbations of different genes result in the same mutant phenotype to varying degrees of severity / penetrance and the resulting phenotype of their combination has a phenotype more severe / penetrant than the least severe / penetrant and less severe / penetrant than the most severe / penetrant of the individual perturbations .
an effect in which individual perturbations of two different genes result in different mutant phenotypes  ( which are traits measured on the same quantitative scale but each significantly deviating ,  in any direction ,  from wild type )  ,  and the resulting phenotype of their combination is equal to that of only one of the perturbations .
an effect in which the observed phenotype of a double perturbation is opposite  ( relative to the wild type phenotype )  to that which is expected upon the double perturbation .
an effect in which individual perturbations of different genes result in the same mutant phenotype  ( but ,  perhaps ,  to varying degrees of severity / penetrance )  and the resulting phenotype of their combination is opposite  ( relative to wild type )  to that expected from the original phenotypes .
an effect in which two individual perturbations result in opposite mutant phenotypes  ( relative to wild type )  and their combination results in a phenotype that is more severe than the phenotype observed with the same directionality .
obsolete: an effect when two individual perturbations result in opposite mutant phenotypes  ( relative to wild type )  and their combination results in a phenotype that is intermediate to the individual mutant phenotypes ,  but greater or less than wild type .
an effect in which the perturbation of one gene results in complete suppression  ( to wild type )  of the mutant phenotype caused by perturbation of another gene .
an effect in which the perturbation of one gene results in the amelioration or lessening of the severity / penetrance of a mutant phenotype caused by perturbation of another gene ,  in effect making the organism more ,  but not completely ,   \ "wild type \ " in character with regards to the phenotype in question .
an effect in which the perturbation of one gene ,  which has no effect on the phenotype in question ,  is combined with the perturbation of another gene ,  which causes the mutant phenotype in question ,  and results in the amelioration or lessening of the severity / penetrance of the mutant phenotype ,  in effect making the organism more  \ "wild type \ " in character with regards to the phenotype in question .
an effect in which the perturbation of one gene ,  which has no effect on the phenotype in question ,  is combined with the perturbation of another gene ,  which causes the mutant phenotype in question ,  and results in the complete suppression  ( to wild type )  of the mutant phenotype .
an effect in which the perturbation of one gene ,  which has no effect on the phenotype in question ,  is combined with the perturbation of another gene ,  which causes the mutant phenotype in question ,  and results in the amelioration or lessening of the severity / penetrance of the mutant phenotype ,  in effect making the organism more ,  but not completely ,   \ "wild type \ " in character with regards to the phenotype in question .
an effect in which the perturbation of one gene  ( which has no individual effect on the phenotype in question )  ,  when combined with a perturbation of another gene  ( which causes the phenotype in question )  ,  results in a mutant phenotype opposite  ( relative to wild type )  to that of the original phenotype .
a gene whose genetic perturbation phenotype is masked by a different genetic perturbation .
measurement of the substraction of one or more adp - ribose moieties to molecules .
involves the substraction of one or more adp - ribose moieties to proteins .
this parameter represents the rate of the reaction at negligible substrate concentration ,  indicating how the velocity varies according to how often enzyme and substrate combine .
a searchable database of published mirna sequences and annotation .
rna that consists of two base pairing strands .
protein is fused to beta - galactosidase ,  and the measure of this enzyme activity can be taken as indicative of presence of protein .
bait protein is fused to a standard protein fusion tag and an intein fragment ,  prey a with a different protein fusion tag and the complementary intein fragment .
intein c - terminal fragment tag ,  commonly used in simpl and related methods .
intein n - terminal fragment tag ,  commonly used in simpl and related methods .
coincident occurrence of molecules within very close proximity  ( in the nanometer range )  ,  detected through molecule - level resolution methodology ,  but from which a physical interaction among those molecules cannot be inferred .
fluoppi system  ( fluorescent protein - protein interaction - visualization ) : - fluoppi utilises the formation of fluorescence foci whereby the interacting proteins of interest are genetically fused with either a tetramerizing fluorescent protein  ( fp - tag )  or an assembly helper tag  ( ash - tag )  .
the phenotype outcome resulting from two or more genetic perturbations to an organism ,  individually and in combination .
a multigenic phenotype result in which the phenotype of a single genetic perturbation has been modified by the introduction of one or more additional genetic perturbations .
genetic perturbation of multiple genes in combination that results in a more severe phenotype  ( except lethality or growth defect )  than individual genetic perturbations .
mutation of multiple genes in combination that results in a more severe growth defect than from individual mutation .
mutation of multiple genes in combination that results in lethality when individual single mutations are viable .
genetic perturbation of multiple genes in combination that results in a less severe phenotype than from individual perturbations .
genetic perturbations of multiple genes in combination that results in a more severe growth defect than each individual perturbation ,  when one mutation is hemizygous .
genetic perturbation of multiple genes in combination that results in a more severe phenotypic defect  ( or lethality )  than from individual viable perturbations .
genetic perturbation of one gene suppresses a phenotype  ( other than lethality or growth defect )  associated with perturbation of another gene .
mutation of one gene rescues lethality or a growth defect associated with perturbation of another gene .
increased dosage of one gene rescues lethality or a growth defect associated with perturbation of another gene .
increased dosage of one gene causes lethality in combination with another viable genetic perturbation .
increased dosage of one gene causes a growth defect in  ( or enhances an existing growth defect of )  a strain with perturbation of another gene .
a genetic phenotype modification whereby one genetic perturbation suppresses ,  or alleviates ,  the phenotype of another genetic perturbation .
a genetic phenotype modification whereby one genetic perturbation enhances ,  or exacerbates ,  the phenotype of another genetic perturbation .
a phenotype result in which each of multiple perturbations results in no  ( or only a minimal )  phenotype for the phenotype in question .
a phenotype result in which only one of multiple perturbations results in the phenotype in question .
the expression of a phenotype in an organism or a population of organisms resulting from one or more organismal perturbations ,  including genetic perturbations and environmental  ( including chemical / drug exposure )  perturbations .
a phenotype result in which multiple perturbations affect an organism individually and in combination .
a phenotype result in which both of two perturbations result in the phenotype in question and do so in the same manner compared to wild type .
a cisphenotypic phenotype result in which both of two perturbations result in the same phenotype ,  both in manner and degree ,  compared to wild type .
a phenotype result in which two perturbations result in the opposite phenotype compared to wild type .
a genetic phenotype modification whereby introduction of one genetic perturbation to another genetic perturbation results in the opposite phenotype compared to the phenotype of the starting individual genetic perturbation .
a genetic phenotype modification whereby each of two genetic perturbations suppress ,  or alleviate ,  the phenotype of the other genetic perturbation .
a genetic mutual suppression in which each genetic perturbation results in opposite phenotypes  ( for example ,  one genetic perturbation results in an increased quality phenotype and the second genetic perturbation results in a decreased quality phenotype )  ,  and their combination  ( the double genetic perturbation )  results in an intermediate phenotype that is at least closer to wild type than the most severe phenotype of the individual genetic perturbations .
a transphenotypic suppression in which the double genetic perturbation phenotype is equivalent to the wild type  ( or control )  phenotype .
a genetic enhancement in which the double genetic perturbation phenotype is equivalent to the expected phenotype ,  according to some chosen neutrality function .
a transphenotypic suppression in which the double genetic perturbation phenotype is expected ,  according to some chosen neutrality function .
an effect in which individual perturbations of different genes result in the same mutant phenotype  ( but ,  perhaps ,  to varying degrees of severity / penetrance )  and the resulting phenotype of their combination is equivalent to the wild type phenotype .
an effect in which individual perturbations of different genes result in the same mutant phenotype but to varying degrees of severity / penetrance and the resulting phenotype of their combination is less severe / penetrant than both of the phenotypes resulting from the individual perturabtions .
a genetic aphenotypic phenotype result  ( both genetic perturbations result in a wild type  ( or control )  phenotype )  in which case the double genetic perturbation also results in the wild type  ( or control )  phenotype ,  thus resulting in the expected phenotype .
a phenotype modification whereby introduction of a genetic perturbation in an organism with another genetic perturbation results in ,  or enhances ,  a phenotype in that organism .
a phenotype result in which only one of two perturbations results in the phenotype in question and the phenotype of the combined perturbations a and b result in the expected phenotype ,  namely the same phenotype as the single perturbation that exhibits that phenotype .
a phenotype result in which both of two genetic perturbations result in the phenotype in question and do so in the same manner compared to wild type  ( for example ,  both genetic perturbations result in an increased quality phenotype ,  or both genetic perturbations result in a decreased quality phenotype )  and the resulting double genetic perturbation results in a phenotype that is more severe than the most severe single genetic perturbation phenotype .
e . coli bira* biotin ligase tag used in bioid experiments .
def
