the curation status of the term .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
the reason for which a term has been deprecated .
a denotator type indicates how a term should be interpreted from an ontological perspective .
an ontology module that comprises only of asserted axioms local to the ontology ,  excludes import directives ,  and excludes axioms or declarations from external ontologies .
an ontology module that is intended to be directly edited ,  typically managed in source control ,  and typically not intended for direct consumption by end - users .
an ontology module that is intended to be the primary release product and the one consumed by the majority of tools .
an ontology module that consists entirely of axioms that connect or bridge two distinct ontology modules .
a subset ontology module that is intended to be imported from another ontology .
an ontology module that is extracted from a main ontology module and includes only a subset of entities or axioms .
a subset ontology that is intended as a whitelist for curators using the ontology .
an ontology module that is intended for usage in analysis or discovery applications .
a subset ontology that is largely comprised of a single layer or strata in an ontology class hierarchy .
a subset of an ontology that is intended to be excluded for some purpose .
an imported ontology module that is derived from an external ontology .
a subset ontology that is crafted to either include or exclude a taxonomic grouping of species .
an ontology module that contains axioms generated by a reasoner .
an ontology module that is automatically generated ,  for example via a sparql query or via template and a csv .
an ontology module that is automatically generated from a template specification and fillers for slots in that template .
a subset ontology that is designed for basic applications to continue to make certain simplifying assumptions ;  many of these simplifying assumptions were based on the initial version of the gene ontology ,  and have become enshrined in many popular and useful tools such as term enrichment tools .
any of various conditions characterized by impairment of an individual's normal behavioral functioning ,  and caused by social ,  psychological ,  biochemical ,  genetic ,  or other factors ,  such as infection or head trauma .
studies used to test etiologic hypotheses in which inferences about an exposure to putative causal factors are derived from data relating to characteristics of persons under study or to events or experiences in their past .
the goodness of fit statistic for the terminal elimination phase .
denotes a person having origins in any of the original peoples of the far east ,  southeast asia ,  or the indian subcontinent ,  including cambodia ,  china ,  india ,  japan ,  korea ,  malaysia ,  mongolia ,  pakistan ,  the philippine islands ,  thailand ,  and vietnam .
a test of the hypothesis that the standard deviations of two normally distributed populations are equal ,  and thus that they are of comparable origin .
conditions that impair the transmission or perception of auditory impulses and information from the level of the ear to the temporal cortices ,  including the sensorineural pathways .
a collection or single item of factual information ,  derived from measurement or research ,  from which conclusions may be drawn .
the state of not having a job .
any number of entities  ( members )  considered as a unit .
the despair you feel when you have abandoned hope of comfort or success .
the value which has an equal number of values greater and less than it .
any of four equal - sized sets of observations in a ranked sample .
an anxiety disorder precipitated by an experience of intense fear or horror while exposed to a traumatic  ( especially life - threatening )  event .
a strong positive emotion of affection and attraction .
indicates a person who has never been married or whose marriages have been annulled .
the sum of a set of values divided by the number of values in the set .
behavior in which one has a tendency to do harm to oneself ,  either as a direct or indirect result of their actions ;  frequently marked by impulse ,  but also includes chronic ,  injurious behaviors .
chi - square test is a statistical test for testing the null hypothesis that the distribution of a discrete random variable coincides with a given distribution .
direction of one's sexual interest toward members of the same ,  opposite ,  or both sexes ;  involves feelings ,  and sense of identity .
a test perfomed to identify a disease or make a prediction of the course of the disease .
how long something has existed ;  elapsed time since birth .
an anxiety disorder characterized by excessive and difficult - to - control worry about a number of life situations .
a positive feeling of liking .
symptoms ,  physical examination results ,  and / or laboratory test results related to the nervous system .
a mental disorder characterized by personality change ,  impaired functioning ,  and loss of touch with reality .
any one of several evaluation / assessment tools used to ascertain a patient's complaints with regard to his or her specific condition or diagnosis .
subjective evidence of disease perceived by the patient .
a person who belongs to the sex that normally produces sperm .
an exaggerated feeling of well - being which is disproportionate to events and stimuli .
that aspect of consciousness devoted to affect or feeling ;  a strong feeling ,  aroused mental state ,  or intense state of drive or unrest directed toward a definite object ,  with physiological ,  somatic ,  and behavioral components .
a category of psychiatric disorders which includes disorders most commonly identified in infancy ,  childhood ,  or adolescence .
employed for a standard number of hours of working time ,  at least 50% or 20 hours per week
a term that refers to the classification of a  disorder according to the anatomic site that is involved in the pathologic process .
a measure of the variability in a sample or population .
loss of intellectual abilities interfering with an individual's social and occupational functions .
a formal group of people that exists to further a particular profession .
the quality or state of being burdensome .
emotion: feelings of elation and satisfaction at achievements ,  qualities and possessions that do one credit and opinion of one’s worth and importance .
a person who belongs to the sex that normally produces ova .
any one of several evaluation / assessment tools used to ascertain a patient's condition or diagnosis .
a person having origins in any of the original peoples of the americas ,  or who maintains cultural identification through tribal affiliation or community recognition .
the feeling of being displeased and discontent .
a condition that is relevant to human neoplasms and non - neoplastic disorders .
employment involving less than the standard or customary working time .
a hostile or warlike attitude aroused by a real or supposed wrong .
person who has served in a military force ,  especially during a war .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the brain ,  spinal cord or peripheral nerves .
a person who receives medical attention ,  care ,  or treatment ,  or who is registered with medical professional or institution with the purpose to receive medical care when necessary .
an unpleasant emotional state experienced upon having an inadequacy ,  guilt ,  or socially unacceptable act or trait witnessed by or revealed to others .
denotes a person having origins in any of the original peoples of hawaii ,  guam ,  samoa ,  or other pacific islands .
the motivational and / or affective state of annoyance resulting from being blocked ,  thwarted ,  disappointed or defeated .
in statistical inference procedures  ( hypothesis tests and confidence intervals )  ,  parametric procedures are those that incorporate assumptions about population parameters .
sexual attraction or relationship between members of the opposite sex .
the ratio of the odds of an event occurring in one group to the odds of it occurring in another group ,  or to a sample - based estimate of that ratio .
the armed forces of a country .
a statistical hypothesis test based on a test statistic whose sampling distribution is a t - distribution .
any of various disorders characterized by impaired verbal or nonverbal exchange or impaired transmission of thoughts ,  messages ,  or information .
a major affective disorder marked by severe mood swings  ( manic or major depressive episodes )  and a tendency to remission and recurrence .
a native or naturalized member of a state or country ,  especially one entitled to vote and enjoy other privileges there .
the use of a drug for a reason other than which it was intended or in a manner or in quantities other than directed .
the difference between the lowest and highest numerical values ;  the limits or scale of variation .
a melancholy feeling of sadness and despair .
the study of natural phenomena by observation ,  measurement ,  and experimentation .
an anxiety disorder characterized by multiple unexpected panic attacks with persistent concern of recurring attacks .
the probability that an event will occur .
emotion: feelings of sorrow associated with anticipatory or actual significant loss and death ;  shock and disbelief ,   ( stage of shock )  ;  exhaustion ,  extreme tiredness and lethargy ,  mental anguish ,  reactions of bereavement and mourning ,  crying or sobbing ,  alarm ,  disbelief ,  denial ,  anger  ( stage of reaction )  ;  adjustment ,  acceptance ,  reorientation ,  express feelings of loss ,  accept reality of loss ,  absence of somatic stress ,  express positive expectations about the future  ( stage of acceptance )  .
clinical ,  laboratory or molecular evidence ,  or absence of evidence of disease .
a category of developmental disorders characterized by impaired communication and socialization skills .
belongingness is the human emotional need to be an accepted member of a group .
the sciences dealing with processes observable in nature .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder which affects the brain and / or spinal cord .
the value which occurs most often in a set of values .
a diverse category of psychiatric disorders characterized by behavior that deviates markedly from the expectations of the individual's culture ;  this pattern of deviation is pervasive and inflexible and is stable over time .
a distinguishing quality or prominent aspect of a person ,  object ,  action ,  process ,  or substance .
apprehension of danger and dread accompanied by restlessness ,  tension ,  tachycardia ,  and dyspnea unattached to a clearly identifiable stimulus .
a datum that can be represented numerically .
a sleep disorder characterized by difficulty in falling asleep and / or remaining asleep .
feelings of inability to take control and to act independent without help ,  defencelessness ,  accompanied by disabling coping abilities or learned helplessness ,  submission to authorities ,  such as caregivers ,  associated with development of sick - role behaviour .
denotes a person having origins in any of the original peoples of the far east ,  southeast asia ,  or the indian subcontinent ,  and who was either born in the united states or who was naturalized as a citizen of the united states .
concerning or related to monetary conditions .
studies in which individuals or populations are followed to assess the outcome of exposures ,  procedures ,  or effects of a characteristic ,  e .g . ,  occurrence of disease .
a quantity ,  which value summarizes ,  represents ,  and / or characterizes a particular aspect of a sample .
a demographic parameter indicating a person's current conjugal status .
studies in which the presence or absence of disease or other health - related variables are determined in each member of the study population or in a representative sample at one particular time .
a location known by a local name  ( e .g . ,  neighborhood ,  place ,  or district )  .
excitement of psychotic proportions manifested by mental and physical hyperactivity ,  disorganisation of behaviour and elevation of mood .
is a worker not reporting any occupation .
objective evidence of disease perceptible to the examining practitioner  ( sign )  and subjective evidence of disease perceived by the patient  ( symptom )  .
the tendency to believe that there is good in everything and to have positive thoughts about most things that happen .nci - gloss
state of experiencing contradictory and opposite feelings about the same object .
a practiced and regimented skill or series of actions .
the standard deviations of the sample in a frequency distribution ,  obtained by dividing the standard deviation by the square root of the total number of cases in the frequency distribution .
historical term for a chronic ,  but fluctuating ,  disorder beginning in early life and characterized by recurrent and multiple somatic complaints not apparently due to physical ilness .
denotes a person from any of the countries of southwest asia and northeastern africa ;  this region includes those countries east of egypt and south of turkey and extending to iran in the east .
denotes a person with ethnic origins in the semitic people originally from the arabian peninsula and surrounding territories in the middle east and northern africa .
a patient who comes to a healthcare facility for diagnosis or treatment but is not admitted for an overnight stay .
a category of psychiatric disorders which are characterized by a deficit in cognition or memory .
any abnormal condition of the body or mind that causes discomfort ,  dysfunction ,  or distress to the person affected or those in contact with the person .
the state of being engaged in an activity or service for wages or salary ;  the occupation for which you are paid .
studies in which variables relating to an individual or group of individuals are assessed over a period of time .
the distinguishing qualities or prominent aspects of an individual person .
a range of values for a parameter that may contain the parameter and the degree of confidence that it is in fact there .
a method of analyzing or representing statistical data ;  a procedure for calculating a statistic .
sudden extreme anxiety or fear that may cause irrational thoughts or actions .
the biological response to noxious ,  demanding ,  or unpleasant stimuli or conditions ;  do not confuse stress with stressor ,  which is the stimulus .csp2003  a pathological process resulting from the reaction of the body to external forces and abnormal conditions that tend to disturb the organism's homeostasis .msh2003_2003_05_12  the response of the body to physical ,  mental ,  or emotional pressure .
behavior leading to and including the commission of an unlawful act ,  usually by an adult ;  do not confuse with criminology ,  which is the study of criminal behavior ,  or with juvenile delinquency ,  which applies to children .
aggressive behavior can denote verbal aggression ,  physical aggression against objects ,  physical aggression against people ,  and may also include aggression towards oneself .
denotes person with european ,  middle eastern ,  or north african ancestral origin who identifies ,  or is identified ,  as white .
indicates a person currently joined in a legally binding matrimonial union .
a fraction or ratio with 100 understood as the denominator .
the variation between data values in a sample .
the state of feeling sad or dejected as a result of lack of companionship or being separated from others .
the use of alcoholic beverages to excess ,  either on individual occasions  ( "binge drinking" )  or as a regular practice .
act or an instance of intentionally killing oneself .
possessing both homosexual and heterosexual preferences ;  or true hermaphroditism ,  having gonads of both sexes .
division of a distribution into equal ,  ordered subgroups ;  a set of 'cut points' that divide a sample of data into groups containing  ( as far as possible )  equal numbers of observations .
feelings of grief or unhappiness .
a broad group of psychological disorders with abnormal eating behaviors leading to physiological effects from overeating or insufficient food intake .
studies which start with the identification of persons with a disease of interest and a control  ( comparison ,  referent )  group without the disease .
the normal response to a major loss ,  such as the death of a loved one .
an irrational reaction compounded of grief ,  loss of self - esteem ,  enmity against the rival and self criticism .
behavior which conflicts with expected social norms and affects other individuals .
a feeling of optimism that one will attain a desired outcome .
a twenty - one question survey completed by a patient ,  with each answer scored on a scale of 0 to 3 ,  designed to measure presence of depression .
in statistical inference procedures  ( hypothesis tests and confidence intervals )  ,  nonparametric procedures are those that are relatively free of assumptions about population parameters .
any specific activity undertaken during the course of a clinical psychology study
a measure of the range of values in a set of numbers .
indicates a person who is no longer married because of the death of his / her spouse and has not remarried .
any demarcated area of the earth ;  may be determined by both natural and human boundaries .
a category of psychiatric disorders which have as their most predominant feature a disturbance in mood .
statistical models in which the value of a parameter for a given value of a factor is assumed to be equal to a  +  bx ,  where a and b are constants .
general heading term for drug abuse and alcoholism ,  and covering all other unhealthful uses of substances associated with psychological or physical dependence .
feelings of being unimportant or useless .
the feeling of being pleased and content .
a category of psychiatric disorders characterized by the presence of psychotic symptoms such as delusions or hallucinations or negative symptoms such as affective flattening .
a major depressive disorder characterized by mood reactivity  ( paradoxical anhedonia )  and positivity ,  significant weight gain or increased appetite  ( comfort eating )  ,  excessive sleep or somnolence  ( hypersomnia )  ,  a sensation of heaviness in limbs known as leaden paralysis ,  and significant social impairment as a consequence of hypersensitivity to perceived interpersonal rejection .
acquired or developmental conditions marked by an impaired ability to comprehend or generate spoken forms of language .
medical states or medical conditions are used to describe a patient's condition in a hospital .
an active process ;  excludes processes and mechanisms which fulfill biological functions .
an emotion associated with feeling good .
conditions characterized by deficiencies of comprehension or expression of written and spoken forms of language ;  includes acquired and developmental disorders .
killing of one person by another .
a frequency distribution in which the individual class frequencies are expressed as a percentage of the total frequency equated to 100 .
an anxiety disorder characterized by an intense ,  irrational fear of an object ,  activity ,  or situation .
1 .a subset of a larger population ,  selected for investigation to draw conclusions or make estimates about the larger population .
a test used to determine the statistical significance of an observation .
class of mental disorders milder than psychosis ,  including hysteria ,  fugue ,  obsession ,  phobia ,  etc .
the state of a subject's mental or physical condition .
a feeling of apprehension that one may be in danger .
sudden temporary alterations in the normally integrative functions of consciousness .
mental health status .
the population from which study subjects are recruited .
indicates a person living apart from his / her spouse by legal arrangement .
a disorder characterized by a loss of appetite .
regression analysis provides a "best - fit" mathematical equation for the relationship between the dependent variable  ( response )  and independent variable ( s )   ( covariates )  .
the study ,  based on direct observation ,  use of statistical records ,  interviews ,  or experimental methods ,  of actual practices or the actual impact of practices or policies .
a category of psychiatric disorders which are characterized by anxious feelings or fear often accompanied by physical symptoms associated with anxiety .
a term that refers to the classification of a clinical or laboratory finding according to the anatomic site or system that is involved .
observation of a population for a sufficient number of persons over a sufficient number of years to generate incidence or mortality rates subsequent to the selection of the study group .
critical and exhaustive investigation or experimentation ,  having for its aim the discovery of new facts and their correct interpretation ,  the revision of accepted conclusions ,  theories ,  or laws in the light of newly discovered facts ,  or the practical application of such new or revised conclusions ,  theories ,  or laws .
a disorder characterized by behavioral and / or psychological abnormalities ,  often accompanied by physical symptoms .
an inability to rest ,  relax ,  or be still .
a category of psychiatric disorders which are characterized by emotional or behavioral symptoms that develop within 3 months of a stressor and do not persist for more than an additional 6 months after the stressor is no longer present .
the bssi is a 21 item self report inventory designed for the assessment of suicide intention .
a description of the distribution of a trait between sexes in a population ;  number of males and females in a given population .
a patient who is residing in the hospital where he is being treated .
a term used in the united states to categorize a population group comprised of persons having origins in any of the black racial groups of africa .
a disorder characterized by marked impairments in social interaction and language surface prior to age 3 years .
sexual attraction or relationship between members of the same sex .
a spectrum of developmental disorders that includes autism ,  asperger syndrome .
indicates a person whose marriage has been legally dissolved and has not remarried .
examination and interpretation ;  the process of identifying an issue to be understood and addressed ,  modelling the issue ,  investigating the model results ,  interpreting the results ,  and possibly making a recommendation .
a class of traumatic stress disorders with symptoms that last more than one month .
a person of mexican ,  puerto rican ,  cuban ,  central or south american or other spanish culture or origin ,  regardless of race .
phq - 9 ,  which is a nine - item measure of depression severity corresponding to  the nine criteria upon which is based on the diagnosis of dsm - iv depressive disorders .
a term that helps define and render a concept unique .
the assemblage of properties that distinguish people on the basis of the societal roles expected for the two sexes .
an organizational header for concepts representing mostly abstract entities .
knowledge derived from study ,  experience ,  or instruction that has been gathered or received by communication .
a group of individuals united by a common factor  ( e .g . ,  geographic location ,  ethnicity ,  disease ,  age ,  gender ) 
uncontrollable craving ,  seeking ,  and use of a substance such as a drug or alcohol .nci - gloss
a change from the patient's baseline sleeping pattern ,  either an increase or a decrease in the number of hours slept .
a feeling of shame and sorrow based on the belief of having done something wrong or failing an obligation .
a human being .
studies in which subsets of a defined population are identified .
the mini - international neuropsychiatric interview is a short structured clinical interview which enables researchers to make diagnoses of psychiatric disorders according to dsm - iv  ( diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders )  or icd - 10 .
thoughts of taking one's own life .
recurrent obsessions or compulsions that are severe enough to be time consuming  ( i .e . ,  they take more than 1 hour a day )  or cause marked distress or significant impairment  ( dsm - iv )  .
a disorder characterized by recurrent episodes of binge - eating over which the individual feels a lack of control ;  these episodes of binge - eating are followed by recurrent compensatory behavior to prevent weight gain ,  usually self - induced vomiting .
an arbitrary classification of a taxonomic group that is a division of a species .
research that derives data from observation ,  interviews ,  or verbal interactions and focuses on the meanings and interpretations of the participants  ( from holloway and wheeler ,  "ethical issues in qualitative nursing research , " nursing ethics ,  1995 sep ;  2 ( 3 ) : 223 - 232 )  .
clinical evidence of disease resulting from mental and / or behavioral dysfunction .
