the production by an organism of new individuals that contain some portion of their genetic material inherited from that organism .
the repair of single strand breaks in dna .
a multimeric enzyme complex ,  usually a dimer or an octamer ,  that catalyzes the conversion of 2 - phospho - d - glycerate to phosphoenolpyruvate and water .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna recombination ,  a process by which a new genotype is formed by reassortment of genes resulting in gene combinations different from those that were present in the parents .
the formation of a double membrane - bounded structure ,  the autophagosome ,  that occurs when a specialized membrane sac ,  called the isolation membrane ,  starts to enclose a portion of the cytoplasm .
the fusion of an autophagic vacuole with a vacuole  ( yeast )  or lysosome  ( e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving citrulline ,  n5 - carbamoyl - l - ornithine ,  an alpha amino acid not found in proteins .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of the nuclear localization signal of a protein with nuclear envelope proteins such as importins .
the vectorial transfer of a protein from the cytoplasm into the nucleus ,  through the nuclear pore and across the nuclear envelope .
a microtubule - based process that occurs only during m phase of the cell cycle .
the cell cycle regulatory process by which progression through the cycle can be halted until conditions are suitable for the cell to proceed to the next stage .
a signal transduction pathway ,  induced by dna damage ,  that blocks cell cycle progression  ( in g1 ,  g2 or metaphase )  or slows the rate at which s phase proceeds .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids containing sulfur ,  comprising cysteine ,  homocysteine ,  methionine and selenocysteine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of amino acids containing sulfur ,  comprising cysteine ,  methionine and selenocysteine .
the pathways by which inorganic sulfate is processed and incorporated into sulfated compounds .
any complex formed of proteins that act in nucleotide - excision repair .
a protein complex that possesses histone deacetylase activity .
a protein complex that enables the rna polymerase ii - general rna polymerase ii transcription factor complex to react to transcriptional activator proteins ;  also enhances the level of basal transcription .
a transcription factor complex that acts at promoters of genes transcribed by rna polymerase i .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
a protein complex that possesses histone acetyltransferase activity .
a saga - type histone acetyltransferase complex that contains spt8  ( in budding yeast )  or a homolog thereof ;  additional polypeptides include spt group ,  consisting of spt7 ,  spt3 ,  and spt20 / ada5 ,  which interact with the tata - binding protein  ( tbp )  ;  the ada group ,  consisting of ada1 ,  ada2 ,  ada3 ,  ada4 / gcn5 ,  and ada5 / spt20 ,  which is functionally linked to the nucleosomal hat activity ;  tra1 ,  an atm / pi - 3 kinase - related protein that targets dna - bound activators for recruitment to promoters ;  the tbp - associated factor  ( taf )  proteins ,  consisting of taf5 ,  taf6 ,  taf9 ,  taf10 ,  and taf12 ,  which mediate nucleosomal hat activity and are thought to help recruit the basal transcription machinery .
a large multiprotein complex that possesses histone acetyltransferase activity and is involved in regulation of transcription .
a transcription factor complex that is involved in regulating transcription from rna polymerase iii  ( pol iii )  promoters .
a transcription factor complex that is involved in regulating transcription from rna polymerase iii  ( pol iii )  promoters .
protein complex that plays a role in determining cell polarity by directing the localized assembly of actin filaments at polarization sites ;  in saccharomyces the polarisome includes bni1p ,  spa2p ,  pea2p ,  and bud6p .
the golgi cisterna closest to the endoplasmic reticulum ;  the first processing compartment through which proteins pass after export from the er .
the golgi cisterna farthest from the endoplasmic reticulum ;  the final processing compartment through which proteins pass before exiting the golgi apparatus ;  the compartment in which n - linked protein glycosylation is completed .
the lipid bilayer surrounding any of the compartments of the golgi apparatus .
a protein complex peripherally associated with the plasma membrane that determines where secretory vesicles dock and fuse .
interacting selectively with a snare  ( soluble n - ethylmaleimide - sensitive factor attached protein receptor )  protein .
a protein complex that includes a ubiquitin - protein ligase  ( e3 )  and other proteins that may confer substrate specificity on the complex .
a ubiquitin ligase complex found in the nucleus .
a ubiquitin ligase complex found in the cytoplasm .
a heterodimer with protein serine / threonine phosphatase activity that is polycation - stimulated  ( pcs )  ,  being directly stimulated by protamine ,  polylysine ,  or histone h1 ;  it constitutes a subclass of several enzymes activated by different histones and polylysine ,  and consists of catalytic and regulatory subunits .
a protein complex that possesses magnesium - dependent protein serine / threonine phosphatase  ( amd phosphatase )  activity ,  and consists of a catalytic subunit and one or more regulatory subunits that dictates the phosphatase's substrate specificity ,  function ,  and activity .
cascade of at least three protein kinase activities culminating in the phosphorylation and activation of a map kinase .
catalysis of the hydroxylation of sphingolipid long chain bases .
a ribonucleoprotein complex that cleaves the rrna precursor as part of rrna transcript processing .
complex of 3' - 5' exoribonucleases found in the nucleus .
complex of 3' - 5' exoribonucleases found in the cytoplasm .
complex of 3' - 5' exoribonucleases .
any process that initiates the activity of the inactive enzyme map kinase kinase kinase .
the initiation of the activity of the inactive enzyme map kinase kinase by phosphorylation by a mapkkk .
the initiation of the activity of the inactive enzyme map kinase by phosphorylation by a mapkk .
any process that terminates the activity of the active enzyme map kinase .
a complex that catalyzes the endonucleolytic cleavage of pre - trna ,  producing 5' - hydroxyl and 2' , 3' - cyclic phosphate termini ,  and specifically removing the intron .
the v1 domain of a proton - transporting v - type atpase found in the vacuolar membrane .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
a chromosome found in the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell .
a chromosome found in the cytoplasm .
any of the spindle microtubules that radiate in all directions from the spindle poles and are thought to contribute to the forces that separate the poles and position them in relation to the rest of the cell .
a network of small fibers that surrounds the centrioles in cells ;  contains the microtubule nucleating activity of the centrosome .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of the spliceosome ,  a ribonucleoprotein apparatus that catalyzes nuclear mrna splicing via transesterification reactions .
a chromosome found in the mitochondrion of a eukaryotic cell .
the division of a mitochondrion within a cell to form two or more separate mitochondrial compartments .
a generic term for parts of cells prepared by disruptive biochemical techniques .
the catalytic sector of the mitochondrial hydrogen - transporting atp synthase ;  it comprises the catalytic core and central stalk ,  and is peripherally associated with the mitochondrial inner membrane when the entire atp synthase is assembled .
all non - f1 subunits of the mitochondrial hydrogen - transporting atp synthase ,  including integral and peripheral mitochondrial inner membrane proteins .
integral to that fraction of cells ,  prepared by disruptive biochemical methods ,  that includes the plasma and other membranes ;  require detergents ,  such as triton x - 100 ,  to be released from membranes .
peripheral to that fraction of cells ,  prepared by disruptive biochemical methods ,  that includes the plasma and other membranes ;  can be extracted from membrane fraction with high concentrations of salt or high ph .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
cyclin - dependent protein kinases  ( cdks )  are heterodimeric enzymes that contain a kinase catalytic subunit associated with a regulatory cyclin partner .
a ribosome contained within a subcellular organelle .
the smaller of the two subunits of an organellar ribosome .
the larger of the two subunits of an organellar ribosome .
a vacuole that is maintained at an acidic ph and which contains degradative enzymes ,  including a wide variety of acid hydrolases .
catalysis of the reaction: 3 - hydroxyanthranilate  +  o2 = 2 - amino - 3 - carboxymuconate semialdehyde .
the formation and assembly from one or more snrna and multiple protein components of a ribonucleoprotein complex that in involved in formation of the spliceosome .
the lipid bilayer surrounding an autophagic vacuole ,  a double - membrane - bounded vesicle in which endogenous cellular material is sequestered .
a protein complex that possesses dna - directed rna polymerase activity .
a complex that contains kinase activity directed towards the c - terminal domain  ( ctd )  of the largest subunit of rna polymerase ii and is essential for initiation at rna polymerase ii promoters in vitro .
a complex which is part of both the general transcription factor tfiih and the nucleotide - excision repair factor 3 complex .
a multiprotein kinetochore subcomplex that binds to centromeric chromatin and forms part of the inner kinetochore .
interacting selectively with nucleic acid via hydrogen bonds between the bases of a gene product molecule and the bases of a target nucleic acid molecule .
a large multisubunit complex which catalyzes protein degradation .
an enzyme complex that catalyzes the transfer of glcnac from udp - glcnac to an acceptor phosphatidylinositol ,  the first step in the production of gpi anchors for cell surface proteins .
the unwinding ,  or local denaturation ,  of the dna duplex to create a bubble around the site of the dna damage .
the removal of the oligonucleotide that contains the dna damage .
the repair of uv - induced t - t ,  c - t ,  and c - c dimers by the recognition and removal of the damaged dna strand from the dna helix as an oligonucleotide .
the error - free repair of a double - strand break in dna in which the broken dna molecule is repaired using homologous sequences .
the repair of damaged dna that involves the exchange ,  reciprocal or nonreciprocal ,  of genetic material between the broken dna molecule and a homologous region of dna .
the repair of damaged dna that does not require the exchange of genetic material between the broken dna molecule and a homologous region of dna .
the 5' to 3' exonucleolytic resection of the dna at the site of the break to form a 3' single - strand dna overhang .
synthesis of dna that proceeds from the broken 3' single - strand dna end uses the homologous intact duplex as the template .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of dna ,  involving the hydrolysis of internal 3' , 5' - phosphodiester bonds in one or two strands of deoxyribonucleotides .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of dna ,  involving the hydrolysis of terminal 3' , 5' - phosphodiester bonds in one or two strands of deoxyribonucleotides .
the formation of a syncytium ,  a mass of cytoplasm containing several nuclei enclosed within a single plasma membrane ,  by the fusion of the plasma membranes of two or more individual cells .
the region of a chromosome that includes the centromere and associated proteins .
a multisubunit complex that is located at the centromeric region of dna and provides an attachment point for the spindle microtubules .
a multisubunit complex that is located at the centromeric region of a condensed chromosome and provides an attachment point for the spindle microtubules .
the region of a condensed chromosome that includes the centromere and associated proteins ,  including the kinetochore .
the region of a condensed chromosome in the nucleus that includes the centromere and associated proteins ,  including the kinetochore .
the terminal region of a linear chromosome that includes the telomeric dna repeats and associated proteins .
a complex of dna and protein located at the end of a linear chromosome that protects and stabilizes a linear chromosome .
a complex of dna and protein located at the end of a linear chromosome in the nucleus that protects and stabilizes a linear chromosome .
the terminal region of a linear chromosome in the nucleus that includes the telomeric dna repeats and associated proteins .
the ordered and organized complex of dna and protein that forms the chromosome .
a complex comprised of dna wound around a multisubunit core and associated proteins ,  which forms the primary packing unit of dna into higher order structures .
the ordered and organized complex of dna and protein that forms the chromosome in the cytoplasm .
the ordered and organized complex of dna and protein that forms the chromosome in the nucleus .
a dispersed and relatively uncompacted form of chromatin .
a compact and highly condensed form of chromatin .
a highly compacted molecule of dna and associated proteins resulting in a cytologically distinct structure .
a highly compacted molecule of dna and associated proteins resulting in a cytologically distinct structure that remains in the nucleus .
a proteinaceous scaffold found between homologous chromosomes during meiosis .
a multisubunit protein complex that plays a central role in chromosome condensation .
the core heterodimer of a condensin complex ,  a multisubunit protein complex that plays a central role in chromosome condensation .
a multisubunit protein complex that plays a central role in the condensation of chromosomes that remain in the nucleus .
a proteinaceous core found between sister chromatids during meiotic prophase .
a structural unit of the synaptonemal complex found between the lateral elements .
a structural unit of the synaptonemal complex that spans the regions between the lateral elements and connects them .
a chromosome involved in sex determination .
the sex chromosome present in both sexes of species in which the male is the heterogametic sex .
the sex chromosome present in males of species in which the male is the heterogametic sex ;  generally ,  the sex chromosome that pairs with the x chromosome in the heterogametic sex .
a multisubunit complex that is located at the replication origins of a chromosome .
an endosomal sorting complex required for transport .
the developmental process by which the size or shape of a cell is generated and organized .
the change in form  ( cell shape and size )  that occurs when relatively unspecialized cells ,  e .g .
a cellular process resulting in the division of the cytoplasm of a cell and its separation into two daughter cells .
the process of making a septum that spans the plasma membrane interface between progeny cells following cytokinesis .
the process of physically separating progeny cells during cytokinesis ;  this may involve enzymatic digestion of septum or cell wall components .
either of the ends of a spindle ,  where spindle microtubules are organized ;  usually contains a microtubule organizing center and accessory molecules ,  spindle microtubules and astral microtubules .
a multiprotein complex composed of gamma - tubulin and other non - tubulin proteins .
a complex of gamma tubulin and associated proteins thought to be formed by multimerization of gamma - tubulin small complexes .
the region of a condensed chromosome kinetochore closest to centromeric dna ;  in mammals the crest antigens  ( cenp proteins )  are found in this layer ;  this layer may help define underlying centromeric chromatin structure and position of the kinetochore on the chromosome .
the region of a condensed chromosome kinetochore most external to centromeric dna ;  this outer region mediates kinetochore - microtubule interactions .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the directed movement of neurotransmitters into neurons or glial cells .
any process that modulates levels of neurotransmitter .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of acetylcholine that occurs in the synaptic cleft during synaptic transmission .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination .
naturally occurring peptide that is an opioid  ( any non - alkaloid having an opiate - like effect that can be reversed by naloxone or other recognized morphine antagonist )  .
a sodium channel in a cell membrane whose opening is governed by the membrane potential .
structure or material found in the flagella of mammalian sperm that surrounds each of the nine microtubule doublets ,  giving a 9  +  9  +  2 arrangement rather than the 9  +  2 pattern usually seen .
blood vessel formation when new vessels emerge from the proliferation of pre - existing blood vessels .
extracellular matrix components occurring independently or along with elastin .
interacting selectively with lipopolysaccharide .
combining with interleukin - 21 to initiate a change in cell activity .
an insoluble protein structure formed under the plasma membrane of cornifying epithelial cells .
interacting selectively with beta - amyloid peptide / protein and / or its precursor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell growth .
any process whereby external signals modulate the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell growth ,  the irreversible increase in size of a cell over time .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
combining with a phorbol ester to initiate a change in cell activity .
phorbol ester / diacylglycerol binding proteins that do not have intrinsic kinase activity .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the blood vessel over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ceramide oligosaccharides carrying in addition to other sugar residues ,  one or more sialic acid residues .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of ceramide oligosaccharides carrying in addition to other sugar residues ,  one or more sialic acid residues .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving globosides ,  globotetraosylceramides ,  ceramides containing a core structure of galnac - beta -  ( 1 , 3 )  - gal - alpha ( 1 , 4 ) glc ( i )  .
the series of events required for a bitter taste stimulus to be received and converted to a molecular signal .
the series of events required for a sweet taste stimulus to be received and converted to a molecular signal .
combining with the neurotransmitter dopamine and activating adenylate cyclase via coupling to gs to initiate a change in cell activity .
a g - protein coupled receptor that binds dopamine and has the pharmacological characteristics of classic d5 receptors .
a g - protein coupled receptor that binds dopamine and has the pharmacological characteristics of classic d1 receptors .
combining with the neurotransmitter dopamine and activating adenylate cyclase via coupling to gi / go to initiate a change in cell activity .
a g - protein coupled receptor that binds dopamine and has the pharmacological characteristics of classic d3 receptors .
a g - protein coupled receptor that binds dopamine and has the pharmacological characteristics of classic d4 receptors .
combining with neuromedin u to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with a virus component to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with lysosphingolipid or lysophosphatidic acid to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with a cysteinyl leukotriene to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with leukotriene b4 ,  ltb4 ,  to initiate a change in cell activity .
a g - protein coupled receptor that interacts with pituitary adenylate cyclase - activating polypeptide .
a g - protein coupled receptor that binds glutamate and is linked to the inositol 1 , 4 , 5 - trisphosphate / calcium signaling system .
a g - protein coupled receptor that binds glutamate and inhibits adenylate cyclase activity .
a g - protein coupled receptor that is activated by trans - 1 - aminocyclopentane - 1 , 3 - dicarboxylic acid  ( t - acpd )  and inhibits adenylate cyclase activity .
a g - protein coupled receptor that is activated by l - ap - 4 and inhibits adenylate cyclase activity .
a structure found most metazoan nucleoli ,  but not usually found in lower eukaryotes ;  surrounded by the dense fibrillar component ;  the zone of transcription from multiple copies of the pre - rrna genes is in the border region between these two structures .
a structure found in the nucleolus ,  which contains newly synthesized preribosomal rna  ( pre - rrna )  and a collection of proteins .
a structure found in the nucleolus ,  which contains nearly completed preribosomal particles destined for the cytoplasm .
combining with an extracellular or intracellular peptide to initiate a change in cell activity .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the eye over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a homeostatic process by which an organism modulates its internal body temperature .
a rise in body temperature above the normal ,  often as a response to infection .
a conditioned aversion to a specific chemical compound as a result of that compound being coupled with a noxious stimulus .
an acute behavioral change resulting from a perceived external threat .
interacting selectively with a g - protein - coupled receptor .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
cell migration that is accomplished by extension and retraction of a pseudopodium .
a structure in the head of a spermatozoon that contains acid hydrolases ,  and is concerned with the breakdown of the outer membrane of the ovum during fertilization .
a g - protein coupled receptor that binds dopamine and has the pharmacological characteristics of classic d2 receptors .
the nucleus of a male germ cell ,  a cell specialized to produce haploid gametes ,  and its descendents .
the nucleus of the female germ cell ,  a cell specialized to produce haploid gametes ,  and its descendents .
the formation of the acrosome from the spermatid golgi .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving histamine ,  a physiologically active amine ,  found in plant and animal tissue and released from mast cells as part of an allergic reaction in humans .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of histamine ,  a physiologically active amine ,  found in plant and animal tissue and released from mast cells as part of an allergic reaction in humans .
the formation of the ectoderm ,  mesoderm and endoderm during gastrulation .
the formation of ectoderm during gastrulation .
the formation of the endoderm during gastrulation .
the process involved in the specification of cell identity .
process involved in cell fate commitment .
the process by which a cell becomes committed to become part of the mesoderm .
the process by which a cell becomes committed to become part of the endoderm .
the process by which a cell becomes committed to become part of the ectoderm .
bundle of microfilaments and other proteins found in fibroblasts .
projection at the leading edge of a crawling cell ;  the protrusions are supported by a microfilament meshwork .
catalysis of the phosphorylation of a simple or complex lipid .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  ceramide = adp  +  ceramide 1 - phosphate .
the joining of the small ribosomal subunit ,  ternary complex ,  and mrna .
catalysis of the reaction: 3' - phosphoadenosine 5' - phosphosulfate  +  a galactosylceramide = adenosine 3' , 5' - bisphosphate  +  a galactosylceramidesulfate .
the process by which the anatomical structures of polarized epithelium are generated and organized .
a condensed mass of compacted chromatin that represents an inactivated x chromosome .
a structure found in a female mammalian cell containing an unpaired x chromosome that has become densely heterochromatic ,  silenced and localized at the nuclear periphery .
a structure found in a male mammalian spermatocyte containing an unpaired x chromosome that has become densely heterochromatic ,  silenced and localized at the nuclear periphery .
the initial developmental process that will lead to the formation of an eye .
the outer segment of a vertebrate photoreceptor that contains discs of photoreceptive membranes .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a photoreceptor cell ,  as found in the eye ,  the primary visual organ of most organisms .
the characteristic movement of cells from the dorsal ridge of the neural tube to a variety of locations in a vertebrate embryo .
catalysis of the reaction: retinal  +  nad +   +  h2o = retinoate  +  nadh .
the close range interaction of two or more cells or tissues that causes them to change their fates and specify the development of an organ .
the process by which the anatomical structures of branches are generated and organized .
the characteristic movement of immature neurons from germinal zones to specific positions where they will reside as they mature .
the clustering and aggregation of membrane rafts at a single cellular pole during activation of particular cell types ,  such as lymphocytes .
the directed orientation of lymphocyte signaling molecules and associated membrane rafts towards a chemokine gradient or a contact point with an appropriate activating cell .
the directed orientation of t cell signaling molecules and associated membrane rafts towards a chemokine gradient or a contact point with antigen presenting cell .
the formation of an area of close contact between a lymphocyte  ( t -  ,  b -  ,  or natural killer cell )  and a target cell through the clustering of particular signaling and adhesion molecules and their associated membrane rafts on both the lymphocyte and target cell ,  which facilitates activation of the lymphocyte ,  transfer of membrane from the target cell to the lymphocyte ,  and in some situations killing of the target cell through release of secretory granules and / or death - pathway ligand - receptor interaction .
an area of close contact between a lymphocyte  ( t -  ,  b -  ,  or natural killer cell )  and a target cell formed through the clustering of particular signaling and adhesion molecules and their associated membrane rafts on both the lymphocyte and the target cell and facilitating activation of the lymphocyte ,  transfer of membrane from the target cell to the lymphocyte ,  and in some situations killing of the target cell through release of secretory granules and / or death - pathway ligand - receptor interaction .
the change in morphology and behavior of a dendritic cell resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
the change in morphology and behavior of a microglial cell resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand .
the process of regulating the proliferation and elimination of cells of the immune system such that the total number of cells of a particular cell type within a whole or part of an organism is stable over time in the absence of an outside stimulus .
the non - specific expansion of t cell populations within a whole or part of an organism to reach to a total number of t cells which will then remain stable over time in the absence of an external stimulus .
the resealing of a cell plasma membrane after cellular wounding due to ,  for instance ,  mechanical stress .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a natural killer cell .
the process of regulating the proliferation and elimination of neutrophils such that the total number of neutrophils within a whole or part of an organism is stable over time in the absence of an outside stimulus .
the process of apoptosis in neutrophils .
the process of regulating the proliferation and elimination of b cells such that the total number of b cells within a whole or part of an organism is stable over time in the absence of an outside stimulus .
the process of apoptosis in b cells .
combining with prostaglandin j  ( pgj ( 2 )  )  ,  a metabolite of prostaglandin d  ( pgd ( 2 )  )  to initiate a change in cell activity .
the expansion of a natural killer cell population by cell division .
cytolysis of target cells by natural killer cells ,  eosinophils ,  neutrophils ,  monocytes ,  or macrophages following engagement of antibodies bound to the target cells by fc receptors on the effector cells .
an inflammatory response resulting in cell death mediated by activation of the classical complement pathway or induction of effector cell phagocytosis or cytolysis mechanisms via complement or fc receptors following the binding of antibodies to cell surface antigens on a target cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of type iia hypersensitivity ,  a type of inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of type iia hypersensitivity ,  a type of inflammatory response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of type iii hypersensitivity ,  a type of inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of type iii hypersensitivity ,  a type of inflammatory response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of type iv hypersensitivity ,  a type of inflammatory response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of type iv hypersensitivity ,  a type of inflammatory response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of type i hypersensitivity ,  a type of inflammatory response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of type i hypersensitivity ,  a type of inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of type i hypersensitivity ,  a type of inflammatory response .
the appearance of a cytokine due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of production of a cytokine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of production of a cytokine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of production of a cytokine .
the regulated release of serotonin by a cell or group of cells .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the blastocyst over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the initial formation of a blastocyst from a solid ball of cells known as a morula .
the process by which cytochrome c is enabled to move from the mitochondrial intermembrane space into the cytosol ,  which is an early step in apoptosis and leads to caspase activation .
the morphogenesis of an embryonic epithelium into a tube - shaped structure .
the process by which the anatomical structures of the neural plate are generated and organized .
the formation of a tube from the flat layer of ectodermal cells known as the neural plate .
the process by which the edges of the neural plate thicken and move up to form a u - shaped structure called the neural groove .
the last step in the formation of the neural tube ,  where the paired neural folds are brought together and fuse at the dorsal midline .
the process by which a phagosome ,  a vesicle formed by phagocytosis ,  fuses with a lysosome .
interacting selectively with an opsonin ,  such as a complement component or antibody ,  deposited on the surface of a bacteria ,  virus ,  immune complex ,  or other particulate material .
combining with an opsonin to initiate a change in cell activity .
interacting selectively with any component or product of the complement cascade .
interacting selectively with the c1q component of the classical complement cascade .
interacting selectively with the c3b product of the complement cascade .
interacting selectively with the c5a product of the complement cascade .
the expansion of a nk t cell population by cell division .
any process involved in the activation of any of the steps of the lectin pathway of the complement cascade which allows for the direct killing of microbes and the regulation of other immune processes .
interacting selectively with a repeating or polymeric structure ,  such as a polysaccharide or peptidoglycan .
interacting selectively with zymosan .
combining with a polysaccharide to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with zymosan to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with lipopolysaccharide to initiate a change in cell activity .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the series of events in which a stimulus from a yeast is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the process by which receptor molecules are returned to an active state and in an active cellular location after they have been stimulated by a ligand .
the progression of an endothelial cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the change in form  ( cell shape and size )  that occurs during the differentiation of an endothelial cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element selenium or compounds that contain selenium ,  such as selenocysteine .
an invagination of the cell membrane formed by an actin dependent process during phagocytosis .
a homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium within a defined tissue of an organism ,  including control of cellular proliferation and death and control of metabolic function .
a tissue homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium within the retina of the eye ,  including control of cellular proliferation and death and control of metabolic function .
the killing by an organism of a cell in its host organism by means of the rupture of cell membranes and the loss of cytoplasm .
any process in an organism that results in the killing of its own cells or those of another organism ,  including in some cases the death of the other organism .
any process mediated by an organism that results in the death of cells in the host organism .
the directed killing of a target cell by a leukocyte .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity .
the directed killing of a target cell by a t cell through the release of granules containing cytotoxic mediators or through the engagement of death receptors .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of t cell mediated cytotoxicity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of t cell mediated cytotoxicity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell mediated cytotoxicity .
the inner segment of a vertebrate photoreceptor containing mitochondria ,  ribosomes and membranes where opsin molecules are assembled and passed to be part of the outer segment discs .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of receptor recyling .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of receptor recyling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor recyling .
the process of regulating the proliferation and elimination of b cells of the b - 1 subset such that the total number of b - 1 b cells within a whole or part of an organism is stable over time in the absence of an outside stimulus .
the process whereby a hemopoietic stem cell acquires the specialized features of a b - 1 b cell .
a membrane projection with related cytoskeletal components at the trailing edge of a cell in the process of migrating or being activated ,  found on the opposite side of the cell from the leading edge or immunological synapse ,  respectively .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups into an amino acid in a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents or decreases the rate of addition of phosphate groups to amino acids within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups to amino acids within a protein .
the pronucleus originating from the ovum that is being fertilized .
the pronucleus originating from the spermatozoa that was involved in fertilization .
the maintenance of membrane composition in a postsynaptic membrane ,  the specialized area of membrane facing the presynaptic membrane on the tip of the nerve ending and separated from it by a minute cleft  ( the synaptic cleft )  .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the vasculature over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the lymphatic vasculature over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
lymph vessel formation when new vessels emerge from the proliferation of pre - existing vessels .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for a blood vessel to attain its fully functional state .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a neurotransmitter .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cytokine mediated signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cytokine mediated signaling pathway .
the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter dopamine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activation of the membrane attack complex components of the complement cascade .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activation of the membrane attack complex components of the complement cascade .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of an adenosine receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands .
the reorganization or renovation of existing blood vessels .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the regulation of blood pressure mediated by detection of stimuli and a neurological response .
the process by which hormones modulate the force with which blood passes through the circulatory system .
the process by which the anatomical structures of epithelia are generated and organized .
the process by which the anatomical structures of an epithelial sheet are generated and organized .
the process by which the renin - angiotensin system controls the rate of fluid intake and output into the blood .
the process that results in increased metabolic rate in tissues of an organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of sodium ions  ( na +  )  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of g - protein coupled receptor protein signaling pathway activity after prolonged stimulation with an agonist of the pathway .
the process by which a g - protein coupled receptor is taken up into an endocytic vesicle .
the process that inhibits the signaling function of a g - protein coupled receptor by uncoupling the receptor from its downstream g proteins .
the process by which an angiotensin - mediated signaling system present in the brain regulates the force with which blood passes through the circulatory system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - glutamate transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - glutamate transport .
the extension of new blood vessels from existing capillaries into avascular tissues resulting from the proliferation of blood vessel endothelial cells .
interacting selectively with an opsin ,  any of a group of hydrophobic ,  integral membrane glycoproteins located primarily in the disc membrane of rods or cones ,  involved in photoreception .
any process that activates or increases the rate of neuroblast proliferation .
the invagination of the optic vesicle to form two - walled indentations ,  the optic cups ,  that will go on to form the retina .
the acrosomal membrane region that underlies the acrosomal vesicle and is located toward the sperm nucleus .
the membrane that surrounds the acrosomal lumen .
the process that prevents cells of the epiblast from differentiating into neuroepithelial cells before the appropriate time .
a process carried out by the nervous system that is required for the proper control of respiratory gaseous exchange .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the lens over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process by which the anatomical structures of the lens are generated and organized .
a complex composed of proteins required for beta adrenergic receptor activation of protein kinase a .
an actin - rich adhesion structure characterized by formation upon cell substrate contact and localization at the substrate - attached part of the cell ,  contain an f - actin - rich core surrounded by a ring structure containing proteins such as vinculin and talin ,  and have a diameter of 0 .5 mm .
interacting selectively with interleukin - 33 .
combining with interleukin - 33 to initiate a change in cell activity .
the somatic process allowing for the production of immune receptors whose specificity is not encoded in the germline genomic sequences .
the process by which immunoglobulin genes are formed through recombination of the germline genetic elements ,  also known as immunoglobulin gene segments ,  within a single locus following the induction of an immune response .
the somatic process by means of which sequence diversity of immunoglobulins is generated after the induction of an immune response .
a behavioral response seeking to protect an organism from an a perceived external threat to that organism .
any process that initiates an innate immune response .
any series of molecular signals leading to activation of the innate immune response generated as a consequence of binding to a cell surface receptor .
any series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of binding to a cell surface or intracellular pattern recognition receptor  ( prr )  .
any series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of binding to a c - type lectin receptor capable of cellular activation .
any series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of binding to a toll - like receptor .
any process of the innate immune response that takes place in the mucosal tissues .
the promotion of an immune response by natural killer cells through direct recognition of target cells or through the release of cytokines .
any host process that results in the promotion of antiviral immune response mechanisms ,  thereby limiting viral replication .
a change in state or activity of an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process whereby precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of a hemopoietic progenitor cell ,  a class of cell types including myeloid progenitor cells and lymphoid progenitor cells .
the series of events that restore integrity to damaged tissue during or following an inflammatory response .
the series of events leading to growth of connective tissue when loss of tissues that are incapable of regeneration occurs ,  or when fibrinous exudate cannot be adequately cleared during or following an inflammatory response .
an immune response based on directed amplification of specific receptors for antigen produced through a somatic diversification process ,  and allowing for enhanced response to subsequent exposures to the same antigen  ( immunological memory )  .
an immune response taking place in an organ or tissues such as the liver ,  brain ,  mucosa ,  or nervous system tissues .
any process of the immune system that occurs as part of an immune response .
any process that initiates an immune response .
the process of regulating the proliferation and elimination of lymphocytes such that the total number of lymphocytes within a whole or part of an organism is stable over time in the absence of an outside stimulus .
the process of regulating the proliferation and elimination of myeloid cells such that the total number of myeloid cells within a whole or part of an organism is stable over time in the absence of an outside stimulus .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a follicular dendritic cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a follicular dendritic cell .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a myeloid leukocyte resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a myeloid cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
a change in morphology and behavior of a macrophage resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the change in morphology and behavior of a microglial cell resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
a change in morphology and behavior of a lymphocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the change in morphology and behavior of an alpha - beta t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the process whereby an antigenically nave t cell acquires the specialized features of an effector ,  regulatory ,  or memory t cell during an immune response .
the process whereby an antigenically nave alpha - beta t cell acquires the specialized features of an effector ,  regulatory ,  or memory t cell during an immune response .
the process whereby an antigenically nave cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell acquires the specialized features of an effector ,  regulatory ,  or memory t cell during an immune response .
the expansion of a t cell population by cell division during an immune response .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature b cell during an immune response ,  resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
the process whereby a nave b cell acquires the specialized features of a mature or memory b cell during an immune response .
the process whereby a b cell in the spleen acquires the specialized features of a marginal zone b cell .
the process whereby a b cell in the spleen acquires the specialized features of a follicular b cell .
the process whereby a b cell acquires the specialized features of a plasma cell .
the process whereby a precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of a myeloid progenitor cell .
the process whereby a precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of a lymphoid progenitor cell .
the change in morphology and behavior of a natural killer cell resulting from exposure a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the process whereby a lymphoid progenitor cell becomes committed to become any type of b cell .
the process whereby a precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of an immature b cell .
the process whereby a precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of a pro - b cell .
the process whereby a precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of a pre - b cell .
the process whereby transitional stage b cells acquire the specialized features of mature b cells in the spleen .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the series of events in which a stimulus from a tumor cell is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the non - specific expansion of b cell populations within a whole or part of an organism to reach to a total number of b cells which will then remain stable over time in the absence of an external stimulus .
the process by which a lymphoid progenitor cell becomes committed to becoming any type of t cell .
a change in morphology and behavior of a leukocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the appearance of a cytokine due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus during an immune response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
any process that contributes to cytokine production by a b cell .
any process that contributes to cytokine production by a t cell .
any process involved in the development or functioning of the immune system ,  an organismal system for calibrated responses to potential internal or invasive threats .
the appearance of immunoglobulin due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of immunoglobulin .
the regulated release of immunoglobulins from a b cell or plasma cell during an immune response .
the appearance of immunoglobulin due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus during an immune response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
an immune response taking place in mucosal tissues ,  including those of the intestinal tract ,  nasal and upper respiratory tract ,  and genital tract .
an immune system process that functions in the response of an organism to a tumor cell .
the synthesis and release of immunoglobulin in the mucosal tissue .
the process by which an antigen - presenting cell expresses peptide antigen in association with an mhc class ib protein complex on its cell surface .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to a receptor on the surface of a cell capable of activating or perpetuating an immune response .
a series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a the binding of the fc portion of an immunoglobulin by an fc receptor capable of activating or perpetuating an immune response .
the formation of nodular inflammatory lesions ,  usually small or granular ,  firm ,  persistent ,  well - structured ,  and containing compactly grouped t lymphocytes and modified phagocytes such as epithelioid cells ,  giant cells ,  and other macrophages .
an inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus ,  which can be include any number of t cell or b cell epitopes .
an acute inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
a chronic inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
the synthesis or release of any molecular mediator of the immune response following an immunological stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the regulated release of serotonin by a cell or group of cells during an acute inflammatory response .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a leukocyte .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a myeloid leukocyte .
an inflammatory response resulting in cell death or dysfunction mediated by activation of the classical complement pathway or induction of effector cell phagocytosis ,  cytolysis mechanisms via complement or fc receptors following the binding of antibodies to cell surface antigens on a target cell ,  or mediated by the direct binding of antibody to cellular receptors .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a neutrophil .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a lymphocyte .
an immune response dependent upon secreted immunoglobulin .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a t cell .
the process by which a t cell expresses antigen  ( peptide or lipid )  on its cell surface in association with an mhc protein complex .
an immune response based on directed amplification of specific receptors for antigen produced through a somatic diversification process that includes somatic recombination of germline gene segments encoding immunoglobulin superfamily domains ,  and allowing for enhanced responses upon subsequent exposures to the same antigen  ( immunological memory )  .
the process by which germinal centers form .
the process by which an antigen - presenting cell expresses a peptide antigen on its cell surface in association with an mhc class i protein complex .
the process by which an antigen - presenting cell expresses antigen  ( peptide or lipid )  on its cell surface in association with an mhc class ib protein complex .
the process by which an antigen - presenting cell expresses a peptide antigen of endogenous origin on its cell surface in association with an mhc class ib protein complex .
the process by which an antigen - presenting cell expresses a peptide antigen of exogenous origin on its cell surface in association with an mhc class ib protein complex .
the process by which an antigen - presenting cell expresses a peptide antigen of exogenous origin on its cell surface in association with an mhc protein complex .
the process by which an antigen - presenting cell expresses a peptide antigen of exogenous origin on its cell surface in association with an mhc class i protein complex following intracellular transport via a tap  ( transporter associated with antigen processing )  pathway .
the process by which an antigen - presenting cell expresses a peptide antigen of exogenous origin on its cell surface in association with an mhc class ib protein complex following intracellular transport via a tap  ( transporter associated with antigen processing )  pathway .
the process by which an antigen - presenting cell expresses a peptide antigen of endogenous origin on its cell surface in association with an mhc protein complex .
the process by which an antigen - presenting cell expresses a peptide antigen on its cell surface in association with an mhc class ii protein complex .
the binding of a peptide to the antigen binding groove of an mhc protein complex .
the binding of a peptide to the antigen binding groove of an mhc class i protein complex .
the process by which an antigen - presenting cell expresses antigen  ( peptide or polysaccharide )  on its cell surface in association with an mhc class ii protein complex .
a process that directly activates any of the steps required for tolerance ,  a physiologic state in which the immune system does not react destructively against the components of an organism that harbors it or against antigens that are introduced to it .
tolerance induction in the central lymphoid organs: the thymus and bone marrow .
tolerance induction directed at self antigens .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organismal system whose objective is to provide calibrated responses by an organism to a potential internal or invasive threat ,  over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized hemopoietic precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a plasmacytoid dendritic cell or any cell of the myeloid leukocyte or lymphocyte lineages .
the movement of leukocytes within or between different tissues and organs of the body during an inflammatory response .
an inflammatory response to an exogenous environmental antigen or an endogenous antigen initiated by the adaptive immune system .
inflammation which comprises a rapid ,  short - lived ,  relatively uniform response to acute injury or antigenic challenge and is characterized by accumulations of fluid ,  plasma proteins ,  and granulocytic leukocytes .
the synthesis or release of any molecular mediator of the acute inflammatory response following an inflammatory stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases following a stimulus during an acute inflammatory response ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals ,  resulting in an increase in their intracellular or extracellular levels .
the synthesis or release of nitric oxide following a stimulus during an acute inflammatory response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the synthesis or release of products of arachidonic acid metabolism following a stimulus during an acute inflammatory response ,  resulting in an increase in their intracellular or extracellular levels .
the synthesis or release of any prostaglandin following a stimulus during an acute inflammatory response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
any process activating plasma proteins via proteolysis during an acute inflammatory response .
inflammation of prolonged duration  ( weeks or months )  in which active inflammation ,  tissue destruction ,  and attempts at repair are proceeding simultaneously .
the movement of a monocyte in response to an external stimulus .
the regulated release of serotonin by a platelet or group of platelets .
the process by which immune receptor genes are diversified through recombination of the germline genetic elements within a single genetic locus .
the process by which immune receptor genes are diversified through somatic mutation .
the somatic process by means of which sequence diversity of t cell receptor genes is generated .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of any cell of the myeloid leukocyte lineage .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation of antigen  ( peptide or polysaccharide )  via mhc class ii .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation of antigen  ( peptide or polysaccharide )  via mhc class ii .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of dendritic cell antigen processing and presentation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of dendritic cell antigen processing and presentation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of germinal center formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of germinal center formation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of germinal center formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of immunoglobulin production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of immunoglobulin production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tolerance induction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tolerance induction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of central tolerance induction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of central tolerance induction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tolerance induction to self antigen .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tolerance induction to self antigen .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell tolerance induction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell tolerance induction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of t cell tolerance induction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of t cell tolerance induction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of t cell anergy .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of t cell anergy .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a chronic inflammatory response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a chronic inflammatory response .
a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases made as a defense response  ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
the process by which t cell receptor genes are formed through recombination of the germline genetic elements ,  also known as t cell receptor gene segments .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte migration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte chemotaxis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte chemotaxis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune effector process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune effector process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune effector process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the production of molecular mediator of immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the production of molecular mediator of immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the production of molecular mediator of immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of lymphocyte mediated immunity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of lymphocyte mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of lymphocyte mediated immunity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of t cell mediated immunity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of t cell mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of t cell mediated immunity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell mediated immunity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell mediated immunity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of natural killer cell mediated immunity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of natural killer cell mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of natural killer cell mediated immunity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cytokine production during immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cytokine production during an immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cytokine production during immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of t cell cytokine production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of t cell cytokine production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of t cell cytokine production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of natural killer cell cytokine production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of natural killer cell cytokine production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cytokine secretion during immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cytokine secretion during immune response .
any series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of binding to a cell surface pattern recognition receptor  ( prr )  .
any series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of binding to a toll - like receptor and relying on the myd88 adaptor molecule .
any series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of binding to a toll - like receptor not relying on the myd88 adaptor molecule .
the cascade of processes by which a signal interacts with a receptor ,  causing a change in the level or activity of a second messenger or other downstream target ,  and ultimately leading to activation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the cascade of processes by which a signal interacts with a receptor ,  causing a change in the level or activity of a second messenger or other downstream target ,  and ultimately leading to activation or perpetuation of an innate immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an antimicrobial humoral response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte differentiation .
the cascade of processes by which a signal interacts with a receptor ,  causing a change in the level or activity of a second messenger or other downstream target ,  and ultimately leading to the activation ,  perpetuation ,  or inhibition of an immune response .
the cascade of processes by which a signal interacts with a receptor ,  causing a change in the level or activity of a second messenger or other downstream target ,  and ultimately leading to inhibition of an immune response .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to a receptor on the surface of the target cell capable of inhibiting an immune response .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to a receptor on the surface of the target cell capable of activating ,  perpetuating ,  or inhibiting an immune response .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to a receptor on the surface of a natural killer cell capable of inhibiting an immune effector process contributing to an immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antimicrobial peptide production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antibacterial peptide production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antimicrobial peptide biosynthesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antimicrobial peptide biosynthesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antibacterial peptide biosynthesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of biosynthesis of antibacterial peptides active against gram - positive bacteria .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response based on somatic recombination of immune receptors built from immunoglobulin superfamily domains .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response based on somatic recombination of immune receptors built from immunoglobulin superfamily domains .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response based on somatic recombination of immune receptors built from immunoglobulin superfamily domains .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a t - helper 1 type immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a t - helper 1 type immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a t - helper 2 type immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a t - helper 2 type immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to tumor cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to tumor cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune response to tumor cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune response to tumor cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a t cell mediated immune response to tumor cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a t cell mediated immune response to tumor cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peripheral t cell tolerance induction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of natural killer cell mediated immune response to a tumor cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of natural killer cell mediated immune response to a tumor cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of natural killer cell mediated cytotoxicity directed against tumor cell target .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of natural killer cell mediated cytotoxicity directed against tumor cell target .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of hypersensitivity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of hypersensitivity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of hypersensitivity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immunoglobulin mediated immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immunoglobulin mediated immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immunoglobulin mediated immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of type ii hypersensitivity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of type ii hypersensitivity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of central b cell tolerance induction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of central b cell tolerance induction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell apoptosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell apoptosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell apoptosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of mature b cell apoptosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of mature b cell apoptosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of lymphocyte anergy .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of lymphocyte anergy .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a humoral immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a humoral immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a humoral immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a humoral immune response mediated by circulating immunoglobulin .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a humoral immune response mediated by circulating immunoglobulin .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a humoral immune response mediated by circulating immunoglobulin .
the cellular process by which a physical entity or change in state ,  a signal ,  is created that originates in one cell and is used to transfer information to another cell .
the pattern specification process by which an axis or axes is subdivided in space to define an area or volume in which specific patterns of cell differentiation will take place or in which cells interpret a specific environment .
a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
a organ system process carried out at the level of a muscle .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the circulatory system .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the respiratory system .
the series of events in which an oxygen stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the regulation of blood pressure mediated by biochemical signaling: hormonal ,  autocrine or paracrine .
the drinking behavior that is mediated by the action of angiotensin in the brain .
the process that modulates the force with which blood travels through the systemic arterial circulatory system .
the process by which renin - angiotensin modulates the force with which blood passes through the circulatory system .
elemental activities ,  such as catalysis or binding ,  describing the actions of a gene product at the molecular level .
interacting selectively with any nucleic acid .
interacting selectively with dna  ( deoxyribonucleic acid )  .
the function of binding to a specific dna sequence in order to modulate transcription .
interacting selectively with an rna molecule or a portion thereof .
interacting selectively with single - stranded rna .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of the 1 , 4 - beta - linkages between n - acetyl - d - glucosamine and n - acetylmuramic acid in peptidoglycan heteropolymers of the prokaryotes cell walls and between n - acetyl - d - glucosamine residues in chitodextrins .
catalysis of the reaction: protein glutamine  +  alkylamine = protein n5 - alkylglutamine  +  nh3 .
interacting selectively with an antigen ,  any substance which is capable of inducing a specific immune response and of reacting with the products of that response ,  the specific antibody or specifically sensitized t - lymphocytes ,  or both .
catalysis of a biochemical reaction at physiological temperatures .
catalysis of the reaction: udp - galactose  +  2 -  ( 2 - hydroxyacyl ) sphingosine = udp  +  1 -  ( beta - d - galactosyl )  - 2 -  ( 2 - hydroxyacyl ) sphingosine .
catalysis of the reaction:  ( s )  - 3 - hydroxyacyl - coa  +  nad +  = 3 - oxoacyl - coa  +  nadh  +  h +  .
catalysis of the reaction: acetylcholine  +  h2o = choline  +  acetate .
catalysis of the reaction: arachidonate  +  o2 =  ( 6e , 8z , 11z , 14z )  -  ( 5s )  - 5 - hydroperoxycosa - 6 , 8 , 11 , 14 - tetraenoate .
catalysis of the reaction: arachidonate  +  o2 =  ( 5z , 8z , 10e , 14z )  -  ( 12s )  - 12 - hydroperoxyicosa - 5 , 8 , 10 , 14 - tetraenoate .
catalysis of the reaction: l - arginine  +  h2o = l - ornithine  +  urea .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  l - citrulline  +  l - aspartate = amp  +  diphosphate  +   ( n ( omega )  - l - arginino ) succinate .
catalysis of the reaction: a carboxylic ester  +  h2o = an alcohol  +  a carboxylic anion .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  choline = adp  +  o - phosphocholine .
catalysis of the reaction: an acylcholine  +  h2o = choline  +  a carboxylic acid anion .
catalysis of the reaction: l - serine  +  l - homocysteine = cystathionine  +  h2o .
catalysis of the reaction: l - cystathionine  +  h2o = l - cysteine  +  nh3  +  2 - oxobutanoate .
catalysis of the reaction: 5 , 6 - dihydrouracil  +  h2o = 3 - ureidopropionate .
catalysis of the reaction: l - dopachrome = 5 , 6 - dihydroxyindole - 2 - carboxylate .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  ethanolamine = adp  +  o - phosphoethanolamine .
catalysis of the reaction: 4 fe2 +   +  4 h +   +  o2 = 4 fe3 +   +  2 h2o .
catalysis of the reaction: l - glutamate = 4 - aminobutanoate  +  co2 .
catalysis of the reaction: r - x  +  glutathione = h - x  +  r - s - glutathione .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  gmp = adp  +  gdp .
catalysis of the reaction: l - histidine = histamine  +  co2 .
catalysis of the phosphorylation of myo - inositol  ( 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 / 4 , 6 - cyclohexanehexol )  or a phosphatidylinositol .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol = adp  +  1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol 4 - phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: 5 , 10 - methylenetetrahydrofolate  +  nad ( p )  +  = 5 , 10 - methenyltetrahydrofolate  +  nad ( p ) h  +  h +  .
catalysis of the reaction: 5 , 10 - methylenetetrahydrofolate  +  nad +  = 5 , 10 - methenyltetrahydrofolate  +  nadh  +  h +  .
catalysis of the reaction: 5 , 10 - methylenetetrahydrofolate  +  nadp +  = 5 , 10 - methenyltetrahydrofolate  +  nadph  +  h +  .
catalysis of the incorporation of one atom from molecular oxygen into a compound and the reduction of the other atom of oxygen to water .
catalysis of the reaction: 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenethylamine  +  ascorbate  +  o2 = noradrenaline  +  dehydroascorbate  +  h2o .
catalysis of the reaction: l - tryptophan  +  tetrahydrobiopterin  +  o2 = 5 - hydroxy - l - tryptophan  +  4 - alpha - hydroxytetrahydrobiopterin  +  h2o .
catalysis of the reaction: l - tyrosine  +  tetrahydrobiopterin  +  o2 = 3 , 4 - dihydroxy - l - phenylalanine  +  4 - alpha - hydroxytetrahydrobiopterin  +  h2o .
catalysis of the reaction: d - glucose 6 - phosphate = 1d - myo - inositol 3 - phosphate ;  requires nad ,  which dehydrogenates the choh group to co at c - 5 of the glucose 6 - phosphate ,  making c - 6 into an active methylene ,  able to condense with the aldehyde at c - 1 .
catalysis of the reaction: l - arginine  +  n nadph  +  n h +   +  m o2 = citrulline  +  nitric oxide  +  n nadp +  .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any o - glycosyl bond .
catalysis of the reaction: donor  +  h2o2 = oxidized donor  +  2 h2o .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 glutathione  +  h2o2 = oxidized glutathione  +  2 h2o .
catalysis of the reaction: s - adenosyl - l - methionine  +  phosphatidylethanolamine = s - adenosyl - l - homocysteine  +  phosphatidyl - n - methylethanolamine .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a glycerophospholipid .
catalysis of the reaction: phosphatidylcholine  +  h2o = 1 - acylglycerophosphocholine  +  a carboxylate .
catalysis of the reaction: a phospholipid  +  h2o = 1 , 2 - diacylglycerol  +  a phosphatidate .
catalysis of the reaction: a phosphatidylcholine  +  h2o = choline  +  a phosphatidate .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 - phospho - d - glycerate = phosphoenolpyruvate  +  h2o .
catalysis of the reaction: arachidonate  +  donor - h2  +  2 o2 = prostaglandin h2  +  acceptor  +  h2o .
catalysis of the reaction:  ( 5z , 13e )  -  ( 15s )  - 9 - alpha , 11 - alpha - epidioxy - 15 - hydroxyprosta - 5 , 13 - dienoate =  ( 5z , 13e )  -  ( 15s )  - 9 - alpha , 15 - dihydroxy - 11 - oxoprosta - 5 , 13 - dienoate .
catalysis of the phosphorylation of an amino acid residue in a protein ,  usually according to the reaction: a protein  +  atp = a phosphoprotein  +  adp .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  a protein serine / threonine = adp  +  protein serine / threonine phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  receptor - protein serine / threonine = adp  +  receptor - protein serine / threonine phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  a protein serine / threonine = adp  +  protein serine / threonine phosphate ,  dependent on the presence of calcium - bound calmodulin .
catalysis of the phosphorylation of eukaryotic elongation factor - 2 .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  a protein = adp  +  a phosphoprotein ;  dependent on the binding of a regulatory cyclin subunit and full activity requires stimulatory phosphorylation by a cdk - activating kinase  ( cak )  .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  a protein = adp  +  a phosphoprotein ,  with a requirement for diacylglycerol .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  a protein = adp  +  a phosphoprotein ,  with a requirement for diacylglycerol and calcium .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  a protein = adp  +  a phosphoprotein ,  with a requirement for diacylglycerol but not calcium .
catalysis of the phosphorylation of a g - protein coupled receptor ,  thereby modulating its activity .
catalysis of the phosphorylation and activation of members of the jun family ,  a gene family that encodes nuclear transcription factors .
catalysis of the phosphorylation and activation of jun kinase kinases  ( jnkks )  .
catalysis of the phosphorylation of proteins .
catalysis of the concomitant phosphorylation of threonine  ( t )  and tyrosine  ( y )  residues in a thr - glu - tyr  ( tey )  thiolester sequence in map kinases .
catalysis of the phosphorylation and activation of map kinase kinases ;  each map kinase kinase can be phosphorylated by any of several map kinase kinase kinases .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  a protein serine / threonine / tyrosine = adp  +  protein serine / threonine / tyrosine phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  a protein tyrosine = adp  +  protein tyrosine phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  a protein - l - tyrosine = adp  +  a protein - l - tyrosine phosphate ,  to initiate a change in cell activity .
catalysis of the reaction: a phosphoprotein  +  h2o = a protein  +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: protein tyrosine phosphate  +  h2o = protein tyrosine  +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: sphingomyelin  +  h2o = n - acylsphingosine  +  choline phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: succinate semialdehyde  +  nad +   +  h2o = succinate  +  nadh  +  h +  .
catalysis of the reaction: 3 - sulfino - l - alanine = hypotaurine  +  co2 .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 peroxide radical  +  2 h +  = o2  +  h2o2 .
catalysis of the transposition of transposable elements or transposons .
stops ,  prevents or reduces the activity of an enzyme .
stops ,  prevents or reduces the activity of a phospholipase ,  an enzyme that catalyzes of the hydrolysis of a phospholipid .
stops ,  prevents or reduces the activity of a protein kinase ,  an enzyme which phosphorylates a protein .
stops ,  prevents or reduces the activity of a camp - dependent protein kinase .
mediates the transfer of a signal from the outside to the inside of a cell by means other than the introduction of the signal molecule itself into the cell .
combining with an extracellular or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with any component or product of the complement cascade to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with the c3a product of the complement cascade to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with the c5a product of the complement cascade to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with an extracellular or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell activity ,  and spanning to the membrane of either the cell or an organelle .
combining with the amino acid gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba ,  4 - aminobutyrate )  to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with a cytokine to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with growth hormone to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with an interferon to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with a type i interferon to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with interferon - gamma to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with interleukin - 1 to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with interleukin - 2 to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with interleukin - 3 to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with interleukin - 4 to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with interleukin - 5 to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with interleukin - 6 to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with interleukin - 7 to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with interleukin - 8 to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with interleukin - 9 to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with interleukin - 10 to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with interleukin - 11 to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with leukemia inhibitory factor to initiate a change in cell activity .
a receptor that binds an extracellular ligand and transmits the signal to a heterotrimeric g - protein complex .
combining with epinephrine or norepinephrine to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with epinephrine or norepinephrine to initiate a change in cell activity via activation of a g protein ,  with pharmacological characteristics of alpha - adrenergic receptors .
combining with epinephrine or norepinephrine to initiate a change in cell activity via activation of a g protein ,  with pharmacological characteristics of alpha2 - adrenergic receptors ;  the activity involves transmitting the signal to the gi alpha subunit of a heterotrimeric g protein .
combining with anaphylatoxin to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with anaphylatoxin c3a to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with anaphylatoxin c5a to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with bombesin to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with cannabinoids to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with chemokines ,  small chemoattractant molecules normally used to stimulate leukocytes ,  to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with the neurotransmitter dopamine to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with an icosanoid to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with a prostanoid ,  any compound based on or derived from the prostanoate structure ,  to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with a prostaglandin  ( pg )  to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with prostaglandin d  ( pgd ( 2 )  )  to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with prostaglandin e  ( pge ( 2 )  )  to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with prostaglandin f  ( pgf  ( 2 - alpha )  )  to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with the amino acid gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba ,  4 - aminobutyrate )  to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with galanin to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with histamine to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with glutamate to initiate a change in cell activity through the regulation of ion channels .
combining with a leukotriene to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with melanocortin to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with adrenocorticotropin to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with melanocyte stimulating hormone to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with acetylcholine to initiate a change in cell activity via activation of a g protein ,  with pharmacological characteristics of muscarinic receptors .
combining with an n - formyl peptide to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with neuropeptide y to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with airborne compounds to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with an opioid ,  any narcotic derived from or resembling opium ,  to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with oxytocin to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with the biogenic amine serotonin ,  a neurotransmitter and hormone found in vertebrates ,  invertebrates and plants ,  to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with somatostatin to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with tachykinin to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with an ephrin to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with an epidermal growth factor to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with fibroblast growth factor to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with macrophage colony stimulating factor to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with stem cell factor ,  a cytokine that stimulates mast cell growth and differentiation ,  to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with transforming growth factor beta to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with a complex of transforming growth factor beta and a type ii tgf - beta receptor to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with transforming growth factor beta to initiate a change in cell activity ;  upon ligand binding ,  binds to and catalyzes the phosphorylation of a type i tgf - beta receptor .
combining with neurotrophin ,  any of a family of growth factors that block apoptosis in neurons and thus promote nerve growth ,  to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with tumor necrosis factor ,  a proinflammatory cytokine produced by monocytes and macrophages ,  to initiate a change in cell function .
a transmembrane receptor activity that responds to the netrin family of ligands and results in chemotaxis when activated .
the binding activity of a molecule that brings together a transmembrane receptor protein kinase and one or more other molecules ,  permitting them to function in a coordinated way .
interacting selectively and simultaneously with one or more signal transduction molecules ,  usually acting as a scaffold to bring these molecules into close proximity either using their own sh2 / sh3 domains  ( e .g .
activity of any of the molecules that transmit the signal from a tgf - beta receptor through the cytoplasm to the nucleus .
modulates the rate of gtp hydrolysis by a small monomeric gtpase .
stimulates the exchange of guanyl nucleotides by a gtpase .
stimulates the exchange of guanyl nucleotides by a gtpase of the ras superfamily .
stimulates the exchange of guanyl nucleotides by a gtpase of the rho family .
prevents the dissociation of gdp from a gtpase ,  thereby preventing gtp from binding .
prevents the dissociation of gdp from the small gtpase rab ,  thereby preventing gtp from binding .
increases the activity of a gtpase ,  an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of gtp .
increases the rate of gtp hydrolysis by a gtpase of the ras superfamily .
increases the rate of gtp hydrolysis by a gtpase of the rho family .
interacting selectively with one or more specific sites on a receptor molecule ,  a macromolecule that undergoes combination with a hormone ,  neurotransmitter ,  drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function .
interacting selectively with the fibroblast growth factor receptor  ( fgfr )  .
interacting selectively with the type 2 fibroblast growth factor receptor  ( fgfr2 )  .
interacting selectively with the notch  ( n )  protein ,  a surface receptor .
interacting selectively with a type ii transforming growth factor beta receptor .
interacting selectively with the toll protein ,  a transmembrane receptor .
interacting selectively with a death receptor .
functions to control the survival ,  growth ,  differentiation and effector function of tissues and cells .
interacting selectively with the ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor .
interacting selectively with the erythropoietin receptor .
interacting selectively with the granulocyte macrophage colony - stimulating factor receptor .
interacting selectively with the granulocyte colony - stimulating factor receptor .
interacting selectively with the growth hormone receptor .
interacting selectively with the interferon - alpha / beta receptor .
interacting selectively with the interferon - gamma receptor .
interacting selectively with the interleukin - 2 receptor .
interacting selectively with the interleukin - 3 receptor .
interacting selectively with the interleukin - 4 receptor .
interacting selectively with the interleukin - 5 receptor .
interacting selectively with the interleukin - 6 receptor .
interacting selectively with the interleukin - 7 receptor .
interacting selectively with the interleukin - 10 receptor .
interacting selectively with the interleukin - 11 receptor .
interacting selectively with the interleukin - 12 receptor .
interacting selectively with the interleukin - 13 receptor .
interacting selectively with the leukemia inhibitory factor receptor .
interacting selectively with the prolactin receptor .
interacting selectively with the interleukin - 1 receptor .
interacting selectively with a type i interleukin - 1 receptor .
interacting selectively with a type ii interleukin - 1 receptor .
blocks the binding of interleukin - 1 to the interleukin - 1 receptor complex .
interacting selectively with the interleukin - 8 receptor .
interacting selectively with the epidermal growth factor receptor .
interacting selectively with the macrophage colony stimulating factor receptor .
interacting selectively with the insulin receptor .
interacting selectively with the insulin - like growth factor receptor .
interacting selectively with the transforming growth factor beta receptor .
interacting selectively with the nerve growth factor receptor .
interacting selectively with the tumor necrosis factor receptor .
interacting selectively with a neurotrophin receptor .
interacting selectively with the neurotrophin p75 receptor .
interacting selectively with a neurotrophin trk receptor .
interacting selectively with the neurotrophin trkb receptor .
interacting selectively with the stem cell factor receptor  ( scfr )  ,  a type iii transmembrane kinase receptor .
interacting selectively with cd40 ,  a receptor found on the surface of all b - lymphocytes .
interacting selectively with a cd27 ,  a receptor found on the surface of t cells and some b cells and nk cells .
the action characteristic of a hormone ,  any substance formed in very small amounts in one specialized organ or group of cells and carried  ( sometimes in the bloodstream )  to another organ or group of cells in the same organism ,  upon which it has a specific regulatory action .
the action characteristic of a neuropeptide hormone ,  any peptide hormone that acts in the central nervous system .
the action of a molecule that contributes to the structural integrity of a complex or assembly within or outside a cell .
the action of a molecule that contributes to the structural integrity of a cytoskeletal structure .
enables the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
catalysis of facilitated diffusion of an ion  ( by an energy - independent process )  by passage through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel without evidence for a carrier - mediated mechanism .
catalysis of the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a channel that opens when a specific intracellular ligand has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
catalysis of the calcium concentration - regulatable energy - independent passage of cations across a lipid bilayer down a concentration gradient .
catalysis of the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a channel that opens when a specific extracellular ligand has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
catalysis of the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a channel that opens when extracellular glutamate has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
catalysis of the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a voltage - gated channel .
catalysis of the transmembrane transfer of a calcium ion by a voltage - gated channel .
catalysis of the transmembrane transfer of a chloride ion by a voltage - gated channel .
catalysis of the transmembrane transfer of a sodium ion by a voltage - gated channel .
catalysis of the transmembrane transfer of a potassium ion by a voltage - gated channel .
catalysis of the energy - independent passage of anions across a lipid bilayer down a concentration gradient .
catalysis of facilitated diffusion of a chloride  ( by an energy - independent process )  involving passage through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel without evidence for a carrier - mediated mechanism .
catalysis of the energy - independent passage of cations across a lipid bilayer down a concentration gradient .
catalysis of facilitated diffusion of a calcium ion  ( by an energy - independent process )  involving passage through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel without evidence for a carrier - mediated mechanism .
catalysis of facilitated diffusion of a potassium ion  ( by an energy - independent process )  involving passage through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel without evidence for a carrier - mediated mechanism .
catalysis of facilitated diffusion of a sodium ion  ( by an energy - independent process )  involving passage through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel without evidence for a carrier - mediated mechanism .
catalysis of the transfer of amines ,  including polyamines ,  from one side of the membrane to the other .
catalysis of the transfer of acetylcholine from one side of the membrane to the other .
catalysis of the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: amino acid ( out )   +  h +  ( out )  = amino acid ( in )   +  h +  ( in )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: amino acid ( out )   +  na +  ( out )  = amino acid ( in )   +  na +  ( in )  .
enables the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
catalysis of the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: neurotransmitter ( out )   +  na +  ( out )  = neurotransmitter ( in )   +  na +  ( in )  .
catalysis of the transfer of dopamine from one side of the membrane to the other .
catalysis of the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: dopamine ( out )   +  na +  ( out )  = dopamine ( in )   +  na +  ( in )  .
catalysis of the transfer of norepinephrine from one side of the membrane to the other .
catalysis of the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: norepinephrine ( out )   +  na +  ( out )  = norepinephrine ( in )   +  na +  ( in )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: serotonin ( out )   +  na +  ( out )  = serotonin ( in )   +  na +  ( in )  .
catalysis of the transfer of organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage ,  from one side of the membrane to the other .
catalysis of the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: organic acid ( out )   +  na +  ( out )  = organic acid ( in )   +  na +  ( in )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: amino acid ( out )   +  cation ( out )  = amino acid ( in )   +  cation ( in )  .
the selective ,  often stoichiometric ,  interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
interacting selectively with a steroid ,  any of a large group of substances that have in common a ring system based on 1 , 2 - cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene .
interacting selectively with fatty acids ,  aliphatic monocarboxylic acids liberated from naturally occurring fats and oils by hydrolysis .
interacting selectively with calcium ions  ( ca2 +  )  .
interacting selectively with any protein or protein complex  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  .
interacting selectively with any protein involved in modulating the reorganization of the cytoskeleton .
interacting selectively with an insulin - like growth factor ,  any member of a group of polypeptides that are structurally homologous to insulin and share many of its biological activities ,  but are immunologically distinct from it .
interacting selectively with a macrolide ,  any of a large group of structurally related antibiotics produced by streptomyces species .
interacting selectively with the immunosuppressant fk506 .
interacting selectively with any glycan  ( polysaccharide )  containing a substantial proportion of aminomonosaccharide residues .
interacting selectively with hyaluronic acid ,  a polymer composed of repeating dimeric units of glucuronic acid and n - acetyl glucosamine .
interacting selectively with phospholipids ,  a class of lipids containing phosphoric acid as a mono -  or diester .
interacting selectively with phosphatidylinositol ,  any glycophospholipid with its sn - glycerol 3 - phosphate residue is esterified to the 1 - hydroxyl group of 1d - myo - inositol .
interacting selectively with phosphatidylinositol - 3 , 4 , 5 - triphosphate ,  the triphosphorylated derivative of phosphatidylinositol .
interacting selectively with an odorant ,  any substance capable of stimulating the sense of smell .
interacting selectively with a pheromone ,  a substance ,  or characteristic mixture of substances ,  that is secreted and released by an organism and detected by a second organism of the same or a closely related species ,  in which it causes a specific reaction ,  such as a definite behavioral reaction or a developmental process .
the part of a cell or its extracellular environment in which a gene product is located .
the space external to the outermost structure of a cell .
a highly soluble ,  elongated protein complex found in blood plasma and involved in clot formation .
a layer consisting mainly of proteins  ( especially collagen )  and glycosaminoglycans  ( mostly as proteoglycans )  that forms a sheet underlying or overlying cells such as endothelial and epithelial cells .
a protein complex produced by sequentially activated components of the complement cascade inserted into a target cell membrane and forming a pore leading to cell lysis via ion and water flow .
any of the various assemblies in which collagen chains form a left - handed triple helix ;  may assemble into higher order structures .
a collagen homotrimer of alpha1 ( xv )  chains ;  a chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan often found in specialized basement membranes .
any collagen polymer in which collagen triple helices associate to form fibrils .
a collagen heterotrimer containing two alpha1 ( i )  chains and one alpha2 ( i )  chain ;  type i collagen triple helices associate to form banded fibrils .
a collagen homotrimer of alpha1 ( ii )  chains ;  type ii collagen triple helices associate to form fibrils .
a collagen homotrimer of alpha1 ( iii )  chains ;  type iii collagen triple helices associate to form fibrils .
a collagen heterotrimer containing type iv alpha chains ;   [ alpha1 ( iv )  ] 2alpha2 ( iv )  trimers are commonly observed ,  although more type iv alpha chains exist and may be present in type iv trimers ;  type iv collagen triple helices associate to form nets within basement membranes .
a collagen heterotrimer containing type v alpha chains ;   [ alpha1 ( v )  ] 2alpha2 ( v )  and alpha1 ( v ) alpha2 ( v ) alpha3 ( v )  trimers have been observed ;  type v collagen triple helices associate to form fibrils .
a collagen heterotrimer containing type vi alpha chains in alpha1 ( vi ) alpha2 ( vi ) alpha3 ( vi )  trimers ;  type vi collagen triple helices associate to form beaded fibrils .
a collagen homotrimer of alpha1 ( vii )  chains ;  type vii collagen triple helices form antiparallel dimer ,  which in turn associate laterally to form anchoring fibrils that connect type iv collagen in the basal lamina to plaques in the underlying connective tissue .
a collagen heterotrimer containing type viii alpha chains ;   [ alpha1 ( viii ) 2 ] alpha2 ( viii )  and alpha1 ( viii )  [ alpha2 ( viii )  ] 2 trimers have been observed ;  type viii collagen triple helices associate to form regular hexagonal nets .
a collagen heterotrimer containing type xi alpha chains in alpha1 ( xi ) alpha2 ( xi ) alpha3 ( xi )  trimers ;  type xi collagen triple helices associate to form fibrils .
any collagen polymer associated with collagen fibrils and in which the collagen monomers contain two or more relatively short triple - helical domains connected by non - triple - helical sequences ;  the acronym facit stands for fibril - associated collagen with interrupted triple helix .
a collagen heterotrimer containing type ix alpha chains in alpha1 ( ix ) alpha2 ( ix ) alpha3 ( ix )  trimers ;  type ix collagen triple helices associate to form a structure that links glycosaminoglycans to type ii collagen fibrils .
a collagen homotrimer of alpha1 ( xii )  chains ;  type xii collagen triple helices may link sheet - forming or fibrillar collagens to other structures .
a collagen homotrimer of alpha1 ( xiv )  chains ;  type xiv collagen triple helices may link sheet - forming or fibrillar collagens to other structures .
a collagen trimer containing alpha ( xvi )  chains ;  type xvi trimers can associate with microfibrils .
any assembly of collagen in which the collagen chains are relatively short compared to the fibrillar collagens .
a collagen homotrimer of alpha1 ( xiii )  chains ;  type x collagen triple helices span lipid bilayer membranes .
a protein complex composed of six subunits of c1q ,  each formed of the three homologous polypeptide chains c1qa ,  c1qb ,  and c1qb ,  and tetramer of two c1qr and two c1qs polypeptide chains .
a thin layer of dense material found in various animal tissues interposed between the cells and the adjacent connective tissue .
a thin sheet of proteoglycans and glycoproteins ,  especially laminin ,  secreted by cells as an extracellular matrix .
a laminin complex composed of alpha1 ,  beta1 and gamma1 polypeptide chains .
a laminin complex composed of alpha4 ,  beta1 and gamma1 polypeptide chains .
a laminin complex composed of alpha1 ,  beta2 and gamma1 polypeptide chains .
a laminin complex composed of alpha3 ,  beta3 and gamma2 polypeptide chains .
a type of extracellular matrix found in interstitial connective tissue ,  characterized by the presence of fibronectins ,  proteoglycans ,  and types i ,  iii ,  v ,  vi ,  vii and xii collagens .
that part of a multicellular organism outside the cells proper ,  usually taken to be outside the plasma membranes ,  and occupied by fluid .
the rigid or semi - rigid envelope lying outside the cell membrane of plant ,  fungal ,  and most prokaryotic cells ,  maintaining their shape and protecting them from osmotic lysis .
the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
that fraction of cells ,  prepared by disruptive biochemical methods ,  that includes the plasma and other membranes .
that fraction of cells ,  prepared by disruptive biochemical methods ,  that is soluble in water .
that fraction of cells ,  prepared by disruptive biochemical methods ,  that is not soluble in water .
a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
the double lipid bilayer enclosing the nucleus and separating its contents from the rest of the cytoplasm ;  includes the intermembrane space ,  a gap of width 20 - 40 nm  ( also called the perinuclear space )  .
the inner ,  i .e .lumen - facing ,  lipid bilayer of the nuclear envelope .
any of a group of intermediate - filament proteins that form the fibrous matrix on the inner surface of the nuclear envelope .
located such that some or all of the gene product itself penetrates at least one phospholipid bilayer of the nuclear inner membrane .
the outer ,  i .e .cytoplasm - facing ,  lipid bilayer of the nuclear envelope ;  continuous with the endoplasmic reticulum of the cell and sometimes studded with ribosomes .
the region between the two lipid bilayers of the nuclear envelope ;  20 - 40 nm wide .
stacks of endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  membranes containing a high density of nuclear pores ,  thought to form from excess nuclear membrane components ,  that have been described in a number of different cells .
any of the numerous similar discrete openings in the nuclear envelope of a eukaryotic cell ,  where the inner and outer nuclear membranes are joined .
the fibrous ,  electron - dense layer lying on the nucleoplasmic side of the inner membrane of a cell nucleus ,  composed of lamin filaments .
that part of the nuclear content other than the chromosomes or the nucleolus .
a ribonuclease p complex located in the nucleolus of a eukaryotic cell ,  where it catalyzes the 5' endonucleolytic cleavage of precursor trnas to yield mature trnas .
the y - shaped region of a replicating dna molecule ,  resulting from the separation of the dna strands and in which the synthesis of new strands takes place .
a complex of four polypeptides ,  comprising large and small dna polymerase alpha subunits and two primase subunits ,  which catalyzes the synthesis of an rna primer on the lagging strand of replicating dna ;  the smaller of the two primase subunits alone can catalyze oligoribonucleotide synthesis .
a conserved heterotrimeric complex that binds nonspecifically to single - stranded dna and is required for multiple processes in eukaryotic dna metabolism ,  including dna replication ,  dna repair ,  and recombination .
a complex of five polypeptides in eukaryotes ,  and two in prokaryotes ,  that loads the dna polymerase processivity factor proliferating cell nuclear antigen  ( pcna )  onto dna ,  thereby permitting processive dna synthesis catalyzed by dna polymerase .
a multisubunit complex that is located at the replication origins of a chromosome in the nucleus .
rna polymerase ii ,  one of three nuclear dna - directed rna polymerases found in all eukaryotes ,  is a multisubunit complex ;  typically it produces mrnas ,  snornas ,  and some of the snrnas .
rna polymerase iii ,  one of three nuclear dna - directed rna polymerases found in all eukaryotes ,  is a multisubunit complex ;  typically it produces 5s rrna ,  trnas and some of the small nuclear rnas .
a protein complex ,  distinct from rna polymerase ,  that associates with dna at promoters or at cis - acting regulatory sequences ,  by direct binding or by interaction with other dna - binding polypeptides or complexes ,  and regulates transcription .
a complex composed of tata binding protein  ( tbp )  and tbp associated factors  ( tafs )  ;  the total mass is typically about 800 kda .
a component of the transcription machinery of rna polymerase ii .
a transcription factor which in humans consists of a complex of two alpha and two beta chains .
a general transcription initiation factor which in humans consists of a heterodimer of an alpha and a beta subunit .
a complex that contains kinase activity directed towards the c - terminal domain  ( ctd )  of the largest subunit of rna polymerase ii and is essential for initiation at rna polymerase ii promoters in vitro .
any protein complex that mediates changes in chromatin structure that result in transcriptional silencing .
any protein complex that acts in the formation of nucleosomes or higher order chromatin structure .
a ubiquitin ligase complex that degrades mitotic cyclins and anaphase inhibitory protein ,  thereby triggering sister chromatid separation and exit from mitosis .
a ribonucleoprotein complex ,  containing rna and small nuclear ribonucleoproteins  ( snrnps )  that is assembled during the splicing of messenger rna primary transcript to excise an intron .
ribonucleoprotein complex containing small nuclear rna u5 ;  a component of both the major and minor spliceosome complexes .
the major  ( u2 - dependent )  spliceosome is composed of five snrnp complexes  ( u1 ,  u2 ,  u4 ,  u5 ,  and u6 )  as well as many non - snrnp proteins .
ribonucleoprotein complex containing small nuclear rna u1 ;  a component of the major spliceosome complex .
ribonucleoprotein complex containing small nuclear rna u2 ;  a component of the major spliceosome complex .
ribonucleoprotein complex containing small nuclear rna u6 ;  a component of the major spliceosome complex .
the minor  ( u12 - dependent )  spliceosome is composed of the snrnps ,  u11 ,  u12 ,  u4atac ,  u6atac ,  and u5  ( which is also a component of the major spliceosome )  .
a structure composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins  ( e .g .
telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein enzyme complex ,  with a minimal catalytic core composed of a catalytic reverse transcriptase subunit and an rna subunit that provides the template for telomeric dna addition .
a region at which the centric regions of polytene chromosomes are joined together .
a connection formed between chromatids ,  visible during meiosis ,  thought to be the point of the interchange involved in crossing - over .
the dispersed less dense form of chromatin in the interphase nucleus .
a condensed form of chromatin ,  occurring in the nucleus during interphase ,  that stains strongly with basophilic dyes .
a region of heterochromatin located near the centromere of a chromosome .
heterochromatic regions of the chromosome found at the telomeres of a chromosome in the nucleus .
structures of variable diameter visible in the nucleoplasm by electron microscopy ,  mainly observed near the border of condensed chromatin .
circular dna structures that are not part of a chromosome .
a small ,  dense body one or more of which are present in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells .
a region of a chromosome where nucleoli form during interphase ,  and where genes encoding the largest rrna precursor transcript are tandemly arrayed .
a complex composed of rna of the small nucleolar rna  ( snorna )  and protein ,  found in the nucleolus of a eukaryotic cell .
rna polymerase i ,  one of three nuclear dna - directed rna polymerases found in all eukaryotes ,  is a multisubunit complex ;  typically it produces rrnas .
all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
a semiautonomous ,  self replicating organelle that occurs in varying numbers ,  shapes ,  and sizes in the cytoplasm of virtually all eukaryotic cells .
the double lipid bilayer enclosing the mitochondrion and separating its contents from the cell cytoplasm ;  includes the intermembrane space .
the outer ,  i .e .cytoplasm - facing ,  lipid bilayer of the mitochondrial envelope .
a large complex of the mitochondrial outer membrane that mediates transport of proteins into all mitochondrial compartments .
the inner ,  i .e .lumen - facing ,  lipid bilayer of the mitochondrial envelope .
the protein transport machinery of the mitochondrial inner membrane that contains three essential tim proteins: tim17 and tim23 are thought to build a preprotein translocation channel while tim44 interacts transiently with the matrix heat - shock protein hsp70 to form an atp - driven import motor .
the protein complexes that form the mitochondrial electron transport system  ( the respiratory chain )  ,  associated with the inner mitochondrial membrane .
a protein complex located in the mitochondrial inner membrane that forms part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain .
a protein complex located in the mitochondrial inner membrane that forms part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain .
a protein complex located in the mitochondrial inner membrane that forms part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain .
a protein complex located in the mitochondrial inner membrane that forms part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain .
a proton - transporting atp synthase complex found in the mitochondrial membrane .
the hexamer ,  comprising three alpha and three beta subunits ,  that possesses the catalytic activity of the mitochondrial hydrogen - transporting atp synthase .
the region between the inner and outer lipid bilayers of the mitochondrial envelope .
the gel - like material ,  with considerable fine structure ,  that lies in the matrix space ,  or lumen ,  of a mitochondrion .
a dna polymerase complex consisting of a large subunit ,  responsible for the catalytic activities ,  and a small accessory subunit .
a ribosome found in the mitochondrion of a eukaryotic cell ;  contains a characteristic set of proteins distinct from those of cytosolic ribosomes .
the larger of the two subunits of a mitochondrial ribosome .
the smaller of the two subunits of a mitochondrial ribosome .
a small lytic vacuole that has cell cycle - independent morphology and is found in most animal cells and that contains a variety of hydrolases ,  most of which have their maximal activities in the ph range 5 - 6 .
the lipid bilayer surrounding the lysosome and separating its contents from the cell cytoplasm .
a lysosome before it has fused with a vesicle or vacuole .
a membrane - bounded organelle that carries materials newly ingested by endocytosis .
small irregularly shaped intracellular vesicles to which endocytosed molecules are initially delivered .
a prelysosomal endocytic organelle differentiated from early endosomes by lower lumenal ph and different protein composition .
a type of late endosome in which regions of the limiting endosomal membrane invaginate to form internal vesicles ;  membrane proteins that enter the internal vesicles are sequestered from the cytoplasm .
a closed structure ,  found only in eukaryotic cells ,  that is completely surrounded by unit membrane and contains liquid material .
the lipid bilayer surrounding the vacuole and separating its contents from the cytoplasm of the cell .
the volume enclosed within the vacuolar membrane .
a double - membrane - bounded vesicle in which endogenous cellular material is sequestered ;  known as autophagosome in yeast .
a small ,  membrane - bounded organelle that uses dioxygen  ( o2 )  to oxidize organic molecules ;  contains some enzymes that produce and others that degrade hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a peroxisome .
penetrating at least one phospholipid bilayer of a peroxisomal membrane .
the volume contained within the membranes of a peroxisome ;  in many cells the matrix contains a crystalloid core largely composed of urate oxidase .
the irregular network of unit membranes ,  visible only by electron microscopy ,  that occurs in the cytoplasm of many eukaryotic cells .
a translocation complex that constitutes the specific site of protein translocation across the endoplasmic reticulum ,  which involves the signal recognition particle receptor .
a transmembrane heterodimeric protein located in the membrane of the rough endoplasmic reticulum .
a ribonucleoprotein particle of 325 kda composed of a 7s  ( 300 nucleotide )  rna molecule and a complex of six different polypeptides .
a multi subunit protease complex located in the endoplasmic reticulum membrane that cleaves the signal sequence from precursor proteins following their transport out of the cytoplasmic space .
the volume enclosed by the membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum .
the lipid bilayer surrounding the endoplasmic reticulum .
the smooth endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  has with no ribosomes attached to it .
the rough  ( or granular )  endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  has ribosomes adhering to the outer surface ;  the ribosomes are the site of translation of the mrna for those proteins which are either to be retained within the cisternae  ( er - resident proteins )  ,  the proteins of the lysosomes ,  or the proteins destined for export from the cell .
any of the small ,  heterogeneous ,  artifactual ,  vesicular particles ,  50 - 150 nm in diameter ,  that are formed when some eukaryotic cells are homogenized and that sediment on centrifugation at 100000 g .
a complex system of membrane - bounded compartments located between endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  and the golgi complex ,  with a distinctive membrane protein composition ;  involved in er - to - golgi transport .
a compound membranous cytoplasmic organelle of eukaryotic cells ,  consisting of flattened ,  ribosome - free vesicles arranged in a more or less regular stack .
the set of thin ,  flattened membrane - bounded compartments ,  called cisternae ,  that form the central portion of the golgi complex .
the volume enclosed by the membranes of any cisterna or subcompartment of the golgi apparatus ,  including the cis -  and trans - golgi networks .
the middle golgi cisterna  ( or cisternae )  .
any vesicle associated with the golgi complex and involved in mediating transport within the golgi or between the golgi and other parts of the cell .
the network of interconnected tubular and cisternal structures located at the convex side of the golgi apparatus ,  which abuts the endoplasmic reticulum .
the network of interconnected tubular and cisternal structures located at the side of the golgi apparatus distal to the endoplasmic reticulum ,  from which secretory vesicles emerge .
any particle of coalesced lipids in the cytoplasm of a cell .
a structure comprised of a core structure  ( in most organisms ,  a pair of centrioles )  and peripheral material from which a microtubule - based structure ,  such as a spindle apparatus ,  is organized .
a cellular organelle ,  found close to the nucleus in many eukaryotic cells ,  consisting of a small cylinder with microtubular walls ,  300 - 500 nm long and 150 - 250 nm in diameter .
a region in a eukaryotic cell ,  such as a centrosome or basal body ,  from which microtubules grow .
the microtubule organizing center in fungi ;  functionally homologous to the animal cell centrosome .
the array of microtubules and associated molecules that forms between opposite poles of a eukaryotic cell during mitosis or meiosis and serves to move the duplicated chromosomes apart .
a cytoskeletal structure composed of actin filaments and myosin that forms beneath the plasma membrane of many cells ,  including animal cells and yeast cells ,  in a plane perpendicular to the axis of the spindle ,  i .e .
any of the spindle microtubules that come from each pole and overlap at the spindle midzone .
any of the spindle microtubules that attach to the kinetochores of chromosomes by their plus ends ,  and maneuver the chromosomes during mitotic or meiotic chromosome segregation .
that part of the cytoplasm that does not contain membranous or particulate subcellular components .
a multisubunit ring - shaped complex that mediates protein folding in the cytosol without a cofactor .
an iron - containing ,  oxygen carrying complex .
any of a family of heterotrimeric gtp - binding and hydrolyzing proteins ;  they belong to a superfamily of gtpases that includes monomeric proteins such as ef - tu and ras .
a multisubunit complex ,  which caps one or both ends of the proteasome core complex .
a multisubunit barrel shaped endoprotease complex ,  which is the core of the proteasome complex .
an intracellular organelle ,  about 200 a in diameter ,  consisting of rna and protein .
several ribosomes bound to one mrna .
any protein complex that binds to an mrna cap at any time in the lifetime of the mrna .
a multisubunit complex that binds to the canonical aauaaa hexamer and to u - rich upstream sequence elements on the pre - mrna ,  thereby stimulating the otherwise weakly active and nonspecific polymerase to elongate efficiently rnas containing a poly ( a )  signal .
any macromolecular complex involved in cleavage or polyadenylation of mrna molecules .
complex of three heterogeneous polypeptide chains ,  that form a ternary complex with initiator methionyl - trna and gtp .
a multisubunit guanine nucleotide exchange factor which catalyzes the exchange of gdp bound to initiation factor eif2 for gtp ,  generating active eif2 - gtp .
a complex of several polypeptides that plays at least two important roles in protein synthesis: first ,  eif3 binds to the 40s ribosome and facilitates loading of the met - trna / eif2 .gtp ternary complex to form the 43s preinitiation complex .
a multisubunit nucleotide exchange complex that binds gtp and aminoacyl - trnas ,  and catalyzes their codon - dependent placement at the a - site of the ribosome .
a heterodimeric protein complex that can reversibly bind to ribosomes ,  and is located in direct proximity to newly synthesized polypeptide chains as they emerge from the ribosome .
any of the various filamentous elements that form the internal framework of cells ,  and typically remain after treatment of the cells with mild detergent to remove membrane constituents and soluble components of the cytoplasm .
a dynein complex found in eukaryotic cilia and flagella ;  the motor domain heads interact with adjacent microtubules to generate a sliding force which is converted to a bending motion .
a filament of myosin found in a muscle cell of any type .
a complex of accessory proteins  ( typically troponin t ,  troponin i and troponin c )  found associated with actin in muscle thin filaments ;  involved in calcium regulation of muscle contraction .
a form of the tropomyosin dimer found associated with actin and the troponin complex in muscle thin filaments .
bipolar filaments formed of polymers of a muscle - specific myosin ii isoform ,  found in the middle of sarcomeres in myofibrils .
filaments formed of actin and associated proteins ;  attached to z discs at either end of sarcomeres in myofibrils .
any dynein complex that catalyzes movement along a cytoplasmic microtubule ;  cytoplasmic dynein complexes participates in many transport activities in eukaryotes ,  such as mrna localization ,  intermediate filament transport ,  nuclear envelope breakdown ,  apoptosis ,  transport of centrosomal proteins ,  mitotic spindle assembly ,  virus transport ,  kinetochore functions ,  and movement of signaling and spindle checkpoint proteins .
a 20s multiprotein assembly of total mass about 1 .2 mda that activates dynein - based activity in vivo .
any complex that includes a dimer of molecules from the kinesin superfamily ,  a group of related proteins that contain an extended region of predicted alpha - helical coiled coil in the main chain that likely produces dimerization .
any complex that includes a dimer of molecules from the kinesin superfamily and any associated proteins ,  and moves towards the plus end of a microtubule .
any of the long ,  generally straight ,  hollow tubes of internal diameter 12 - 15 nm and external diameter 24 nm found in a wide variety of eukaryotic cells ;  each consists  ( usually )  of 13 protofilaments of polymeric tubulin ,  staggered in such a manner that the tubulin monomers are arranged in a helical pattern on the microtubular surface ,  and with the alpha / beta axes of the tubulin subunits parallel to the long axis of the tubule ;  exist in equilibrium with pool of tubulin monomers and can be rapidly assembled or disassembled in response to physiological stimuli ;  concerned with force generation ,  e .g .
any multimeric complex connected to a microtubule .
any microtubule that is part of a mitotic or meiotic spindle ;  anchored at one spindle pole .
any microtubule in the cytoplasm of a cell .
a cytoskeletal structure that forms a distinct elongated structure ,  characteristically 10 nm in diameter ,  that occurs in the cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells .
a type of intermediate filament found in the core of neuronal axons .
a filamentous structure formed of a two - stranded helical polymer of the protein actin and associated proteins .
a stable protein complex that contains two actin - related proteins ,  arp2 and arp3 ,  and five novel proteins  ( arpc1 - 5 )  ,  and functions in the nucleation of branched actin filaments .
the membrane surrounding a cell that separates the cell from its external environment .
penetrating at least one phospholipid bilayer of a plasma membrane .
a protein complex that possesses hydrogen:potassium - exchanging atpase activity ;  characterized in animal cells ,  where it maintains ionic gradients of na +  and k +  at the expense of atp hydrolysis ;  the complex contains two obligatory subunits ,  the catalytic alpha subunit and a glycosylated beta subunit ;  two additional subunits ,  gamma and channel - inducing factor  ( chif )  ,  may also be present .
sodium:potassium - exchanging atpases are tetrameric proteins ,  consisting of two large alpha subunits and two smaller beta subunits .
a protein complex that forms a transmembrane channel through which calcium ions may pass in response to changes in membrane potential .
a protein complex that acts as an acetylcholine receptor ,  and forms a transmembrane channel through which ions may pass in response to ligand binding .
a protein complex that binds interleukin - 3 ;  comprises an alpha and a beta subunit .
a hexameric protein complex consisting of two molecules each of interleukin - 6 ,  interleukin - 6 receptor alpha chain ,  and gp - 130 .
a protein complex that binds interleukin - 13 ;  consists of two chains ,  interleukin - 4 receptor alpha chain and interleukin - 4 receptor alpha chain .
a heterodimeric receptor for the cytokine oncostatin - m  ( osm )  .
a small pit ,  depression ,  or invagination ,  such as any of the minute pits or incuppings of the cell membrane formed during pinocytosis ,  that communicates with the outside of a cell and extends inward ,  indenting the cytoplasm and the cell membrane .
thin cylindrical membrane - covered projections on the surface of an animal cell containing a core bundle of actin filaments .
dense covering of microvilli on the apical surface of epithelial cells in tissues such as the intestine ,  kidney ,  and choroid plexus ;  the microvilli aid absorption by increasing the surface area of the cell .
an invagination of the cell membrane of many eukaryotic cells ,  concerned in receptor - mediated selective transport of many proteins and other macromolecules across the cell membrane .
a cell junction that forms a connection between two cells ;  excludes direct cytoplasmic junctions such as ring canals .
a cell junction at which anchoring proteins  ( cadherins or integrins )  extend through the plasma membrane and are attached to actin filaments .
an adherens junction which connects two cells to each other .
a small junction assembled during the cellularization stage of insect embyrogenesis ;  spot adherens junctions later fuse to form the zonula adherens .
a cell - cell adherens junction which forms a continuous belt near the apex of epithelial cells .
a cell - cell junction that contains the transmembrane protein n - cadherin ,  which interacts with identical molecules from neighboring cells to form a tight mechanical intercellular link ;  forms a large portion of the intercalated disc ,  the structure at which myofibrils terminate in cardiomyocytes .
a cell - cell junction that is composed of an array of small channels that permit small molecules to pass from one cell to another .
an assembly of six molecules of connexin ,  made in the golgi apparatus and subsequently transported to the plasma membrane ,  where docking of two connexons on apposed plasma membranes across the extracellular space forms a gap junction .
an occluding cell - cell junction that is composed of a branching network of sealing strands that completely encircles the apical end of each cell in an epithelial sheet ;  the outer leaflets of the two interacting plasma membranes are seen to be tightly apposed where sealing strands are present .
an adherens junction which connects a cell to the extracellular matrix .
small region on the surface of a cell that anchors the cell to the extracellular matrix and that forms a point of termination of actin filaments .
a cell - substrate junction found at the terminal anchorage site of skeletal muscle cells to tendons .
a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
the bundle of microtubules and associated proteins that forms the core of cilia and flagella in eukaryotic cells and is responsible for their movements .
a short cylindrical array of microtubules and associated proteins found at the base of a eukaryotic cilium or flagellum that is similar in structure to a centriole .
the region of a cell that lies just beneath the plasma membrane and often ,  but not always ,  contains a network of actin filaments and associated proteins .
a complex containing a heterodimer of a catalytic subunit and a regulatory  ( adaptor )  subunit of any phosphoinositide 3 - kinase  ( pi3k )  .
a heterodimeric protein complex that possesses 1 - phosphatidylinositol - 4 - phosphate 3 - kinase activity ;  comprises a catalytic class ia phosphoinositide 3 - kinase  ( pi3k )  subunit of 110 - 120 kda and an associated sh2 domain - containing regulatory subunit that is a member of a family of related proteins often called p85 proteins .
a protein complex that possesses 6 - phosphofructokinase activity ;  homodimeric ,  homooctameric ,  and allosteric homotetrameric forms are known .
mitochondrial complex that possesses alpha - ketoglutarate dehydrogenase activity .
an enzyme complex ,  composed of regulatory and catalytic subunits ,  that catalyzes protein phosphorylation .
a heterodimeric enzyme ,  composed of an alpha and a beta subunit .
an enzyme complex which in eukaryotes is composed of four different chains: alpha ,  beta ,  gamma ,  and delta .
a heterodimeric calcium ion and calmodulin dependent protein phosphatase composed of catalytic and regulatory subunits ;  the regulatory subunit is very similar in sequence to calmodulin .
a protein complex that possesses protein serine / threonine kinase activity ,  and is found in nearly every subcellular compartment .
a large protein complex which is involved in the repair of dna double - strand breaks and ,  in mammals ,  v ( d ) j recombination events .
a protein complex that catalyzes the reversible oxidation of glycine .
an enzyme complex that catalyzes the phosphorylation of phosphorylase b to form phosphorylase a .
complex that carries out the oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate to form acetyl - coa in eukaryotes ;  includes subunits possessing three catalytic activities: pyruvate dehydrogenase  ( e1 )  ,  dihydrolipoamide s - acetyltransferase  ( e2 )  ,  and dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase  ( e3 )  .
a heterodimeric enzyme complex ,  which in mammals is composed of an alpha and a beta subunit ,  and which associates with an accessory protein rep  ( rab escort protein )  .
an enzyme complex that catalyzes the formation of hydroxypyruvate and alanine from serine and pyruvate .
an enzyme complex composed of 2 - 4 or more subunits ,  which usually contains nonheme iron and requires atp for catalysis .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving monosaccharides ,  the simplest carbohydrates .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucose ,  the aldohexose gluco - hexose .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving inositol ,  1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 - cyclohexanehexol ,  a growth factor for animals and microorganisms .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of inositol ,  1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 - cyclohexanehexol ,  a growth factor for animals and microorganisms .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving alcohols ,  any of a class of compounds containing one or more hydroxyl groups attached to a saturated carbon atom ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of precursor metabolites ,  substances from which energy is derived ,  and any process involved in the liberation of energy from these substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycolysis .
the phosphorylation of adp to atp that accompanies the oxidation of a metabolite through the operation of the respiratory chain .
the transfer of electrons from nadh to ubiquinone that occurs during oxidative phosphorylation ,  mediated by the multisubunit enzyme known as complex i .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleotides .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna ,  deoxyribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main types of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from one ,  or more commonly ,  two ,  strands of linked deoxyribonucleotides .
the process whereby new strands of dna are synthesized .
the re - formation of a broken phosphodiester bond in the dna backbone ,  carried out by dna ligase .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna replication .
the process of restoring dna after damage .
in base excision repair ,  an altered base is removed by a dna glycosylase enzyme ,  followed by excision of the resulting sugar phosphate .
repair of the damaged strand by the combined action of an apurinic endouclease that degrades a few bases on the damaged strand and a polymerase that synthesizes a 'patch' in the 5' to 3' direction ,  using the undamaged strand as a template .
the ligation by dna ligase of dna strands .
in nucleotide excision repair a small region of the strand surrounding the damage is removed from the dna helix as an oligonucleotide .
the repair of uv - induced t - t ,  c - t and c - c dimers .
the endonucleolytic cleavage of the damaged strand of dna 3' to the site of damage .
the endonucleolytic cleavage of the damaged strand of dna 5' to the site of damage .
repair of the gap in the dna helix by dna polymerase and dna ligase after the portion of the strand containing the lesion has been removed by pyrimidine - dimer repair enzymes .
the repair of double - strand breaks in dna via homologous and nonhomologous mechanisms to reform a continuous dna helix .
the repair of a double - strand break in dna in which the two broken ends are rejoined with little or no sequence complementarity .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of dna ,  deoxyribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main types of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long unbranched macromolecule formed from one or two strands of linked deoxyribonucleotides ,  the 3' - phosphate group of each constituent deoxyribonucleotide being joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage to the 5' - hydroxyl group of the deoxyribose moiety of the next one .
the cleavage of dna during apoptosis ,  which usually occurs in two stages: cleavage into fragments of about 50 kbp followed by cleavage between nucleosomes to yield 200 bp fragments .
any process by which a new genotype is formed by reassortment of genes resulting in gene combinations different from those that were present in the parents .
any process by which dna and associated proteins are formed into a compact ,  orderly structure .
the synthesis of either rna on a template of dna or dna on a template of rna .
the synthesis of rna on a template of dna .
any process involved in the assembly of the rna polymerase complex at the promoter region of a dna template ,  resulting in the subsequent synthesis of rna from that promoter .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna - dependent transcription .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase i promoter .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of global transcription from pol ii promoter .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna ploymerase iii promoter .
the synthesis of rna from a dna template by rna polymerase ii  ( pol ii )  ,  originating at a pol ii - specific promoter .
any process involved in starting transcription from the rna polymerase ii promoter .
the synthesis of dna on a template of rna .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a protein .
the process preceding formation of the peptide bond between the first two amino acids of a protein .
the successive addition of amino acid residues to a nascent polypeptide chain during protein biosynthesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational initiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the translation of certain mrnas involved in iron metabolism ;  regulated by the concentration of iron .
any process that modulates the ability of the translational apparatus to interpret the genetic code .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a protein complex .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  .
the process of introducing a phosphate group on to a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein kinase activity .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by the destruction of the native ,  active configuration ,  with the hydrolysis of peptide bonds .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds ,  initiated by the covalent attachment of a ubiquitin moiety ,  or multiple ubiquitin moieties ,  to the protein .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents ,  and compounds derived from amino acids ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glutamate ,  the anion of 2 - aminopentanedioic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glutamate ,  the anion of 2 - aminopentanedioic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of glutamate ,  the anion of 2 - aminopentanedioic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glutamine ,  2 - amino - 4 - carbamoylbutanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glutamine ,  2 - amino - 4 - carbamoylbutanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of glutamine ,  2 - amino - 4 - carbamoylbutanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving tryptophan ,  the chiral amino acid 2 - amino - 3 -  ( 1h - indol - 3 - yl ) propanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of tryptophan ,  the chiral amino acid 2 - amino - 3 -  ( 1h - indol - 3 - yl ) propanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving tyrosine ,  an aromatic amino acid ,  2 - amino - 3 -  ( 4 - hydroxyphenyl ) propanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving compounds derived from amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a group of naturally occurring ,  biologically active amines ,  such as norepinephrine ,  histamine ,  and serotonin ,  many of which act as neurotransmitters .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any betaine ,  the n - trimethyl derivative of an amino acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any betaine ,  the n - trimethyl derivative of an amino acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ethanolamine  ( 2 - aminoethanol )  ,  an important water - soluble base of phospholipid  ( phosphatidylethanolamine )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of acetylcholine ,  the acetic acid ester of the organic base choline .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a group of physiologically important biogenic amines that possess a catechol  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl )  nucleus and are derivatives of 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylethylamine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of dopamine  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylethylamine )  from l - tyrosine ,  via the metabolic precursor 3 , 4 - dihydroxy - l - phenylalanine  ( l - dopa )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving indolalkylamines ,  indole or indole derivatives containing a primary ,  secondary ,  or tertiary amine group .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation from tryptophan of serotonin  ( 5 - hydroxytryptamine )  ,  a monoamine neurotransmitter occurring in the peripheral and central nervous systems ,  also having hormonal properties .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving creatine  ( n -  ( aminoiminomethyl )  - n - methylglycine )  ,  a compound synthesized from the amino acids arginine ,  glycine ,  and methionine that occurs in muscle .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of creatine  ( n -  ( aminoiminomethyl )  - n - methylglycine )  ,  a compound synthesized from the amino acids arginine ,  glycine ,  and methionine that occurs in muscle .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids ,  aliphatic monocarboxylic acids liberated from naturally occurring fats and oils by hydrolysis .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a fatty acid ,  any of the aliphatic monocarboxylic acids that can be liberated by hydrolysis from naturally occurring fats and oils .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving membrane lipids ,  any lipid found in or associated with a biological membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving phospholipids ,  any lipid containing phosphoric acid as a mono -  or diester .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of phosphatidylethanolamine ,  any of a class of glycerophospholipids in which a phosphatidyl group is esterified to the hydroxyl group of ethanolamine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of platelet activating factor ,  1 - o - alkyl - 2 - acetyl - sn - glycerol 3 - phosphocholine ,  where alkyl = hexadecyl or octadecyl .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycolipids ,  compounds containing  ( usually )  1 - 4 linked monosaccharide residues joined by a glycosyl linkage to a lipid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving sphingolipids ,  any of a class of lipids containing the long - chain amine diol sphingosine or a closely related base  ( a sphingoid )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving sphinganine ,  d - erythro - 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - octadecanediol .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving sphinganine - 1 - phosphate ,  the phosphorylated derivative of d - erythro - 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - octadecanediol .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of sphinganine - 1 - phosphate ,  the phosphorylated derivative of d - erythro - 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - octadecanediol .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving sphingosine  ( sphing - 4 - enine )  ,  trans - d - erytho - 2 - amino - octadec - 4 - ene - 1 , 3 - diol ,  a long chain amino diol sphingoid base that occurs in most sphingolipids in animal tissues .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ceramides ,  any n - acylated sphingoid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycosylceramides ,  any compound formed by the replacement of the glycosidic hydroxyl group of a cyclic form of a monosaccharide  ( or derivative )  by a ceramide group .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucosylceramides ,  any compound formed by the replacement of the glycosidic hydroxyl group of a cyclic form of glucose by a ceramide group .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glucosylceramides ,  any compound formed by the replacement of the glycosidic hydroxyl group of a cyclic form of glucose by a ceramide group .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving sphingomyelin ,  n - acyl - 4 - sphingenyl - 1 - o - phosphorylcholine ,  any of a class of phospholipids in which the amino group of sphingosine is in amide linkage with one of several fatty acids ,  while the terminal hydroxyl group of sphingosine is esterified to phosphorylcholine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of sphingomyelin ,  n - acyl - 4 - sphingenyl - 1 - o - phosphorylcholine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of sphingomyelin ,  n - acyl - 4 - sphingenyl - 1 - o - phosphorylcholine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycosphingolipids ,  any compound with residues of sphingoid and at least one monosaccharide .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycosphingolipid ,  a compound with residues of sphingoid and at least one monosaccharide .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving icosanoids ,  any of a group of c20 polyunsaturated fatty acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving leukotriene ,  a pharmacologically active substance derived from a polyunsaturated fatty acid ,  such as arachidonic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aromatic compounds ,  any organic compound characterized by one or more planar rings ,  each of which contains conjugated double bonds and delocalized pi electrons ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving vitamins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a diverse group of vitamins that are soluble in water .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving of any of a diverse group of vitamins that are soluble in organic solvents and relatively insoluble in water .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element sulfur or compounds that contain sulfur ,  such as the amino acids methionine and cysteine or the tripeptide glutathione .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element phosphorus or compounds that contain phosphorus ,  usually in the form of a phosphate group  ( po4 )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the phosphate group ,  the anion or salt of any phosphoric acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving dioxygen  ( o2 )  ,  or any of the reactive oxygen species ,  e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving superoxide ,  the superoxide anion o2 -   ( superoxide free radical )  ,  or any compound containing this species .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving various organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds ;  includes nitrogen fixation ,  nitrification ,  denitrification ,  assimilatory / dissimilatory nitrate reduction and the interconversion of nitrogenous organic matter and ammonium .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nitric oxide ,  nitrogen monoxide  ( no )  ,  a colorless gas only slightly soluble in water .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism .
the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of serotonin into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents ,  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of ions at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of calcium ions at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of metal ions at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of hydrogen ions ,  thereby modulating the internal ph ,  within an organism or cell .
the directed movement of proteins in a cell ,  including the movement of proteins between specific compartments or structures within a cell ,  such as organelles of a eukaryotic cell .
a process of secretion by a cell that results in the release of intracellular molecules  ( e .g .
a type of vesicle - mediated transport in which cells take up external materials or membrane constituents by the invagination of small region of the plasma membrane to form a new membrane - bounded vesicle .
the uptake of external materials by cells ,  utilizing receptors to ensure specificity of transport .
a protein coat is added to the vesicle to form the proper shape of the vesicle and to target the vesicle for transport to its destination .
the process whereby phagocytes engulf external particulate material .
the initial step in phagocytosis involving adhesion to bacteria ,  immune complexes and other particulate matter ,  or an apoptotic cell and based on recognition of factors such as bacterial cell wall components ,  opsonins like complement and antibody or protein receptors and lipids like phosphatidyl serine ,  and leading to intracellular signaling in the phagocytosing cell .
the internalization of bacteria ,  immune complexes and other particulate matter or of an apoptotic cell by phagocytosis ,  including the membrane and cytoskeletal processes required ,  which involves one of three mechanisms: zippering of pseudopods around a target via repeated receptor - ligand interactions ,  sinking of the target directly into plasma membrane of the phagocytosing cell ,  or induced uptake via an enhanced membrane ruffling of the phagocytosing cell similar to macropinocytosis .
the process by which cells digest parts of their own cytoplasm ;  allows for both recycling of macromolecular constituents under conditions of cellular stress and remodeling the intracellular structure for cell differentiation .
a form of programmed cell death characterized by rounding - up of the cell ,  retraction of pseudopodes ,  reduction of cellular volume  ( pyknosis )  ,  chromatin condensation ,  nuclear fragmentation  ( karyorrhexis )  ,  classically little or no ultrastructural modifications of cytoplasmic organelles ,  plasma membrane blebbing  ( but maintenance of its integrity until the final stages of the process )  and engulfment by resident phagocytes .
a process which directly inhibits any of the steps required for cell death by apoptosis .
a process that directly activates any of the steps required for cell death by apoptosis .
upregulation of the activity of a caspase ,  any of a group of cysteine proteases involved in apoptosis .
the breakdown of structures such as organelles ,  proteins ,  or other macromolecular structures during apoptosis .
a type of t cell apoptosis that occurs towards the end of the expansion phase following the initial activation of mature t cells by antigen and is triggered by t cell receptor stimulation and signals transmitted via various surface - expressed members of the tnf receptor family such as fas ,  fas ligand ,  and tnf and the p55 and p75 tnf receptors .
the process of apoptosis in inflammatory cells ,  any cell participating in the inflammatory response to a foreign substance e .g .
the process of apoptosis in cells infected with a virus .
the process of apoptosis in transformed cells ,  cells that have undergone changes manifested by escape from control mechanisms ,  increased growth potential ,  alterations in the cell surface ,  karyotypic abnormalities ,  morphological and biochemical deviations from the norm .
any process involved in the controlled movement of a cell .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism ,  or the directed growth of a cell guided by a specific chemical concentration gradient .
the joining of two lipid bilayers to form a single membrane .
the process of syncytia - forming cell - cell fusion ,  caused by a virus .
the formation of a syncytium ,  a mass of cytoplasm containing several nuclei enclosed within a single plasma membrane .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
reactions ,  triggered in response to the presence of a foreign body or the occurrence of an injury ,  which result in restriction of damage to the organism attacked or prevention / recovery from the infection caused by the attack .
process involving non - antibody proteins whose concentrations in the plasma increase in response to infection or injury of homeothermic animals .
the immediate defensive reaction  ( by vertebrate tissue )  to infection or injury caused by chemical or physical agents .
any immune system process that functions in the calibrated response of an organism to a potential internal or invasive threat .
any process involved in the activation of any of the steps of the complement cascade ,  which allows for the direct killing of microbes ,  the disposal of immune complexes ,  and the regulation of other immune processes ;  the initial steps of complement activation involve one of three pathways ,  the classical pathway ,  the alternative pathway ,  and the lectin pathway ,  all of which lead to the terminal complement pathway .
any process involved in the activation of any of the steps of the alternative pathway of the complement cascade which allows for the direct killing of microbes and the regulation of other immune processes .
any process involved in the activation of any of the steps of the classical pathway of the complement cascade which allows for the direct killing of microbes ,  the disposal of immune complexes ,  and the regulation of other immune processes .
an immune response mediated through a body fluid .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antibacterial peptide biosynthesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of biosynthesis of antibacterial peptides active against gram - positive bacteria .
a defense response that is mediated by cells .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any series of molecular signals that conveys information from the endoplasmic reticulum to the nucleus ,  usually resulting in a change in transcriptional regulation .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle within a cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the nucleus .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion ;  includes mitochondrial morphology and distribution ,  and replication of the mitochondrial genome as well as synthesis of new mitochondrial components .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the plasma membrane .
any cellular process that depends upon or alters the microtubule cytoskeleton ,  that part of the cytoskeleton comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
movement of organelles ,  other microtubules and other particles along microtubules ,  mediated by motor proteins .
any process that reduces the ph of the lysosomal lumen ,  measured by the concentration of the hydrogen ion .
the process by which the cell cycle is halted during one of the normal phases  ( g1 ,  s ,  g2 ,  m )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitosis .
passage through a cell cycle control point late in g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle just before entry into s phase ;  in most organisms studied ,  including budding yeast and animal cells ,  passage through start normally commits the cell to progressing through the entire cell cycle .
a signal transduction - based surveillance mechanism that ensures accurate chromosome replication and segregation by preventing progression through a mitotic cell cycle until conditions are suitable for the cell to proceed to the next stage .
a signal transduction - based surveillance mechanism that acts during a mitotic cell cycle to ensure accurate chromosome segregation by preventing entry into mitosis in the presence of damaged dna .
any process involved in the progression from anaphase / telophase to g1 that is associated with a conversion from high to low mitotic cdk activity .
the process involved in starting cell separation .
a cell cycle process comprising the steps by which a cell progresses through the nuclear division phase of a meiotic cell cycle ,  the specialized nuclear and cell division in which a single diploid cell undergoes two nuclear divisions following a single round of dna replication in order to produce four daughter cells that contain half the number of chromosomes as the diploid cell .
any process that mediates interactions between a cell and its surroundings .
the attachment of a cell ,  either to another cell or to an underlying substrate such as the extracellular matrix ,  via cell adhesion molecules .
the attachment of a neuron to another cell via adhesion molecules .
the attachment of a leukocyte to another cell via adhesion molecules .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of anisotropic intracellular organization or cell growth patterns .
the cascade of processes by which a signal interacts with a receptor ,  causing a change in the level or activity of a second messenger or other downstream target ,  and ultimately effecting a change in the functioning of the cell .
any series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to a receptor on the surface of the target cell .
any series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to a receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  where the receptor possesses catalytic activity or is closely associated with an enzyme such as a protein kinase .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a transmembrane receptor tyrosine kinase binding to its physiological ligand .
any process that initiates the activity of the inactive transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinase activity .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of an epidermal growth factor receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of egf receptor activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of egf receptor activity .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a transmembrane receptor serine / threonine kinase binding to its physiological ligand .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a transforming growth factor beta receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a ligand - bound type ii transforming growth factor beta  ( tgf - beta )  receptor dimer with a type i tgf - beta receptor dimer ,  following ligand binding ,  to form a heterotetrameric tgf - beta receptor complex .
the process of introducing a phosphate group on to a common - partner smad protein .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a protein complex that contains smad proteins .
the vectorial transfer of a smad proteins from the cytoplasm into the nucleus ,  through the nuclear pore .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a g - protein coupled receptor binding to its physiological ligand .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a g - protein coupled receptor binding to its physiological ligand ,  followed by modulation of a nucleotide cyclase activity and a subsequent change in the concentration of a cyclic nucleotide .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a g - protein coupled receptor binding to its physiological ligand ,  followed by modulation of adenylyl cyclase activity and a subsequent change in the concentration of cyclic amp .
any process that initiates the activity of an inactive adenylate cyclase that is an integral part of the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a g - protein coupled receptor binding to its physiological ligand ,  resulting in a subsequent change in the concentration of cyclic amp .
any process that initiates the activity of the inactive enzyme adenylate cyclase .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a dopamine receptor binding to its physiological ligand ,  followed by activation of adenylyl cyclase and a subsequent increase in the concentration of cyclic amp .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a serotonin receptor binding to its physiological ligand ,  followed by activation of adenylyl cyclase and a subsequent increase in the concentration of cyclic amp .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a g - protein coupled receptor binding to its physiological ligand ,  followed by inhibition of adenylyl cyclase and a subsequent decrease in the concentration of cyclic amp .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of adenylate cyclase activity .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a dopamine receptor binding to its physiological ligand ,  followed by inhibition of adenylyl cyclase and a subsequent decrease in the concentration of cyclic amp .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a metabotropic glutamate receptor binding to its physiological ligand ,  followed by inhibition of adenylyl cyclase and a subsequent decrease in the concentration of cyclic amp .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor binding to its physiological ligand ,  followed by inhibition of adenylyl cyclase and a subsequent decrease in the concentration of cyclic amp .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a g - protein coupled receptor binding to its physiological ligand ,  followed by the activation of phospholipase c and the subsequent release of inositol trisphosphate .
the initiation of the activity of the inactive enzyme phospolipase c as the result of a series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a g - protein coupled receptor binding to its physiological ligand .
any process that increases the concentration of calcium ions in the cytosol .
the initiation of the activity of the inactive enzyme protein kinase c as the result of a series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a g - protein coupled receptor binding to its physiological ligand .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a metabotropic glutamate receptor binding to its physiological ligand ,  followed by the activation of phospholipase c and the subsequent release of inositol trisphosphate .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor binding to its physiological ligand ,  followed by the activation of phospholipase c and the subsequent release of inositol trisphosphate .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a serotonin receptor binding to its physiological ligand ,  followed by the activation of phospholipase c and the subsequent release of inositol trisphosphate .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a serotonin receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a dopamine receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands ;  muscarinic acetylcholine receptors activate inhibitory g proteins and can be activated by the fungal alkaloid muscarine .
the series of molecular signals generated by the binding of gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba ,  4 - aminobutyrate )  ,  an amino acid which acts as a neurotransmitter in some organisms ,  to a cell surface receptor .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of glutamate binding to a cell surface receptor .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of glutamate binding to a cell surface receptor coupled to effectors through gtp - binding proteins .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a tachykinin ,  i .e .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a peptide neurotransmitter binding to a cell surface receptor .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of an extracellular ligand to a notch receptor on the surface of the target cell .
the series of successive proteolytic cleavage events that take place after a notch receptor binds a ligand ,  and which lead to the release of the notch intracellular domain  ( nicd )  ,  which is the active form of the receptor .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of activation of the transmembrane protein smoothened .
any process that increases the activity of a transcription factor that activates transcription of hedgehog - target genes in response to smoothened signaling .
any series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of an integrin binding to one of its physiological ligands .
a series of reactions within the cell that occur as a result of a single trigger reaction or compound .
a series of reactions ,  mediated by protein kinases ,  which occurs as a result of a single trigger reaction or compound .
a series of reactions initiated by the activation of the transcription factor nf - kappab .
the stimulation of the activity of nf - kappab - inducing kinase through phosphorylation at specific residues .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into an i - kappab protein .
the selective interaction of the transcription factor nf - kappab with specific molecules in the cytoplasm ,  thereby inhibiting its translocation into the nucleus .
a cascade of protein kinase activities ,  culminating in the phosphorylation and activation of a member of the jun kinase subfamily of stress - activated protein kinases ,  which in turn are a subfamily of mitogen - activated protein  ( map )  kinases that is activated primarily by cytokines and exposure to environmental stress .
the initiation of the activity of the inactive enzyme jun kinase kinase  ( jnkk )  activity in response to phosphorylation by a member of the jun kinase kinase kinase  ( jnkkk )  family ,  or another upstream kinase .
the initiation of the activity of the inactive enzyme jun kinase by phosphorylation by a jun kinase kinase  ( jnkk )  .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into a jun protein .
any process by which stat proteins  ( signal transducers and activators of transcription )  are activated by members of the jak  ( janus activated kinase )  family of tyrosine kinases ,  following the binding of cytokines to their cognate receptor .
the process of introducing a phosphate group to a tyrosine residue of a stat  ( signal transducer and activator of transcription )  protein .
the transport of dimerized stat  ( signal transducers and activators of transcription )  proteins into the nucleus following activation by members of the janus activated kinase  ( jak )  family of tyrosine kinases .
a series of molecular signals mediated by the detection of nitric oxide  ( no )  .
any series of molecular signals in which a small monomeric gtpase relays one or more of the signals .
a series of molecular signals within the cell that are mediated by a member of the ras superfamily of proteins switching to a gtp - bound active state .
a series of molecular signals within the cell that are mediated by a member of the rho family of proteins switching to a gtp - bound active state .
any process that mediates the transfer of information from one cell to another .
the process of communication from a neuron to a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  across a synapse .
the regulated release of neurotransmitter into the synaptic cleft .
the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse .
the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter acetylcholine .
the process whereby glial cells envelop neuronal cell bodies and / or axons to form an insulating layer .
the process of communication from a neuron to a muscle ,  across a synapse .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progress through the mitotic cell cycle .
any developmental process that results in the creation of defined areas or spaces within an organism to which cells respond and eventually are instructed to differentiate .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the ectoderm over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of nervous tissue over time ,  from its formation to its mature state .
process by which a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into a neuroblast cell regardless of its environment ;  upon determination ,  the cell fate cannot be reversed .
process by which a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into a ganglion mother cell regardless of its environment ;  upon determination ,  the cell fate cannot be reversed .
process by which a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into a glial cell regardless of its environment ;  upon determination ,  the cell fate cannot be reversed .
the expansion of a neuroblast population by cell division .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the proliferation of neuroblasts .
generation of a long process of a neuron ,  that carries efferent  ( outgoing )  action potentials from the cell body towards target cells .
the process by which the migration of an axon growth cone is directed to a specific target site in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
the process by which an axon recognizes and binds to a set of cells with which it may form stable connections .
the collection of axons into a bundle of rods ,  known as a fascicle .
the biosynthesis of a synapse .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the central nervous system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the ventral midline over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the brain over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the peripheral nervous system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of sensory organs over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process by which the anatomical structures of the salivary gland are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the muscle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a process whereby non - proliferating myoblasts fuse to existing fibers or to myotubes to form new fibers .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the neuromuscular junction over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the biological process by which a synapse between a motor neuron and a muscle is initially formed .
the inherent decline over time ,  from the optimal fertility and viability of early maturity ,  that may precede death and may be preceded by other indications ,  such as sterility .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the controlled release of a fluid by a cell or group of cells in a multicellular organism .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a visual stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the sequence of reactions within a cell required to convert absorbed photons into a molecular signal .
the sequence of reactions within a cell required to convert absorbed photons from visible light into a molecular signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive an auditory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory chemical stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive an olfactory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli .
the acquisition and processing of information and / or the storage and retrieval of this information over time .
any process in an organism in which a relatively long - lasting adaptive behavioral change occurs as the result of experience .
the activities involved in the mental information processing system that receives  ( registers )  ,  modifies ,  stores ,  and retrieves informational stimuli .
the activities involved in the mental information processing system that deals with the storage ,  retrieval and modification of information received a short time  ( up to about 30 minutes )  ago .
the activities involved in the mental information processing system that deals with the storage ,  retrieval and modification of information a long time  ( typically weeks ,  months or years )  after receiving that information .
the behavioral interactions between organisms for the purpose of mating ,  or sexual reproduction resulting in the formation of zygotes .
the specific actions or reactions of an organism that recur with measured regularity .
any biological process in an organism that recurs with a regularity of approximately 24 hours .
the specific actions or reactions of an organism that recur with a regularity more frequent than every 24 hours .
the specific actions or reactions of an organism relating to grooming ,  cleaning and brushing to remove dirt and parasites .
the specific movement from place to place of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli .
the actions or reactions of an adult relating to the progression of that organism along the ground by the process of lifting and setting down each leg .
behavior associated with the intake of food .
the actions or reactions of an organism in response to a visual stimulus .
behavior that is dependent upon the sensation of chemicals .
behavior that is dependent upon the sensation of a mechanical stimulus .
the function of a family of chemotactic pro - inflammatory activation - inducible cytokines acting primarily upon hemopoietic cells in immunoregulatory processes ;  all chemokines possess a number of conserved cysteine residues involved in intramolecular disulfide bond formation .
interacting selectively with the beta subunit of the catenin complex .
the flow of blood through the body of an animal ,  enabling the transport of o2 and nutrients to the tissues and the removal of waste products .
interacting selectively with microtubules ,  filaments composed of tubulin monomers .
a g - protein coupled receptor that responds to incidental electromagnetic radiation ,  particularly visible light .
a secretory organelle ,  some 50 nm in diameter ,  of presynaptic nerve terminals ;  accumulates in high concentrations of neurotransmitters and is secreted these into the synaptic cleft by fusion with the 'active zone' of the presynaptic plasma membrane .
any protein complex that interacts with rna polymerase ii to increase  ( positive transcription elongation factor )  or reduce  ( negative transcription elongation factor )  the rate of transcription elongation .
catalysis of the transfer of monocarboxylic acids from one side of the membrane to the other .
the process by which a cell in a multicellular organism interprets its surroundings .
the process by which a neuronal cell in a multicellular organism interprets its surroundings .
a ferritin complex located in the cell .
the process by which the migration of an axon growth cone of a motor neuron is directed to a specific target site in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
increases the activity of an enzyme .
the actions or reactions of a male ,  for the purpose of attracting a sexual partner .
the actions or reactions of a female ,  for the purpose of attracting a sexual partner .
the process by which boundaries between a sensory organ and the surrounding tissue are established and maintained .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of cyclins ,  proteins whose levels in a cell varies markedly during the cell cycle ,  and which play key roles in regulating cell cycle phase transitions .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a ligand to an extracellular ligand to the toll receptor on the surface of the target cell .
the establishment of the barrier between the perineurium of peripheral nerves and the vascular endothelium of endoneurial capillaries .
combining with glutamate to initiate a change in cell activity .
complex that possesses guanylate cyclase activity and is not bound to a membrane .
a protein complex that forms a transmembrane channel through which potassium ions may cross a cell membrane in response to changes in membrane potential .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a phosphodiester to give a phosphomonoester and a free hydroxyl group .
the function that stimulates a cell to grow or proliferate .
the directed movement of organelles or molecules along microtubules in nerve cell axons .
the directed movement of organelles or molecules along microtubules from the cell body toward the cell periphery in nerve cell axons .
the directed movement of organelles or molecules along microtubules from the cell periphery toward the cell body in nerve cell axons .
membrane associated dimeric protein  ( 240 and 220 kda )  of erythrocytes .
interacting selectively with any protein component of any cytoskeleton  ( actin ,  microtubule ,  or intermediate filament cytoskeleton )  .
combining with inositol - 1 , 4 , 5 - triphosphate to initiate a change in cell activity .
catalysis of the reaction:  ( 5z , 13e )  -  ( 15s )  - 9 - alpha , 11 - alpha - epidioxy - 15 - hydroxyprosta - 5 , 13 - dienoate =  ( 5z , 13e )  -  ( 15s )  - 6 , 9 - alpha - epoxy - 11 - alpha , 15 - dihydroxyprosta - 5 , 13 - dienoate .
interacting selectively with a transcription factor ,  any protein required to initiate or regulate transcription .
functions during translation by binding nucleic acids during polypeptide synthesis at the ribosome .
catalysis of the reaction: protein serine / threonine / tyrosine phosphate  +  h2o = protein serine / threonine / tyrosine  +  phosphate .
interacting selectively with oxysterol ,  an oxidized form of cholesterol .
interacting selectively with a drug ,  any naturally occurring or synthetic substance ,  other than a nutrient ,  that ,  when administered or applied to an organism ,  affects the structure or functioning of the organism ;  in particular ,  any such substance used in the diagnosis ,  prevention ,  or treatment of disease .
catalysis of the transfer of a sulfate group from 3' - phosphoadenosine 5' - phosphosulfate to the hydroxyl group of an acceptor ,  producing the sulfated derivative and 3' - phosphoadenosine 5' - phosphate .
any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells ,  tissues ,  organs ,  and organisms .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
interacting selectively with the enzyme protein phosphatase 1 .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group to an acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group to the nitrogen atom of an acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group to the oxygen atom of an acceptor molecule .
a protein complex that catalyzes the deneddylation of proteins ,  including the cullin component of scf ubiquitin e3 ligase ;  deneddylation increases the activity of cullin family ubiquitin ligases .
combining with a neuropeptide to initiate a change in cell activity .
catalysis of the transfer of a glycosyl group from a udp - sugar to a small hydrophobic molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
the process that modulates the force with which blood travels through the circulatory system .
the specific activation or halting of processes within a cell so that its vital functions markedly cease ,  rather than simply deteriorating gradually over time ,  which culminates in cell death .
combining with a biogenic amine to initiate a change in cell activity .
the process by which a microorganism  ( or other particulate material )  is rendered more susceptible to phagocytosis by coating with an opsonin ,  a blood serum protein such as a complement component or antibody .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile .
an enzyme complex composed of two catalytic alpha subunits ,  which form a catalytic dimer ,  and a non - catalytic ,  regulatory beta subunit ;  the catalytic dimer may be an alpha1 / alpha1 or alpha2 / alpha2 homodimer ,  or an alpha1 / alpha2 heterodimer .
a protein complex that is found in the endoplasmic reticulum membrane of eukaryotes and transfers lipid - linked oligosaccharide precursor to asparagine residues on nascent proteins .
movement of the anterior ectoderm to the interior of the embryo .
interacting selectively with a sequence of uracil residues in an rna molecule .
the binding activity of a molecule that brings together a molecule of the jak signal transduction pathway and one or more other molecules of the pathway ,  permitting them to function in a coordinated way .
a multiprotein complex composed of gamma - tubulin other non - tubulin proteins that forms a flexible open ring structure thought to be the unit of nucleation at the minus end of a microtubule .
a complex usually comprising two gamma - tubulin molecules and two conserved non - tubulin proteins .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group  ( ch3 -  )  to a protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of g - protein coupled receptor protein signaling pathway activity .
a protein complex required for sister chromatid cohesion in eukaryotes .
the core heterodimer of a cohesin complex ;  a structure required for sister chromatid cohesion in eukaryotes .
a protein complex that comprises four pore - forming  ( kir6 .x )  and four regulatory sulphonylurea receptor  ( surx )  subunits and forms a transmembrane channel through which ions may pass .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of cell proliferation .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of the insulin receptor binding to insulin .
a complex ,  normally consisting of a catalytic and a regulatory subunit ,  which catalyzes the removal of a phosphate group from a serine or threonine residue of a protein .
interacting selectively with a lipid .
a heterodimer consisting of alpha and a beta subunits that binds to and caps the barbed ends of actin filaments ,  thereby regulating the polymerization of actin monomers but not severing actin filaments .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving acetylcholine ,  the acetic acid ester of the organic base choline .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of acetylcholine ,  the acetic acid ester of the organic base choline .
a cytosolic endopeptidase with specificity for the hydrolysis of aspartyl bonds .
a protein complex that is composed of one alpha subunit and one beta subunit ,  both of which are members of the integrin superfamily of cell adhesion receptors ;  the complex spans the plasma membrane and binds to extracellular matrix ligands ,  cell - surface ligands ,  and soluble ligands .
learning by associating a stimulus  ( the cause )  with a particular outcome  ( the effect )  .
catalysis of the transmembrane transfer of an anion by a voltage - gated channel .
catalysis of the transfer of cation from one side of the membrane to the other .
a multimeric assembly of four or five subunits which form a structure with an extracellular n - terminus and a large loop that together form the ligand binding domain .
combining with a molecular pattern based on a repeating or polymeric structure ,  such as a polysaccharide or peptidoglycan ,  to initiate a change in cell activity .
catalysis of the transmembrane transfer of a calcium ion by a high voltage - gated channel .
catalysis of the transmembrane transfer of a calcium ion by a low voltage - gated channel .
catalysis of the reaction: 4 - trimethylammoniobutanoate  +  2 - oxoglutarate  +  o2 = 3 - hydroxy - 4 - trimethylammoniobutanoate  +  succinate  +  co2 .
feeding behavior in a fully developed and mature organism .
locomotory behavior in a fully developed and mature organism .
the orderly movement of glial cells ,  non - neuronal cells that provide support and nutrition ,  maintain homeostasis ,  form myelin ,  and participate in signal transmission in the nervous system .
a complex possessing an activity that couples atp hydrolysis to the severing of microtubules ;  usually a heterodimer comprising a catalytic subunit  ( often 60kda )  and a regulatory subunit  ( often 80 kda )  .
any process in an organism in which a relatively long - lasting adaptive behavioral change occurs in response to  ( repeated )  exposure to an olfactory cue .
any process by which the axon of a neuron is insulated ,  and that insulation maintained ,  thereby preventing dispersion of the electrical signal .
interacting selectively with any part of a bacterial cell .
interacting selectively with any part of a gram - negative bacterial cell .
catalysis of the formation of sialylglycoconjugates via transfer of the sialic acid group from cmp to one of several glycoconjugate acceptors .
catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group to an oxygen atom on the acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of a galactosyl group to an acceptor molecule ,  typically another carbohydrate or a lipid .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  ikappab protein = adp  +  ikappab phosphoprotein .
a protein serine / threonine kinase that phosphorylates ikappab ,  thereby targeting this for proteasomal degradation and allowing the nuclear translocation of kb .
catalysis of the generalized reaction: acyl - carrier  +  reactant = acyl - reactant  +  carrier .
stops ,  prevents or reduces the activity of protein kinase c ,  an enzyme which phosphorylates a protein .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  1d - myo - inositol 1 , 4 , 5 - trisphosphate = adp  +  1d - myo - inositol 1 , 3 , 4 , 5 - tetrakisphosphate .
combining with benzodiazepines ,  a class of drugs with hypnotic ,  anxiolytic ,  anticonvulsive ,  amnestic and myorelaxant properties ,  to initiate a change in cell activity .
catalysis of the transfer of monoamines ,  organic compounds that contain one amino group that is connected to an aromatic ring by an ethylene group  (  - ch2 - ch2 -  )  ,  from one side of the membrane to the other .
catalysis of the transfer of a negatively charged ion from one side of a membrane to the other .
combining with soluble compounds to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with an extracellular or intracellular peptide to initiate a g - protein mediated change in cell activity .
a multisubunit complex that activates the hydrolysis of small nonubiquitinated peptides by binding to the proteasome core complex .
any process in an organism in which a change in behavior of an individual in response to repeated exposure to a visual cue .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a fibroblast growth factor receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the epidermis over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic growth at neuromuscular junctions .
the release of nf - kappab from specific molecules in the cytoplasm to which it was bound ,  thereby allowing its translocation into the nucleus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of smoothened signaling .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the tl signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the notch signaling pathway .
morphogenesis of photoreceptors ,  sensory cells that react to the presence of light .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
a heterotetrameric dna polymerase complex that catalyzes processive dna synthesis in the absence of pcna ,  but is further stimulated in the presence of pcna .
a multisubunit complex that uses atp to increase the general accessibility of dna in chromatin .
any process induced by extracellular signals that directly activates any of the steps required for cell death by apoptosis .
any process induced by hormones that directly activates any of the steps required for cell death by apoptosis .
any process induced by intracellular signals that directly activates any of the steps required for cell death by apoptosis .
a cascade of processes initiated by the detection of dna damage and resulting in the induction of apoptosis  ( programmed cell death )  .
the activation ,  by oxidative stress ,  of any of the steps required for cell death by apoptosis .
the intracellular signaling cascade that results when a cell is triggered to undergo apoptosis .
the conversion of proteins that induce or sustain apoptosis to an active form .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of survival gene product expression ;  survival gene products are those that antagonize the apoptotic program .
upregulation of the activity of a caspase ,  any of a group of cysteine proteases involved in apoptosis ,  mediated by cytochrome c .
the morphological and physiological alterations undergone by mitochondria during apoptosis .
catalysis of the activation of small proteins ,  such as ubiquitin or ubiquitin - like proteins ,  through the formation of an atp - dependent high - energy thiolester bond .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of phospholipids ,  any lipid containing phosphoric acid as a mono -  or diester .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group from s - adenosyl - l - methionine to a substrate .
catalysis of the reaction: phosphatidylcholine  +  h2o = 2 - acylglycerophosphocholine  +  a carboxylate .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  including the breakdown of carbon compounds with the liberation of energy for use by the cell or organism .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ;  typically the energy - requiring part of metabolism in which simpler substances are transformed into more complex ones .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a fatty acid ,  any of the aliphatic monocarboxylic acids that can be liberated by hydrolysis from naturally occurring fats and oils .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids of the glutamine family ,  comprising arginine ,  glutamate ,  glutamine and proline .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of amino acids of the glutamine family ,  comprising arginine ,  glutamate ,  glutamine and proline .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aromatic amino acid family ,  amino acids with aromatic ring  ( phenylalanine ,  tyrosine ,  tryptophan )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of aromatic amino acid family ,  amino acids with aromatic ring  ( phenylalanine ,  tyrosine ,  tryptophan )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of amino acids of the glutamine family ,  comprising arginine ,  glutamate ,  glutamine and proline .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycolipid ,  a compound containing  ( usually )  1 - 4 linked monosaccharide residues joined by a glycosyl linkage to a lipid .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a protective structure outside the cytoplasmic membrane composed of peptidoglycan ,  a molecule made up of a glycan  ( sugar )  backbone of repetitively alternating n - acetylglucosamine and n - acetylmuramic acid with short ,  attached ,  cross - linked peptide chains containing unusual amino acids ;  also called murein .
a motor complex composed of an extracellular helical protein filament coupled to a rotary motor embedded in the cell envelope .
the controlled release of proteins from a cell or group of cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a protein complex that catalyzes the first step in long - chain fatty acid biosynthesis .
a protein complex that possesses phosphoribosylaminoimidazole carboxylase activity .
complex that possesses dna topoisomerase  ( atp - hydrolyzing )  activity .
an enzyme complex that catalyzes the dehydrogenation of sn - glycerol 3 - phosphate to form glycerone phosphate .
an enzyme complex that catalyzes the formation adenylylsulfate from sulfate and atp .
a multimeric enzyme complex that in e . coli is a heterooctamer made up of four alpha subunits and four beta subunits .
citrate lyase is a multienzyme complex with three constituents: the alpha subunit ,  citrate - acp transferase ;  the beta subunit ,  citryl - acp lyase ;  and the gamma subunit ,  an acyl - carrier protein which also carries the prosthetic group components .
an enzyme complex that catalyzes the transfer of a carbamoyl to ornithine ,  forming citrulline .
a dna polymerase complex that contains two complexes of the catalytic alpha ,  beta ,  delta and epsilon polymerase / exonuclease subunits ,  plus the dnax complex ,  a heptamer that includes the tau and gamma products of the dnax gene and confers structural asymmetry that allows the polymerase to replicate both leading and lagging strands .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of phospholipids ,  any lipid containing phosphoric acid as a mono -  or diester .
the set of specific processes that generate the ability of an organism to cause disease in another .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a long ,  whiplike protrusion from the surface of a eukaryotic cell ,  whose undulations drive the cell through a liquid medium ;  similar in structure to a cilium .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycolate ,  the anion of hydroxyethanoic acid  ( glycolic acid )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba ,  4 - aminobutyrate )  ,  an amino acid which acts as a neurotransmitter in some organisms .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba ,  4 - aminobutyrate )  ,  an amino acid which acts as a neurotransmitter in some organisms .
the series of events in which an external stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which an  ( non - living )  abiotic stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a light stimulus  ( in the form of photons )  is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a visible light stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a gravitational stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a chemical stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a biotic stimulus ,  one caused or produced by a living organism ,  is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a stimulus from a virus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of the organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the synchronization of a circadian rhythm to environmental time cues such as light .
the process by which anatomical structures are generated and organized .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the establishment ,  maintenance and elaboration of a pattern along a line or a point .
a response of a plant to a pathogenic agent that prevents the occurrence or spread of disease .
a response of an organism to a fungus that prevents the occurrence or spread of disease .
the function of absorbing and responding to incidental electromagnetic radiation ,  particularly visible light .
the process ,  occurring after embryonic development ,  by which anatomical structures are generated and organized .
morphogenesis of an organ .an organ is defined as a tissue or set of tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a tissue over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
the side of the plasma membrane that is opposite to the side that faces the cytoplasm .
the side of the plasma membrane that faces the cytoplasm .
the process by which the cellular identity of auditory hair cells is acquired and determined .
the directed movement of hormones into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the region of the plasma membrane located at the basal end of the cell .
the regionalization process by which specific areas of cell differentiation are determined along the anterior - posterior axis .
the regionalization process by which the areas along the dorsal / ventral axis are established that will lead to differences in cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
the external part of the cell wall and / or plasma membrane .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
cell recognition between cells ,  usually involving the formation of specialized cell junctions .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a glial cell .
the lipid bilayer surrounding an endosome .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the regionalization process by which the identity of an organ primordium is specified .
the regionalization process that specifies organ primordium boundaries resulting in a restriction of organogenesis to a limited spatial domain and keeping the organ separate from surrounding tissues .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving hydrogen peroxide .
the infolding of a membrane ,  resulting in formation of a vesicle .
a region in which centric ,  heterochromatic portions of one or more chromosomes form a compact structure .
combining with nerve growth factor ,  to block apoptosis in neurons and promote nerve growth ,  or to initiate a change in cell activity .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of peptidase activity ,  the hydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor activity .
a dense aggregation in the cytosol composed of proteins and rnas that appear when the cell is under stress .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds that is mediated by the proteasome .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagy .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of phospholipase activity ,  the hydrolysis of a phospholipid .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of phospholipase activity ,  the hydrolysis of a phospholipid .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the specifically regulated synthesis of rna from dna encoding a specific gene or set of genes by rna polymerase ii  ( pol ii )  ,  originating at a pol ii - specific promoter .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that modulates a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of production of vascular endothelial growth factor .
any process that increases or activates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of production of vascular endothelial growth factor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of adenylate cyclase activity that is an integral part of the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a g - protein coupled receptor binding to its physiological ligand ,  resulting in a subsequent change in the concentration of cyclic amp .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of adenylate cyclase activity that is an integral part of the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a g - protein coupled receptor binding to its physiological ligand ,  resulting in a subsequent change in the concentration of cyclic amp .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression after the production of an rna transcript .
the activation of endogenous cellular processes that result in the death of a cell as part of its development .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of a series of reactions ,  mediated by protein kinases ,  which occurs as a result of a single trigger reaction or compound .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that decreases the rate or frequency of muscle cell apoptosis .
any process that modulates the rate or frequency of muscle cell apoptosis .
any process that increases the rate or frequency of muscle cell apoptosis .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dioxygen  ( o2 )  ,  or any of the reactive oxygen species ,  e .g .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dioxygen  ( o2 )  ,  or any of the reactive oxygen species ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the rate ,  extent or frequency of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that increases the rate ,  extent or frequency of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a series of reactions ,  mediated by protein kinases ,  which occurs as a result of a single trigger reaction or compound .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a series of reactions ,  mediated by protein kinases ,  which occurs as a result of a single trigger reaction or compound .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell morphogenesis contributing to cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucose transport .
any process that increases the rate of phospholipase c activity .
cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
a process which directly activates any of the steps required for programmed cell death .
a collection of membranous structures involved in transport within the cell .
the lipid bilayer surrounding any membrane - bounded vesicle in the cell .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a vesicle transporting substances between the trans - golgi network and other parts of the cell .
a subcellular organelle of plant cells surrounded by 'half - unit' or a monolayer membrane instead of the more usual bilayer .
the process aimed at the progression of an astrocyte over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process aimed at the progression of an oligodendrocyte over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the multiplication or reproduction of glial cells by cell division ,  resulting in the expansion of their population .
the multiplication or reproduction of schwann cells ,  resulting in the expansion of their population .
the regrowth of axons outside the central nervous system  ( outside the brain and spinal cord )  following an axonal injury .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gliogenesis ,  the formation of mature glia .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gliogenesis ,  the formation of mature glia .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gliogenesis ,  the formation of mature glia .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a neuroblast .
the process whereby the developmental fate of a cell becomes restricted such that it will differentiate into a neuroblast .
the process aimed at the progression of a mesenchymal cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to its specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process aimed at the progression of a neural crest cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to its specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a schwann cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of schwann cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of schwann cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron maturation ,  the process leading to the attainment of the full functional capacity of a neuron .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron maturation .
the process aimed at the progression of a schwann cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
establishment of the endothelial barrier between the blood and the brain .
the controlled release of glutamate by a cell or group of cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of glutamate .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of glutamate .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of glutamate .
the regulated release of gamm - aminobutyric acid by a cell or group of cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of gamma - aminobutyric acid .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of gamma - aminobutyric acid .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of gamma - aminobutyric acid .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of acetylcholine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of acetylcholine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of dopamine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of norepinephrine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of serotonin .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of serotonin .
a series of reactions ,  mediated by the intracellular phosphoinositide 3 - kinase  ( pi3k )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the phosphoinositide 3 - kinase cascade .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the phosphoinositide 3 - kinase cascade .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the phosphoinositide 3 - kinase cascade .
the post synaptic density is a region that lies adjacent to the cytoplasmic face of the postsynaptic membrane at excitatory synapse .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a complex cell - cell junction at which myofibrils terminate in cardiomyocytes ;  mediates mechanical and electrochemical integration between individual cardiomyocytes .
a region of the a band in which myosin - binding protein c is located and that can be seen by electron microscopy .
the portion of sarcoplasmic reticulum devoted to calcium ion storage and calcium ion release .
the process essential to maintain a ready source of satellite cells .
any process ,  involved in skeletal muscle contraction ,  that modulates the establishment or extent of the excitatory postsynaptic potential  ( epsp )  .
the enlargement or overgrowth of all or part of an organ due to an increase in the size of its muscle cells .
the process aimed at the progression of a myotube cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of smooth muscle cell migration .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of smooth muscle cell migration .
a class of nuclear body ,  first seen after silver staining by cajal in 1903 ,  enriched in small nuclear ribonucleoproteins ,  and certain general rna polymerase ii transcription factors ;  ultrastructurally ,  they appear as a tangle of coiled ,  electron - dense threads roughly 0 .5 micrometers in diameter ;  involved in aspects of snrnp biogenesis ;  the protein coilin serves as a marker for cajal bodies .
the directed movement of proteins into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
combining with the corticotrophin - releasing factor family of ligands ,  including the urocortins ,  to initiate a change in cell activity .
catalysis of the transfer of an ion from one side of a membrane to the other .
catalysis of the transfer of prostaglandins from one side of the membrane to the other .
catalysis of the transfer of amino acids from one side of a membrane to the other .
catalysis of the transfer of an l - amino acid from one side of a membrane to the other .
catalysis of the transfer of l - gamma - aminobutyric acid from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
catalysis of the transfer of serotonin from one side of the membrane to the other .
enables the directed movement of a drug into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
catalysis of energy - independent facilitated diffusion ,  mediated by passage of a solute through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel .
catalysis of the calcium concentration - regulatable energy - independent passage of potassium ions across a lipid bilayer down a concentration gradient .
catalysis of the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a channel that opens when a specific ligand has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
catalysis of the transfer of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other ,  up its concentration gradient .
enables the active transport of a solute across a membrane by a mechanism whereby two or more species are transported together in the same direction in a tightly coupled process not directly linked to a form of energy other than chemiosmotic energy .
catalysis of the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: solute ( out )   +  cation ( out )  = solute ( in )   +  cation ( in )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: solute ( out )   +  h +  ( out )  = solute ( in )   +  h +  ( in )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: solute ( out )   +  na +  ( out )  = solute ( in )   +  na +  ( in )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a solute from one side of the membrane to the other ,  up the solute's concentration gradient ,  by binding the solute and undergoing a series of conformational changes .
primary active transport of a solute across a membrane ,  driven by the hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond of inorganic pyrophosphate ,  atp ,  or another nucleoside triphosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: peptide antigen ( in )   +  atp = peptide antigen ( out )   +  adp  +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  h2o  +  peptide ( in )  = adp  +  phosphate  +  peptide ( out )  .
combining with acetylcholine to initiate a change in cell activity .
catalysis of the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: gamma - aminobutyric acid ( out )   +  h +  ( out )  = gamma - aminobutyric acid ( in )   +  h +  ( in )  .
the part of the cytoskeleton  ( the internal framework of a cell )  composed of actin and associated proteins .
the part of the cytoskeleton  ( the internal framework of a cell )  composed of microtubules and associated proteins .
interacting selectively with monomeric or multimeric forms of tubulin ,  including microtubules .
the directed movement of acidic amino acids ,  amino acids with a ph below 7 ,  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of l - enantiomer amino acids into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba ,  4 - aminobutyrate )  ,  an amino acid which acts as a neurotransmitter in some organisms ,  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of l - glutamate ,  the l enantiomer anion of 2 - aminopentanedioic acid ,  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of amines ,  including polyamines ,  organic compounds containing one or more amino groups ,  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of monoamines ,  organic compounds that contain one amino group that is connected to an aromatic ring by an ethylene group  (  - ch2 - ch2 -  )  ,  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage ,  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of acetylcholine into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of choline into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of dopamine into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of norepinephrine into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the larger of the two subunits of a ribosome .
the smaller of the two subunits of a ribosome .
increases the activity of a phospholipase ,  an enzyme that catalyzes of the hydrolysis of a glycerophospholipid .
increases the activity of the enzyme phospholipase a2 .
a multiprotein complex that forms a strong mechanical link between the cytoskeleton and extracellular matrix ;  typical of ,  but not confined to ,  muscle cells .
a protein complex that includes alpha -  and beta - dystroglycan ,  which are alternative products of the same gene ;  the laminin - binding component of the dystrophin - associated glycoprotein complex ,  providing a link between the subsarcolemmal cytoskeleton  ( in muscle cells )  and the extracellular matrix .
a protein complex formed of four sarcoglycans plus sarcospan ;  there are six known sarcoglycans: alpha -  ,  beta -  ,  gamma -  ,  delta -  ,  epsilon -  and zeta - sarcoglycan ;  all are n - glycosylated single - pass transmembrane proteins .
a protein complex that includes alpha -  ,  beta1 -  ,  beta2 - syntrophins and syntrophin - like proteins ;  the syntrophin complex binds to the second half of the carboxy - terminal domain of dystrophin ;  also associates with neuronal nitric oxide synthase .
a protein complex comprising alpha -  and beta - dystrobrevin ;  forms part of the dystrophin glycoprotein complex .
double layer of lipid molecules that encloses all cells ,  and ,  in eukaryotes ,  many organelles ;  may be a single or double lipid bilayer ;  also includes associated proteins .
penetrating at least one phospholipid bilayer of a membrane .
a membrane - bounded vesicle found in the cytoplasm of the cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a membrane .
the series of events in which a stimulus from a bacterium is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a stimulus from a fungus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a temperature stimulus  ( hot or cold )  is received and converted into a molecular signal .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vesicle .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell and ending with a change in cell state .
hyperpolarization  ( vertebrates )  or depolarization  ( invertebrates )  of the photoreceptor cell membrane via closing / opening of cation specific channels as a result of signals generated by rhodopsin activation by a photon .
maintenance of the excited state of a photoreceptor cell to produce a steady state current as a result of signals generated by rhodopsin activation by a photon .
an immune response mediated by immunoglobulins ,  whether cell - bound or in solution .
an inflammatory response driven by antigen recognition by antibodies bound to fc receptors on mast cells or basophils ,  occurring within minutes after exposure of a sensitized individual to the antigen ,  and leading to the release of a variety of inflammatory mediators such as histamines .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
fusion of intracellular membrane - bounded vesicles with the pre - synaptic membrane of the neuronal cell resulting in release of neurotransmitter into the synaptic cleft .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving sterols ,  steroids with one or more hydroxyl groups and a hydrocarbon side - chain in the molecule .
catalysis of the reaction: nad ( p ) h  +  o2 = nad ( p ) h  +  o2 -  .
increases the activity of the enzyme superoxide - generating nadph oxidase .
the directed movement of substances ,  either within a vesicle or in the vesicle membrane ,  into ,  out of or within a cell .
the recognition of molecules at a choice point by an axon growth cone ;  at a choice point the growth cone determines the direction of its future growth .
the recognition of molecules at the central nervous system midline choice point by an axon growth cone ;  this choice point determines whether the growth cone will cross the midline .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle development .
catalysis of the reaction: s - adenosyl - l - methionine  +  a catechol = s - adenosyl - l - homocysteine  +  a guaiacol .
inhibition of the reactions brought about by dioxygen  ( o2 )  or peroxides .
a discrete intracellular part formed of aggregated molecules such as proteins or other biopolymers .
an inclusion body formed by dynein - dependent retrograde transport of an aggregated protein on microtubules .
catalysis of the reaction: n - sulfo - d - glucosamine  +  h2o = d - glucosamine  +  so4 ( 2 -  )   ( sulfate )  .
a permanent cessation of all vital functions: the end of life ;  can be applied to a whole organism or to a part of an organism .
a multisubunit chaperone that acts to delivers unfolded proteins to cytosolic chaperonin .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group from s - adenosyl - l - methionine to an amino group of an arginine residue .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group from s - adenosyl - l - methionine to an amino group of an arginine residue in a protein substrate .
catalysis of the reaction: s - adenosyl - l - methionine  +   ( myelin basic protein )  - arginine = s - adenosyl - l - homocysteine  +   ( myelin basic protein )  - n ( omega )  - methyl - arginine .
the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4f complex is composed of eif4e ,  eif4a and eif4g ;  it is involved in the recognition of the mrna cap ,  atp - dependent unwinding of the 5' - terminal secondary structure and recruitment of the mrna to the ribosome .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a lipid or phospholipid .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol = adp  +  1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol 3 - phosphate .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into a molecule ,  usually with the formation of a phosphoric ester ,  a phosphoric anhydride or a phosphoric amide .
the developmentally regulated remodeling of neuronal projections such as pruning to eliminate the extra dendrites and axons projections set up in early stages of nervous system development .
the region of the plasma membrane that includes the basal end and sides of the cell .
the region of the plasma membrane located at the apical end of the cell .
the apical end of the lateral plasma membrane of epithelial cells .
the membranes on the sides of epithelial cells which lie at the interface of adjacent cells .
the process by which the anatomical structures of embryonic epithelia are generated and organized .
the attachment of one cell to another cell via adhesion molecules .
complex of peripheral cytoplasmic proteins  ( alpha -  ,  beta -  and gamma - catenin )  that interact with the cytoplasmic region of uvomorulin / e - cadherin to connect it to the actin cytoskeleton .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the dendrite over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
combining with activin - bound type ii activin receptor to initiate a change in cell activity ;  upon binding ,  acts as a downstream transducer of activin signals .
combining with activin to initiate a change in cell activity ;  upon ligand binding ,  binds to catalyzes the phosphorylation of type i activin receptor .
the dense fibrillar network lying on the inner side of the nuclear membrane .
catalysis of the reaction: n ( g )  , n ( g )  - dimethyl - l - arginine  +  h2o = dimethylamine  +  l - citrulline .
catalysis of the reaction:  ( 5z , 13e )  -  ( 15s )  - 11 - alpha , 15 - dihydroxy - 9 - oxoprost - 13 - enoate  +  nad +  =  ( 5z , 13e )  - 11 - alpha - hydroxy - 9 , 15 - dioxoprost - 13 - enoate  +  nadh  +  h +  .
catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group to a nitrogen atom on the acceptor molecule .
a ribonucleoprotein complex that contains members of the argonaute family of proteins ,  small interfering rnas  ( sirnas )  or micrornas  ( mirnas )  ,  and mirna or sirna - complementary mrnas ,  in addition to a number of accessory factors .
recombination occurring within or between dna molecules in somatic cells .
the somatic process by means of which sequence diversity of immunoglobulins is generated .
mutations occurring somatically that result in amino acid changes in the rearranged v regions of immunoglobulins .
the process by which immunoglobulin genes are formed through recombination of the germline genetic elements ,  as known as immunoglobulin gene segments ,  within a single locus .
a protein complex ,  formed of one or more myosin heavy chains plus associated light chains and other proteins ,  that functions as a molecular motor ;  uses the energy of atp hydrolysis to move actin filaments or to move vesicles or other cargo on fixed actin filaments ;  has magnesium - atpase activity and binds actin .
a myosin complex containing two class ii myosin heavy chains ,  two myosin essential light chains and two myosin regulatory light chains .
a portmanteau term for myosins other than myosin ii .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a pyrophosphate bond between two phosphate groups ,  leaving one phosphate on each of the two fragments .
a large protein complex that catalyzes the synthesis or hydrolysis of atp by a rotational mechanism ,  coupled to the transport of protons across a membrane .
a proton - transporting two - sector atpase complex found in the vacuolar membrane ,  where it acts as a proton pump to mediate acidification of the vacuolar lumen .
the orderly movement of cells from one site to another ,  often during the development of a multicellular organism or multicellular structure .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription .
the posttranslational modification of a protein ,  particularly secretory proteins and proteins targeted for membranes or specific cellular locations .
the generation of a mature peptide hormone by posttranslational processing of a prohormone .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
g - protein coupled receptor for the tridecapeptide neurotensin .
combining with a c - c chemokine to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with a c - x - c chemokine to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with orexin to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with a protein hormone to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with a pheromone to initiate a change in cell activity .
increases the activity of a protease ,  any enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis peptide bonds .
a complex that includes the long - chain 3 - hydroxyacyl - coa dehydrogenase and long - chain enoyl - coa hydratase activities in two subunits  ( alpha and beta )  ,  catalyzing two steps of the fatty acid beta - oxidation cycle within the mitochondrial matrix .
any of a family of protein complexes that regulate transcription by remodeling chromatin .
combining with interleukin - 13 to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with growth hormone - releasing hormone to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with alpha - latrotoxin ,  a potent presynaptic neurotoxin ,  to initiate a change in cell activity .
the cytoplasm of a muscle fiber ;  includes the sarcoplasmic reticulum .
a fine reticular network of membrane - limited elements that pervades the sarcoplasm of a muscle fiber ;  continuous over large portions of the cell and with the nuclear envelope ;  that part of the endoplasmic reticulum specialized for calcium release ,  uptake and storage .
a protein complex that activates cyclin - dependent kinase 5 ;  composed of regulatory and catalytic subunits .
modulation of the activity of cyclin - dependent protein kinase 5 activator .
any transcription regulator activity required for initiation or upregulation of transcription .
a multiprotein complex that functions broadly in eukaryotic organisms as a transcriptional repressor of protein - coding genes ,  through the gene - specific deacetylation of histones .
an approximately 2 mda multi - subunit complex that exhibits atp - dependent chromatin remodeling activity in addition to histone deacetylase  ( hdac )  activity ,  and has been shown to establish transcriptional repression of a number of target genes in vertebrates ,  invertebrates and fungi .
any complex that mediates dynamic changes in eukaryotic chromatin .
large protein complex composed of the rna polymerase core complex and a variety of other proteins including transcription factor complexes tfiia ,  d ,  e ,  f ,  and h which are required for promoter recognition ,  and the mediator subcomplex .
a multiprotein transcriptional mediator complex that interacts with the carboxy - terminal domain of the largest subunit of rna polymerase ii and is essential for transcription of most protein - coding genes .
interacting selectively with glutamate ,  the anion of 2 - aminopentanedioic acid .
interacting selectively with an amino acid ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents .
a heteromeric complex of flotillin 1 ,  flotillin 2 ,  caveolin 1 and caveolin 2 within the caveolar membrane .
a heteromeric transcription factor complex that binds to the ccaat - box upstream of promoters ;  in saccharomyces it activates the transcription of genes in response to growth in a nonfermentable carbon source ;  consists of four known subunits: hap2 ,  hap3 ,  hap4 and hap5 .
extra - nucleolar nuclear domains usually visualized by confocal microscopy and fluorescent antibodies to specific proteins .
a class of nuclear body ;  they react against sp100 auto - antibodies  ( pml ,  promyelocytic leukemia )  ;  cells typically contain 10 - 30 pml bodies per nucleus ;  alterations in the localization of pml bodies occurs after viral infection .
a discrete extra - nucleolar subnuclear domain ,  20 - 50 in number ,  in which splicing factors are seen to be localized by immunofluorescence microscopy .
the action characteristic of growth hormone - releasing hormone ,  any of a family of peptide hormones that act on the anterior pituitary to stimulate the secretion of growth hormone and exert a trophic effect on the gland .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - oh group act as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - oh group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces nad +  or nadp .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which an aldehyde or ketone  ( oxo )  group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces nad or nadp .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - nh group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - nh group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces nad or nadp .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which nadh or nadph acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which the peroxide group acts as a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which hydrogen or electrons are transferred from one donor ,  and molecular oxygen is incorporated into a donor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which hydrogen or electrons are transferred from one donor ,  and two oxygen atoms is incorporated into a donor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which hydrogen or electrons are transferred from each of two donors ,  and molecular oxygen is reduced or incorporated into a donor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which hydrogen or electrons are transferred from 2 - oxoglutarate and one other donor ,  and one atom of oxygen is incorporated into each donor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which hydrogen or electrons are transferred from nadh or nadph and one other donor ,  and one atom of oxygen is incorporated into one donor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which hydrogen or electrons are transferred from reduced pteridine and one other donor ,  and one atom of oxygen is incorporated into one donor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which hydrogen or electrons are transferred from reduced ascorbate and one other donor ,  and one atom of oxygen is incorporated into one donor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a superoxide radical  ( o2 -  or o2 . -  )  acts as a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction in which the oxidation state of metal ion is altered .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction in which the oxidation state of metal ion is altered and oxygen acts as an electron acceptor .
catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
catalysis of the transfer of a one - carbon group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group ,  other than amino - acyl ,  from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of an amino - acyl group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a glycosyl group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a hexosyl group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of an alkyl or aryl  ( but not methyl )  group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to an alcohol group  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to a carboxyl group  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to a phosphate group  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a substituted phosphate group ,  other than diphosphate or nucleotidyl residues ,  from one compound  ( donor )  to a another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a sulfur - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any ester bond .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of phosphoric monoesters ,  releasing inorganic phosphate .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any glycosyl bond .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any carbon - nitrogen bond ,  c - n ,  with the exception of peptide bonds .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any non - peptide carbon - nitrogen bond in a cyclic amide .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any non - peptide carbon - nitrogen bond in a linear amidine ,  a compound of the form r - c ( =nh )  - nh2 .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any acid anhydride .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any acid anhydride which contains phosphorus .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of an acid anhydride to directly drive the transport of a substance across a membrane .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any acid carbon - carbon bond .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any acid carbon - carbon bond in a ketonic substance ,  a substance containing a keto  ( c=o )  group .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any acid sulfur - nitrogen bond .
catalysis of the cleavage of c - c ,  c - o ,  c - n and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
catalysis of the cleavage of c - c bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
catalysis of the nonhydrolytic addition or removal of a carboxyl group to or from a compound .
catalysis of the breakage of a carbon - oxygen bond .
catalysis of the cleavage of a carbon - oxygen bond by elimination of water .
catalysis of the elimination of h2s or substituted h2s .
catalysis of the geometric or structural changes within one molecule .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which the hydrogen donor and acceptor are the same molecule ,  and no oxidized product appears .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which the hydrogen donor and acceptor ,  which is a keto -  or an enol - group ,  are the same molecule ,  and no oxidized product appears .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which the hydrogen donor and acceptor are the same molecule ,  one or more carbon - carbon double bonds in the molecule are rearranged ,  and no oxidized product appears .
the catalysis of certain rearrangements of a molecule to break or form a ring .
catalysis of the ligation of two substances with concomitant breaking of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
catalysis of the ligation of two substances via a carbon - nitrogen bond with concomitant breakage of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
catalysis of the ligation of an acid to an amino acid via a carbon - nitrogen bond with concomitant breakage of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which an aldehyde or ketone  ( oxo )  group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of the phosphorylation of proteins .
combining with gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba ,  4 - aminobutyrate )  ,  an amino acid which acts as a neurotransmitter in some organisms ,  to initiate a change in cell activity .
the process by which a sumo protein  ( small ubiquitin - related modifier )  is conjugated to a target protein via an isopeptide bond between the carboxyl terminus of sumo with an epsilon - amino group of a lysine residue of the target protein .
the process by which a sumo protein  ( small ubiquitin - related modifier )  is cleaved from its target protein .
a complex consisting of two distinct motor subunits that form a heterodimer complexed with a third non - motor accessory subunit ,  the kinesin associated protein or kap ;  the kif3 heterodimer interacts via its c - terminal portion with kap ,  which is thought to regulate the binding of the motor to cargo membranes .
a complex of proteins which includes the insulin - like growth factor  ( igf )  and a number of igf - binding proteins .
combining with activin ,  one of two gonadal glycoproteins related to transforming growth factor beta ,  to initiate a change in cell activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of activity of any tgf - beta receptor signaling pathway .
interacting selectively with any member of the ras superfamily of monomeric gtpases .
catalysis of the reaction: map kinase serine / threonine / tyrosine phosphate  +  h2o = map kinase serine / threonine / tyrosine  +  phosphate .
interacting selectively with any peptide with hormonal activity in animals .
interacting selectively with adrenocorticotropin - releasing hormone .
interacting selectively with rho protein ,  any member of the rho subfamily of the ras superfamily of monomeric gtpases .
interacting selectively with the gtp - bound form of the rho protein .
a protein complex that possesses activity that prevents or downregulates transcription .
a protein complex that forms a transmembrane channel through which cations ions may pass in response to an intracellular cyclic nucleotide binding to the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
interacting selectively with the snap receptor syntaxin - 1 .
an enzyme complex that catalyzes the hydrolysis of protein and peptide substrates ,  preferentially on carboxyl side of hydrophobic residues .
a multienzyme complex found in all multicellular eukaryotes composed of eight proteins with aminoacyl - trna synthetase activities  ( abbreviated as: argrs ,  asprs ,  gluprors ,  glnrs ,  ilers ,  leurs ,  lysrs ,  metrs where rs is the enzyme ,  preceded by the amino acid it uses as a substrate )  as well as three non - synthetase proteins  ( p43 ,  p38 ,  and p18 )  with diverse functions .
an enzyme complex that catalyzes the ligation of glutamate to cysteine ,  forming glutamylcysteine .
catalysis of the reaction: a nucleoside triphosphate  +  h2o = nucleoside diphosphate  +  phosphate .
a complex of proteins that ,  in vitro ,  stimulates intra - golgi transport ;  a 13s complex ,  about 800 kda in size and consists of at least five polypeptides .
a protein complex located in the mitochondrion .
interacting selectively with fibroblast growth factor .
the self - renewing division of a stem cell .
an assembly of four or five subunits which form a structure with an extracellular n - terminus and a large loop that together form the ligand binding domain .
interacting selectively with wnt - protein ,  a secreted growth factor involved in signaling .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of exocytosis .
interacting selectively with vinculin ,  a protein found in muscle ,  fibroblasts ,  and epithelial cells that binds actin and appears to mediate attachment of actin filaments to integral proteins of the plasma membrane .
a heterodimeric complex that catalyzes the trimming of glucose residues from n - linked core glycans on newly synthesized glycoproteins .
the posttranslational phosphorylation of peptidyl - serine to form peptidyl - o - phospho - l - serine .
the posttranslational phosphorylation of peptidyl - threonine to form peptidyl - o - phospho - l - threonine .
the posttranslational phosphorylation of peptidyl - tyrosine to form peptidyl - o4' - phospho - l - tyrosine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the alteration of an amino acid residue in a peptide .
the modification of peptidyl - serine .
the modification of peptidyl - threonine .
the modification of peptidyl - tyrosine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a phenol ,  any compound containing one or more hydroxyl groups directly attached to an aromatic carbon ring .
a ubiquitin ligase complex in which a cullin from the cul1 subfamily and a ring domain protein form the catalytic core ;  substrate specificity is conferred by a skp1 adaptor and an f - box protein .
a protein complex that possesses molybdopterin synthase activity .
the complete fully infectious extracellular virus particle .
the protein coat that surrounds the infective nucleic acid in some virus particles .
the lipid bilayer and associated glycoproteins that surround many types of virus particle .
virus - specific complex of protein required for integrating viral genomes into the host genome .
the reactivation of a virus from a latent to a lytic state .
interactions ,  directly with the host cell macromolecular machinery ,  to allow virus replication .
any process ,  either active or passive ,  by which a virus avoids or tolerates the effects of its host organism's defense ( s )  .
a set of processes which all viruses follow to ensure survival ;  includes attachment and entry of the virus particle ,  decoding of genome information ,  translation of viral mrna by host ribosomes ,  genome replication ,  and assembly and release of viral particles containing the genome .
the set of processes involved in the start of virus infection of cells .
the directed movement of viral proteins within the host cell .
any process involved in the specific binding of a viral antireceptor to a cell surface receptor .
any process involved in the assembly ,  maturation ,  egress ,  and release of progeny virions .
a late phase of viral replication during which all the components necessary for the formation of a mature virion collect at a particular site in the cell and the basic structure of the virus particle is formed .
any virus - induced change in the morphological ,  biochemical ,  or growth parameters of a cell .
the transfer of virions in order to create new infection .
the specific actions or reactions of an organism that are associated with reproduction .
a protein complex that recognizes the proximal sequence element of rna polymerase ii and iii snrna promoters .
the catalysis of phosphate removal from a phosphotyrosine using aspartic acid as a nucleophile in a metal - dependent manner .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  nucleoside monophosphate = adp  +  nucleoside diphosphate .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp or gtp ,  to a nucleobase ,  nucleoside ,  nucleotide or polynucleotide substrate .
modulates the activity of a kinase ,  an enzyme which catalyzes of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
increases the activity of a kinase ,  an enzyme which catalyzes of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
stops ,  prevents or reduces the activity of a kinase ,  an enzyme which catalyzes of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a cytokine or chemokine binding to a cell surface receptor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
the sequential electrochemical polarization and depolarization that travels across the membrane of a nerve cell  ( neuron )  in response to stimulation .
a neurological process that causes the sequential depolarization of a neuron's cell membrane along an axon .
the process that modulates the membrane potential involved in the propagation of a signal in a neuron .
the series of events by which an organism senses the position ,  location ,  orientation ,  and movement of the body and its parts .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a painful stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a hexose ,  any monosaccharide with a chain of six carbon atoms in the molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving arachidonic acid ,  a straight chain fatty acid with 20 carbon atoms and four double bonds per molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of leukotriene ,  a pharmacologically active substance derived from a polyunsaturated fatty acid ,  such as arachidonic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of aromatic compounds ,  any substance containing an aromatic carbon ring .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of tryptophan into other compounds ,  including kynurenine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a specific protein ,  rather than of proteins in general .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any butyrate ,  the anions of butyric acid  ( butanoic acid )  ,  a saturated ,  unbranched aliphatic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of fatty acids with a chain length of less than 8 carbons .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving choline  ( 2 - hydroxyethyltrimethylammonium )  ,  an amino alcohol that occurs widely in living organisms as a constituent of certain types of phospholipids and in the neurotransmitter acetylcholine .
any of the discrete particles  ( nerve - ending particles )  formed from the clublike presynaptic nerve endings that resist disruption and are snapped or torn off their attachments when brain tissue is homogenized in media isosmotic to plasma .
vesicular particles formed from disrupted endoplasmic reticulum membranes and studded with ribosomes on the outside .
vesicular particles formed from disrupted endoplasmic reticulum and plasma membranes without any adhering ribosomes .
a series of molecular signals in which a cell uses calcium ions to convert an extracellular signal into a response .
any process involved with the carrying out of an immune response by a b cell ,  through ,  for instance ,  the production of antibodies or cytokines ,  or antigen presentation to t cells .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium at the level of the cell .
an immune response against microbes mediated through a body fluid .
an immune response against bacteria mediated through a body fluid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a polyol ,  any alcohol containing three or more hydroxyl groups attached to saturated carbon atoms .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl  ( cooh )  groups or anions  ( coo -  )  .
combining with the fc region of an immunoglobulin protein to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with an immunoglobulin of the ige isotype via the fc region to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with an immunoglobulin of an igg isotype via the fc region to initiate a change in cell activity .
catalysis of the activation of the small ubiquitin - related modifier isg15 ,  through the formation of an atp - dependent high - energy thiolester bond .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide or isopeptide bonds within small proteins such as ubiquitin or ubiquitin - like proteins  ( e .g .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of isg15 ,  a small ubiquitin - related modifier ,  from previously modified substrates .
catalysis of atp - dependent isopeptide bond formation between the carboxy - terminal residues of a small conjugating protein such as ubiquitin or a ubiquitin - like protein ,  and a substrate lysine residue .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any amino acid not found ,  or rarely found ,  in peptide linkage in proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of quinolinate ,  the anion of quinolinic acid ,  also known as 2 , 3 - pyridinedicarboxylic acid .
a protein complex that in its canonical form is composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds and sometimes complexed with additional proteins .
an immunoglobulin complex that is present in the plasma membrane of b cells and that in its canonical form is composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains and two identical immunoglobulin light chains and a signaling subunit ,  a heterodimer of the ig - alpha and ig - beta proteins .
the process by which an organism retains a population of stem cells ,  preventing the commitment of all stem cell progeny to a differentiated cell fate .
stops ,  prevents or reduces the activity of the enzyme phospholipase a2 .
the cytolytic destruction of red blood cells ,  with the release of intracellular hemoglobin ,  in the host organism by a symbiont .
interacting selectively with any growth factor ,  proteins or polypeptides that stimulate a cell or organism to grow or proliferate .
long whiplike or feathery structures borne either singly or in groups by the motile cells of many bacteria and unicellular eukaryotes and by the motile male gametes of many eukaryotic organisms ,  which propel the cell through a liquid medium .
interacting selectively with an immunoglobulin of an iga isotype .
interacting selectively with an immunoglobulin of the ige isotype .
interacting selectively with an immunoglobulin of an igg isotype .
interacting selectively with an immunoglobulin .
the inner ,  i .e .lumen - facing ,  lipid bilayer of an organelle envelope ;  usually highly selective to most ions and metabolites .
the external membrane of gram - negative bacteria or certain organelles such as mitochondria and chloroplasts ;  freely permeable to most ions and metabolites .
the process by which an antigen - presenting cell expresses antigen  ( peptide or lipid )  on its cell surface in association with an mhc protein complex .
the process by which an antigen - presenting cell expresses antigen  ( peptide or lipid )  of endogenous origin on its cell surface in association with an mhc protein complex .
the process by which an antigen - presenting cell expresses antigen  ( peptide or lipid )  of exogenous origin on its cell surface in association with an mhc protein complex .
the process by which an antigen - presenting cell expresses a peptide antigen of endogenous origin on its cell surface in association with an mhc class i protein complex .
the process by which an antigen - presenting cell expresses a peptide antigen of exogenous origin on its cell surface in association with an mhc class ii protein complex .
modulates the activity of a protein kinase ,  an enzyme which phosphorylates a protein .
the directed movement of mitochondria along microtubules in nerve cell axons .
loosely bound to one surface of the plasma membrane ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
loosely bound to one surface of a membrane ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
interacting selectively with any enzyme .
interacting selectively with a kinase ,  any enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of a phosphate group .
interacting selectively with a protein kinase ,  any enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a protein substrate .
interacting selectively with any phosphatase .
interacting selectively with any protein phosphatase .
interacting selectively with a specific domain of a protein .
interacting selectively with a syntaxin ,  a snap receptor involved in the docking of synaptic vesicles at the presynaptic zone of a synapse .
a protein complex that phosphorylates cyclin - dependent kinases such as cdc2 on thr161  ( or an equivalent residue )  ;  contains a catalytic subunit and a regulatory subunit ,  and some examples also include an assembly factor .
the action of a molecule that contributes to the structural integrity of the myelin sheath of a nerve .
a series of molecular signals in which an ion or small molecule is formed or released into the cytosol ,  thereby helping relay the signal within the cell .
a series of molecular signals in which a cell uses cyclic amp to convert an extracellular signal into a response .
a series of molecular signals in which a cell uses a cyclic nucleotide to convert an extracellular signal into a response .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds ,  initiated by the covalent modification of the target protein .
the regular alternation ,  in the life cycle of haplontic ,  diplontic and diplohaplontic organisms ,  of meiosis and fertilization which provides for the production offspring .
interacting selectively with a cytokine ,  any of a group of proteins that function to control the survival ,  growth and differentiation of tissues and cells ,  and which have autocrine and paracrine activity .
interacting selectively with a chemokine ,  any of a subgroup of cytokines which act primarily on hemopoietic cells in acute and inflammatory processes and other immunoregulatory functions .
interacting selectively with a c - c chemokine ;  c - c chemokines do not have an amino acid between the first two cysteines of the characteristic four - cysteine motif .
interacting selectively with a c - x - c chemokine ;  c - x - c chemokines have a single amino acid between the first two cysteines of the characteristic four cysteine motif .
interacting selectively with interleukin - 8 .
interacting selectively with an interferon ,  a protein produced by the immune systems of many animals in response to a challenge by a foreign agent .
interacting selectively with a type i interferon .
interacting selectively with interferon - gamma .interferon - gamma is also known as type ii interferon .
interacting selectively with interleukin - 1 .
interacting selectively with interleukin - 10 .
interacting selectively with interleukin - 11 .
interacting selectively with interleukin - 12 .
interacting selectively with interleukin - 13 .
interacting selectively with interleukin - 17 .
interacting selectively with interleukin - 2 .
interacting selectively with interleukin - 21 .
interacting selectively with interleukin - 3 .
interacting selectively with interleukin - 4 .
interacting selectively with interleukin - 5 .
interacting selectively with interleukin - 6 .
interacting selectively with interleukin - 7 .
interacting selectively with interleukin - 9 .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of anti - apoptosis .
the joining together of the neural folds of the rostral opening of the neural tube .
the formation of a ventral region of glial cells in the neural tube that provides inductive signals for the specification of neuronal cell types .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the spinal cord over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the regionalization process that regulates the coordinated growth and establishes the non - random spatial arrangement of the spinal cord .
the process that regulates the coordinated growth and differentiation that establishes the non - random anterior - posterior spatial arrangement of the spinal cord .
the process that regulates the coordinated growth and differentiation that establishes the non - random dorsal - ventral spatial arrangement of the spinal cord .
the process whereby relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and / or functional features that characterize the cells of the spinal cord .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the dorsal region of the spinal cord over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the ventral region of the spinal cord over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whereby a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into a motor neuron in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway .
the process whereby a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into a ventral spinal cord interneuron in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway .
the process whereby neuroepithelial cells in the ventral neural tube acquire specialized structural and / or functional features of motor neurons .
the process whereby neuroepithelial cells in the neural tube acquire specialized structural and / or functional features of somatic motor neurons .
the process whereby neuroepithelial cells in the neural tube acquire specialized structural and / or functional features of visceral motor neurons .
the process whereby differentiating motor neurons in the neural tube acquire the specialized structural and / or functional features of medial motor column neurons .
the process whereby neuroepithelial cells in the neural tube acquire specialized structural and / or functional features of association neurons .
the process whereby neuroepithelial cells in the neural tube acquire specialized structural and / or functional features of oligodendrocytes .
the process whereby a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into an oligodendrocyte in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway .
the regionalization process that regulates the coordinated growth that establishes the non - random spatial arrangement of the neural tube .
the process whereby relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and / or functional features that characterize the mature cells of the hindbrain .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population in the hindbrain .
the orderly movement of cells that will reside in the hindbrain .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the diencephalon over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the telencephalon over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process by which the anatomical structures of the corpus callosum are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the dentate gyrus over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the pallium over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the subpallium over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cranial nerves over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the rhombomere over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cerebellum over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the optic nerve over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process by which the anatomical structure of the midbrain - hindbrain boundary is generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the oculomotor nerve over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the trochlear nerve over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the trigeminal nerve over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the vestibulocochlear nerve over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of rhombomere 2 over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of rhombomere 3 over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of rhombomere 4 over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of rhombomere 5 over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of rhombomere 6 over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process by which the anatomical structure of the hindbrain is generated and organized .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for the pons to attain its fully functional state .
the process by which the anatomical structure of the cerebellum is generated and organized .
the process that contributes to the act of creating the structural organization of the cerebellum .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for the cerebellum to attain its fully functional state .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the brain ventricular system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the fourth ventricle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process by which the anatomical structure of the rhombomere is generated and organized .
the process that gives rise to the rhombomere .
the process by which the anatomical structure of the cranial nerves are generated and organized .
the process that contributes to the act of creating the structural organization of the cranial nerves .
the process that contributes to the act of creating the structural organization of the facial nerve .
the process by which the anatomical structure of the glossopharyngeal nerve is generated and organized .
the process by which the anatomical structure of the optic nerve is generated and organized .
the process by which the anatomical structure of rhombomere 3 is generated and organized .
the process that gives rise to rhombomere 3 .
the process that gives rise to rhombomere 5 .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the lateral ventricles over time ,  from the formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a nerve over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the third ventricle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cerebellar molecular layer nerve over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cerebellar purkinje cell layer over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process by which the anatomical structure of the cerebellar purkinje cell layer is generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cerebellar cortex over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process by which the anatomical structure of the cranial nerves are generated and organized .
the process that gives rise to the cerebellar cortex .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for an anatomical structure ,  cell or cellular component to attain its fully functional state .
the process whereby neuroblasts acquire specialized structural and / or functional features that characterize the mature cerebellar purkinje cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the locus ceruleus over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whereby neuroblasts acquire specialized structural and / or functional features that characterize the mature cerebellar granule cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cochlear nucleus over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the vestibular nucleus over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the facial nucleus over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the progression of the striatum over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the progression of the caudate nucleus over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the progression of the putamen over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the progression of the globus pallidus over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the progression of the limbic system over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the progression of the hippocampus over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the progression of the nucleus accumbens over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the progression of the lateral geniculate nucleus over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the progression of the olfactory bulb over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a ligand to the transmembrane receptor smoothened in a precursor cell in the ventral spinal cord that contributes to the commitment of the precursor cell to an interneuron fate .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a ligand to the transmembrane receptor smoothened in a precursor cell in the spinal cord that contributes to the process of a precursor cell becoming capable of differentiating autonomously into a motor neuron in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway .
the process whereby a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into an oligodendrocyte in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway .
the process whereby the developmental fate of a cell becomes restricted such that it will develop into an oligodendrocyte .
the process whereby a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into a glial cell in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway .
the process whereby the developmental fate of a cell becomes restricted such that it will develop into a glial cell .
the process aimed at the progression of a glial cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process by which a branchiomotor neuron growth cone is directed to a specific target site .
the process by which the thalamus changes over time ,  from its initial formation to its mature state .
the orderly movement of cells from one site to another in the cerebral cortex .
the creation of specific areas of progenitor domains along the anterior - posterior axis of the developing forebrain .
the formation of specific regional progenitor domains along the dorsal - ventral axis in the developing forebrain .
the migration of cells in the developing cerebral cortex in which cells move from the ventricular and / or subventricular zone toward the surface of the brain .
the migration of cells in the cerebral cortex in which cells move orthogonally to the direction of radial migration and do not use radial glial cell processes as substrates for migration .
the interaction between two cells that modulates the association of a neuronal cell and a glial cell involved in glial - mediated radial cell migration in the cerebral cortex .
the detachment of cells from radial glial fibers at the appropriate time when they cease to migrate and form distinct layer in the cerebral cortex .
the process where neuronal precursors migrate tangentially in the telencephalon ,  primarily guided by interactions that do not require cell - cell contact .
the directed movement of interneurons from the subpallium to the cortex during forebrain development .
the directed movement of individual interneuron precursors during the embryonic development of the olfactory bulb .
the directional movement of tangentially migrating interneurons that are not guided by attaching to extracellular substrates .
the creation of greater cell numbers in the forebrain due to cell division of progenitor cells .
the migration of gabaergic interneuron precursors from the subpallium to the cerebral cortex .
the progression of the hypothalamus region of the forebrain ,  from its initial formation to its mature state .
the process whereby a neuroblast acquires the specialized structural and functional features of a gabaergic inhibitory neuron in the basal ganglia .
the progression of a pyramidal neuron from its initial formation to its mature state .
the mitotic division of a basal progenitor giving rise to two neurons .
the process whereby a neuroblast acquires specialized structural and / or functional features of a cajal - retzius cell ,  one of a transient population of pioneering neurons in the cerebral cortex .
the division of a neuroblast located in the forebrain .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of wnt protein to a receptor on the surface of the target cell that contributes to the self renewal of neuroblasts in the forebrain .
the process whereby the developmental fate of a cell becomes restricted such that it will develop into a neuron that resides in the forebrain .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a neuron that will reside in the forebrain .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter that contributes to the commitment of a neuroblast to a neuronal fate .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a neuron that resides in the forebrain ,  from its initial commitment to its fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the orderly movement of cells from one site to another at least one of which is located in the forebrain .
the process whereby a neuroblast acquires specialized features of an interneuron residing in the olfactory bulb .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an interneuron residing in the olfactory bulb ,  from its initial commitment ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process whereby the developmental fate of a neuroblast becomes restricted such that it will develop into a gabaergic interneuron residing in the cerebral cortex .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a neuron residing in the cerebral cortex .
the process aimed at the progression of an astrocyte that resides in the forebrain ,  from initial commitment of the cell to its fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the commitment of neuronal precursor cells to become specialized types of neurons in the forebrain .
the process by which the neural tube is divided into specific regions along the rostrocaudal axis .
the process by which the neural tube is regionalized in the dorsoventral axis .
the process whose specific outcome is the creation of the forebrain - midbrain boundary .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of activation of the transmembrane protein smoothened that results in the spatial identity of regions along the dorsal - ventral axis of the spinal cord .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter that results the commitment of a cell to become a motor neuron in the ventral spinal cord .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter that results in the commitment of a cell to become an interneuron in the ventral spinal cord .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the neural tube over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of any member of the bmp  ( bone morphogenetic protein )  family binding to a cell surface receptor that results in the spatial identity of regions along the dorsal - ventral axis of the spinal cord .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter that contributes to the commitment of neuronal precursors to association neurons in the dorsal spinal cord .
the multiplication or reproduction of neuroblasts resulting in the expansion of a cell population in the external granule layer of the hindbrain .
the multiplication or reproduction of neuroblasts that will give rise to granule cells .
the radially directed movement of cells along radial glial cells in the hindbrain .
the inward migration of postmitotic granule cells along radial glial cells from the external granule layer to the internal granule cell layer .
the migration of cells in the hindbrain in which cells move orthogonal to the direction of radial migration .
the early migration of granule cell precursors in which cells move orthogonal to the direction of radial migration and ultimately cover the superficial zone of the cerebellar primordium .
the process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of granule cell precursor proliferation .
the process that mediates the transfer of information from purkinje cells to granule cell precursors resulting in an increase in rate of granule cell precursor cell proliferation .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of activation of the transmembrane protein smoothened in granule cells that contributes to the regulation of proliferation of the cells .
the process that activates or increases the rate or extent of granule cell precursor proliferation .
the migration of postmitotic purkinje cells along radial glial cells from the ventricular zone to the purkinje cell layer .
generation of a long process of a cns neuron ,  that carries efferent  ( outgoing )  action potentials from the cell body towards target cells in a different central nervous system region .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a neuron whose cell body resides in the central nervous system .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a neuron whose cell body is located in the central nervous system ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a neuronal fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated neuron .
generation of a long process from a neuron whose cell body resides in the central nervous system .
generation of a long process that carries efferent  ( outgoing )  action potentials from the cell body towards target cells from a neuron located in the central nervous system whose axons remain within a single brain region .
generation of a long process of a cns neuron ,  that carries efferent  ( outgoing )  action potentials from the cell body in one half of the cerebral cortex towards target cells in the contralateral half .
the process by which the anatomical structures of the spinal cord ventral commissure are generated and organized .
the regionalization process that creates areas within the forebrain that will direct the behavior of cell migration in differentiation as the telencephalon develops .
the differentiation of cells that will contribute to the structure and function of the hypothalamus .
the progression of the pituitary gland over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the progression of the adenohypophysis over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the progression of the neurohypophysis over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the progression of the cerebral cortex over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the progression of the olfactory lobe over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the formation of the flat ,  thickened layer of ectodermal cells known as the neural plate .
the pattern specification process whereby the axes of the nervous system are established .
the process that regulates the coordinated growth and differentiation that establishes the non - random anterior - posterior spatial arrangement of the neural plate .
a developmental process occurring during brain development ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for the midbrain - hindbrain boundary to attain its fully functional state .
generation of cells within the nervous system .
the process whereby neuronal axons and dendrites become coated with a segmented lipid - rich sheath  ( myelin )  to enable faster and more energetically efficient conduction of electrical impulses .
the process whereby neuronal axons and dendrites become coated with a segmented lipid - rich sheath  ( myelin )  to enable faster and more energetically efficient conduction of electrical impulses .
the migration of cells in the telencephalon from the subventricular zone to the olfactory bulb in which cells move orthogonally to the direction of radial migration and do not use radial glial cell processes as substrates for migration .
the orderly movement of cells from one site to another at least one of which is located in the telencephalon .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the corpus callosum over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the negative regulation of a signal transduction pathway in response to a stimulus upon prolonged exposure to that stimulus .
a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
a cell cycle process comprising the steps by which a cell progresses through one of the biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
a multicellular organismal process involved in the periodic casting off and regeneration of an outer covering of cuticle ,  feathers ,  hair ,  horns ,  skin .
a multicellular organismal process involved in the cyclical phases of growth  ( anagen )  ,  regression  ( catagen )  ,  quiescence  ( telogen )  ,  and shedding  ( exogen )  in the life of a hair ;  one of the collection or mass of filaments growing from the skin of an animal ,  and forming a covering for a part of the head or for any part or the whole of the body .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of a cell to another cell .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of cell adhesion to another cell .
a behavioral process involved in the cycle from wakefulness through an orderly succession of sleep states and stages that occurs on an approximately 24 hour rhythm .
a cellular process that results in the breakdown of a part of the cell .
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals by one or two organisms .
a reproductive process involved in viral reproduction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of anatomical structure morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell morphogenesis .
a cellular process that results in the assembly of a part of the cell .
the attachment of a cell or organism to a substrate or other organism .
the process by which the anatomical structures of a gland are generated and organized .
the cellular process by which a complex containing rna and proteins is synthesized ,  aggregates ,  and bonds together .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins and rna molecules to form a ribonucleoprotein complex .
the large subunit of the ribosome that is found in the cytosol of the cell .
a ribosome that is found in the cytosol of the cell .
the small subunit of the ribosome that is found in the cytosol of the cell .
catalysis of the transfer of a solute from one side of the membrane to the other ,  down the solute's concentration gradient .
catalysis of the transfer of a specific substance or related group of substances from one side of a membrane to the other ,  up the solute's concentration gradient .
catalysis of the transmembrane transfer of a solute by a channel whose open state is dependent on the voltage across the membrane in which it is embedded .
catalysis of the transmembrane transfer of a solute by a channel that opens when a specific ligand has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
catalysis of the transmembrane transfer of a solute by a channel that opens in response to a specific stimulus .
catalysis of energy - independent facilitated diffusion ,  mediated by passage of a specific solute through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel .
catalysis of the transmembrane transfer of a solute by a channel that opens in response to a specific ion stimulus .
catalysis of the transmembrane transfer of a cation by a voltage - gated channel .
catalysis of the transfer of a substance from one side of a membrane to the other .
catalysis of the transfer of a specific substance or group of related substances from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the directed movement of a specific substance or group of related substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
a process whereby a series of electron carriers operate together to transfer electrons from donors to any of several different terminal electron acceptors to generate a transmembrane electrochemical gradient .
a process whereby a series of electron carriers operate together to transfer electrons from donors such as nadh and fadh2 to any of several different terminal electron acceptors to generate a transmembrane electrochemical gradient .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of cations at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of monovalent inorganic cations at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of divalent or trivalent cations at the level of a cell .
a large complex present on the cis - golgi that acts prior to snare complex assembly to mediate vesicle docking and fusion .
the specification and formation of anisotropic intracellular organization or cell growth patterns .
a large multimeric transcription factor complex that can regulate transcription positively or negatively ;  consists of a core complex plus additional proteins ;  may interact with other proteins to control initiation of transcription .
the contractile element of skeletal and cardiac muscle ;  a long ,  highly organized bundle of actin ,  myosin ,  and other proteins that contracts by a sliding filament mechanism .
the repeating unit of a myofibril in a muscle cell ,  composed of an array of overlapping thick and thin filaments between two adjacent z discs .
platelike region of a muscle sarcomere to which the plus ends of actin filaments are attached .
a thin sheetlike process extended by the leading edge of a crawling fibroblast ;  contains a dense meshwork of actin filaments .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
formation of a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
a plasma membrane part that forms a specialized region of connection between two cells or between a cell and the extracellular matrix .
a cell junction that forms a connection between a cell and the extracellular matrix .
a cell - substrate junction that forms a point of contact between the basal surface of epithelial cells and the basal lamina .
a cell - cell junction in which: on the cytoplasmic surface of each interacting plasma membrane is a dense plaque composed of a mixture of intracellular anchor proteins ;  a bundle of keratin intermediate filaments is attached to the surface of each plaque ;  transmembrane adhesion proteins of the cadherin family bind to the plaques and interact through their extracellular domains to hold the adjacent membranes together by a ca2 +  - dependent mechanism .
any of the inward folds of the mitochondrial inner membrane .
any of the heteromeric enzymes ,  located in the mitochondrion ,  that act in the tricarboxylic acid  ( tca )  cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the onset of anaphase  ( chromosome movement )  in the mitotic cell cycle .
a protein - pigment complex that may be closely or peripherally associated to photosynthetic reaction centers that participate in harvesting and transferring radiant energy to the reaction center .
a plasma membrane protein - pigment complex that may be closely or peripherally associated to photosynthetic reaction centers that participate in harvesting and transferring radiant energy to the reaction center .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the myeloid and lymphoid derived organ / tissue systems of the blood and other parts of the body over time ,  from formation to the mature structure .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized precursor cell acquires specialized features of b cells ,  t cells ,  or natural killer cells .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of any cell of the myeloid leukocyte ,  megakaryocyte ,  thrombocyte ,  or erythrocyte lineages .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocytosis .
the change in morphology and behavior of a natural killer cell in response to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
combining with a mhc class i molecule of the hla - b subclass to mediate signaling that inhibits activation of a lymphocyte .
combining with a mhc class i molecule of the hla - c subclass to mediate signaling that inhibits activation of a lymphocyte .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of the wnt receptor mediated signal transduction pathway .
a viscous ,  carbohydrate rich layer at the outermost periphery of a cell .
any of several different proteinaceous coats that can associate with membranes .
a membrane coat found on coated pits and some coated vesicles ;  consists of polymerized clathrin triskelions ,  each comprising three clathrin heavy chains and three clathrin light chains ,  linked to the membrane via one of the ap adaptor complexes .
any of several heterotetrameric complexes that link clathrin  ( or another coat - forming molecule ,  as hypothesized for ap - 3 and ap - 4 )  to a membrane surface ;  they are found on coated pits and coated vesicles ,  and mediate sorting of cargo proteins into vesicles .
a membrane coat found on a coated vesicle .
an ap - type membrane coat adaptor complex that consists of beta1 ,  gamma1 ,  mu1 and sigma1 subunits and links clathrin to the membrane surface of a vesicle ;  vesicles with ap - 1 - containing coats are normally found primarily in the trans - golgi network .
an ap - type membrane coat adaptor complex that consists of alpha ,  beta2 ,  mu2 and sigma2 subunits and links clathrin to the membrane surface of a vesicle ;  vesicles with ap - 2 - containing coats are normally found primarily near the plasma membrane ,  on endocytic vesicles .
a clathrin coat found on a vesicle .
one of two multimeric complexes that forms a membrane vesicle coat .
one of two multimeric complexes that forms a membrane vesicle coat .
a clathrin coat found on an endocytic vesicle .
a clathrin coat found on a vesicle of the trans - golgi network .
a membrane coat adaptor complex that links clathrin to a membrane .
the coat found on coated pits and the coated vesicles derived from coated pits ;  comprises clathrin and the ap - 2 adaptor complex .
any of the vesicles of the constitutive secretory pathway ,  which carry cargo from the endoplasmic reticulum to the golgi ,  between golgi cisternae ,  or to destinations within or outside the cell .
a vesicle that mediates transport from the endoplasmic reticulum to the golgi complex ;  bears a coat formed of the copii coat complex proteins ;  such vesicles found associated with endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  membranes at steady state ,  and are involved in er to golgi  ( anterograde )  vesicle transport .
small membrane - bounded organelle formed by pinching off of a coated region of membrane .
a vesicle with a coat formed of clathrin connected to the membrane via one of the clathrin adaptor complexes .
a vesicle with a coat formed of the copi coat complex proteins .
a membrane - bounded intracellular vesicle formed by invagination of the plasma membrane around an extracellular substance .
a vesicle that mediates transport between the trans - golgi network and other parts of the cell .
a small subcellular vesicle ,  surrounded by a membrane ,  that is formed from the golgi apparatus and contains a highly concentrated protein destined for secretion .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of sphingolipids ,  any of a class of lipids containing the long - chain amine diol sphingosine or a closely related base  ( a sphingoid )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of sphingolipids ,  any of a class of lipids containing the long - chain amine diol sphingosine or a closely related base  ( a sphingoid )  .
the process whereby relatively unspecialized cells ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of a cell to another cell or to the extracellular matrix .
interacting selectively with the peripheral benzodiazepine receptor  ( pbr )  .
functions to provide a physical support for the assembly of a multiprotein receptor signaling complex .
functions as a physical support bridging the n - methyl - d - aspartate receptor - psd - 95 - gkap complex and the mglur - homer complex ,  which are involved in receptor signaling in synapses .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by the destruction of the native ,  active configuration ,  with or without the hydrolysis of peptide bonds .
located such that some or all of the gene product itself penetrates at least one phospholipid bilayer of the golgi complex membrane .
thin ,  stiff protrusion extended by the leading edge of a motile cell such as a crawling fibroblast or amoeba ,  or an axonal growth cone ;  usually approximately 0 .1 um wide ,  5 - 10 um long ,  can be up to 50 um long in axon growth cones ;  contains a loose bundle of about 20 actin filaments oriented with their plus ends pointing outward .
penetrating at least one phospholipid bilayer of an endoplasmic reticulum membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of wnt receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of wnt receptor signaling pathway activity .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a neuron .
the process whereby a precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of a b cell .
the directed movement of nitric oxide ,  nitrogen monoxide ,  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
interacting selectively with semaphorin receptors .
the process by which a precursor cell type acquires characteristics of a more mature t - cell .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specializes features of an eosinophil .
the process by which a myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a neutrophil .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a monocyte .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized monocyte acquires the specialized features of a macrophage .
transcription factor complex that binds to the insulin control element  ( ice )  ,  a dna sequence element found within the 5' - flanking region of the insulin gene ,  and activates ice - mediated transcription .
modulates the activity of an enzyme .
modulates the activity of nitric oxide synthase .
interacting selectively with any carbohydrate ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
interacting selectively with any polysaccharide ,  a polymer of more than 20 monosaccharide residues joined by glycosidic linkages .
the progressive compaction of dispersed interphase chromatin into threadlike chromosomes prior to mitotic or meiotic nuclear division ,  or during apoptosis ,  in eukaryotic cells .
the morphological and physiological alterations undergone by the nucleus during apoptosis .
the compaction of chromatin during apoptosis .
the breakdown of the nucleus into small membrane - bounded compartments ,  or blebs ,  each of which contain compacted dna .
combining with the cyclic peptide hormone melanin - concentrating hormone to initiate a change in cell activity .
interacting selectively with a lrr domain  ( leucine rich repeats )  of a protein .
penetrating at least one phospholipid bilayer of a synaptic vesicle membrane .
any of several large complexes that contain two or three dynein heavy chains and several light chains ,  and have microtubule motor activity .
the region between the inner  ( cytoplasmic or plasma )  membrane and outer membrane of organisms with two membranes such as gram negative bacteria .
any of a group of peptide cofactors of enzymes for the lysosomal degradation of sphingolipids .
stops ,  prevents or reduces the activity of a protein serine / threonine kinase .
increases the activity of a protein kinase ,  an enzyme which phosphorylates a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell growth .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell growth .
a structure that lies outside the plasma membrane and surrounds the entire cell .
complex formed in muscle cells between the membrane of the sarcoplasmic reticulum and invaginations of the plasma membrane  ( t - tubules )  .
invagination of the plasma membrane of a muscle cell that extends inward from the cell surface around each myofibril .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized monocyte acquires the specialized features of a osteoclast cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell migration .
interacting selectively with the snap receptor syntaxin - 2 .
interacting selectively with the snap receptor syntaxin - 3 .
interacting selectively with the snap receptor syntaxin - 13 .
interacts with the fibroblast growth factor receptor to reduce the action of another ligand ,  the agonist .
the action characteristic of melanin - concentrating hormone ,  a cyclic peptide hormone that ,  upon receptor binding ,  induces melanin aggregation in melanocytes ,  and is also involved in regulating food intake and energy balance in mammals .
combining with interleukin - 17 to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with icam - 3 ,  intercellular adhesion molecule 3 ,  to initiate a change in cell activity .
interacting selectively with the high molecular weight b cell growth factor receptor .
interacting selectively with the interleukin - 17e receptor .
the long process of a neuron that conducts nerve impulses ,  usually away from the cell body to the terminals and varicosities ,  which are sites of storage and release of neurotransmitter .
a branching protoplasmic process of a neuron that receive and integrate signals coming from axons of other neurons ,  and convey the resulting signal to the body of the cell .
the migrating motile tip of a growing nerve cell axon or dendrite .
any part of a cell where non - isotropic growth takes place .
catalysis of the reaction: l - kynurenine  +  h2o = anthranilate  +  l - alanine .
any process by which an organism enters and maintains a periodic ,  readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of complement activation .
polarized accumulation of cytoskeletal proteins  ( including f - actin )  and regulatory proteins in a cell .
a long bundle of actin filaments ,  comprising filamentous actin and associated proteins ,  found in cells .
the contractile fiber of smooth muscle cells .
a thin cytoplasmic bridge formed between daughter cells at the end of cytokinesis .
a series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of any member of the bmp  ( bone morphogenetic protein )  family binding to a cell surface receptor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of any bmp receptor signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of tgf - beta receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of any tgf - beta receptor signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bmp signaling pathway activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bmp signaling pathway activity .
any process that modulates the rate ,  direction or extent of axon extension .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon outgrowth .
the heterodimeric receptor for granulocyte macrophage colony - stimulating factor .
plays a role in regulating transcription ;  may bind a promoter or enhancer dna sequence or interact with a dna - binding transcription factor .
a macromolecular complex containing both protein and rna molecules .
particulate complex of heterogeneous nuclear rna  ( hnrna ;  a heterogeneous mixture of rna molecules of high mr with a rapid turnover rate that occurs in cell nuclei during protein synthesis ;  it is the form of rna synthesized in eukaryotes by rna polymerase ii ,  that which is translated into protein )  with protein ,  which is cell - specific and heterogeneous .
a complex composed of rna of the small nuclear rna  ( snrna )  class and protein ,  found in the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell .
behavior in a fully developed and mature organism .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is changed .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is increased .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is decreased .
interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with acetylcholine receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is changed .
interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with acetylcholine receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is increased .
interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with acetylcholine receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is decreased .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of smad signaling proteins by ubiquitination and targeting to the proteasome .
the directed movement of a symbiont's proteins within a cell of the host organism .
the directed movement of a neutrophil cell ,  the most numerous polymorphonuclear leukocyte found in the blood ,  in response to an external stimulus ,  usually an infection or wounding .
combining with a neurotransmitter to initiate a change in cell activity .
the movement of a leukocyte in response to an external stimulus .
a tgf - beta cytoplasmic mediator that inhibits the signaling function of common - partner and pathway - specific mediators .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of hydrogen ions  ( protons )  within a cell or between a cell and its external environment .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a transport vesicle .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a cytoplasmic vesicle .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a vesicle associated with the golgi apparatus .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a coated vesicle .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a clathrin - coated vesicle .
the lipid bilayer surrounding an endocytic vesicle .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a secretory granule .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a clathrin - coated endocytic vesicle .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a phagocytic vesicle .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a synaptic vesicle .
the portion of the plasma membrane surrounding an axon ;  it is a specialized trilaminar random mosaic of protein molecules floating within a fluid matrix of highly mobile phospholipid molecules ,  7 - 8 nm in thickness .
interacting selectively with two or more protein molecules ,  or a protein and another macromolecule or complex ,  simultaneously ,  thereby physically linking the bound proteins or complexes to each other .
increases the rate of gtp hydrolysis by a gtpase of the rac family .
stimulates the exchange of guanyl nucleotides by a gtpase of the rac family .
a ribonucleoprotein complex that catalyzes cleavage of the leader sequence of precursor trnas  ( pre - trnas )  ,  generating the mature 5' end of trnas .
a ribonuclease p complex that generally contains a single rna molecule and several protein molecules .
any complex of pre - rrnas ,  ribosomal proteins ,  and associated proteins formed during ribosome biogenesis .
a preribosomal complex consisting of 20s pre - rrna ,  ribosomal proteins including late - associating small subunit proteins ,  and associated proteins ;  a precursor of the eukaryotic cytoplasmic small ribosomal subunit .
any of several heterodimers containing one or two noc proteins ,  associated with preribosomal complexes ;  involved in ribosome biogenesis .
a heterodimer associated with 90s and 66s preribosomes in the nucleolus ;  involved in ribosomal large subunit biogenesis .
modulates the rate of gtp hydrolysis by a gtpase .
the directed movement of substances along cytoskeletal elements such as microfilaments or microtubules within a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving cyclic nucleotides .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving cyclic nucleotides .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleotides .
any chromosome other than a sex chromosome .
the process by which a myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a granulocyte .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of granulocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of granulocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of granulocyte differentiation .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an epithelial cell ,  any of the cells making up an epithelium .
the portion of the cytoskeleton that lies just beneath the plasma membrane .
the portion of the actin cytoskeleton ,  comprising filamentous actin and associated proteins ,  that lies just beneath the plasma membrane .
the lipid bilayer surrounding the rough endoplasmic reticulum .
the lipid bilayer surrounding the smooth endoplasmic reticulum .
trimeric protein complex that possesses endonuclease activity ;  involved in dna repair and checkpoint signaling .
the portion of nuclear chromatin associated with the nucleolus ;  includes the dna encoding the ribosomal rna .
a cytoplasmic protein complex containing glycogen synthase kinase - 3 - beta  ( gsk - 3 - beta )  ,  the adenomatous polyposis coli protein  ( apc )  ,  and the scaffolding protein axin ,  among others ;  phosphorylates beta - catenin ,  targets it for degradation by the proteasome .
any complex that possesses rna polymerase activity ;  generally comprises a catalytic subunit and one or more additional subunits .
interacting selectively with beta - 2 - microglobulin .
interacting selectively with a lipid antigen .
interacting selectively with an endogenous cellular lipid antigen .
interacting selectively with an exogenous lipid antigen  ( examples include microbial lipids and glycolipids )  .
any process that modulates the frequency or rate of myeloid dendritic cell activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of myeloid dendritic cell activation .
any process that stimulates ,  induces or increases the rate of myeloid dendritic cell activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of b cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of b cell proliferation .
a protein complex that possesses ubiquitin ligase activity ;  the complex is usually pentameric ;  for example ,  in mammals the subunits are pvhl ,  elongin b ,  elongin c ,  cullin - 2  ( cul2 )  ,  and rbx1 .
a cohesin complex that mediates sister chromatid cohesion during mitosis ;  has a subunit composition distinct from that of the meiotic cohesin complex .
a cohesin complex that mediates sister chromatid cohesion during meiosis ;  has a subunit composition distinct from that of the mitotic cohesin complex .
protein complex that mediates editing of the mrna encoding apolipoprotein b ;  catalyzes the deamination of c to u  ( residue 6666 in the human mrna )  .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the forebrain over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the midbrain over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the hindbrain over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the notochord over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a conserved multimeric membrane - associated complex involved in retrograde transport from endosomes to the golgi apparatus .
the formation of a thickening of the neural ectoderm in the head region of the vertebrate embryo which develops into the olfactory region of the nasal cavity .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the midbrain - hindbrain boundary over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any collagen polymer which links one collagen assembly ,  such as a collagen fibril or sheet ,  to other structures .
any collagen polymer in which collagen triple helices associate to form sheet - like networks .
any collagen polymer that passes through a lipid bilayer membrane .
a collagen homotrimer of alpha1 ( xviii )  chains .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway activity .
interacting selectively with tat ,  a viral transactivating regulatory protein from the human immunodeficiency virus ,  or the equivalent protein from another virus .
an integral membrane complex that possesses nadh oxidoreductase activity .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of the presence of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  or other er - related stress ;  results in changes in the regulation of transcription and translation .
interacting selectively with taurine .
the portion of the microtubule cytoskeleton that lies just beneath the plasma membrane .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a structure lying external to one or more cells ,  which provides structural support for cells or tissues ;  may be completely external to the cell  ( as in animals )  or be part of the cell  ( as in plants )  .
a microtubule organizing center found in interphase cells ,  which organize a longitudinal array of three to five mt bundles from the nuclear envelope during interphase .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of a histone .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of a histone .
the process by which the anatomical structures of the hair follicle are generated and organized .
any complex that acts to move proteins or rnas into or out of the nucleus through nuclear pores .
the process occurring during the embryonic phase whose specific outcome is the progression of the eye over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process occurring during the post - embryonic phase whose specific outcome is the progression of the eye over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the lipid bilayer surrounding the platelet dense granule .
the volume enclosed by the membrane of the platelet dense granule .
the lipid bilayer surrounding an organelle .
a secretory organelle found in blood platelets ,  which is unique in that it exhibits further compartmentalization and acquires its protein content via two distinct mechanisms:  ( 1 )  biosynthesis predominantly at the megakaryocyte  ( mk )  level  ( with some vestigial platelet synthesis )   ( e .g .
the lipid bilayer surrounding the platelet alpha granule .
the volume enclosed by the membrane of the platelet alpha granule .
a network of membrane - bounded compartments found in blood platelets ,  where they regulate platelet activation by sequestering or releasing calcium .
the lipid bilayer surrounding the platelet dense tubular network .
a series of molecular signals in which a stress - activated protein kinase  ( sapk )  cascade relays one or more of the signals .
the regrowth of a lost or destroyed body part ,  such as an organ or tissue .
the regrowth of a lost or destroyed organ .
the regrowth of neuronal processes such as axons or dendrites following their loss or damage .
the regrowth of axons following their loss or damage .
any of several heterooligomeric complexes containing multiple septins .
signaling at short range between cells or tissues of different ancestry and developmental potential that results in one cell or tissue effecting a developmental change in the other .
any process that modulates the rate ,  direction or extent of axon growth such that the correct diameter is attained and maintained .
a temporary protrusion or retractile process of a cell ,  associated with flowing movements of the protoplasm ,  and serving for locomotion and feeding .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the neurite over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a protein complex involved in membrane fusion ;  a stable ternary complex consisting of a four - helix bundle ,  usually formed from one r - snare and three q - snares with an ionic layer sandwiched between hydrophobic layers .
a chromatin remodeling complex that mediates nucleosome deposition and generates regularly spaced nucleosome arrays .
formation of hard tissues that consist mainly of inorganic compounds ,  and also contain a small amounts of organic matrices that are believed to play important roles in their formation .
the actions or reactions of an organism in response to a sound .
located in a membrane such that some covalently attached portion of the gene product ,  for example part of a peptide sequence or some other covalently attached moiety such as a gpi anchor ,  spans or is embedded in one or both leaflets of the membrane .
tethered to a membrane by a covalently attached anchor ,  such as a lipid moiety ,  that is embedded in the membrane .
located in the plasma membrane such that some covalently attached portion of the gene product ,  for example part of a peptide sequence or some other covalently attached moiety such as a gpi anchor ,  spans or is embedded in one or both leaflets of the membrane .
located in the endoplasmic reticulum membrane such that some covalently attached portion of the gene product ,  for example part of a peptide sequence or some other covalently attached moiety such as a gpi anchor ,  spans or is embedded in one or both leaflets of the membrane .
located in the golgi membrane such that some covalently attached portion of the gene product ,  for example part of a peptide sequence or some other covalently attached moiety such as a gpi anchor ,  spans or is embedded in one or both leaflets of the membrane .
located in the nuclear inner membrane such that some covalently attached portion of the gene product ,  for example part of a peptide sequence or some other covalently attached moiety such as a gpi anchor ,  spans or is embedded in one or both leaflets of the membrane .
located in the peroxisomal membrane such that some covalently attached portion of the gene product ,  for example part of a peptide sequence or some other covalently attached moiety such as a gpi anchor ,  spans or is embedded in one or both leaflets of the membrane .
loosely bound to the surface of the plasma membrane that faces away from the cytoplasm ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
located in the plasma membrane such that some covalently attached portion of the gene product ,  for example part of a peptide sequence or some other covalently attached moiety such as a gpi anchor ,  spans or is embedded in one or both leaflets of the membrane ,  with the bulk of the gene product located on the side opposite to the side that faces the cytoplasm .
loosely bound to the surface of the plasma membrane that faces the cytoplasm ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
the side of the outer membrane that is opposite to the side that faces the periplasm of the cell .
the area of a motile cell closest to the direction of movement .
the portion of the plasma membrane surrounding a cell surface projection .
the portion of the plasma membrane surrounding the leading edge of a motile cell .
a protein complex formed by the association of signaling proteins with a death receptor upon ligand binding .
a protein complex formed upon binding of fas / cd95 / apo - 1 to its ligand .
interacting selectively with a small monomeric gtpase .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the assembly of pseudopodia .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the assembly of pseudopodia .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cyclase activity .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of a cyclase .
any process that activates or increases the activity of a cyclase .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of guanylate cyclase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of guanylate cyclase activity .
the process by which the migration of an axon growth cone of a retinal ganglion cell  ( rgc )  is directed to its target in the brain in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
the process of providing ,  via surface - bound receptor - ligand pairs ,  a second ,  antigen - independent ,  signal in addition to that provided by the b -  or t cell receptor to augment b -  or t cell activation .
the process of providing ,  via surface - bound receptor - ligand pairs ,  a second ,  antigen - independent ,  signal in addition to that provided by the t cell receptor to augment t cell activation .
the process of providing ,  via surface - bound receptor - ligand pairs ,  a second ,  antigen - independent ,  signal in addition to that provided by the b cell receptor to augment b cell activation .
located in an organelle membrane such that some covalently attached portion of the gene product ,  for example part of a peptide sequence or some other covalently attached moiety such as a gpi anchor ,  spans or is embedded in one or both leaflets of the membrane .
penetrating at least one phospholipid bilayer of an organelle membrane .
located in the endosome membrane such that some covalently attached portion of the gene product ,  for example part of a peptide sequence or some other covalently attached moiety such as a gpi anchor ,  spans or is embedded in one or both leaflets of the membrane .
located such that some or all of the gene product itself penetrates at least one phospholipid bilayer of the endosome membrane .
located in the mitochondrial inner membrane such that some covalently attached portion of the gene product ,  for example part of a peptide sequence or some other covalently attached moiety such as a gpi anchor ,  spans or is embedded in one or both leaflets of the membrane .
located such that some or all of the gene product itself penetrates at least one phospholipid bilayer of the mitochondrial inner membrane .
located in the mitochondrial outer membrane such that some covalently attached portion of the gene product ,  for example part of a peptide sequence or some other covalently attached moiety such as a gpi anchor ,  spans or is embedded in one or both leaflets of the membrane .
located such that some or all of the gene product itself penetrates at least one phospholipid bilayer of the mitochondrial outer membrane .
loosely bound to one surface of an organelle membrane ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
loosely bound to one surface of the mitochondrial inner membrane ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
loosely bound to one surface of the mitochondrial outer membrane ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any protein complex that mediates the effects of small interfering rnas on gene expression .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vesicle fusion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vesicle fusion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell killing ,  the process by which a cell brings about the death of another cell ,  either in the same or a different organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell killing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell killing .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell projections .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell projections .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell projections .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
tethered to the plasma membrane by a covalently attached anchor ,  such as a lipid moiety ,  that is embedded in the membrane ,  with the bulk of the gene product located on the side opposite to the side that faces the cytoplasm .
any complex that possesses ubiquitin conjugating enzyme activity .
a heterodimeric ubiquitin conjugating enzyme complex that catalyzes assembly of k63 - linked polyubiquitin chains ,  which act as a signal to promote error - free dna postreplication repair ;  in saccharomyces the complex comprises ubc13p and mms2p .
a protein complex that possesses rna - directed rna polymerase activity .
a complex required for rnai mediated heterochromatin assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
interacting selectively with lithium ions  ( li +  )  .
a vesicle formed of membrane or protein ,  found in the cytoplasm of a cell .
interacting selectively with any alkali metal ion ;  alkali metals are those elements in group ia of the periodic table ,  with the exception of hydrogen .
the midline of aligned thick filaments in a sarcomere ;  location of specific proteins that link thick filaments .
interacting selectively with a mitogen - activated protein kinase kinase ,  any protein that can phosphorylate a map kinase .
interacting selectively with a mitogen - activated protein kinase kinase kinase ,  any protein that can phosphorylate a map kinase kinase .
a heterodimeric complex comprising brca1 and bard1 ,  which possesses ubiquitin ligase activity and is involved in genome maintenance ,  possibly by functioning in surveillance for dna damage .
any ubiquitin ligase complex in which the catalytic core consists of a member of the cullin family and a ring domain protein ;  the core is associated with one or more additional proteins that confer substrate specificity .
a ubiquitin ligase complex in which a cullin from the cul2 subfamily and a ring domain protein form the catalytic core ;  substrate specificity is conferred by an elongin - bc adaptor and a socs / bc box protein .
a complex that posseses mannosyltransferase activity .
a specialized primary cilium that contains a 9  +  0 arrangement of microtubules ,  radial spokes ,  and a dynein apparatus ,  but no inner doublet microtubules .
an immotile primary cilium that may be missing the central pair of microtubules ,  or the central pair of microtubules and outer dynein arms .
a cilium that consists of a 9  +  2 arrangement of microtubules ,  radial spokes ,  and a dynein apparatus .
a chromatin - associated multiprotein complex containing polycomb group proteins .
the portion of the plasma membrane surrounding the brush border .
the portion of the plasma membrane surrounding a filopodium .
the portion of the plasma membrane surrounding a microvillus .
interacting selectively with a receptor for thyrotropin - releasing hormone ,  a tripeptide hormone that is produced by the hypothalamus and stimulates the release of thyroid - stimulating hormone  ( tsh )  and prolactin by the anterior pituitary .
a process which directly activates any of the steps required for programmed cell death as a result of a chemical stimulus .
any cell cycle checkpoint that delays or arrests cell cycle progression in response to changes in dna structure .
a cell cycle checkpoint that blocks cell cycle progression from g2 to m phase in response to dna damage .
the slowing of dna synthesis in response to dna damage by the prevention of new origin firing and the stabilization of slow replication fork progession .
a cell cycle checkpoint which halts replication in response to nucleotide depletion .
any cell cycle checkpoint that blocks entry into m phase .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of membrane rafts ,  small  ( 10 - 200 nm )  ,  heterogeneous ,  highly dynamic ,  sterol -  and sphingolipid - enriched membrane domains that compartmentalize cellular processes .
the process that establishes the spatial arrangement of membrane rafts within a cellular membrane .
a protein complex that possesses amp - dependent protein kinase activity .
an amorphous structure surrounding the core of the centrosome ,  from which microtubules are nucleated ;  contains gamma - tubulin .
the junction between the axon of a motor neuron and a muscle fiber .
a centrosome from which one pole of a mitotic or meiotic spindle is organized .
a region of heterochromatin located near the centromere of a chromosome in the nucleus .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of fever .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of fever .
the process by which cell surface receptors are monoubiquitinated following ligand - induced activation ,  and subsequently taken up into endocytic vesicles and targeted to the lysosome or vacuole for degradation ;  serves as a mechanism to downregulate receptor signaling .
interacting selectively with an opioid receptor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle fusion to the presynaptic membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle fusion to the presynaptic membrane .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of an opioid receptor binding to its physiological ligand ,  followed by inhibition of adenylyl cyclase and a subsequent decrease in the concentration of cyclic amp .
any process in an organism that results in the killing of cells of another organism ,  including in some cases the death of the other organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a myelin sheath around nerve axons .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a myelin sheath around nerve axons .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a myelin sheath around nerve axons .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a neurophysiological process ,  an organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of neurological system .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a neurophysiological process .
any homeostatic process by which an organism produces heat ,  thereby raising its internal temperature .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of heat generation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of heat generation .
the series of molecular signals generated in response to detection of lipopolysaccharide .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling in response to detection of lipopolysaccharide .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling in response to detection of lipopolysaccharide .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the dark - staining region of a sarcomere ,  in which myosin thick filaments are present ;  the center is traversed by the paler h zone ,  which in turn contains the m line .
a relatively pale zone traversing the center of the a band of a sarcomere ,  visible in relaxed muscle fibers ;  consists of the central portion of thick  ( myosin )  filaments that are not overlapped by thin  ( actin )  filaments .
a region of a sarcomere that appears as a light band on each side of the z disc ,  comprising a region of the sarcomere where thin  ( actin )  filaments are not overlapped by thick  ( myosin )  filaments ;  contains actin ,  troponin ,  and tropomyosin ;  each sarcomere includes half of an i band at each end .
interacting selectively with a ccr1 chemokine receptor .
interacting selectively with a ccr2 chemokine receptor .
interacting selectively with a d3 dopamine receptor .
interacting selectively with a ghrelin receptor .
interacting selectively with a growth hormone - releasing hormone receptor .
interacting selectively with a type 5 metabotropic glutamate receptor .
interacting selectively with an olfactory receptor .
interacting selectively with a mu - type opioid receptor .
the lipid bilayer surrounding an early endosome .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a late endosome .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a microbody .
the volume enclosed by the membrane of an endosome .
a process that decreases synaptic plasticity ,  the ability of synapses to change as circumstances require .
a protein complex that contains the tor  ( target of rapamycin )  serine / threonine kinase and mediates spatial control of cell growth via regulation of actin cytoskeleton polarization .
heterochromatic regions of the chromosome found at the telomeres .
a two - stranded helical polymer of the protein actin .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
either of the lipid bilayers that surround the nucleus and form the nuclear envelope ;  excludes the intermembrane space .
either of the lipid bilayers that surround the mitochondrion and form the mitochondrial envelope .
a double membrane structure enclosing an organelle ,  including two lipid bilayers and the region between them .
the outer ,  i .e .cytoplasm - facing in a cellular organelle ,  lipid bilayer of an organelle envelope .
the region between the inner and outer lipid bilayers of an organelle envelope .
the enclosed volume within a sealed membrane or between two sealed membranes .
a multilayered structure surrounding all or part of a cell ;  encompasses one or more lipid bilayers ,  and may include a cell wall layer ;  also includes the space between layers .
the volume enclosed by a thylakoid membrane .
the volume enclosed by the nuclear inner membrane .
any small ,  fluid - filled ,  spherical organelle enclosed by membrane or protein .
the volume enclosed by the membrane or protein that forms a vesicle .
a compartment that consists of a lumen and an enclosing membrane ,  and is part of an organelle .
any of the thin ,  flattened membrane - bounded compartments that form the central portion of the golgi complex .
self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another in a behavioral context ;  the aspect of locomotory behavior having to do with movement .
any small ,  fluid - filled ,  spherical organelle enclosed by a lipid bilayer .
interacting selectively with insulin - like growth factor i .
interacting selectively with insulin - like growth factor ii .
a protein complex that binds interleukin - 28 and interleukin - 29 .
interacting selectively with the interleukin - 28 receptor .
a series of molecular signals within the cell that are mediated by a member of the arf family of proteins switching to a gtp - bound active state .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of arf protein signal transduction .
a protein complex that stably associates with the c - terminus of rna polymerase ii and mediates 3' - end processing of small nuclear rnas generated by rna polymerase ii .
a large ribonucleoprotein complex that is an early preribosomal complex .
a protein complex that stimulates the exchange of guanyl nucleotides by a gtpase .
a cell extension characterized by rapid formation ,  rounded shape ,  and scarcity of organelles within the protrusions .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of the transcription factor nf - kappab .
interacting selectively with a nacht  ( naip ,  ciita ,  het - e and tp1 )  domain .
interacting selectively with a pyrin  ( paad / dapin )  domain ,  a protein - protein interaction domain that has the same fold as the death domain .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a food stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a food stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains ,  or increases the rate of a response to a food stimulus .
any process which modulates appetite ,  the desire or physical craving for food .
any process that reduces appetite .
any process that increases appetite .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an extracellular stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an extracellular stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to an extracellular stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to nutrient levels .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to nutrient levels .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to nutrient levels .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a dense core granule .
a homodimeric protein complex that possesses 4 - aminobutyrate transaminase activity .
any process that initiates the activity of an inactive protein kinase .
in animal cells ,  the first sign of cleavage ,  or cytokinesis ,  is the appearance of a shallow groove in the cell surface near the old metaphase plate .
any constituent part of the cell division plane ,  the eventual plane of cell division in a dividing cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cholinergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter acetylcholine .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cholinergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter acetylcholine .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cholinergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter acetylcholine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dopaminergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter dopamine .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dopaminergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter dopamine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gabaergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba )  .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gabaergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba )  .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gabaergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids ,  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
interacting selectively with phosphatidylinositol 3 - phosphate ,  a phosphorylated derivative of phosphatidylinositol .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process of creating protein polymers .
a type of synapse occurring between an axon and a dendritic spine or dendritic shaft .
an assembly of four or five subunits which form a structure with an extracellular n - terminus and a large loop that together form the ligand binding domain .
the process by which the structure and material content of mature peripheral nervous system myelin is kept in a functional state .
the process by which the wraps of cell membrane that constitute myelin are laid down around an axon in the central or peripheral nervous system .
the process by which a glial cell membrane closes around an axon in the central nervous system .
the process by which a schwann cell membrane closes around an axon in the peripheral nervous system .
any complex formed of proteins that act in mismatch repair .
a heterodimer involved in the recognition and repair of base - base and small insertion / deletion mismatches .
a heterodimer involved in binding to and correcting insertion / deletion mutations .
a stable heterodimer of angiogenin and placental ribonuclease inhibitor ;  interaction between angiogenin and pri prevents angiogenin binding to its receptor to stimulate angiogenesis .
any process that modulates the activity of the gtpase arf .
any process that modulates the activity of a gtpase of the ras superfamily .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
a heterodimer involved in the recognition of base - base and small insertion / deletion mismatches .
a 9 + 0 cilium that forms the portion of the axoneme traversing the boundary between the photoreceptor inner and outer segments .
the process by which a transformation is induced in the geometry of a dna double helix ,  resulting in a change in twist ,  writhe ,  or both ,  but with no change in linking number .
combining with an mhc class i protein complex to initiate a change in cellular activity .
combining with an mhc class ib protein complex to initiate a change in cellular activity .
combining with an mhc class ii protein complex to initiate a change in cellular activity .
combining with a mhc class i protein complex to mediate signaling that inhibits activation of a lymphocyte .
a transmembrane protein complex composed of a mhc class ib alpha chain and ,  in most cases ,  an invariant beta2 - microglobin chain ,  and with or without a bound peptide or lipid antigen .
interacting selectively with any protein complex  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  .
interacting selectively with a mismatch repair complex .
interacting selectively with the mismatch repair complex mutlalpha .
an actin - based protrusion from the apical surface of auditory and vestibular hair cells .
an actin - based ,  cross - linked cellular protrusion on the apical surface of auditory and vestibular hair cells .
the end of a stereocilium bundle ,  distal to the site of the bundle's attachment to the apical cell surface .
any process that modulates the activity of the enzyme phospholipase a2 .
any process that activates or increases the activity of the enzyme phospholipase a2 .
any process that initiates the activity of the inactive enzyme phospholipase a2 .
an assembly of actin filaments that are on the same axis but may be oriented with the same or opposite polarities and may be packed with different levels of tightness .
the end of a filopodium distal to the body of the cell .
a dense network of actin filaments found beneath the apical cell surface of hair cells ,  and into which stereocilia are inserted .
a transcriptionally active complex that binds to an activin response element  ( are )  in the promoter of target genes ,  and is composed of two smad2 proteins ,  one smad4 protein and a forkhead activin signal transducer  ( fast )  transcription factor .
a process by which one or more moieties of a small protein ,  such as ubiquitin or a ubiquitin - like protein ,  are covalently attached to a target protein .
a protein complex comprising carma1 ,  bcl10 and malt1 ;  plays a role in signal transduction during nf - kappab activation .
the generation of a mature nerve growth factor by proteolysis of a precursor .
the external  ( cytoplasmic face )  of the mitochondrial outer membrane .
the process by which the anatomical structures of an otolith are generated and organized .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interferon type i production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of type i interferon production .
the series of events in which a stimulus from a molecule of bacterial origin is received and converted into a molecular signal .
a change in state or activity of an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the series of events in which a muramyl dipeptide stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a peptidoglycan stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
interacting selectively ,  in a non - covalent manner ,  with muramyl dipeptide ;  muramyl dipeptide is derived from peptidoglycan .
any biological process ,  occurring at the level of a multicellular organism ,  pertinent to its function .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an integrated living unit: an anatomical structure  ( which may be a subcellular structure ,  cell ,  tissue ,  or organ )  ,  or organism over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
a cellular process that is involved in the division of the cytoplasm of a cell and its separation into two daughter cells .
any process by which a protein is maintained in a specific location within ,  or in the membrane of ,  a cell ,  and is prevented from moving elsewhere .
the process by which interchain hydrogen bonds between two strands of dna are broken or 'melted' ,  generating a region of unpaired single strands .
any process that modulates the activity of the enzyme protein phosphatase type 2b .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of the enzyme protein phosphatase type 2b .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of a phosphoprotein phosphatase .
a process that modulates the size of a cellular component .
a process that modulates the size of a cell projection .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the lipid bilayer surrounding any of the thin ,  flattened compartments that form the central portion of the golgi complex .
any process that modulates the dna - dependent transcription of a specific gene or genes .
the portion of the plasma membrane surrounding a ruffle .
the lipid bilayer surrounding any of the compartments that make up the trans - golgi network .
the portion of the plasma membrane surrounding a neuron projection .
located such that some or all of the gene product itself penetrates at least one phospholipid bilayer of the mitochondrial membrane .
a small membrane - bounded vesicle that releases its contents by exocytosis in response to insulin stimulation ;  the contents are enriched in glut4 ,  irap and vamp2 .
the directed movement of a protein from one location to another within a lipid bilayer .
the directed movement of a b cell receptor within a lipid bilayer .
the directed movement of a protein into a membrane raft .
the directed movement of a b cell receptor into a membrane raft .
the directed movement of a protein out of a membrane raft .
the directed movement of a chemokine receptor out of a membrane raft .
the appearance of interferon - gamma due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 10 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 12 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 18 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 6 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 8 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of tumor necrosis factor due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of chemokine production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of fractalkine production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of granulocyte macrophage colony - stimulating factor production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of hepatocyte growth factor production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interferon - alpha production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interferon - beta production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interferon - gamma production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 1 alpha production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 1 beta production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 1 production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 10 production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 12 production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 13 production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 17 production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 18 production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 2 production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 3 production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 4 production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 5 production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 6 production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 8 production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of trail production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tumor necrosis factor production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of lymphotoxin a production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of chemokine production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interferon - gamma production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 1 beta production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 1 production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 10 production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 12 production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 13 production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 18 production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 2 production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 4 production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 5 production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 6 production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 8 production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tumor necrosis factor production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of chemokine production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interferon - alpha production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interferon - gamma production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 1 alpha production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 1 beta production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 1 production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 10 production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 12 production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 13 production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 17 production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 2 production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 4 production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 5 production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 6 production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 8 production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tumor necrosis factor production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of mast cell cytokine production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of mast cell cytokine production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of mast cell cytokine production .
any process that modulates the activity of a monooxygenase .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of a monooxygenase .
any process that activates or increases the activity of a monooxygenase .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna elongation ,  the extension of an rna molecule after transcription initiation by the addition of ribonucleotides catalyzed by an rna polymerase .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving monocarboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one carboxyl  ( cooh )  group or anion  ( coo -  )  .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of the transcription factor creb .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of activity of the transcription factor creb .
a protein complex that contains the survival motor neuron  ( smn )  protein and at least eight additional integral components ,  including the gemin2 - 8 and unrip proteins ;  the complex is found in the cytoplasm and in nuclear gems ,  and is involved in spliceosomal snrnp assembly in the cytoplasm and in pre - mrna splicing in the nucleus .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a receptor molecule ,  a macromolecule that undergoes combination with a hormone ,  neurotransmitter ,  drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function .
a eukaryotically conserved protein complex that contains dna ligase iv and is involved in dna repair by non - homologous end joining ;  in addition to the ligase ,  the complex also contains xrcc4 or a homolog ,  e .g .
interacting selectively with any member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of natural killer cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of natural killer cell activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of natural killer cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of natural killer cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of differentiation of cd4 - positive ,  cd25 - positive ,  alpha - beta regulatory t cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of differentiation of cd4 - positive ,  cd25 - positive ,  alpha - beta regulatory t cells .
all of the contents of a cell projection ,  excluding the plasma membrane surrounding the projection .
all of the contents of a dendrite ,  excluding the surrounding plasma membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a homeostatic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a homeostatic process .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the stress - activated mapk cascade .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the stress - activated mapk cascade .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process by which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process by which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of organic acids into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of organic acids into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of organic acids into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the appearance of a neurotrophin due to biosynthesis or secretion by cells in a neuron's target field ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of production of a neurotrophin .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of production of a neurotrophin .
the appearance of nerve growth factor due to biosynthesis or secretion by cells in a neuron's target field ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of production of nerve growth factor .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of production of nerve growth factor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of production of transforming growth factor - beta1 .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of production of transforming growth factor - beta2 .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of production of transforming growth factor - beta3 .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of production of transforming growth factor - beta1 .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of production of transforming growth factor - beta3 .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of production of transforming growth factor - beta1 .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression such that an expression pattern recurs with a regularity of approximately 24 hours .
a series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of any member of the activin family binding to a cell surface receptor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of any activin receptor signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of any activin receptor signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of any activin receptor signaling pathway .
interacting selectively with a sterol ,  any steroid containing a hydroxy group in the 3 position ,  closely related to cholestan - 3 - ol .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell .
the expansion of a mononuclear cell population by cell division .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mononuclear cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mononuclear cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mononuclear cell proliferation .
functions to provide a physical support for the assembly of a multiprotein complex .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving myo - inositol phosphate ,  1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 - cyclohexanehexol ,  with three phosphate groups attached .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an inositol phosphate ,  1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 - cyclohexanehexol ,  with one or more phosphate groups attached .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of inositol trisphosphate ,  1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 - cyclohexanehexol ,  with three phosphate groups attached .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of inositol trisphosphate .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of inositol trisphosphate .
a protein complex containing myosin heavy chains ,  plus associated light chains and other proteins ,  in which the myosin heavy chains are arranged into a filament .
an assembly of four or five subunits which form a structure with an extracellular n - terminus and a large loop that together form the ligand binding domain .
the process by which cellular structures are generated and organized .
the process by which the anatomical structures of a cell part are generated and organized .
a stable assembly of two or more macromolecules ,  i .e .
a macromolecular complex containing both protein and dna molecules .
a macromolecular complex containing both protein and lipid molecules .
a protein complex containing bcl3 and bcl10 ,  which forms when akt1 is activated by tnf - alpha to phosphorylate bcl10 ;  the bcl3 - bcl10 complex is translocated to the nucleus .
a protein complex composed of a subunit or subunits capable of binding the fc portion of an immunoglobulin with additional signaling components .
a protein complex composed of an fc - epsilon ri alpha chain and an fc - epsilon ri gamma chain dimer with or without an fc - episilon ri beta chain and additional signaling components .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of mast cell activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of mast cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of mast cell activation .
a condensed cytoplasmic structure that covers the nucleus of mammalian spermatozoa except for a narrow zone around the insertion of the tail .
the lipid bilayer surrounding the sarcoplasmic reticulum .
the volume enclosed by the membranes of the sarcoplasmic reticulum .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of mast cell apoptosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a mast cell apoptosis .
the process of apoptosis in myeloid cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of neutrophil apoptosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of neutrophil apoptosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid cell apoptosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a myeloid cell apoptosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid cell apoptosis .
combining with soluble bitter compounds to initiate a change in cell activity .
combining with soluble sweet compounds to initiate a change in cell activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a chromosome .
the specific actions or reactions of an organism that are associated with reproduction in a multicellular organism .
self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another along an axis .
the process whereby a precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of a t cell via a differentiation pathway dependent upon transit through the thymus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell differentiation in the thymus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of immature t cell proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of immature t cell proliferation in the thymus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell differentiation in the thymus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of immature t cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of immature t cell proliferation in the thymus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell differentiation in the thymus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of immature t cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of immature t cell proliferation in the thymus .
a large ,  elongated ,  rod - shaped secretory granule characteristic of vascular endothelial cells that contain a number of structurally and functionally distinct proteins ,  of which the best characterized are von willebrand factor  ( vwf )  and p - selectin .
the lipid bilayer surrounding any of the compartments of the er - golgi intermediate compartment system .
interacting selectively with an acetylcholine receptor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the phosphorylation of peptidyl - serine .
the process of introducing a phosphate group to a serine residue of the stat3 protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the phosphorylation of peptidyl - serine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of any steroid hormone receptor signaling pathway .
the process by which immune receptor v ,  d ,  and j ,  or v and j gene segments ,  depending on the specific receptor ,  are recombined within a single locus utilizing the conserved heptamer and nonomer recombination signal sequences  ( rss )  .
the process by which immunoglobulin heavy chain v ,  d ,  and j gene segments are recombined within a single locus utilizing the conserved heptamer and nonomer recombination signal sequences  ( rss )  .
the process by which t cell receptor v ,  d ,  and j ,  or v and j gene segments ,  depending on the specific locus ,  are recombined within a single locus utilizing the conserved heptamer and nonomer recombination signal sequences  ( rss )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a melanosome .
a series of molecular signals that results in activation of transcription by a member of the nfat protein family as a consequence of nfat dephosphorylation by activated calcineurin .
a proton - transporting two - sector atpase complex that couples atp hydrolysis to the transport of protons across a concentration gradient .
a protein complex that forms part of a proton - transporting two - sector atpase complex and carries out proton transport across a membrane .
a protein complex that forms part of a proton - transporting two - sector atpase complex and catalyzes atp hydrolysis or synthesis .
a protein complex that forms part of a proton - transporting v - type atpase and catalyzes atp hydrolysis .
a protein complex that possesses dolichyl - phosphate beta - d - mannosyltransferase activity ;  contains a catalytic subunit ,  a regulatory subunit ,  and a third subunit that stabilizes the complex .
catalysis of the reaction: a ceramide  +  a phosphatidylcholine = a sphingomyelin  +  a 1 , 2 - diacyl - sn - glycerol .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of tumor necrosis factor binding to a cell surface receptor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform amines .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amines .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amines .
a protein complex containing an i - kappab protein and one or more copies of an nf - kappab protein ;  mediates regulation of nf - kappab activity by i - kappab .
a protein complex containing one bcl protein and one or more copies of nf - kappab2 ;  formation of complexes of different stoichiometry depends on the bcl3:nf - kappab2 ratio ,  and allow bcl3 to exert different regulatory effects on nf - kappab2 - dependent transcription .
a cell projection part that is part of an axon .
an axon part that is a gap in the myelin where voltage - gated sodium channels cluster and saltatory conduction is executed .
an axon part that is located between the nodes of ranvier and surrounded by compact myelin sheath .
an axon part that is located adjacent to the nodes of ranvier and surrounded by lateral loop portions of myelin sheath .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
either of the two ribonucleoprotein complexes that associate to form a ribosome .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the regulated release of cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  from the choroid plexus of the lateral ,  third and fourth ventricles .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a secretory granule .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a secretory granule in a mast cell .
a process by which a protein is maintained in a secretory granule in a mast cell and prevented from moving elsewhere .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a secretory granule in a t cell .
a process by which a protease is maintained in a secretory granule in a mast cell and prevented from moving elsewhere .
a process by which a protein is maintained in a secretory granule in a t cell and prevented from moving elsewhere .
a process by which a protease is maintained in a secretory granule in a t cell and prevented from moving elsewhere .
a process by which the protease granyme b is maintained in a secretory granule in a t cell and prevented from moving elsewhere .
a ribonucleoprotein complex found in the cytoplasm of male germ cells ,  composed of exceedingly thin filaments that are consolidated into a compact mass or into dense strands of varying thickness that branch to form an irregular network .
a homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of a gas within an organism or cell .
a homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of nitric oxide within an organism or cell .
a homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of a carbohydrate within an organism or cell .
the progression of the floor plate over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
catalysis of the reaction: a phosphorylated map kinase  +  h2o = a map kinase  +  phosphate .
a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a multicellular organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a heterohexameric protein complex that is involved in trna modification ,  and exerts indirect effects on transcriptional elongation and exocytosis .
a heterodimeric protein complex formed of brca2 and mage - d1 ;  may mediate the synergistic activities of the two proteins in regulating cell growth .
a heterodimeric protein complex consisting of tumerin and hamartin ;  its formation may regulate hamartin homomultimer formation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of dopamine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a catecholamine .
the directed movement of a chemokine receptor within a lipid bilayer .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of integrin activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of integrin activation .
the attachment of a cell ,  either to another cell or to an underlying substrate such as the extracellular matrix ,  via an integrin ,  a heterodimeric adhesion receptor formed by the non - covalent association of particular alpha and beta subunits .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cell adhesion mediated by integrin .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cell adhesion mediated by integrin .
the attachment of one cell to another cell via an integrin ,  a heterodimeric adhesion receptor formed by the non - covalent association of particular alpha and beta subunits .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cell - cell adhesion mediated by integrin .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cell - cell adhesion mediated by integrin .
any constituent part of a host cell .
any constituent part of the living contents of a host cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the host cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  as found in host cells ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
a process that results in the endonucleolytic cleavage of the damaged strand of dna .
catalysis of the reaction: tryptophan  +  o2 = n - formylkynurenine ;  includes both reactions d - tryptophan  +  o2 = n - formyl - d - kynurenine and l - tryptophan  +  o2 = n - formyl - l - kynurenine .
any process that modulates the activity of the enzyme nad ( p ) h oxidase .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of the enzyme nad ( p ) h oxidase .
any process that activates or increases the activity of the enzyme nad ( p ) h oxidase .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  fas - activated serine / threonine protein = adp  +  fas - activated serine / threonine phosphoprotein .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  goodpasture antigen - binding protein = adp  +  goodpasture antigen - binding phosphoprotein .
catalysis of the reaction: pyridoxal 5' - phosphate  +  h2o = pyridoxal  +  phosphate .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a cellular membrane associated with the pre - autophagosomal structure .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins and rna molecules to form a stress granule .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of toll - like receptor signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of toll - like receptor signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of toll - like receptor signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of toll - like receptor 2 signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of toll - like receptor 2 signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of toll - like receptor 4 signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of toll - like receptor 4 signaling pathway .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of quinolinate ,  the anion of quinolinic acid ,  also known as 2 , 3 - pyridinedicarboxylic acid .
the formation of mature enkephalin ,  a pentapeptide hormone involved in regulating pain and nociception in the body by proteolytic processing of enkephalin propeptide .
the binding and fusion of a macrophage to one or more other cells to form a multinucleated cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cell junction .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a spherical particle with a hydrophobic core of triglycerides and / or cholesterol esters ,  surrounded by an amphipathic monolayer of phospholipids ,  cholesterol and apolipoproteins .
a chylomicron that contains apolipoprotein c2  ( apoc2 )  ,  a cofactor for lipoprotein lipase  ( lpl )  activity ,  and has a mean diameter of 500 nm and density of 0 .95g / ml .
a lipoprotein particle that is derived from a mature chylomicron particle by the removal of triglycerides from the chylomicron core by lipoprotein lipase and the subsequent loss of surface components .
a triglyceride - rich lipoprotein particle that is typically composed of apob100 ,  apoe and apocs and has a density of about 1 .006 g / ml and a diameter of between 20 - 80 nm .
a lipoprotein particle ,  rich in cholesterol esters and low in triglycerides that is typically composed of apob100 and apoe and has a density of 1 .02 - 1 .06 g / ml and a diameter of between 20 - 25 nm .
a triglyceride - rich lipoprotein particle that typically contains apob100 ,  apoe and apocs and has a density of 1 .006 - 1 .019 g / ml and a diameter of between 25 - 30 nm .
a lipoprotein particle with a high density  ( typically 1 .063 - 1 .21 g / ml )  and a diameter of 5 - 10 nm that contains apoas and may contain apocs and apoe ;  found in blood and carries lipids from body tissues to the liver as part of the reverse cholesterol transport process .
a mature high - density lipoprotein  ( hdl )  particle ,  converted from discoidal hdl particles following the esterification of cholesterol in the particle by phosphatidylcholine - sterol o - acyltransferase  ( lecithin cholesterol acyltransferase ;  lcat )  .
a plasma lipoprotein particle that has a hydrophobic core enriched in triglycerides surrounded by an amphipathic monolayer of phospholipids ,  cholesterol and apolipoproteins .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of smooth muscle cell apoptosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of smooth muscle cell apoptosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of smooth muscle cell apoptosis .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleobases ,  nucleosides and nucleotides .
the single layer of phopholipids surrounding a lipid storage body .
a small  ( 70 - 100 nm )  cytoplasmic granule that contains a number of centrosomal proteins ;  cetriolar satellites traffic toward microtubule minus ends and are enriched near the centrosome .
a protein complex that associates with the primary cilium and is involved in cilium biogenesis ;  consists of seven conserved proteins: bbs1 ,  bbs2 ,  bbs4 ,  bbs5 ,  bbs7 ,  bbs8 and bbs9 .
any protein complex that binds to a specialized rna cap structure at any time in the lifetime of the rna .
a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process carried out at the cellular level by which macromolecules aggregate ,  disaggregate ,  or are modified ,  resulting in the formation ,  disassembly ,  or alteration of a macromolecular complex .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of macromolecules to form a complex ,  carried out at the cellular level .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving various organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  carried out by individual cells .
a lipid monolayer that surrounds and encloses an organelle .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of nucleobases ,  nucleosides and nucleotides .
a protein complex that consists of inhibin ,  type iii transforming growth factor beta receptor  ( also known as betaglycan )  ,  and the type ii activin receptor actrii .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a protein complex that spans a membrane and forms a water - filled channel across the phospholipid bilayer allowing selective ion transport down its electrochemical gradient .
an ion channel complex through which cations pass .
an ion channel complex through which calcium ions pass .
an ion channel complex through which potassium ions pass .
an ion channel complex through which sodium ions pass .
a protein complex that possesses methyltransferase activity .
interacting selectively with a type i transforming growth factor beta receptor .
interacting selectively with a type iii transforming growth factor beta receptor .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving biopolymers ,  long ,  repeating chains of monomers found in nature ,  such as polysaccharides and proteins ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of biopolymers ,  long ,  repeating chains of monomers found in nature ,  such as polysaccharides and proteins ,  as carried out by individual cells .
a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the most apical region of the lateral plasma membrane of an invertebrate epithelial cell .
catalysis of the addition of a phosphate group to an inositol lipid at the 3' position of the inositol ring to generate the 3 - phosphoinositides: phosphatidylinositol - 3 - phosphate  [ pi ( 3 ) p ]  ,  phosphatidylinositol - 3 , 4 - bisphosphate  [ pi ( 3 , 4 ) p2 ]  and phosphatidylinositol - 3 , 4 , 5 - trisphosphate  [ pi ( 3 , 4 , 5 ) p3 ]  .
modulates the activity of any of the phosphoinositide 3 - kinases  ( pi3ks )  .
the process by which an organism retains a population of somatic stem cells ,  undifferentiated cells in the embryo or adult which can undergo unlimited division and give rise to cell types of the body other than those of the germ - line .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rho protein signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rho protein signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rho protein signal transduction .
the assembly of a sensory cilium ,  a primary cilium found on sensory neurons that contains an a 9 + 0 axonemal arrangement of microtubules .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of an acetyl group to a histone protein .
any process induced by hormones that directly activates any of the steps required for programmed cell death .
the bundle of microtubules and associated proteins that forms the core of cilia in eukaryotic cells and is responsible for their movements .
the bundle of microtubules and associated proteins that forms the core of flagellar in eukaryotic cells and is responsible for their movements .
interacting selectively with any inositol - containing glycerophospholipid .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in the behavior of an organism as a result of a nicotine stimulus .
a multimeric complex that is able to catalyze the addition of methyl groups to histone proteins .
a multimeric protein complex that can methylate lysine - 27 and lysine - 9 residues of histone h3 .
the stages of blood cell formation that take place within the embryo .
the stages of blood cell formation that take place after completion of embryonic development .
behavior that occurs predominantly ,  or only ,  in individuals that are part of a group .
any process that modulates the activity of glutamate - cysteine ligase .
any process that activates or increases the activity of glutamate - cysteine ligase ,  typically by lowering its sensitivity to inhibition by glutathione and by increasing its affinity for glutamate .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of glutamate binding to a cell surface receptor ,  followed by the movement of ions through a channel in the receptor complex .
the process by which the anatomical structures of a tube are generated and organized .
interacting selectively with dopamine ,  a catecholamine neurotransmitter formed by aromatic - l - amino - acid decarboxylase from 3 , 4 - dihydroxy - l - phenylalanine .
catalysis of the transfer of a galactose group from udp - galactose to an acceptor molecule .
a cytoskeleton - like structure ,  originating from the basal body at the proximal end of a cilium ,  and extending proximally toward the cell nucleus .
interacting selectively with a glutamate receptor .
interacting selectively with an ionotropic glutamate receptor .
interacting selectively with a metabotropic glutamate receptor .
interacting selectively with a nuclear hormone receptor ,  a ligand - dependent receptor found in the nucleus of the cell .
interacting selectively with a steroid hormone receptor .
interacting selectively with a glucocorticoid receptor .
a complex having histone acetylase activity on chromatin ,  as well as atpase ,  dna helicase and structural dna binding activities .
the regionalization process that divides an organism or part of an organism into a series of semi - repetitive parts ,  or segments ,  often arranged along a longitudinal axis .
division of the brain into a series of semi - repetitive parts or segments .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the growth of all or part of an organism so that it occurs at its proper speed ,  either globally or in a specific part of the organism's development .
self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of growth of the body of an organism so that it reaches its usual body size .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of growth of an organism to reach its usual body size .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
controlling the timing and / or rate of a developmental event .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway activity .
interacting selectively with interleukin - 18 .
interacting selectively with interleukin - 22 .
combining with interleukin - 22 to initiate a change in cell activity .
a membrane - bounded organelle as it is found in the host cell in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of chemokines ,  any of a subgroup of cytokines which act primarily on hemopoietic cells in acute and inflammatory processes and other immunoregulatory functions .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of cytokines .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of cytokines .
interacting selectively with neurexins ,  synaptic cell surface proteins related to latrotoxin receptor ,  laminin and agrin .
the actions or reactions of an organism in response to an odor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dopamine .
providing the environmental signal that initiates the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a higher concentration of that signal .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway activity .
the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
the process by which glial cells are generated .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving catecholamines .
an immune response which is associated with resistance to intracellular bacteria ,  fungi ,  and protozoa ,  and pathological conditions such as arthritis ,  and which is typically orchestrated by the production of particular cytokines by t - helper 1 cells ,  most notably interferon - gamma ,  il - 2 ,  and lymphotoxin .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of cytokines ,  any of a group of proteins that function to control the survival ,  growth and differentiation of tissues and cells ,  and which have autocrine and paracrine activity .
an immune response which is associated with resistance to extracellular organisms such as helminths and pathological conditions such as allergy ,  which is typically orchestrated by the production of particular cytokines by t - helper 2 cells ,  most notably il - 4 ,  il - 5 ,  il - 10 ,  and il - 13 ,  resulting in enhanced production of certain antibody isotypes and other effects .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized thymocyte acquires specialized features of a t - helper cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 2 .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interferon - gamma .
the expansion of a t cell population by cell division .
the expansion of a b cell population by cell division .
a protein complex that contains a disulfide - linked heterodimer of t cell receptor  ( tcr )  chains ,  which are members of the immunoglobulin superfamily ,  and mediates antigen recognition ,  ultimately resulting in t cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of t cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of resting t cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of activated t cell proliferation .
a t cell receptor complex in which the tcr heterodimer comprises alpha and beta chains ,  associated with the cd3 complex ;  recognizes a complex consisting of an antigen - derived peptide bound to a class i or class ii mhc protein .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving cytokines ,  any of a group of proteins that function to control the survival ,  growth and differentiation of tissues and cells ,  and which have autocrine and paracrine activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of cytokines .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of the cytokine lymphotoxin a .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature b cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
a change in morphology and behavior of a macrophage resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
the change in morphology and behavior of a monocyte resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
the change in morphology and behavior of a neutrophil resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of t cell proliferation .
the process of binding or confining a neurotransmitter such that it is separated from other components of a biological system .
interacting selectively with the beta subunit of interleukin - 12 .
interacting selectively with the alpha subunit of interleukin - 12 .
interacting selectively with a neurotransmitter ,  any chemical substance that is capable of transmitting  ( or inhibiting the transmission of )  a nerve impulse from a neuron to another cell .
interacting selectively with acetylcholine ,  an acetic acid ester of the organic base choline that functions as a neurotransmitter ,  released at the synapses of parasympathetic nerves and at neuromuscular junctions .
the continuous network of membranes encompassing the outer nuclear membrane and the endoplasmic reticulum .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a class of organic compounds that contain the carbonyl group ,  co ,  and in which the carbonyl group is bonded only to carbon atoms ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of compounds derived from amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 6 .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 8 .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 13 .
the regrowth of lost or destroyed tissues .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of granulocyte macrophage colony - stimulating factor ,  cytokines that act in hemopoiesis by controlling the production ,  differentiation ,  and function of two related white cell populations ,  granulocytes and monocytes - macrophages .
the directed killing of a target cell by a natural killer cell through the release of granules containing cytotoxic mediators or through the engagement of death receptors .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the rupture of cell membranes and the loss of cytoplasm .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of natural killer cell mediated cytotoxicity .
the process of protecting a cell from natural killer cell mediated cytotoxicity .
the process of causing a cell to become susceptible to natural killer cell mediated cytotoxicity .
a complex of nxf1 and nxf2 required for the export of the majority of mrnas from the nucleus to the cytoplasm ;  localized in the nucleoplasm and at both the nucleoplasmic and cytoplasmic faces of the nuclear pore complex ;  shuttles between the nucleus and the cytoplasm .
interacting selectively with peptides ,  any of a group of organic compounds comprising two or more amino acids linked by peptide bonds .
interacting selectively with major histocompatibility complex molecules ;  a set of molecules displayed on cell surfaces that are responsible for lymphocyte recognition and antigen presentation .
interacting selectively with major histocompatibility complex class i molecules ;  a set of molecules displayed on cell surfaces that are responsible for lymphocyte recognition and antigen presentation .
interacting selectively with major histocompatibility complex class ii molecules ;  a set of molecules displayed on cell surfaces that are responsible for lymphocyte recognition and antigen presentation .
catalysis of the covalent attachment of the ubiquitin - like protein isg15 to other proteins .
a behavioral process whose outcome is a relatively long - lasting adaptive behavioral change whereby an organism modifies innate vocalizations to imitate or create new sounds .
the periodic casting off and regeneration of an outer covering of cuticle ,  feathers ,  hair ,  horns ,  skin ,  etc .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of movement of proteins from the cytoplasm to the nucleus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of movement of proteins from the cytoplasm into the nucleus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of proteins from the cytoplasm into the nucleus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rapid eye movement  ( rem )  sleep .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups into a molecule .
any process that stops ,  prevents or decreases the rate of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to an external stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the transfer of nf - kappab ,  a transcription factor for eukaryotic rna polymerase ii promoters ,  from the cytoplasm into the nucleus ,  across the nuclear membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transfer of nf - kappab ,  a transcription factor for eukaryotic rna polymerase ii promoters ,  from the cytoplasm into the nucleus ,  across the nuclear membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the transfer of nf - kappab ,  a transcription factor for eukaryotic rna polymerase ii promoters ,  from the cytoplasm into the nucleus ,  across the nuclear membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving vitamin d ,  a fat soluble vitamin that contributes to the maintenance of normal levels of calcium and phosphorus in the human bloodstream .
interacting selectively with any chemokine receptor .
discrete subnuclear bodies in the interchromatin nucleoplasmic space ,  often located adjacent to nuclear specks .
the outer membrane of a muscle fiber ,  consisting of the plasma membrane ,  a covering basement membrane  ( about 100 nm thick and sometimes common to more than one fiber )  ,  and the associated loose network of collagen fibers .
the assembly of a cilium ,  a specialized eukaryotic locomotor organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
any process that modulates the establishment or extent of a membrane potential ,  the electric potential existing across any membrane arising from charges in the membrane itself and from the charges present in the media on either side of the membrane .
catalysis of the reaction: sphingosine 1 - phosphate  +  h2o = sphingosine  +  phosphate .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of compounds derived from amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any of a group of naturally occurring ,  biologically active amines ,  such as norepinephrine ,  histamine ,  and serotonin ,  many of which act as neurotransmitters .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of biogenic amines ,  any of a group of naturally occurring ,  biologically active amines ,  such as norepinephrine ,  histamine ,  and serotonin ,  many of which act as neurotransmitters .
an intranuclear focus at which aggregated proteins have been sequestered .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving norepinephrine ,  a hormone secreted by the adrenal medulla ,  and a neurotransmitter in the sympathetic peripheral nervous system and in some tracts in the central nervous system .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of dopamine ,  a catecholamine neurotransmitter and a metabolic precursor of noradrenaline and adrenaline .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving dopamine ,  a catecholamine neurotransmitter and a metabolic precursor of noradrenaline and adrenaline .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of dopamine ,  a catecholamine neurotransmitter and a metabolic precursor of noradrenaline and adrenaline .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of norepinephrine ,  a hormone secreted by the adrenal medulla ,  and a neurotransmitter in the sympathetic peripheral nervous system and in some tracts in the central nervous system .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any of a group of physiologically important biogenic amines that possess a catechol  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl )  nucleus and are derivatives of 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylethylamine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of any of a group of physiologically important biogenic amines that possess a catechol  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl )  nucleus and are derivatives of 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylethylamine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of choline  ( 2 - hydroxyethyltrimethylammonium )  ,  an amino alcohol that occurs widely in living organisms as a constituent of certain types of phospholipids and in the neurotransmitter acetylcholine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of serotonin  ( 5 - hydroxytryptamine )  ,  a monoamine neurotransmitter occurring in the peripheral and central nervous systems ,  also having hormonal properties .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving serotonin  ( 5 - hydroxytryptamine )  ,  a monoamine neurotransmitter occurring in the peripheral and central nervous systems ,  also having hormonal properties .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving indole  ( 2 , 3 - benzopyrrole )  ,  the basis of many biologically active substances  ( e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving compounds derived from indole  ( 2 , 3 - benzopyrrole )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of compounds derived from indole  ( 2 , 3 - benzopyrrole )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of compounds derived from indole  ( 2 , 3 - benzopyrrole )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ethanolamine  ( 2 - aminoethanol )  and compounds derived from it .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone ,  naturally occurring substances secreted by specialized cells that affects the metabolism or behavior of other cells possessing functional receptors for the hormone .
development of a photoreceptor ,  a cell that responds to incident electromagnetic radiation ,  particularly visible light .
development of a photoreceptor ,  a sensory cell in the eye that reacts to the presence of light .
a tissue - specific ,  membrane - bounded cytoplasmic organelle within which melanin pigments are synthesized and stored .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of a tooth or teeth .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of a tooth or teeth .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of teeth ,  the hard ,  bony appendages which are borne on the jaws ,  or on other bones in the walls of the mouth or pharynx of most vertebrates .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of teeth ,  the hard ,  bony appendages which are borne on the jaws ,  or on other bones in the walls of the mouth or pharynx of most vertebrates .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a mechanoreceptor ,  a cell specialized to transduce mechanical stimuli and relay that information centrally in the nervous system .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an auditory hair cell .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized hemopoietic cell acquires specialized features of a gamma - delta t cell .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the series of events in which a bacterial lipoprotein stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a triacylated bacterial lipoprotein stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the process of introducing a phosphate group to a serine residue of a stat  ( signal transducer and activator of transcription )  protein .
the process of introducing a phosphate group to a tyrosine residue of a stat3 protein .
the process of introducing a phosphate group to a tyrosine residue of a stat5 protein .
the process of introducing a phosphate group to a tyrosine residue of a stat1 protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the introduction of a phosphate group to a tyrosine residue of a stat  ( signal transducer and activator of transcription )  protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of introducing a phosphate group to a tyrosine residue of a stat3 protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the introduction of a phosphate group to a tyrosine residue of a stat3 protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the introduction of a phosphate group to a tyrosine residue of a stat3 protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of introducing a phosphate group to a tyrosine residue of a stat4 protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the introduction of a phosphate group to a tyrosine residue of a stat4 protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of introducing a phosphate group to a tyrosine residue of a stat5 protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the introduction of a phosphate group to a tyrosine residue of a stat5 protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the introduction of a phosphate group to a tyrosine residue of a stat5 protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the introduction of a phosphate group to a tyrosine residue of a stat  ( signal transducer and activator of transcription )  protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the introduction of a phosphate group to a tyrosine residue of a stat  ( signal transducer and activator of transcription )  protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of tumor necrosis factor ,  an inflammatory cytokine produced by macrophages / monocytes during acute inflammation and which is responsible for a diverse range of signaling events within cells ,  leading to necrosis or apoptosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of tumor necrosis factor ,  an inflammatory cytokine produced by macrophages / monocytes during acute inflammation and which is responsible for a diverse range of signaling events within cells ,  leading to necrosis or apoptosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of tumor necrosis factor ,  an inflammatory cytokine produced by macrophages / monocytes during acute inflammation and which is responsible for a diverse range of signaling events within cells ,  leading to necrosis or apoptosis .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for a neuron to attain its fully functional state .
the process by which myelin sheaths are formed and maintained around neurons .
a hexameric protein complex required for the initiation and regulation of dna replication .
interacting selectively with any hormone ,  naturally occurring substances secreted by specialized cells that affect the metabolism or behavior of other cells possessing functional receptors for the hormone .
a protein complex which usually consists of three components ,  e .g .
a complex of three proteins ,  which in animals is approximately 150kda and consists of the insulin - like growth factor  ( igf )  ,  the insulin - like growth factor binding protein - 3  ( igfbp - 3 )  ,  or  - 5  ( igfbp - 5 )  and an acid - labile subunit  ( als )  .
an immunoglobulin complex that is secreted into extracellular space and found in mucosal areas or other tissues or circulating in the blood or lymph .
a protein complex that possesses dna polymerase activity and is involved in template directed synthesis of dna .
catalysis of the reaction: rpo - r'  +  h2o = rpooh  +  r'h .
cytoplasmic organelles ,  spherical or oval in shape ,  that are bounded by a single membrane and contain oxidative enzymes ,  especially those utilizing hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  .
granule with a membranous ,  tubular internal structure ,  found primarily in mature neutrophil cells .
primary lysosomal granule found in neutrophil granulocytes .
specialized secretory vesicle found in the cells of adrenal glands and various other organs ,  which is concerned with the synthesis ,  storage ,  metabolism ,  and secretion of epinephrine and norepinephrine .
the enlarged ,  fluid filled nucleus of a primary oocyte ,  the development of which is suspended in prophase i of the first meiotic division between embryohood and sexual maturity .
cytoplasmic bead - like structures of animal cells ,  visible by electron microscope .
a membrane - bounded ,  cytoplasmic secretory granule found in enzyme - secreting cells and visible by light microscopy .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a zymogen granule .
the process by which an antigen - presenting cell expresses a peptide antigen of exogenous origin on its cell surface in association with an mhc class i protein complex .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of glucose within an organism or cell .
the response of an organism to a perceived external threat .
the region between the inner  ( cytoplasmic )  and outer membrane  ( gram - negative bacteria )  or inner membrane and cell wall  ( fungi )  .
any of the small ,  heterogeneous ,  artifactual ,  vesicular particles that are formed when some cells are homogenized .
a membrane - bounded organelle ,  specialized for the storage and secretion various substances  ( surfactant phospholipids ,  glycoproteins and acid phosphates )  which are arranged in the form of tightly packed ,  concentric ,  membrane sheets or lamellae .
interacting selectively with an antigen peptide ,  a fragment of a foreign protein derived by proteolysis within the cell .
interacting selectively with a t cell receptor ,  the antigen - recognizing receptor on the surface of t cells .
interacting selectively with a cd4 ,  a receptor found on the surface of t cells ,  monocytes and macrophages .
interacting selectively with a cd8 ,  a receptor found on the surface of thymocytes and cytotoxic and suppressor t - lymphocytes .
a transmembrane protein complex composed of an mhc alpha chain and ,  in most cases ,  either an mhc class ii beta chain or an invariant beta2 - microglobin chain ,  and with or without a bound peptide ,  lipid ,  or polysaccharide antigen .
a transmembrane protein complex composed of a mhc class i alpha chain and an invariant beta2 - microglobin chain ,  and with or without a bound peptide antigen .
a transmembrane protein complex composed of an mhc class ii alpha and mhc class ii beta chain ,  and with or without a bound peptide or polysaccharide antigen .
the membrane surrounding the outer segment of a vertebrate photoreceptor .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate to directly drive some other reaction ,  for example ion transport across a membrane .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate to directly drive the active transport of a substance across a membrane .
a large lipoprotein particle  ( diameter 75 - 1200 nm )  composed of a central core of triglycerides and cholesterol surrounded by a protein - phospholipid coating .
coarse ,  bluish - black staining cytoplasmic granules ,  bounded by a plasma membrane and found in mast cells and basophils .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cyclical phases of growth  ( anagen )  ,  regression  ( catagen )  ,  quiescence  ( telogen )  ,  and shedding  ( exogen )  in the life of a hair .
any complex of actin ,  myosin ,  and accessory proteins .
the actin part of any complex of actin ,  myosin ,  and accessory proteins .
process by which a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into an auditory hair cell in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway ;  upon specification ,  the cell fate can be reversed .
process by which a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into an auditory hair cell regardless of its environment ;  upon determination ,  the cell fate cannot be reversed .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a muscle cell .
the process whereby the developmental fate of a cell becomes restricted such that it will develop into an eye photoreceptor cell .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins on dna or rna to form the complex that mediates dosage compensation on one or more x chromosomes .
soluble complex of the mitochondrial intermembrane space composed of various combinations of small tim proteins ;  acts as a protein transporter to guide proteins to the tim22 complex for insertion into the mitochondrial inner membrane .
protease complex of the mitochondrial inner membrane ,  consisting of at least two subunits ,  involved in processing of both nuclear -  and mitochondrially - encoded proteins targeted to the intermembrane space .
a specialized area of membrane of the axon terminal that faces the plasma membrane of the neuron or muscle fiber with which the axon terminal establishes a synaptic junction ;  many synaptic junctions exhibit structural presynaptic characteristics ,  such as conical ,  electron - dense internal protrusions ,  that distinguish it from the remainder of the axon plasma membrane .
reactions triggered in response to the presence of a bacterium that act to protect the cell or organism .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  a potentially harmful byproduct of aerobic cellular respiration which can cause damage to dna .
the cycle from wakefulness through an orderly succession of sleep states and stages that occurs on an approximately 24 hour rhythm .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the circadian sleep / wake cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a circadian rhythm .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a circadian rhythm behavior .
the specific actions or reactions of an organism relating to the intake of food ,  any substance  ( usually solid )  that can be metabolized by an organism to give energy and build tissue .
the specific actions or reactions of an organism relating to the intake of liquids ,  especially water .
an enzyme complex which in humans and yeast consists of at least five proteins ;  for example ,  the complex contains gaa1 ,  gpi8 ,  pig - s ,  pig - u ,  and pig - t in human ,  and gaa1p ,  gab1p ,  gpi8p ,  gpi16p ,  and gpi17p in yeast .
a cascade of processes induced by the detection of dna damage within a cell .
a ribosome bound to mrna that forms part of a polysome .
interacting selectively with an identical protein or proteins .
interacting selectively with an identical protein to form a homodimer .
interacting selectively with actinin ,  any member of a family of proteins that crosslink f - actin .
interacting selectively with neuronal cdc2 - like kinase ,  an enzyme involved in the regulation of neuronal differentiation and neuro - cytoskeleton dynamics .
combining with a member of the wnt family of signaling molecules to initiate a change in cell activity .
a large ,  multisubunit complex which consists of the mhc class i - beta 2 microglobulin dimer ,  the transporter associated with antigen presentation  ( tap )  ,  tapasin  ( an mhc - encoded membrane protein )  ,  the chaperone calreticulin and the thiol oxidoreductase erp57 .
a heterodimer composed of the subunits tap1 and tap2  ( transporter associated with antigen presentation )  .
electron - dense granule occurring in blood platelets that stores and secretes adenosine nucleotides and serotonin .
reactions triggered in response to the presence of a protozoan that act to protect the cell or organism .
interacting selectively ,  in a non - covalent manner ,  with peptidoglycan ,  any of a class of glycoconjugates found in bacterial cell walls .
interacting selectively with the rna element bre  ( bruno response element )  .
interacting selectively with one or more specific sites on a neuromedin u receptor .
interacting selectively and stoichiometrically with neuropeptides ,  peptides with direct synaptic effects  ( peptide neurotransmitters )  or indirect modulatory effects on the nervous system  ( peptide neuromodulators )  .
interacting selectively and stoichiometrically with neuromedin u ,  a hypothalamic peptide involved in energy homeostasis and stress responses .
the process of introducing a phosphate group to a tyrosine residue of a jak  ( janus activated kinase )  protein ,  thereby activating it .
the process of introducing a phosphate group to a tyrosine residue of a jak2  ( janus activated kinase 2 )  protein ,  thereby activating it .
any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of cell death by apoptosis .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amyloid precursor protein  ( app )  ,  the precursor of beta - amyloid ,  a glycoprotein associated with alzheimer's disease .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of amyloid precursor protein  ( app )  ,  the precursor of beta - amyloid .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of amyloid precursor protein  ( app )  ,  the precursor of beta - amyloid .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of amyloid precursor protein  ( app )  ,  the precursor of beta - amyloid .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of amyloid precursor protein  ( app )  ,  the precursor of beta - amyloid ,  a glycoprotein associated with alzheimer's disease .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a transcription factor from the cytoplasm to the nucleus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a transcription factor from the cytoplasm to the nucleus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a transcription factor from the cytoplasm to the nucleus .
the selective interaction of a transcription factor with specific molecules in the cytoplasm ,  thereby inhibiting its translocation into the nucleus .
a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
a prolongation or process extending from a nerve cell ,  e .g .
a series of molecular signals that leads to the upregulation of calcium - dependent phospholipase a2 activity in response to the signal .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the camera - type eye over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process by which a monocyte acquires the specialized features of a dendritic cell ,  an immunocompetent cell of the lymphoid and hemopoietic systems and skin .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of the cytokine lymphotoxin a .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of the cytokine lymphotoxin a .
a enzyme complex of which the core is a heterodimer composed of a light  ( alpha )  and heavy  ( beta )  chain ,  and requires several other water - soluble proteins of cytosolic origin for activity .
the portion of a cell bearing surface projections such as axons ,  dendrites ,  cilia ,  or flagella that includes the nucleus ,  but excludes all cell projections .
the process of regulating the proliferation and elimination of t cells such that the total number of t cells within a whole or part of an organism is stable over time in the absence of an outside stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency or rate of macrophage activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of macrophage activation .
any process that stimulates ,  induces or increases the rate of macrophage activation .
a protein complex whose composition varies amongst species ;  in rice it probably exists in a homo - tetramer to homo - hexamer form and in gram - negative bacteria as a dimer .
regular periodic sub membranous arrays of vinculin in skeletal and cardiac muscle cells ,  these arrays link z - discs to the sarcolemma and are associated with links to extracellular matrix .
anterior movement of an organism ,  following the direction of the head of the animal .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of structures in the space external to the outermost structure of a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell death by apoptosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell death by apoptosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
the nucleus of a germ cell ,  a cell specialized to produce haploid gametes ,  and its descendents .
any process that activates or increases the activity of an enzyme .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of an enzyme .
any process that modulates the rate of gtp hydrolysis by a gtpase .
the directed movement of amino acids into a cell or organelle .
the directed movement of l - enantiomer amino acids into a cell or organelle .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a receptor molecule ,  a macromolecule that undergoes combination with a hormone ,  neurotransmitter ,  drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function .
interacting selectively with tumor necrosis factor ,  a proinflammatory cytokine produced by monocytes and macrophages .
interacting selectively with neurotrophin ,  any of a family of growth factors that block apoptosis in neurons and thus promote nerve growth .
any process that modulates an i - kappab kinase / nf - kappab induced cascade .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of an i - kappab kinase / nf - kappab induced cascade .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of an i - kappab kinase / nf - kappab induced cascade .
interacting selectively with the protein - tyrosine kinase receptor erbb - 3 / her3 .
any process that modulates the activity of the enzyme 1 - phosphatidylinositol 4 - kinase .
any process that activates or increases the activity of 1 - phosphatidylinositol 4 - kinase .
any process by which infecting bacteria are clumped together by a host organism .
the synchronization of a circadian rhythm to photoperiod ,  the intermittent cycle of light  ( day )  and dark  ( night )  .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of caspase activity .
a structural framework ,  or 'dense core' at the interior of an acrosome .
the volume enclosed within the acrosome membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds ,  initiated by the covalent attachment of ubiquitin ,  and mediated by the proteasome .
interacting selectively with ions ,  charged atoms or groups of atoms .
interacting selectively with cations ,  charged atoms or groups of atoms with a net positive charge .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
interacting selectively with any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group .
any process involved in the generation of rhythmic ,  synchronous excitatory synaptic inputs in a neural circuit .
a small cytoplasmic ,  non - membranous rna / protein complex aggregates in the primordial germ cells of many higher eukaryotes .
a multisubunit complex that catalyzes the acetylation of histones h4 and h2a .
a complex for the transport of metabolites into and out of the cell ,  typically comprised of four domains ;  two membrane - associated domains and two atp - binding domains at the intracellular face of the membrane ,  that form a central pore through the plasma membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the dna - dependent transcription of a specific gene or genes .
portion of the axon proximal to the neuronal cell body ,  at the level of the axon hillock .
terminal inflated portion of the axon ,  containing the specialized apparatus necessary to release neurotransmitters .
protrusion from a dendrite .spines are specialised subcellular compartments involved in the synaptic transmission .
cylindric portion of the dendrite ,  directly stemming from the perikaryon ,  and carrying the dendritic spines .
the volume enclosed within the lysosomal membrane .
portion of the neuronal cell soma from which the axon originates .
the portion of the cell soma  ( cell body )  that excludes the nucleus .
extracellular matrix material consisting of polysaccharides and protein .
an electrically insulating fatty layer that surrounds the axons of many neurons .
the process of preserving the structure and function of mature myelin .
the portion of the myelin sheath in which layers of cell membrane are tightly juxtaposed ,  completely excluding cytoplasm .
non - compact myelin located adjacent to the nodes of ranvier in a myelin segment .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring outside the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
the internal volume enclosed by the membranes of a particular organelle ;  includes the volume enclosed by a single organelle membrane ,  e .g .
any macromolecular complex composed of two or more polypeptide subunits ,  which may or may not be identical .
any protein complex that undergoes combination with a hormone ,  neurotransmitter ,  drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrates .
a large ,  extracellular glycoprotein complex composed of three different polypeptide chains ,  alpha ,  beta and gamma .
a laminin complex composed of alpha2 ,  beta1 and gamma1 polypeptide chains .
a laminin complex composed of alpha5 ,  beta1 and gamma1 polypeptide chains .
granule free cytoplasm ,  lying immediately below the plasma membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the recognition and removal of an apoptotic cell by a neighboring cell or by a phagocyte .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that activates or increases the activity of a caspase ,  any of a group of cysteine proteases involved in apoptosis .
any process that modulates the activity of a caspase ,  any of a group of cysteine proteases involved in apoptosis .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving biopolymers ,  long ,  repeating chains of monomers found in nature ,  such as polysaccharides and proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of biopolymers ,  long ,  repeating chains of monomers found in nature e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of biopolymers ,  long ,  repeating chains of monomers found in nature e .g .
fibers ,  composed of actin ,  myosin ,  and associated proteins ,  found in cells of smooth or striated muscle .
a multisubunit protein complex involved in the activation of apoptosis .
a functional unit located near the cell apex at the points of contact between epithelial cells ,  which in vertebrates is composed of the tight junction ,  the zonula adherens ,  and desmosomes and in invertebrates is composed of the subapical complex  ( sac )  ,  the zonula adherens and the septate junction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte degranulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of leukocyte degranulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte degranulation .
the regulated exocytosis of secretory granules containing preformed mediators such as histamine ,  serotonin ,  and neutral proteases by a mast cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of mast cell degranulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of mast cell degranulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mast cell degranulation .
the change in morphology and behavior of a eosinophil resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
the regulated exocytosis of secretory granules containing preformed mediators such as major basic protein ,  eosinophil peroxidase ,  and eosinophil cationic protein by an eosinophil .
the regulated exocytosis of secretory granules containing preformed mediators such as proteases ,  lipases ,  and inflammatory mediators by a neutrophil .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of neutrophil degranulation .
the regulated exocytosis of secretory granules containing preformed mediators such as perforin and granzymes by a cytotoxic t cell .
the regulated exocytosis of secretory granules containing preformed mediators such as perforin and granzymes by a natural killer cell .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process by which successful recombination of a t cell receptor beta chain into a translatable protein coding sequence leads to rescue from apoptosis and subsequent proliferation of an immature t cell .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized t cell acquires specialized features of a mature cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell .
the process of sparing immature t cells which react with self - mhc protein complexes with low affinity levels from apoptotic death .
the process by which an immature t cell commits to cd4 - positive t cell lineage or the cd8 - positive lineage of alpha - beta t cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cd4 - positive ,  alpha beta t cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cd4 - positive ,  alpha beta t cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cd4 - positive ,  alpha beta t cell differentiation .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized t cell acquires specialized features of a mature cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell .
the process by which an immature t cell becomes committed to becoming a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of memory t cell differentiation .
the process of elimination of immature t cells which react strongly with self - antigens .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding ,  selective interaction with deoxyribonucleic acid .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding ,  selective interaction with deoxyribonucleic acid .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
interacting selectively with helix loop helix ,  a domain of 40 - 50 residues that occurs in specific dna - binding proteins that act as transcription factors .
the regulated release of cortisol ,  a steroid hormone that in humans is the major circulating hormone of the cortex ,  or outer layer ,  of the adrenal gland .
combining with corticotropin - releasing hormone to initiate a change in cell activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of map kinase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of map kinase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of map kinase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the mapkkk cascade .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the mapkkk cascade .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the mapk cascade .
the covalent alteration of one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological polymer ,  resulting in a change in its properties .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of a transcription factor ,  any factor involved in the initiation or regulation of transcription .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an alkene ,  any cyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon having one carbon - carbon double bond and the general formula cnh2n ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an alkene ,  any cyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon having one carbon - carbon double bond and the general formula cnh2n .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of precursor metabolites ,  substances from which energy is derived ,  and the processes involved in the liberation of energy from these substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carbohydrates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carbohydrates ,  carried out by individual cells .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate to directly drive the transport of a substance .
interacting selectively with any component on the surface of a cell .
a process by which muscle adapts ,  with consequent modifications to structural and / or functional phenotypes ,  in response to a stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of jun kinase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of jun kinase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of jun kinase activity .
a nonsteroidal regulator ,  composed of two covalently linked inhibin beta - a subunits  ( sometimes known as activin beta - a or activin / inhibin beta - a )  .
heterodimeric hormone composed of an inhibin alpha subunit complexed with either an inhibin beta - a subunit ,  to form inhibin a ,  or an inhibin beta - b subunit ,  to form inhibin b .
heterodimeric hormone composed of an inhibin alpha subunit complexed with an inhibin beta - a subunit .
a protein complex that is composed of an interleukin - 12 alpha and an interleukin - 12 beta subunit and is secreted into the extracellular space .
any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of cell death by apoptosis in neurons .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell death by apoptosis in neurons .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell death of neurons by apoptosis .
any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of cell death by apoptosis in the nervous system .
increases the activity of a protein serine / threonine kinase .
a homodimeric ,  bifunctional enzyme complex which catalyzes the synthesis and degradation of fructose 2 , 6 - bisphosphate ,  and is required for both glycolysis and gluconeogenesis .
interacting selectively with a phosphoinositide 3 - kinase ,  any enzyme that catalyzes the addition of a phosphate group to an inositol lipid at the 3' position of the inositol ring .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a simple or complex lipid .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of phosphoinositide 3 - kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to an inositol lipid at the 3' position of the inositol ring .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of phosphoinositide 3 - kinase activity .
modulation of the frequency ,  rate or extent of translation as a result of a stimulus indicating the organism is under stress .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of translation initiation ,  as a result of a stimulus indicating the organism is under stress .
interacting selectively with dna of a specific nucleotide composition ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of insulin - like growth factor receptor signaling .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of insulin - like growth factor receptor signaling .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of insulin - like growth factor receptor signaling .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the skin over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the y - shaped region of a nuclear replicating dna molecule ,  resulting from the separation of the dna strands and in which the synthesis of new strands takes place .
the orderly movement of astrocytes ,  class of large neuroglial  ( macroglial )  cells in the central nervous system ,  the largest and most numerous neuroglial cells in the brain and spinal cord .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a protein complex ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
a multimeric dna polymerase enzyme complex which differs in composition amongst species ;  in humans it is a heterotetramer of four subunits of approximately 125 ,  50 ,  68 and 12kda ,  while in s . cerevisiae ,  it has three different subunits which form a heterotrimer ,  and the active enzyme is a dimer of this heterotrimer .
a protein complex composed of three identical pcna monomers ,  each comprising two similar domains ,  which are joined in a head - to - tail arrangement to form a homotrimer .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a macromolecule ,  initiated by covalent modification of the target molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving inositol phosphate ,  1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 - cyclohexanehexol ,  with one or more phosphate groups attached .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving dicarboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing two carboxyl  ( cooh )  groups or anions  ( coo -  )  .
the removal of the apoptotic cell by phagocytosis ,  by a neighboring cell or by a phagocyte .
the change in the morphology of the mitochondria in an apoptotic cell from a highly branched network to a fragmented vesicular form .
the process by which a cell interprets signals  ( in the form of specific proteins and lipids )  on the surface of a dying cell which it will engulf and remove by phagocytosis .
that space within the plasma membrane of a host cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of phosphoprotein phosphatase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of phosphate from a phosphoprotein .
a cell projection in which the distal end of the axon of a nerve fiber terminates .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in a protein after the protein has been completely translated and released from the ribosome .
the process whereby a specialized structure  ( cell ,  tissue or organ )  loses structural or functional features that characterize it in the mature organism ,  or some other relatively stable phase of the organism's life history .
the process whereby a specialized cell loses the structural or functional features that characterize it in the mature organism ,  or some other relatively stable phase of the organism's life history .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process by which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process by which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process by which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of symbiosis ,  an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
any process by which macromolecules aggregate ,  disaggregate ,  or are modified ,  resulting in the formation ,  disassembly ,  or alteration of a macromolecular complex .
the process by which an organism effects a change in the structure or processes of its host organism .
any process by which an organism has a negative effect on the functioning of the host's cells .
the movement of an organism from a host to another host or from a host to another place in the environment .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a system process ,  a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving those compounds which are formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of lipids ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chemical reactions and pathways in multicellular organisms that occur at the tissue ,  organ ,  or organismal level .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that activates or increases frequency ,  rate or extent of chemical reactions and pathways in multicellular organisms that occur at the tissue ,  organ ,  or organismal level .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a macromolecule ,  any large molecule including proteins ,  nucleic acids and carbohydrates ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a specific protein ,  rather than of proteins in general ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of compounds that contain sulfur ,  such as the amino acids methionine and cysteine or the tripeptide glutathione .
an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
the attachment of an organism to its host via adhesion molecules ,  general stickiness etc . ,  either directly or indirectly .
any process ,  either constitutive or induced ,  by which an organism evades ,  suppresses or tolerates the effects of its host organism's defense ( s )  .
any process ,  either active or passive ,  by which an organism avoids or tolerates the effects of its host organism's defense ( s )  .
the activation by an organism of the defense response of the host organism .
any process by which an organism has an effect on an organism of a different species .
any constituent part of the extracellular matrix ,  the structure lying external to one or more cells ,  which provides structural support for cells or tissues ;  may be completely external to the cell  ( as in animals )  or be part of the cell  ( as often seen in plants )  .
any constituent part of the extracellular region ,  the space external to the outermost structure of a cell .
any constituent part of an organelle ,  an organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
any constituent part of a virion ,  a complete fully infectious extracellular virus particle .
any constituent part of the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
any constituent part of a membrane ,  a double layer of lipid molecules that encloses all cells ,  and ,  in eukaryotes ,  many organelles ;  may be a single or double lipid bilayer ;  also includes associated proteins .
any constituent part of the cell wall ,  the rigid or semi - rigid envelope lying outside the cell membrane of plant ,  fungal ,  and most prokaryotic cells ,  maintaining their shape and protecting them from osmotic lysis .
any constituent part of a chromosome ,  a structure composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins  ( e .g .
any constituent part of the nucleus ,  a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
any constituent part of a mitochondrion ,  a semiautonomous ,  self replicating organelle that occurs in varying numbers ,  shapes ,  and sizes in the cytoplasm of virtually all eukaryotic cells .
any constituent part of the cytoskeleton ,  a cellular scaffolding or skeleton that maintains cell shape ,  enables some cell motion  ( using structures such as flagella and cilia )  ,  and plays important roles in both intra - cellular transport  ( e .g .
any constituent part of the golgi apparatus ,  a compound membranous cytoplasmic organelle of eukaryotic cells ,  consisting of flattened ,  ribosome - free vesicles arranged in a more or less regular stack .
any constituent part of the endoplasmic reticulum ,  the irregular network of unit membranes ,  visible only by electron microscopy ,  that occurs in the cytoplasm of many eukaryotic cells .
any constituent part of cytoplasmic vesicle ,  a vesicle formed of membrane or protein ,  found in the cytoplasm of a cell .
any constituent part of a vacuole ,  a closed structure ,  found only in eukaryotic cells ,  that is completely surrounded by unit membrane and contains liquid material .
any constituent part of a microbody ,  a cytoplasmic organelle ,  spherical or oval in shape ,  that is bounded by a single membrane and contains oxidative enzymes ,  especially those utilizing hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  .
any constituent part of a peroxisome ,  a small ,  membrane - bounded organelle that uses dioxygen  ( o2 )  to oxidize organic molecules ;  contains some enzymes that produce and others that degrade hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  .
any constituent part of an endosome ,  a membrane - bounded organelle that carries materials newly ingested by endocytosis .
any constituent part of a cilium ,  a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
any constituent part of a microtubule - based flagellum ,  a long ,  whiplike protrusion from the surface of a eukaryotic cell ,  whose undulations drive the cell through a liquid medium ;  similar in structure to a cilium .
any constituent part of the cytoplasm ,  all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
any constituent part of cytosol ,  that part of the cytoplasm that does not contain membranous or particulate subcellular components .
a constituent part of an intracellular organelle ,  an organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
any constituent part of an axoneme ,  the bundle of microtubules and associated proteins that forms the core of cilia and flagella in eukaryotic cells and is responsible for their movements .
any constituent part of the cell cortex ,  the region of a cell that lies just beneath the plasma membrane and often ,  but not always ,  contains a network of actin filaments and associated proteins .
any constituent part of a contractile fiber ,  a fiber composed of actin ,  myosin ,  and associated proteins ,  found in cells of smooth or striated muscle .
any constituent part of a microtubule organizing center ,  a region in a eukaryotic cell ,  such as a centrosome or basal body ,  from which microtubules grow .
any constituent part of the nucleoplasm ,  that part of the nuclear content other than the chromosomes or the nucleolus .
any constituent part of a nucleolus ,  a small ,  dense body one or more of which are present in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells .
any constituent part of the nuclear membrane ,  the envelope that surrounds the nucleus of eukaryotic cells .
any constituent part of a nuclear chromosome ,  a chromosome found in the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell .
any constituent part of the mitochondrial membrane ,  either of the lipid bilayers that surround the mitochondrion and form the mitochondrial envelope .
any constituent part of a synapse ,  the junction between a nerve fiber of one neuron and another neuron or muscle fiber or glial cell .
any constituent part of the plasma membrane ,  the membrane surrounding a cell that separates the cell from its external environment .
any constituent part of a flagellum ,  a long whiplike or feathery structure borne either singly or in groups by the motile cells of many bacteria and unicellular eukaryotes and by the motile male gametes of many eukaryotic organisms ,  which propel the cell through a liquid medium .
any constituent part of an external encapsulating structure ,  a structure that lies outside the plasma membrane and surrounds the entire cell .
any constituent part of a cell projection ,  a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
any constituent part of a cell ,  the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nitric oxide .
the joining of two or more lipid bilayer membranes that surround a cell .
the process by which t cells that express t cell receptors that are restricted by self mhc protein complexes and tolerant to self antigens are selected for further maturation .
the process of sparing immature t cells in the thymus which react with self - mhc protein complexes with low affinity levels from apoptotic death .
the process of elimination of immature t cells in the thymus which react strongly with self - antigens .
the process of t cell selection that occurs in the thymus .
the process of t cell selection that occurs in extrathymic locations ,  often resulting t cells of distinct specificities from those selected in the thymus .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized t cell acquires the specialized features of a th1 cell .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized t cell acquires specialized features of a th2 cell .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized t cell acquires specialized features of a cytotoxic t cell .
the process by which a relatively unspecialized t cell acquires specialized features of a regulatory t cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of viral genome replication .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of viral genome replication .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of viral genome replication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interferon - gamma .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of chemokines .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 10 .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 12 .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 2 .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interferon - gamma .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interferon - gamma .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of chemokines .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of chemokines .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 10 .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 12 .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 12 .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 2 .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 2 .
innate immune responses are defense responses mediated by germline encoded components that directly recognize components of potential pathogens .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the innate immune response ,  the organism's first line of defense against infection .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the innate immune response ,  the organism's first line of defense against infection .
a protein complex that binds interleukin - 18 ;  comprises an alpha and a beta subunit .
a filament composed of acidic and basic keratins  ( types i and ii )  ,  typically expressed in epithelial cells .
a type of intermediate filament ,  typically made up of one or more of the proteins vimentin ,  desmin ,  glial fibrillary acidic protein  ( gfap )  ,  and peripherin .
any cellular process that depends upon or alters the intermediate filament cytoskeleton ,  that part of the cytoskeleton comprising intermediate filaments and their associated proteins .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising intermediate filaments and their associated proteins .
control of the spatial distribution of intermediate filaments ;  includes organizing filaments into meshworks ,  bundles ,  or other structures ,  as by cross - linking .
the formation of the bundles of intermediate filaments ,  known as tonofilaments .
cytoskeletal structure made from intermediate filaments ,  typically organized in the cytosol as an extended system that stretches from the nuclear envelope to the plasma membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of integrins ,  a large family of transmembrane proteins that act as receptors for cell - adhesion molecules .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of integrins .
the nucleus of either the ovum or the spermatozoon following fertilization .
any of the small  ( 10 - 200 nm )  ,  heterogeneous ,  highly dynamic ,  sterol -  and sphingolipid - enriched membrane domains that compartmentalize cellular processes .
the migration of leukocytes from the blood vessels into the surrounding tissue .
a myosin complex containing a class i myosin heavy chain and associated light chains ;  myosin i heavy chains are single - headed ,  possess tails of various lengths ,  and do not self - associate into bipolar filaments ;  myosin i complexes are involved in diverse processes related to membrane traffic and cell movement .
the process by which voltage - gated ion channels become localized to distinct subcellular domains in the neuron .
the process by which voltage - gated sodium channels become localized together in high densities .
the process by which voltage - gated potassium channels become localized together in high densities .
the commitment of cells to specific cell fates and their capacity to differentiate into particular kinds of cells .
signaling at long or short range between cells that results in the commitment of a cell to a certain fate .
a direct link between the cytoplasms of sister cells that allows cells to communicate with one another .
the region of a polarized cell that forms a tip or is distal to a base .
the region of a cell situated near the base .
the region that lies just beneath the plasma membrane on the apical edge of a cell .
the region that lies just beneath the plasma membrane on the basal edge of a cell .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location .
any process by which a protein is maintained in a location and prevented from moving elsewhere .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sleep ;  a readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity that occurs periodically in many animals .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of non - rapid eye movement sleep .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of ctgf ,  produced by human umbilical vein endothelial cells and by skin fibroblasts after activation with tgf - beta .
the switching of activated b cells from igm biosynthesis to biosynthesis of other isotypes of immunoglobulin ,  accomplished through a recombination process involving an intrachromosomal deletion involving switch regions that reside 5' of each constant region gene segment in the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of isotype switching .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of the apicobasal polarity of a neuroblast cell ,  a progenitor of the central nervous system .
the junction between a nerve fiber of one neuron and another neuron or muscle fiber or glial cell ;  the site of interneuronal communication .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of fasl  ( cd95 )  ,  an antigen originally found to be expressed on the cell surface of activated human t - lymphocytes and b - lymphocytes and a variety of malignant human lymphoid cell lines .
a specialized area of membrane facing the presynaptic membrane on the tip of the nerve ending and separated from it by a minute cleft  ( the synaptic cleft )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of neurotransmitter receptors .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving neurotransmitter receptors .
a receptor found on the surface of natural killer cells which binds class i mhc antigens and is required for activation of nk activity .
any of the heteromeric enzymes that act in the tca cycle .
a protein complex that possesses alpha - ketoglutarate dehydrogenase activity .
a protein complex containing flavin adenine dinucleotide  ( fad )  and acyl - coa dehydrogenase ,  which form a system that oxidizes an acyl - coa molecule and reduces ubiquinone and other acceptors in the mitochondrial electron transport system .
a complex of multiple copies of three enzymatic components: oxoglutarate dehydrogenase  ( lipoamide )   ;  ec:1 .2 .4 .2  ( e1 )  ,  dihydrolipoamide s - succinyltransferase  ;  ec:2 .3 .1 .61  ( e2 )  and dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase  ;  ec:1 .8 .1 .4  ( e3 )  ;  catalyzes the overall conversion of 2 - oxoglutarate to succinyl - coa and carbon dioxide  ( co2 )  .
complex that carries out the oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate to form acetyl - coa ;  comprises subunits possessing three catalytic activities: pyruvate dehydrogenase  ( e1 )  ,  dihydrolipoamide s - acetyltransferase  ( e2 )  ,  and dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase  ( e3 )  .
the enzyme that catalyzes the oxidation of succinate and ubiquinone to fumarate and ubiquinol ;  involved in aerobic respiration ,  repressed in anaerobic respiration .
a proton - transporting two - sector atpase complex that catalyzes the phosphorylation of adp to atp during oxidative phosphorylation .
the sector of a hydrogen - transporting atp synthase complex in which the catalytic activity resides ;  it comprises the catalytic core and central stalk ,  and is peripherally associated with a membrane ,  such as the plasma membrane or the mitochondrial inner membrane ,  when the entire atp synthase is assembled .
all non - f1 subunits of a hydrogen - transporting atp synthase ,  including integral and peripheral membrane proteins .
the hexamer that possesses the catalytic activity of the mitochondrial hydrogen - transporting atp synthase .
respiratory chain complex i is an enzyme of the respiratory chain .
a part of the respiratory chain ,  containing the four polypeptide subunits of succinate dehydrogenase ,  flavin - adenine dinucleotide and iron - sulfur .
a protein complex that transfers electrons from ubiquinol to cytochrome c and translocates two protons across a membrane .
a part of the respiratory chain ,  containing the 13 polypeptide subunits of cytochrome c oxidase ,  including cytochrome a and cytochrome a3 .
a multimeric complex which consists of flavoprotein  ( subunit a  ;  interpro:003952 )  ,  iron - sulfur protein  ( subunit b )  and membrane - bound cytochrome b560  ( subunit c ;  interpro:000701 )  .
a membrane - bound flavoenzyme complex consisting of four subunits ,  a ,  b ,  c ,  and d . a and b comprise the membrane - extrinsic catalytic domain and c  ( interpro:003510 ;  interpro:004224 )  and d  ( interpro:003418 )  link the catalytic centers to the electron - transport chain .
a heterodimer of tubulins alpha and beta that constitutes the protomer for microtubule assembly .
the precipitation of specific crystal forms of calcium carbonate with extracellular matrix proteins in the otolith organs of the vertebrate inner ear .
a change in morphology and behavior of a leukocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
a protein complex that binds interleukin - 1 ;  comprises an alpha and a beta subunit .
a clathrin - coated ,  membrane - bounded intracellular vesicle formed by invagination of the plasma membrane around an extracellular substance .
a membrane - bounded intracellular vesicle that arises from the ingestion of particulate material by phagocytosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of mhc class i .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of mhc class i .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of mhc class ii .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of mhc class ii .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of mhc class ii .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any type i interferon .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interferon - alpha .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interferon - alpha .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interferon - alpha .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interferon - beta .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interferon - beta .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 1 .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 1 .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 13 .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 13 .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 18 .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 3 .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 3 .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 4 .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 4 .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 5 .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 5 .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 6 .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 6 .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 6 .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 8 .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 8 .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 8 .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of granulocyte macrophage colony - stimulating factor .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of granulocyte macrophage colony - stimulating factor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nitric oxide .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nitric oxide .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an adipocyte ,  an animal connective tissue cell specialized for the synthesis and storage of fat .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a myoblast .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the synthesis of either rna on a template of dna or dna on a template of rna .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the rhythm of the locomotor activity of an organism during its 24 hour activity cycle .
any process preventing the degeneration of the photoreceptor ,  a specialized cell type that is sensitive to light .
providing the environmental signal that initiates the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a lower concentration of that signal .
combining with interleukin - 27 to initiate a change in cell activity .
interacting selectively with interleukin - 27 .
interacting selectively with the interleukin - 20 receptor .
interacting selectively with the interleukin - 22 receptor .
interacting selectively with the interleukin - 27 receptor .
interacting selectively with syndecan ,  an integral membrane proteoglycan  ( 250 - 300 kda )  associated largely with epithelial cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of trail ,  tnf - related apoptosis inducing ligand .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of trail ,  tnf - related apoptosis inducing ligand .
interacting selectively with trail  ( tnf - related apoptosis inducing ligand )  ,  a member of the tumor necrosis factor ligand family that rapidly induces apoptosis in a variety of transformed cell lines .
the change in morphology and behavior of a basophil resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  soluble factor ,  or to  ( at least in mammals )  an antigen which the basophil has specifically bound via ige bound to fc - epsilonri receptors .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mast cell resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  soluble factor ,  or to  ( at least in mammals )  an antigen which the mast cell has specifically bound via ige bound to fc - epsilonri receptors .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytotoxic t cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytotoxic t cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - delta t cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - delta t cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of differentiation of regulatory t cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of differentiation of regulatory t cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation ,  the process whereby relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and functional features .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of auditory hair cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of auditory hair cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of auditory hair cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of t - helper cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of t - helper cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of t - helper cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of t - helper 1 cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of t - helper 1 cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of t - helper 1 cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of t - helper 2 cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of t - helper 2 cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of t - helper 2 cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mechanoreceptor differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mechanoreceptor differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mechanoreceptor differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of myeloid cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of myeloid cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of myeloid cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of macrophage differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of macrophage differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of macrophage differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of monocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of monocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of monocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of osteoclast differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of osteoclast differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermis development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermis development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermis development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glia cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glia cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glia cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of integrins .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna .
a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna replication .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermal growth factor receptor activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of g - protein coupled receptor protein signaling pathway activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of g - protein coupled receptor protein signaling pathway activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the notch signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the notch signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the tl signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of adenylate cyclase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of adenylate cyclase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of anti - apoptosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of anti - apoptosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon extension .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell adhesion .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycolysis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the innate immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of isotype switching .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of isotype switching .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment or extent of a membrane potential ,  the electric potential existing across any membrane arising from charges in the membrane itself and from the charges present in the media on either side of the membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle development .
any process that reduces the internal ph of an organism ,  part of an organism or a cell ,  measured by the concentration of the hydrogen ion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein kinase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein kinase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of smoothened signaling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of smoothened signaling .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of survival gene product expression ;  survival gene products are those that antagonize the apoptotic program .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of survival gene product expression ;  survival gene products are those that antagonize the apoptotic program .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna - dependent transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna - dependent transcription .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna recombination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna recombination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving catecholamine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving catecholamine .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of complement activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytolysis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of exocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of exocytosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of growth ,  the increase in size or mass of all or part of an organism .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of growth ,  the increase in size or mass of all or part of an organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that activates or increases the duration or quality of sleep ,  a readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity that occurs periodically in many animals .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from the rna polymerase ii promoter .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational initiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of natural killer mediated cytotoxicity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of natural killer cell mediated cytotoxicity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dopamine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dopamine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleotides .
any process involving iron that activates or increases the rate of translational initiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of activated t cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of activated t cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the duration or quality of non - rapid eye movement  ( nrem )  sleep .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of resting t cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of resting t cell proliferation .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of alcohols ,  any of a class of compounds containing one or more hydroxyl groups attached to a saturated carbon atom .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a polyol ,  any alcohol containing three or more hydroxyl groups attached to saturated carbon atoms .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitric oxide ,  nitrogen monoxide  ( no )  ,  a colorless gas only slightly soluble in water .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of indolalkylamines ,  indole or indole derivatives containing a primary ,  secondary ,  or tertiary amine group .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of indolalkylamines ,  indole or indole derivatives containing a primary ,  secondary ,  or tertiary amine group .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the import of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell or organelle .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the import of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell or organelle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the import of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell or organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the jnk cascade .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the jnk cascade .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the jnk cascade .
interacting selectively with a smad signaling protein .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of ethanolamine  ( 2 - aminoethanol )  ,  an important water - soluble base of phospholipid  ( phosphatidylethanolamine )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphatidylethanolamine ,  any of a class of glycerophospholipids in which a phosphatidyl group is esterified to the hydroxyl group of ethanolamine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of butyrate ,  the anion of butyric acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl  (  - cooh )  groups .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl  (  - cooh )  groups .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the jak - stat signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the jak - stat signaling pathway activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the jak - stat signaling pathway activity .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of icosanoids ,  any of a group of c20 polyunsaturated fatty acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids with a chain length of less than 8 carbons .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of membrane lipids ,  any lipid found in or associated with a biological membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of membrane lipids ,  any lipid found in or associated with a biological membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving platelet activating factor ,  1 - o - alkyl - 2 - acetyl - sn - glycerol 3 - phosphocholine ,  where alkyl = hexadecyl or octadecyl .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycosylceramides ,  any compound formed by the replacement of the glycosidic hydroxyl group of a cyclic form of a monosaccharide  ( or derivative )  by a ceramide group .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of sphinganine ,  d - erythro - 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - octadecanediol .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of ceramides ,  any n - acylated sphingoid .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of ceramides ,  any n - acetylated sphingoid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving sphingoids ,  any of a class of compounds comprising sphinganine and its homologues and stereoisomers ,  and derivatives of these compounds .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of sphingoids ,  any of a class of compounds comprising sphinganine and its homologues and stereoisomers ,  and derivatives of these compounds .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of sphingoids ,  any of a class of compounds comprising sphinganine and its homologues and stereoisomers ,  and derivatives of these compounds .
the specialization of organization of a photoreceptor ,  a cell that responds to incident electromagnetic radiation ,  particularly visible light .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of photoreceptor cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of photoreceptor cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of photoreceptor cell differentiation .
a complex composed of three small nuclear ribonucleoproteins ,  snrnp u4 ,  snrnp u6 and snrnp u5 .
development of a rod cell ,  one of the sensory cells in the eye that reacts to the presence of light .
development of a cone cell ,  one of the sensory cells in the eye that reacts to the presence of light .
the process whereby the developmental fate of a cell becomes restricted such that it will develop into a photoreceptor cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ras protein signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ras protein signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ras protein signal transduction .
an extremely narrow tubular channel located between adjacent cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the introduction of virus particles into the cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the introduction of virus particles into the cell .
establishment and formation of the optic placode ,  paired ectodermal placodes that become invaginated to form the embryonic lens vesicles .
interacting selectively with sphingolipids ,  a class of lipids containing the long - chain amine diol sphingosine or a closely related base  ( a sphingoid )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of insulin receptor signaling .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of insulin receptor signaling .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of insulin receptor signaling .
the change in morphology and behavior of a gamma - delta t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
the change in morphology and behavior of an alpha - beta t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
the process whereby a precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of an alpha - beta t cell .
the expansion of an alpha - beta t cell population by cell division .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of alpha - beta t cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of alpha - beta t cell activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of alpha - beta t cell activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of alpha - beta t cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of alpha - beta t cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of alpha - beta t cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of alpha - beta t cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of alpha - beta t cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of alpha - beta t cell proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - delta t cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - delta t cell activation .
a change in morphology and behavior of a lymphocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
the expansion of a lymphocyte population by cell division .
tethered to the plasma membrane by a covalently attached anchor ,  such as a lipid moiety ,  that is embedded in the membrane .
programmed cell death that occurs in the developing retina .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death that occurs in the retina .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death that occurs in the retina .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a multiprotein complex that consists of at least three proteins ,  cd14 ,  tlr4 ,  and md - 2 ,  each of which is glycosylated .
interacting selectively with a lectin - like natural killer cell receptor .
the cellular homeostatic process by which a muscle fiber is preserved in a stable functional or structural state .
the controlled release of acid by a cell or group of cells .
any virus - mediated process that modulates the levels of viral proteins in a cell .
any process that increases the levels of viral proteins in a cell .
the induction by a virus of an immune response in the host organism .
the intentional ,  virally - encoded stimulation of a host defense response to viral infection .
interacting selectively with a receptor on the host cell surface .
interacting selectively with a virion ,  either by binding to components of the capsid or the viral envelope .
interacting selectively with the surface of a host cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances between the nucleus and the cytoplasm .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances between the cytoplasm and the nucleus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances between the nucleus and the cytoplasm .
interacting selectively with any metal ion .
catalysis of the transfer of metal ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving quinolinate ,  the anion of quinolinic acid ,  also known as 2 , 3 - pyridinedicarboxylic acid .
the regulated release of hormones ,  substances with a specific regulatory effect on a particular organ or group of cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a hormone from a cell or group of cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a hormone from a cell or group of cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a hormone from a cell or group of cells .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell ,  a group of cells ,  or a tissue .
the directed movement of substances within a cell .
any small opening in a membrane that allows the passage of gases and / or liquids .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol 4 , 5 - bisphosphate = adp  +  1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol 3 , 4 , 5 - trisphosphate .
modulates the activity of the enzyme 1 - phosphatidylinositol - 3 - kinase activity .
the directed movement of carboxylic acids into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
catalysis of the transfer of carboxylic acids from one side of the membrane to the other .
the directed movement of a peptide antigen into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
interacting selectively with tapasin ,  a member of the mhc class i loading complex which bridges the tap peptide transporter to class i molecules .
interacting selectively with a nonidentical protein to form a heterodimer .
the formation of a protein dimer ,  a macromolecular structure consists of two noncovalently associated identical or nonidentical subunits .
catalysis of the reaction: nadp +   +   ( 5z , 13e )  -  ( 15s )  - 9 - alpha , 11 - alpha , 15 - trihydroxyprosta - 5 , 13 - dienoate = nadph  +  h +   +   ( 5z , 13e )  -  ( 15s )  - 9 - alpha , 15 - dihydroxy - 11 - oxoprosta - 5 , 13 - dienoate .
catalysis of the reaction: retinol -  [ cellular - retinol - binding - protein ]   +  phosphatidylcholine = retinyl - ester -  [ cellular - retinol - binding - protein ]   +  2 - acylglycerophosphocholine .
catalysis of the reaction: phosphatidylcholine  +  h2o = 1 - acylglycerophosphocholine  +  a carboxylate ;  requires ca2 +  .
catalysis of the reaction: phosphatidylcholine  +  h2o = 1 - acylglycerophosphocholine  +  a carboxylate ;  does not require ca2 +  .
catalysis of the reaction: sphinganine  +  nadp +  = 3 - dehydrosphinganine  +  nadph  +  h +  .
the process by which an antigen - presenting cell expresses peptide antigen in association with an mhc protein complex on its cell surface ,  including proteolysis and transport steps for the peptide antigen both prior to and following assembly with the mhc protein complex .
the process by which an antigen - presenting cell expresses lipid antigen in association with an mhc class ib protein complex on its cell surface ,  including lipid extraction ,  degradation ,  and transport steps for the lipid antigen both prior to and following assembly with the mhc protein complex .
the process by which an antigen - presenting cell expresses lipid antigen of endogenous origin in association with an mhc class ib protein complex on its cell surface .
the process by which an antigen - presenting cell expresses lipid antigen of exogenous origin in association with an mhc class ib protein complex on its cell surface .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a platelet - derived growth factor receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of the insulin - like growth factor receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of the nerve growth factor receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of an ephrin receptor binding to an ephrin .
a series of molecular signals in which a cell uses a phosphoinositide to convert an extracellular signal into a response .
a series of molecular signals in which a cell uses a water - soluble inositol phosphate to convert an extracellular signal into a response .
interacts with receptors to reduce the action of another ligand ,  the agonist .
interacting selectively with a ccr chemokine receptor .
the actions or reactions of individuals for the purpose of discriminating between the sexes ,  for the purpose of finding a suitable mating partner .
the process occurring in the embryo by which the anatomical structures of the post - embryonic eye are generated and organized .
the process ,  occurring after embryonic development ,  by which the anatomical structures of the eye are generated and organized .
the self - renewing division of a somatic stem cell ,  a stem cell that can give rise to cell types of the body other than those of the germ - line .
a change in morphology and behavior of an astrocyte resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of multiplication or reproduction of fibroblast cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of multiplication or reproduction of fibroblast cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of multiplication or reproduction of fibroblast cells .
a change in the behavior of an organism as a result of a cocaine stimulus .
a change in the behavior of an organism as a result of an ethanol stimulus .
interacting selectively with s100 beta protein .
interacting selectively with s100 alpha protein .
interacting selectively with tau protein .
a process that modulates synaptic plasticity ,  the ability of synapses to change as circumstances require .
a process that modulates neuronal synaptic plasticity ,  the ability of neuronal synapses to change as circumstances require .
a process that modulates long - term neuronal synaptic plasticity ,  the ability of neuronal synapses to change long - term as circumstances require .
a process that increases long - term neuronal synaptic plasticity ,  the ability of neuronal synapses to change long - term as circumstances require .
a process that modulates short - term neuronal synaptic plasticity ,  the ability of neuronal synapses to change in the short - term as circumstances require .
a protein complex that acts as an activin receptor .
a nonsteroidal regulator ,  composed of two covalently linked inhibin beta subunits ,  inhibin beta - a and inhibin beta - b  ( sometimes known as activin beta or activin / inhibin beta )  .
a network of glycoproteins ;  proteins with covalently attached sugar units ,  either bonded via the hydroxyl group of serine or threonine  ( o glycosylated )  or through the amino terminal of asparagine  ( n glycosylated )  .
the volume enclosed by the membranes of the rough endoplasmic reticulum .
the regulated release of norepinephrine by a cell or group of cells .
the movement of an eosinophil in response to an external stimulus .
the movement of a macrophage in response to an external stimulus .
the directed movement of a lymphocyte in response to an external stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor mediated endocytosis ,  the uptake of external materials by cells ,  utilizing receptors to ensure specificity of transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor mediated endocytosis ,  the uptake of external materials by cells ,  utilizing receptors to ensure specificity of transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor mediated endocytosis ,  the uptake of external materials by cells ,  utilizing receptors to ensure specificity of transport .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in the behavior of an organism as a result of a pain stimulus .
the process by which clathrin triskelia are assembled into the ordered structure known as a clathrin cage .
a multimeric enzyme complex composed of variable numbers of catalytic alpha subunits ,  and noncatalytic beta subunits .
modulates the activity of methionine adenosyltransferase .
interacting selectively with mitogen - activated protein kinase p38 ,  an enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of phosphate from atp to hydroxyl side chains on proteins in response to mitogen activation .
the creation of a single organelle from two or more organelles .
the creation of two or more organelles by division of one organelle .
the switching of activated b cells from igm biosynthesis to biosynthesis of an igg isotype ,  accomplished through a recombination process involving an intrachromosomal deletion between switch regions that reside 5' of the igm and one of the igg constant region gene segments in the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of isotype switching to ige isotypes .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of isotype switching to ige isotypes .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of isotype switching to ige isotypes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of isotype switching to iga isotypes .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of isotype switching to iga isotypes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of isotype switching to igg isotypes .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of isotype switching to igg isotypes .
the regulated release of immunoglobulins from a b cell or plasma cell ,  whose mechanism includes the use of alternate polyadenylylation signals to favor the biosynthesis of secreted forms of immunoglobulin over membrane - bound immunoglobulin .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the mesendoderm over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that reduces the ph of the endosomal lumen ,  measured by the concentration of the hydrogen ion .
interacting selectively with brain - derived neurotrophic factor .
interacting selectively with nerve growth factor .
interacting selectively with platelet - derived growth factor .
interacting selectively with epidermal growth factor .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for a cell to attain its fully functional state .
cytoplasm situated near ,  or occurring around ,  the nucleus .
a protein complex that mediates the conversion of a holliday junction into two separate duplex dna molecules ;  the complex includes a single -  or multisubunit helicase that catalyzes the extension of heteroduplex dna by branch migration and a nuclease that resolves the junction by nucleolytic cleavage .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the autonomic nervous system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the enteric nervous system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the sympathetic nervous system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the parasympathetic nervous system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
invagination of the axonal plasma membrane creating a membrane - bounded vesicle .
the directed movement of substances in synaptic membrane - bounded vesicles within the neuron along the cytoskeleton either toward or away from the neuronal cell body .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the membrane surrounding a synaptic vesicle .
a complex of protein and rna which facilitates translocation of proteins across membranes .
the process controlling the timing and / or rate at which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized features .
any process pertinent to the generation and maintenance of rhythms in the physiology of an organism .
the specific actions or reactions of an organism that recur with a regularity of approximately 24 hours .
development of a tissue or tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the viral life cycle ,  the set of processes by which a virus reproduces and spreads among hosts .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the viral life cycle ,  the set of processes by which a virus reproduces and spreads among hosts .
the process that gives rise to the configuration of the constituent parts of an anatomical structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of any organ involved in hemopoiesis or lymphoid cell activation over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of lymph nodes over time ,  from their formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the spleen over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of mucosal -  associated lymphoid tissue over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the thymus over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the bone marrow over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of peyer's patches over time ,  from their formation to the mature structure .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of pinocytosis .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of pinocytosis .
morphogenesis ,  during the embryonic phase ,  of a tissue or tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions .
morphogenesis ,  during the post - embryonic phase ,  of a tissue or tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions .
development ,  taking place during the embryonic phase ,  of a tissue or tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions .
development ,  taking place during the post - embryonic phase ,  of a tissue or tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to a stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell ,  where the increase in size or mass has the specific outcome of the progression of the organism over time from one condition to another .
the process by which the anatomical structures of the eye are generated and organized .
the process by which the anatomical structures of the eye are generated and organized .
the process by which the anatomical structures of the eye are generated and organized during embryonic development .
the process by which the anatomical structures of the eye are generated and organized during post - embryonic development .
the process by which anatomical structures are generated and organized during the embryonic phase .
interacting selectively with fibroblast growth factor 1 .
interacting selectively with fibroblast growth factor 2 .
interacting selectively with fibroblast growth factor 3 .
the process ,  occurring above the cellular level ,  that is pertinent to the reproductive function of a multicellular organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of developmental growth .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of developmental growth .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of developmental growth .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle development .
the process by which the anatomical structures of muscle are generated and organized .
the process pertaining to the initial formation of an anatomical structure from unspecified parts .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of smooth muscle cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of smooth muscle cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of smooth muscle cell proliferation .
the process whereby the developmental fate of a cell becomes restricted such that it will develop into a neuron .
the process whereby a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into a neuron regardless of its environment ;  upon determination ,  the cell fate cannot be reversed .
the process whereby a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into a neuron in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a neuron over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process by which the structures of a neuron are generated and organized .
the process by which outgrowths develop from the shafts of existing axons .
the process by which outgrowths develop from the axons of intact undamaged neurons .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of collateral sprouting .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of collateral sprouting .
long distance growth of a single process .
long distance growth of a single axon process involved in cellular development .
long distance growth of a single axon process involved in regeneration of the neuron .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon regeneration .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of axon regeneration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon regeneration .
the process involved in sprouting of an injured axon .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of collateral sprouting of an intact axon as a result of injury to an axon .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of collateral sprouting of an intact axon as a result of injury to an axon .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sprouting of an injured axon .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of sprouting of an injured axon .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon extension involved in regeneration .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of axon extension involved in regeneration .
the process by which nerve cells are generated .
the process by which the anatomical structures of neurocranium are generated and organized during the embryonic phase .
the process by which the anatomical structures of viscerocranium are generated and organized during the embryonic phase .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of an astrocyte .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of an oligodendrocyte .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of astrocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of astrocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of astrocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of oligodendrocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of oligodendrocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of oligodendrocyte differentiation .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organismal system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a gland over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle fiber development .
the process by which the anatomical structures of the semicircular canals are generated and organized .
the process by which the anatomical structures of branches in a nerve are generated and organized .
a small ,  subcellular membrane - bounded vesicle containing pigment and / or pigment precursor molecules .
the reorganization or renovation of existing tissues .
a specialized region of the plasma membrane and cell cortex of a presynaptic neuron ;  encompasses a region of the plasma membrane where synaptic vesicles dock and fuse ,  synaptic vesicles ,  and a specialized cortical cytoskeletal matrix .
the membrane portion of the presynaptic active zone ;  it is the site where docking and fusion of synaptic vesicles occurs for the release of neurotransmitters .
the process by which a neuronal cell maintains the organization and the arrangement of proteins at the active zone to ensure the fusion and dock of vesicles and the release of neurotransmitters .
the release of a neurotransmitter into the synaptic cleft ,  where the release step is dependent on the presence of calcium ions  ( ca2 +  )  .
the process by which the anatomical structures of neurites are generated and organized .
the process by which the anatomical structures of dendrite are generated and organized .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dendrite morphogenesis .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the inner ear over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the otolith over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
the process by which the anatomical structures of the hypophysis are generated and organized .
the process by which the anatomical structures of diencephalon are generated and organized .
the process by which the anatomical structures of the forebrain are generated and organized .
the process by which the anatomical structures of brain are generated and organized .
the process by which the anatomical structures of the adenohypophysis are generated and organized .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an anatomical structure from an initial condition to its mature state .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a neural nucleus from its initial condition to its mature state .
the process by which the anatomical structures of a cell projection are generated and organized .
the process by which the limits of an anatomical structure are generated .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a stem cell .
the process whereby a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into a stem cell regardless of its environment ;  upon determination ,  the cell fate cannot be reversed .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cell over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
any process involved in the controlled movement of a cell that results in translocation of the cell from one place to another .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of the equilibrium of cell number within a population of cells .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of a chemical .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a neuron whose cell body resides in the peripheral nervous system .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a neuron whose cell body is located in the peripheral nervous system ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a neuronal fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated neuron .
generation of a long process from a neuron whose cell body resides in the peripheral nervous system .
catalysis of the reaction: keto - phenylpyruvate = enol - phenylpyruvate .
catalysis of the reaction:  ( 5z , 13e )  -  ( 15s )  - 9 - alpha , 11 - alpha - epidioxy - 15 - hydroxyprosta - 5 , 13 - dienoate =  ( 5z , 13e )  -  ( 15s )  - 11 - alpha , 15 - dihydroxy - 9 - oxoprosta - 5 , 13 - dienoate .
catalysis of the reaction:  ( 5z , 13e )  -  ( 15s )  - 9 - alpha , 11 - alpha , 15 - trihydroxyprosta - 5 , 13 - dienoate  +  nadp +  =  ( 5z , 13e )  -  ( 15s )  - 11 - alpha , 15 - dihydroxy - 9 - oxoprosta - 5 , 13 - dienoate  +  nadph .
catalysis of the reaction: sphingomyelin  +  h2o = ceramide phosphate  +  choline .
catalysis of the reaction: acyl - coa  +  sphingosine = coa  +  n - acylsphingosine .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  tau - protein = adp  +  o - phospho - tau - protein .
interacting selectively with the snap receptor syntaxin - 6 .
interacting selectively with tgf - beta ,  transforming growth factor beta ,  a multifunctional peptide that controls proliferation ,  differentiation and other functions in many cell types .
the regulated release of catecholamines by a cell or group of cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of catecholamines .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving beta - amyloid ,  a glycoprotein associated with alzheimer's disease ,  and its precursor ,  amyloid precursor protein  ( app )  .
catalysis of the reaction: arachidonate  +  o2 =  ( 5z , 8z , 11z , 13e )  -  ( 15s )  - 15 - hydroperoxyicosa - 5 , 8 , 11 , 13 - tetraenoate .
the controlled release of arachidonic acid from a cell or group of cells .
catalysis of the reaction: udp - d - glucuronate  +  udp - n - acetyl - d - glucosamine =  [ beta - n - acetyl - d - glucosaminyl ( 1 , 4 ) beta - d - glucuronosyl ( 1 , 3 )  ]  ( n )   +  2n udp .
interacting selectively with icosanoids ,  any c20 polyunsaturated fatty acids or their derivatives ,  including the leukotrienes and the prostanoids .
interacting selectively with icosatetraenoic acid ,  any straight - chain fatty acid with twenty carbon atoms and four double bonds per molecule .
interacting selectively with arachidonic acid ,  a straight chain fatty acid with 20 carbon atoms and four double bonds per molecule .
catalysis of the reactions: 3' - phosphoadenylyl sulfate  +  dermatan = adenosine 3' , 5' - bisphosphate  +  dermatan 6' - sulfate and 3' - phosphoadenylyl sulfate  +  chondroitin = adenosine 3' , 5' - bisphosphate  +  chondroitin 6' - sulfate .
the regulated release of cytokines from a cell or group of cells .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which nadh or nadph acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces an oxygen molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  a potentially harmful byproduct of aerobic cellular respiration which can cause damage to dna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of lymphocyte proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of lymphocyte proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of epithelial cell proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna processing ,  those processes involved in the conversion of a primary mrna transcript into a mature mrna prior to its translation into polypeptide .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of antiviral mechanisms ,  thereby facilitating viral replication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the antiviral response of a cell or organism .
any host process that results in the inhibition of antiviral immune response mechanisms ,  thereby facilitating viral replication .
any viral process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the antiviral response of the host cell or organism .
any host process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the antiviral response of a host cell or organism .
catalysis of the reaction: n - acetyllactosamine  +  3' - phosphoadenosine 5' - phosphosulfate = 3 - sulfo - n - acetyllactosamine  +  adenosine 3' , 5' - bisphosphate .
interacting selectively with a ww domain of a protein ,  a small module composed of 40 amino acids and plays a role in mediating protein - protein interactions via proline - rich regions .
interacting selectively with a card  ( n - terminal caspase recruitment )  domain ,  a protein - protein interaction domain that belongs to the death domain - fold superfamily .
the regulated release of interleukin - 1 from a cell or group of cells .
the regulated release of interleukin 1 beta from a cell or group of cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of interleukin - 1 from a cell or group of cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of interleukin - 1 alpha from a cell or group of cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of interleukin - 1 beta from a cell or group of cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of cytokines from a cell or group of cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell or group of cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell or group of cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of cytokines from a cell or group of cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of interleukin - 1 from a cell or group of cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of interleukin - 1 beta from a cell or group of cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell or group of cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of cytokines from a cell or group of cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of interleukin - 1 from a cell or group of cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of interleukin - 1 alpha from a cell or group of cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of interleukin - 1 beta from a cell or group of cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 1 beta .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of interleukin - 1 beta .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response ,  the immediate defensive reaction  ( by vertebrate tissue )  to infection or injury caused by chemical or physical agents .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the phosphorylation of peptidyl - tyrosine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the phosphorylation of peptidyl - tyrosine .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the phosphorylation of peptidyl - tyrosine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of fractalkine ,  a chemokine involved in the control of the key regulatory mechanisms of cell trafficking at sites of inflammation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of fractalkine ,  a chemokine involved in the control of the key regulatory mechanisms of cell trafficking at sites of inflammation .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving chemokines ,  any of a subgroup of cytokines which act primarily on hemopoietic cells in acute and inflammatory processes and other immunoregulatory functions .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of phagocytosis ,  the process whereby phagocytes engulf external particulate material .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of phagocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of phagocytosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurogenesis ,  the origin and formation of neurons .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurogenesis ,  the origin and formation of neurons .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurogenesis ,  the origin and formation of neurons .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of axonogenesis ,  the generation of an axon ,  the long process of a neuron .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of axonogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of axonogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dendrite development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dendrite morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dendrite morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
interacting selectively with a dopamine receptor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that modulates the activity of an enzyme .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of the viral life cycle ,  the set of processes by which a virus reproduces and spreads among hosts .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of insulin .
the expansion of a t cell population following activation by an antigenic stimulus .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of ions within an organism or cell .
any process that modulates the physical form or the activity of a synapse ,  the junction between a neuron and a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  .
any process that modulates the frequency or rate of synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  across a synapse .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  across a synapse .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  across a synapse .
any process that modulates the physical form of a synapse ,  the junction between a neuron and a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a synapse ,  the junction between a neuron and a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  .
interacting selectively with diazepam ,  one of the most widely used benzodiazepine drugs .
interacting selectively with the gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba ,  4 - aminobutyrate )  receptor .
any process involved in maintaining the structure and integrity of a peptide and preventing it from being degraded .
any process involved in maintaining the structure and integrity of a peptide antigen and preventing it from being degraded .
interacting selectively with a toxin receptor ,  a receptor for substances that cause injury to living organisms .
reactions triggered in response to the presence of a gram - negative bacterium that act to protect the cell or organism .
reactions triggered in response to the presence of a gram - positive bacterium that act to protect the cell or organism .
reactions triggered in response to the presence of a fungus that act to protect the cell or organism .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the cross - linking of an antigen receptor on a b or t cell .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the cross - linking of an antigen receptor on a t cell .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the cross - linking of an antigen receptor on a b cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling pathways initiated by the cross - linking of an antigen receptor on a b -  or t cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling pathways initiated by the cross - linking of an antigen receptor on a b cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling pathways initiated by the cross - linking of an antigen receptor on a t cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling pathways initiated by the cross - linking of an antigen receptor on a b -  or t cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling pathways initiated by the cross - linking of an antigen receptor on a b -  or t cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling pathways initiated by the cross - linking of an antigen receptor on a t cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling pathways initiated by the cross - linking of an antigen receptor on a b cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling pathways initiated by the cross - linking of an antigen receptor on a t cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell activation ,  the change in the morphology or behavior of a cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell activation .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of neurological system .
any process that modulates the levels of body fluids .
any process by which an organism voluntarily modulates its posture ,  the alignment of its anatomical parts .
any process that an organism uses to control its balance ,  the orientation of the organism  ( or the head of the organism )  in relation to the source of gravity .
any of the hormonal ,  neural ,  and secretory processes that release products into the blood or lymph .
the operation of the mind by which an organism becomes aware of objects of thought or perception ;  it includes the mental activities associated with thinking ,  learning ,  and memory .
any neural process required for an organism to sense and interpret the dimensions of a sensory experience: modality ,  location ,  intensity and affect .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the movement of leukocytes within or between different tissues and organs of the body .
transient adhesive interactions between leukocytes and endothelial cells lining blood vessels mediated primarily by selectins and which are typically the first step in cellular extravasation .
the activation of loosely bound or rolling leukocytes by signals displayed on blood vessel endothelial cells ,  which is typically the second step in cellular extravasation .
any process pertaining to the functions of the nervous and muscular systems of an organism .
the series of events involved in sensory perception in which a sensory stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a sensory chemical stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events involved in visual perception in which a sensory light stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a gustatory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events involved in the perception of sound in which a sensory mechanical stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events involved in the perception of smell in which an olfactory chemical stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events involved in the perception of taste in which a gustatory chemical stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events required to receive a bitter taste stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required to receive a sweet taste stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required to receive an umami taste stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism ,  or the directed growth of a cell guided by a higher concentration ,  in a concentration gradient of a specific chemical .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism ,  or the directed growth of a cell guided by a lower concentration ,  in a concentration gradient of a specific chemical .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a lower concentration in a concentration gradient of a specific chemical .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a lower concentration in a concentration gradient of a specific chemical .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a higher concentration in a concentration gradient of a specific chemical .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a higher concentration in a concentration gradient of a specific chemical .
any process that initiates the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a lower concentration in a concentration gradient of a specific chemical .
any process that initiates the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a higher concentration in a concentration gradient of a specific chemical .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory temperature stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory light stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory mechanical stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a temperature stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive an orientational stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events in which a sensory temperature stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a sensory light stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events involved in the perception of pain in which a sensory temperature stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events involved in the perception of pain in which a sensory mechanical stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events involved in the perception of pain in which a sensory chemical stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events involved in equilibrioception in which a sensory mechanical stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a sensory mechanical stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a touch stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events by which a mechanical stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
interacting selectively with the enzyme nitric - oxide synthase .
any process that modulates the activity of the enzyme nitric - oxide synthase .
any process that activates or increases the activity of the enzyme nitric - oxide synthase .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of the enzyme nitric - oxide synthase .
any process that modulates the activity of the enzyme lipoprotein lipase .
interacting selectively with a mitogen - activated protein kinase .
interacting selectively with a gtpase ,  any enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of gtp .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of immunoglobulins from a cell or group of cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of immunoglobulins from a cell or group of cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or group of cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or group of cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or group of cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of small gtpase mediated signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of small gtpase mediated signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of small gtpase mediated signal transduction .
interacting selectively with nf - kappab ,  a transcription factor for eukaryotic rna polymerase ii promoters .
interacting selectively with any part of a gram - positive bacterial cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of a transcription factor ,  any factor involved in the initiation or regulation of transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of activity of a transcription factor ,  any factor involved in the initiation or regulation of transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of activity of the transcription factor nf - kappab .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding ,  selective interaction with deoxyribonucleic acid .
the re - formation of a broken phosphodiester bond in the dna backbone ,  carried out by dna ligase ,  as occurs during dna repair .
the growth of a synapse at a neuromuscular junction ,  the site of apposition of a motor end plate and the subneural cleft of the skeletal muscle fiber that it innervates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of natural killer t cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of natural killer t cell activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of natural killer t cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of natural killer t cell differentiation .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a smooth muscle cell ;  smooth muscle lacks transverse striations in its constituent fibers and are almost always involuntary .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process by which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in a specific location .
catalysis of the incorporation of both atoms of oxygen from one molecule of o2 into the  ( reduced )  substrate .
the selective interaction of a protein with specific molecules in the cytoplasm ,  thereby inhibiting its transport into other areas of the cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the area in the center of the spindle where the spindle microtubules from opposite poles overlap .
the directed movement of a cell ,  substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  to a specific location .
any process by which a cell ,  substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is maintained in a location and prevented from moving elsewhere .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multicellular organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of a multicellular organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  any of the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
the process of creating protein oligomers ,  compounds composed of a small number ,  usually between three and ten ,  of component monomers ;  protein oligomers may be composed of different or identical monomers .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level that results in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of chromosomes ,  structures composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins that carries hereditary information .
the process of creating protein oligomers ,  compounds composed of a small number ,  usually between three and ten ,  of component monomers that are not all identical .
the process resulting in the physical partitioning and separation of a cell into daughter cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the physical partitioning and separation of a cell into daughter cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lyase activity ,  the catalysis of the cleavage of c - c ,  c - o ,  c - n and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ligase activity ,  the catalysis of the ligation of two substances with concomitant breaking of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of oxidoreductase activity ,  the catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lyase activity ,  the catalysis of the cleavage of c - c ,  c - o ,  c - n and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ligase activity ,  the catalysis of the ligation of two substances with concomitant breaking of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of ligase activity ,  the catalysis of the ligation of two substances with concomitant breaking of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of oxidoreductase activity ,  the catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of oxidoreductase activity ,  the catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
the series of events during equilibrioception by which an organism senses the position ,  location ,  orientation ,  and movement of the body and its parts .
interacting selectively with nonmuscle isoforms of actinin .
interacting selectively with serotonin  ( 5 - hydroxytryptamine )  ,  a monoamine neurotransmitter occurring in the peripheral and central nervous systems ,  also having hormonal properties .
interacting selectively with norepinephrine ,   ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl - 2 - aminoethanol )  ,  a hormone secreted by the adrenal medulla and a neurotransmitter in the sympathetic peripheral nervous system and in some tracts of the cns .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of the nerve growth factor receptor signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of the nerve growth factor receptor signaling pathway .
interacting selectively with alpha - actinin ,  one of a family of proteins that cross - link f - actin as antiparallel homodimers .
interacting selectively with the bcl - 2 homology  ( bh )  domain of a protein .
the process of apoptosis in neurons ,  the basic cellular unit of nervous tissue .
a series of molecular signals in which a stress - activated map kinase cascade relays one or more of the signals ;  map kinase cascades involve at least three protein kinase activities and culminate in the phosphorylation and activation of a map kinase .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
interacting selectively with corticotropin - releasing hormone ,  a polypeptide hormone involved in the stress response .
interacting selectively with a phosphotyrosine - binding  ( ptb )  domain of a protein .
interacting selectively with a receptor for hormones .
interacting selectively with a receptor for peptide hormones .
interacting selectively with the bh3 domain of a protein of the bcl - 2 family .
interacting selectively with the bh4 domain of a protein of the bcl - 2 family .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ubiquitin ligase activity ,  the catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  ubiquitin  +  protein lysine = amp  +  diphosphate  +  protein n - ubiquityllysine .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of ubiquitin ligase activity ,  the catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  ubiquitin  +  protein lysine = amp  +  diphosphate  +  protein n - ubiquityllysine .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ubiquitin ligase activity ,  the catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  ubiquitin  +  protein lysine = amp  +  diphosphate  +  protein n - ubiquityllysine .
the multiplication or reproduction of myoblasts ,  resulting in the expansion of a myoblast cell population .
any process that reduces the internal ph of a cell ,  measured by the concentration of the hydrogen ion .
any process that modulates the internal ph of a cell ,  measured by the concentration of the hydrogen ion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of adrenocorticotropic hormone from a cell or group of cells .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of calcium ions within the cytosol of a cell or between the cytosol and its surroundings .
any process that increases the concentration of calcium ions in the cytosol during the process of g - protein signaling coupled to ip3 second messenger .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the assembly of a filopodium ,  a thin ,  stiff protrusion extended by the leading edge of a motile cell such as a crawling fibroblast or amoeba ,  or an axonal growth cone .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the assembly of a filopodium ,  a thin ,  stiff protrusion extended by the leading edge of a motile cell such as a crawling fibroblast or amoeba ,  or an axonal growth cone .
interacting selectively with nfat  ( nuclear factor of activated t cells )  proteins ,  a family of transcription factors .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of an nfat protein from the cytoplasm to the nucleus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of an nfat protein from the cytoplasm to the nucleus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into a neuron or glial cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into a neuron or glial cell .
the directed movement of dopamine into a cell ,  typically presynaptic neurons or glial cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of the catecholamine neurotransmitter dopamine into a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of dopamine into a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein during the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by individual cells .
the process leading to the attainment of the full functional capacity of a protein .
the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein during protein maturation ,  the process leading to the attainment of the full functional capacity of a protein .
the series of events in which a stimulus is received by a cell or organism and converted into a molecular signal .
reactions triggered in response to the presence of a virus that act to protect the cell or organism .
the directed movement of histamine into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of histamine into a cell ,  typically presynaptic neurons or glial cells .
interacting selectively with any component on the surface of a bacterial cell .
interacting selectively with any component on the surface of a gram - negative bacterial cell .
interacting selectively with any component on the surface of a gram - positive bacterium .
any process by which a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within or in the membrane of a cell .
the directed movement of a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  to a specific location within ,  or in the membrane of ,  a cell .
any process by which a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is maintained in a specific location within ,  or in the membrane of ,  a cell ,  and is prevented from moving elsewhere .
any process by which membrane rafts are transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process by which a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within a membrane .
an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
any process by which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process by which an organism has a behavioral effect on another organism of the same or different species .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the directed movement of an organism's proteins within a cell of a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the killing by an organism of cells in another organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the killing by an organism of cells in another organism .
the killing by an organism of a cell in another organism by means of the rupture of cell membranes and the loss of cytoplasm .
a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
interacting selectively with the enzyme protein phosphatase 2a .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
catalysis of the reaction: inositol trisphosphate  +  atp = inositol tetrakisphosphate  +  adp .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of the enzyme nitric - oxide synthase .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of the enzyme nitric - oxide synthase .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of the enzyme nitric - oxide synthase 2 .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of the enzyme nitric oxide synthase 2 .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell division .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell division .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hair follicle development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hair follicle development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hair follicle development .
the killing by an organism of a cell in a second organism by means of the rupture of cell membranes and the loss of cytoplasm ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
the process by which an organism effects a change in the structure or processes of a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
a process by which an organism has a negative effect on the functioning of the second organism's cells ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
the movement of an organism from a second organism to another place in the environment ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of synapse structural plasticity .
the attachment of an organism to a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process ,  either constitutive or induced ,  by which an organism evades ,  minimizes ,  or suppresses the effects of a second organism's defense ( s )  ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process ,  either active or passive ,  by which an organism avoids or tolerates the effects of a second organism's defense ( s )  ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process mediated by an organism that results in the death of cells in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
the process in which membrane potential changes in the depolarizing direction from the resting potential ,  usually from negative to positive .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of fibrinolysis ,  an ongoing process that solubilizes fibrin ,  resulting in the removal of small blood clots .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of fibrinolysis ,  an ongoing process that solubilizes fibrin ,  resulting in the removal of small blood clots .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of fibrinolysis ,  an ongoing process that solubilizes fibrin ,  resulting in the removal of small blood clots .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 r' - sh  +  rooh = r' - s - s - r'  +  h2o  +  roh .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of calcium ions into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the sensory perception of pain ,  the series of events required for an organism to receive a painful stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sensory perception ,  the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba )  .
the uptake of amino acid neurotransmitters by neurons or glial cells .
the uptake of catecholamine neurotransmitters by neurons or glial cells .
the uptake of l - glutamate by neurons or glial cells .
the directed movement of catecholamines ,  a group of physiologically important biogenic amines that possess a catechol  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl )  nucleus and are derivatives of 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylethylamine .
the directed movement of l - glutamate ,  the l - enantiomer of the anion of 2 - aminopentanedioic acid ,  into a cell or organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of catecholamine neurotransmitters into a neuron or glial cell .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of catecholamine neurotransmitters into a neuron or glial cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amines into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amines into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amines into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amino acids into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amino acids into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amino acids into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nervous system development ,  the origin and formation of nervous tissue .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nervous system development ,  the origin and formation of nervous tissue .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nervous system development ,  the origin and formation of nervous tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptogenesis ,  the formation of a synapse .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptogenesis ,  the formation of a synapse .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptogenesis ,  the formation of a synapse .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamatergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter glutamate .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamatergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter glutamate .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamatergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter glutamate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transmission of a nerve impulse ,  the sequential electrochemical polarization and depolarization that travels across the membrane of a neuron in response to stimulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transmission of a nerve impulse ,  the sequential electrochemical polarization and depolarization that travels across the membrane of a neuron in response to stimulation .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transmission of a nerve impulse ,  the sequential electrochemical polarization and depolarization that travels across the membrane of a neuron in response to stimulation .
the process by which an organism effects a change in the structure or function of the host cell membrane .
any process by which an organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the defense response of its host ,  the response mounted by the host in response to the presence of the organism .
the process by which an organism effects a change in the structure or function of a host cellular component .
the process by which an organism effects a change in an anatomical part or cellular component of the host organism .
any process by which an organism activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the innate immune response of the host organism ;  the innate immune response is the host's first line of defense against infection .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process by which an organism effects a change in an anatomical part or cellular component of a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
the process by which an organism effects a change in the structure or function of a cellular component in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
the chemical reactions and pathways performed by an organism in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
the activation by an organism of the defense response of a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process by which an organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the defense response of a second organism ,  the response mounted by that organism in response to the presence of the first organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process by which an organism activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the innate immune response of a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
the cytolytic destruction of red blood cells ,  with the release of intracellular hemoglobin ,  in one organism by another ,  where two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
the process by which an organism effects a change in the structure or function of the cell membrane of a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process by which an organism activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the defense response of the host organism .
any process by which an organism activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the defense response of a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidase activity ,  the hydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endopeptidase activity ,  the endohydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process by which an organism activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response of a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a protein complex ,  located in the nucleus ,  that possesses dna - directed rna polymerase activity .
organelle consisting of networks of 60nm tubules organized around the microtubule organizing centre in some cell types .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a recycling endosome .
the process resulting in the physical partitioning and separation of a neuroblast into daughter cells .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of metal ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of divalent or trivalent cations within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of monovalent inorganic cations within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of calcium ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of cations within an organism or cell .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of a chemical at the level of the cell .
the process whereby a solute is transported from one side of a membrane to the other .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides and nucleotides .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
stops ,  prevents or reduces the activity of a lipase ,  an enzyme that catalyzes of the hydrolysis of a lipid .
the process of removal or addition of one or more electrons with or without the concomitant removal or addition of a proton or protons .
an automatic response to a stimulus beginning with a nerve impulse from a receptor and ending with the action of an effector such as a gland or a muscle .
a reflex process by which a response to an angular or linear acceleration stimulus begins with an afferent nerve impulse from a receptor in the inner ear and ends with the compensatory action of eye muscles .
the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter glycine .
a reflex process in which an animal immediately tries to turn over after being placed in a supine position .
the commitment of a cells to a specific astrocyte fate and its restriction to develop only into an astrocyte .
the process whereby neuroepithelial cells of the neural tube give rise to radial glial cells ,  specialized bipotential progenitors cells of the brain .
the process whereby neuroepithelial cells of the neural tube give rise to brgmann glial cells ,  specialized bipotential progenitors cells of the cerebellum .
any process involved in the generation of rhythmic ,  synchronous synaptic inputs in a neural circuit .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a bipolar cell ,  the last neuron to be generated in the retina .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the retina over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process by which the anatomical structure of the retina is generated and organized .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising neurofilaments and their associated proteins .
intermediate filament cytoskeletal structure that is made up of neurofilaments .
the process by which the anatomical structure of the retina is generated and organized in a camera - type eye during the embryonic life stage  .
the process by which the anatomical structure of the retina is generated and organized in a camera - type eye during the post - embryonic life stage  .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell and ending with a change in transcription of target genes .
catalysis of the transmembrane transfer of potassium by a channel with a unit conductance of 100 to 220 picosiemens that opens in response to stimulus by concerted actions of internal calcium ions and membrane potential .
the process that organizes a synapse so that it attains its fully functional state .
any process that modulates the establishment or extent of a resting potential ,  the electrical charge across the plasma membrane ,  with the interior of the cell negative with respect to the exterior .
a synapse in which an action potential in the presynaptic cell increases the probability of an action potential occurring in the postsynaptic cell .
a synapse in which an action potential in the presynaptic cell reduces the probability of an action potential occurring in the postsynaptic cell .
any process that modulates the establishment or extent of the postsynaptic membrane potential ,  which is generated by changes in the membrane potential of the post synaptic neuron that receives information at a synapse .
any process that modulates the establishment or extent of the excitatory postsynaptic potential  ( epsp )  which is a temporay increase in postsynaptic potential due to the flow of positively charged ions into the postsynaptic cell .
any process that modulates the establishment or extent of the inhibitory postsynaptic potential  ( ipsp )  which is a temporay decrease in postsynaptic potential due to the flow of negatively charged ions into the postsynaptic cell .
the process in which membrane potential changes in the hyperpolarizing direction from the resting potential ,  usually from negative to more negative .
the reflex process by which a mechanical stimulus applied to the eye elicits a response of the eyelid closing .
the process of communication from a neuron to a smooth muscle in the bladder that contributes to the expulsion of urine from the body .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a stereocilium .
the molecular function that accepts an input of one form and creates an output of a different form .
the binding activity of a molecule that brings together two or more molecules ,  permitting those molecules to function in a coordinated way .
an immotile primary cilium that is found at the apical surface of auditory receptor cells .
the process whereby relatively unspecialized cells ,  acquire specialized structural and / or functional features of inner ear receptor cells .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an auditory receptor cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an inner ear receptor cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process by which a cell becomes committed to become an inner ear receptor cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a stereocilium .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized structural and / or functional features of a somatotropin secreting cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a somatotropin secreting cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process by which a startle magnitude is reduced when the startling stimulus is preceeded by a low - intensity prepulse .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a dopamine receptor binding to its physiological ligand ,  followed by the activation of phospholipase c and the subsequent release of inositol trisphosphate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a dopamine receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dopamine receptor protein signaling pathway activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dopamine receptor protein signaling pathway activity .
the process whereby in the subpallium ,  the developmental fate of a cell becomes restricted such that it will develop into a neuron .
the process controlling the timing and / or rate at which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires features of a neuron .
the process controlling the timing and / or rate at which a relatively unspecialized cell in the subpallium acquires features of a neuron .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of the olfactory pit from an initial condition to its mature state .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the adenosine receptor signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the adenosine receptor signaling pathway .
the portion of the plasma membrane surrounding a cilium .
the specific actions or reactions of a male organism that are associated with reproduction .
the specific actions or reactions of a female organism that are associated with reproduction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipase activity ,  the hydrolysis of a lipid or phospholipid .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipase activity ,  the hydrolysis of a lipid or phospholipid .
the volume enclosed by the membrane of a cytoplasmic membrane - bounded vesicle .
a second wave of blood cell production that ,  in vertebrates ,  generates long - term hemopoietic stem cells that continously provide erythroid ,  myeloid and lymphoid lineages throughout adulthood .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a hemopoietic stem cell .
increases the activity of a lipase ,  an enzyme that catalyzes of the hydrolysis of a lipid .
a homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium within a defined anatomical structure of an organism ,  including control of cellular proliferation and death and control of metabolic function .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glial cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of glial cell proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the behavior associated with the intake of food .
any process that modulates the rate frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases made as a defense response  ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases made as a defense response  ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases made as a defense response  ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that increases the rate frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that decreases the rate frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a process that modulates synaptic plasticity such that synapses are changed resulting in the increase in the rate ,  or frequency of synaptic transmission at the synapse .
the directed movement of a motile cell guided by a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process by which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in a specific location within or in the membrane of a cell .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of macromolecules to form a complex .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins and dna molecules to form a protein - dna complex .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any biological process ,  quality or function .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological quality .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of molecular functions .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane and occurring outside the cell .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds formed between l - amino acids .
an organelle lumen that is part of an intracellular organelle .
a membrane - bounded vesicle that is released into the extracellular region by fusion of the limiting endosomal membrane of a multivesicular body with the plasma membrane .
a cell junction that mechanically attaches a cell  ( and its cytoskeleton )  to neighboring cells or to the extracellular matrix .
the process of apoptosis in a lymphocyte .
any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of lymphocyte death by apoptosis .
a histone acetyltransferase complex that acetylates nucleosomal h3 and h2b and is required for the expression of a subset of pol ii - transcribed genes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dioxygen  ( o2 )  ,  or any of the reactive oxygen species ,  e .g .
