an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
a continuant that is a bearer of quality and realizable entity entities ,  in which other entities inhere and which itself cannot inhere in anything .
a continuant  that is either dependent on one or other independent continuant  bearers or inheres in or is borne by other entities .
an occurrent that has temporal proper parts and for some time t ,  p s - depends_on some material entity at t .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
a continuant that inheres in or is borne by other entities .
a realizable entity  the manifestation of which brings about some result or end that is not essential to a continuant  in virtue of the kind of thing that it is but that can be served or participated in by that kind of continuant  in some kinds of natural ,  social or institutional contexts .
a continuant that is dependent on one or other independent continuant bearers .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
a disposition  ( i )  to undergo pathological processes that  ( ii )  exists in an organism because of one or more disorders in that organism .
a process occurring within or in the vicinity of an organism that exerts some causal influence on the organism via the interaction between an exposure stimulus and an exposure receptor .
any entity that is ordered in discrete units along a linear axis .
any individual unit of a collection of like units arranged in a linear order
any entity that can be divided into parts such that each part is an atomical unit of a sequence
a material entity consisting of multiple components that are causally integrated .
the relationship that links an entity with the process that results in the formation and shaping of that entity over time from an immature to a mature state .
