an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
a continuant that is a bearer of quality and realizable entity entities ,  in which other entities inhere and which itself cannot inhere in anything .
an occurrent that has temporal proper parts and for some time t ,  p s - depends_on some material entity at t .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
a continuant that inheres in or is borne by other entities .
a role is particular behaviour which a material entity may exhibit .
a continuant that is dependent on one or other independent continuant bearers .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
elementary particle not affected by the strong force having a spin 1 / 2 ,  a negative elementary charge and a rest mass of 0 .000548579903 ( 13 )  u ,  or 0 .51099906 ( 15 )  mev .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mycoplasma genitalium .
any organic compound having an initial boiling point less than or equal to 250 degreec  ( 482 degreef )  measured at a standard atmospheric pressure of 101 .3 kpa .
an n - alkylpyrrolidine that consists of n - methylpyrrolidine bearing a pyridin - 3 - yl substituent at position 2 .
any main group molecular entity that is gaseous at standard temperature and pressure  ( stp ;  0degreec and 100 kpa )  .
a molecular entity that can accept an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group from another molecular entity .
an oxygen hydride consisting of an oxygen atom that is covalently bonded to two hydrogen atoms .
a primary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has either three hydrogen atoms attached to it or only one other carbon atom and two hydrogen atoms attached to it .
an azane that consists of a single nitrogen atom covelently bonded to three hydrogen atoms .
a primary alcohol that is ethane in which one of the hydrogens is substituted by a hydroxy group .
a morphinane alkaloid that is a highly potent opiate analgesic psychoactive drug .
a 3 -  ( 1 - methylpyrrolidin - 2 - yl ) pyridine in which the chiral centre has s - configuration .
the primary alcohol that is the simplest aliphatic alcohol ,  comprising a methyl and an alcohol group .
a molecular entity that can transfer  (  \ "donate \ " )  an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group to another molecular entity .
a racemate composed of equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - nicotine .
any of the naturally occurring ,  basic nitrogen compounds  ( mostly heterocyclic )  occurring mostly in the plant kingdom ,  but also found in bacteria ,  fungi ,  and animals .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the electron .
a molecular entity having an available pair of electrons capable of forming a covalent bond with a hydron  ( bronsted base )  or with the vacant orbital of some other molecular entity  ( lewis base )  .
any benzenoid aromatic compound consisting of the benzene skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
any aromatic carboxylic acid that consists of benzene in which at least a single hydrogen has been substituted by a carboxy group .
an insecticide compound naturally occurring in plants .
an organic molecule or ion  ( usually a metal ion )  that is required by an enzyme for its activity .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
any substance which when absorbed into a living organism may modify one or more of its functions .
a compound or agent that combines with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate - enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction .
any primary alcohol based on an ethanol skeleton .
a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biological context .
a defined linked collection of atoms or a single atom within a molecular entity .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of carbon and at least of one other element .
hydroxides are chemical compounds containing a hydroxy group or salts containing hydroxide  ( oh (  -  )  )  .
a compound which contains oxygen ,  at least one other element ,  and at least one hydrogen bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
a molecular entity that contains no carbon .
strictly ,  a substance intended to kill members of the class insecta .
a molecular entity having a net electric charge .
any alkaloid that has a structure based on an isoquinoline nucleus .
any intermediate or product resulting from metabolism .
any carboxylic ester resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxy group with methanol .
any polyatomic entity that is an electrically neutral entity consisting of more than one atom .
an  isoquinoline alkaloid based on a morphinan skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
any organic ion with a net negative charge .
any organic ion with a net positive charge .
an  alcohol derived from an aliphatic compound .
an oxide is a chemical compound of oxygen with other chemical elements .
strictly ,  a substance intended to kill pests .
any organonitrogen heterocyclic compound based on a pyridine skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a tropane alkaloid obtained from leaves of the south american shrub erythroxylon coca .
an onium cation obtained by protonation of ammonia .
the conjugate base formed when the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid is deprotonated .
a divalent inorganic anion resulting from the removal of two protons from ammonia .
a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom .
a 1 , 2 - benzisothiazole having a keto - group at the 3 - position and two oxo substituents at the 1 - position .
an amide is a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
intended use of the molecular entity or part thereof by humans .
a particle not known to have substructure .
an organic fundamental parent is a structure used as a basis for substitutive names in organic nomenclature ,  containing ,  in addition to one or more hydrogen atoms ,  a single atom of an element ,  a number of atoms  ( alike or different )  linked together to form an unbranched chain ,  a monocyclic or polycyclic ring system ,  or a ring assembly or ring / chain system .
any substituent group which does not contain carbon .
any substituent group or skeleton containing carbon .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having one free valence at a carbon atom .
a chemical entity constituting the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element .
a nucleus is the positively charged central portion of an atom ,  excluding the orbital electrons .
heavy nuclear particle: proton or neutron .
a derivative of two oxoacids rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which two acyl groups are attached to the amino or substituted amino group .
an organosulfur compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - sulfur bond .
an anion consisting of more than one atom .
a substance that kills or slows the growth of microorganisms ,  including bacteria ,  viruses ,  fungi and protozoans .
a nutrient is a food component that an organism uses to survive and grow .
a heteroorganic entity is an organic molecular entity in which carbon atoms or organic groups are bonded directly to one or more heteroatoms .
any material that can be ingested by an organism .
an energy - rich substance that can be transformed with release of usable energy .
any p - block element atom that is in group 15 of the periodic table: nitrogen ,  phosphorus ,  arsenic ,  antimony and bismuth .
a p - block molecular entity containing any pnictogen .
any p - block element belonging to the group 16 family of the periodic table .
any p - block molecular entity containing a chalcogen .
an ester of a carboxylic acid ,  r ( 1 ) c ( =o ) or ( 2 )  ,  where r ( 1 )  = h or organyl and r ( 2 )  = organyl .
an atom belonging to one of the main groups  ( found in the s -  and p -  blocks )  of the periodic table .
any main group element atom belonging to the p - block of the periodic table .
a carbon oxoacid acid carrying at least one  - c ( =o ) oh group and having the structure rc ( =o ) oh ,  where r is any any monovalent functional group .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms from any of groups 1 ,  2 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  and 18 of the periodic table .
any molecule that consists of a series of atoms joined together to form a ring .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of the same element only .
a homocyclic compound in which all of the ring members are carbon atoms .
a molecule that features two fused rings .
a cyclically conjugated molecular entity with a stability  ( due to delocalization )  significantly greater than that of a hypothetical localized structure  ( e .g .
a polycyclic compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one non - carbon atom .
a bicyclic compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one skeletal heteroatom .
an s - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an s - block element .
a main group molecular entity that contains one or more atoms of a p - block element .
hydrides are chemical compounds of hydrogen with other chemical elements .
a cation consisting of more than one atom .
an organic compound having at least one hydroxy group attached to a carbon atom .
any organic molecule that consists of atoms connected in the form of a ring .
any carboxylic acid in which the carboxy group is directly bonded to an aromatic ring .
a substance used in a chemical reaction to detect ,  measure ,  examine ,  or produce other substances .
saturated acyclic nitrogen hydrides having the general formula nnhn + 2 .
a substance that diminishes the rate of a chemical reaction .
a derivative of ammonium ,  nh4 (  +  )  ,  in which one  ( or more )  of the hydrogens bonded to the nitrogen have been replaced with univalent organyl groups .
any drug that enhances the activity of the central nervous system .
any heteroorganic entity containing at least one carbon - nitrogen bond .
an oxoanion is an anion derived from an oxoacid by loss of hydron ( s )  bound to oxygen .
a substance used in the prophylaxis or therapy of infectious diseases .
a class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms involving the central nervous system .
a loosely defined grouping of drugs that have effects on psychological function .
a traditional grouping of drugs said to have a soothing or calming effect on mood ,  thought or behaviour .
anxiolytic drugs are agents that alleviate anxiety ,  tension ,  and anxiety disorders ,  promote sedation ,  and have a calming effect without affecting clarity of consciousness or neurologic conditions .
an agent capable of relieving pain without the loss of consciousness or without producing anaesthesia .
a narcotic or opioid substance ,  synthetic or semisynthetic agent producing profound analgesia ,  drowsiness ,  and changes in mood .
a loosely defined group of drugs that tend to reduce the activity of the central nervous system .
a drug that mimics the effects of stimulating postganglionic adrenergic sympathetic nerves .
a drug that affects the rate or intensity of cardiac contraction ,  blood vessel diameter or blood volume .
a food additive that is used to added improve the taste or odour of a food .
a drug used to cause dilation of the blood vessels .
adrenergic uptake inhibitors are drugs that block the transport of adrenergic transmitters into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals .
a compound formally derived from an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l  >  0 )  and an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol by linking with formal loss of water from an acidic hydroxy group of the former and a hydroxy group of the latter .
a xenobiotic  ( greek ,  xenos  \ "foreign \ " ;  bios  \ "life \ " )  is a compound that is foreign to a living organism .
a substance used for its pharmacological action on any aspect of neurotransmitter systems .
esters of benzoic acid or substituted benzoic acids .
any member of a group of drugs that reversibly inhibit the propagation of signals along nerves .
lepton is a fermion that does not experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
baryon is a fermion that does experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
particle of half - integer spin quantum number following fermi - dirac statistics .
a particle smaller than an atom .
a subatomic particle known to have substructure  ( i .e .
hadron is a subatomic particle which experiences the strong force .
a nucleus or any of its constituents in any of their energy states .
any molecular entity consisting of more than one atom .
an ion consisting of more than one atom .
any compound containing the carbonyl group ,  c=o .
organic compounds containing an oxygen atom ,  =o ,  doubly bonded to carbon or another element .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the proton .
an organochalcogen compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chalcogen bond .
an organochalcogen compound containing at least one carbon - oxygen bond .
an acid is a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron  ( bronsted acid )  or capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron pair  ( lewis acid )  .
a molecular entity consisting of two or more chemical elements .
any imide in which the acyl substituents are any two from carboacyl ,  sulfonyl and phosphoryl
any agent that acts on an adrenergic receptor or affects the life cycle of an adrenergic transmitter .
any organonitrogen compound containing a cyclic component with nitrogen and at least one other element as ring member atoms .
any of a class of heterocyclic amines having a saturated five - membered ring .
any drug used for its actions on cholinergic systems .
any drug that binds to and activates cholinergic receptors .
any agent that affects the transport of molecular entities across a biological membrane .
an agent that inhibits sodium influx through cell membranes .
substance which produces loss of feeling or sensation .
a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron to an acceptor  ( bronsted base )  .
a molecular entity capable of accepting a hydron from a donor  ( bronsted acid )  .
a molecular entity able to provide a pair of electrons and thus capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron - pair acceptor  ( lewis acid )  ,  thereby producing a lewis adduct .
a 3 -  ( 1 - methylpyrrolidin - 2 - yl ) pyridine in which the chiral centre has r - configuration .
a liquid that can dissolve other substances  ( solutes )  without any change in their chemical composition .
anything used in a scientific experiment to indicate the presence of a substance or quality ,  change in a body ,  etc .
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates a nicotinic acetylcholine receptor .
a substance used locally on humans and other animals to destroy harmful microorganisms or to inhibit their activity  ( cf .
an antimicrobial agent that is applied to non - living objects to destroy harmful microorganisms or to inhibit their activity .
a solvent that is composed of polar molecules .
a polar solvent that is capable of acting as a hydron  ( proton )  donor .
a drug used for its effects on dopamine receptors ,  on the life cycle of dopamine ,  or on the survival of dopaminergic neurons .
substance which binds to cell receptors normally responding to naturally occurring substances and which produces a response of its own .
substance that attaches to and blocks cell receptors that normally bind naturally occurring substances .
a drug that acts principally at one or more sites within the peripheral neuroeffector systems ,  the autonomic system ,  and motor nerve - skeletal system .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
mononuclear cations derived by addition of a hydron to a mononuclear parent hydride of the pnictogen ,  chalcogen and halogen families .
substance that sweeten food ,  beverages ,  medications ,  etc .
drug used to cause constriction of the blood vessels .
an aliphatic alcohol in which the aliphatic alkane chain is substituted by a hydroxy group at unspecified position .
biologically active substance whose activity affects or plays a role in the functioning of the immune system .
any molecular entity that contains carbon .
a chemical compound ,  or part thereof ,  which causes the onset of an allergic reaction by interacting with any of the molecular pathways involved in an allergy .
a role played by a chemical compound  in biological systems with adverse consequences in embryo developments ,  leading to birth defects ,  embryo death or altered development ,  growth retardation and functional defect .
a poison that interferes with the functions of the nervous system .
a compound that specifically inhibits the reuptake of serotonin in the brain .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
a dopaminergic agent that blocks the transport of dopamine into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a chemical context .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having two free valences at carbon atom ( s )  .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of methanol .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of ethanol .
a biological role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biochemical context .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof which causes the development of a pathological process .
a biological role which describes how a drug interacts within a biological system and how the interactions affect its medicinal properties .
any substance introduced into a living organism with therapeutic or diagnostic purpose .
a chemical substance that encourages a cell to commence cell division ,  triggering mitosis .
a compound that exhibits agonist activity at the mu - opioid receptor .
a benzothiazole consisting of a benzene ring fused to an isothiazole .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of at least two different elements .
the conjugate acid of morphine arising from protonation of the tertiary amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a substance used as an indicator  of a biological state .
a reagent that forms a bond to its reaction partner  ( the electrophile )  by donating both bonding electrons .
the conjugate acid of  ( s )  - nicotine arising from selective protonation of the tertiary amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a chemical substance is a portion of matter of constant composition ,  composed of molecular entities of the same type or of different types .
a mixture is a chemical substance composed of multiple molecules ,  at least two of which are of a different kind .
the conjugate base of cocaine arising from protonation of the tertiary amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an atom or small molecule with a positive charge that does not contain carbon in covalent linkage ,  with a valency of one .
any agent that acts on an opioid receptor or affects the life cycle of an opioid  transmitter .
any agent that acts on a mu - opioid receptor .
an agent that selectively binds to and activates an opioid receptor .
any substance that inhibits the action of n - methyl - d - aspartate  ( nmda )  receptors .
any substance which inhibits the action of receptors for excitatory amino acids .
a racemate is an equimolar mixture of a pair of enantiomers .
an ester where the ester linkage is bonded directly to an aromatic system .
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates a protein kinase c receptor
any substance which is added to food to preserve or enhance its flavour and / or appearance .
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates a protein kinase receptor .
an organic molecular entity containing a single carbon atom  ( c1 )  .
any organic molecular entity that is acidic and contains carbon in covalent linkage .
any substance that causes disturbance to organisms by chemical reaction or other activity on the molecular scale ,  when a sufficient quantity is absorbed by the organism .
any molecule that consists of at least one carbon atom as part of the electrically neutral entity .
any  metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in eukaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of the fungi ,  plantae and animalia kingdoms .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in animals that include diverse creatures from sponges ,  insects to mammals .
any animal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mammals .
any mammalian metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in a mouse  ( mus musculus )  .
any  fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in baker's yeast  ( saccharomyces cerevisiae )  .
any metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in prokaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of domains such as the bacteria and archaea .
a gas in an atmosphere that absorbs and emits radiation within the thermal infrared range ,  so contributing to the 'greenhouse effect' .
any enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase  ( ec 3 .* .* .
any hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase acting on c - n bonds ,  other than peptide bonds  ( ec 3 .5 .* .
an ec 3 .5 .*  ( hydrolases acting on non - peptide c - n bonds )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in plants ,  the kingdom that include flowering plants ,  conifers and other gymnosperms .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in fungi ,  the kingdom that includes microorganisms such as the yeasts and moulds .
any prokaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in bacteria .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in escherichia coli .
any mammalian metabolite  produced during a metabolic reaction in humans  ( homo sapiens )  .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of amidase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .4 )  .
any substance that is distributed in foodstuffs .
any minor or unwanted substance introduced into the environment that can have undesired effects .
a substance used in a thermodynamic heat pump cycle or refrigeration cycle that undergoes a phase change from a gas to a liquid and back .
the conjugate acid of  ( r )  - nicotine arising from selective protonation of the tertiary amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any inorganic anion with a valency of two .
any inorganic anion with a valency of one .
any drug which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
a mixed diacylamine resulting from the formal condensation of the nitrogen of a carboxamide with a sulphonic acid .
a carboxylic acic anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any aromatic carboxylic acid .
the production of new individuals that contain some portion of genetic material inherited from one or more parent organisms .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
 \ "a behavioral interaction between organisms in which one organism has the intention of inflicting damage on another individual using physical or verbal means . \ "  [ wikipedia:aggression ] 
aggressive behavior involving attack on prey by a predator .
a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the renal system .
a molecular process that can be carried out by the action of a single macromolecular machine ,  usually via direct physical interactions with other molecular entities .
catalysis of a biochemical reaction at physiological temperatures .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with one or more specific sites on a receptor molecule ,  a macromolecule that undergoes combination with a hormone ,  neurotransmitter ,  drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function .
the selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric ,  interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein or protein complex  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  .
a location ,  relative to cellular compartments and structures ,  occupied by a macromolecular machine when it carries out a molecular function .
the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element phosphorus or compounds that contain phosphorus ,  usually in the form of a phosphate group  ( po4 )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the phosphate group ,  the anion or salt of any phosphoric acid .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  or cellular components  ( such as complexes and organelles )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter ,  pore or motor protein .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that mediates interactions between a cell and its surroundings .
the cellular process in which a signal is conveyed to trigger a change in the activity or state of a cell .
the elimination by an organism of the waste products that arise as a result of metabolic activity .
the controlled release of a fluid by a cell or tissue in an animal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a visual stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive an auditory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory chemical stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive an olfactory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of animals  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli ,  via a mechanism that involves nervous system activity .
 \ "behavior related to the interactions between organisms for the purpose of mating . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
the pairwise union of individuals for the purpose of sexual reproduction ,  ultimately resulting in the formation of zygotes .
 \ "the behavioral interactions between organisms for the purpose of attracting sexual partners . \ "  [ goc:dph ] 
male's insertion of sperm - transfer organ into the body of the female  [ nbo:smac ] 
the specific behavior of an organism that recur with measured regularity .
 \ "endogenously driven roughly 24 - hour cycle in biochemical ,  physiological ,  or behavioral processes . \ "  [ goc:bf ] 
the act of using body parts to pick at ,  rub and or remove material from exterior covering ,  e .g . ,  fur ,  scales ,  feathers ,  skin  [ nbo:smac ] 
movement from place to place of an organism . \ "  [ go:0007626 ] 
 \ "behavior related to the self - propelled movement of an organism from one location to another through the air ,  usually by means of active wing movement . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
the act of bringing an object or substance into the body by swallowing ,  surrounding or absorbing it  [ nbo:smac ] 
 \ "behavior related to the actions or reactions of an organism in response to a visual stimulus . \ "  [ go:0007632 ] 
 \ "behavior as a result of the sensation of chemicals . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
behavior that is dependent upon the sensation of a mechanical stimulus .
 \ "the actions or reactions of a male ,  for the purpose of attracting a sexual partner . \ "  [ goc:bf ] 
 \ "the actions or reactions of a female ,  for the purpose of attracting a sexual partner . \ "  [ goc:bf ] 
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
locomotory behavior in a fully developed and mature organism .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the series of events in which an external stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which an  ( non - living )  abiotic stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a chemical stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling receptor activity .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the series of events in which a temperature stimulus  ( hot or cold )  is received and converted into a molecular signal .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into a molecule ,  usually with the formation of a phosphoric ester ,  a phosphoric anhydride or a phosphoric amide .
catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
behavior directly related to the production of offspring  [ nbo:ac ] 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a painful stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
a reproduction process that creates a new organism by combining the genetic material of two gametes ,  which may come from two organisms or from a single organism ,  in the case of self - fertilizing hermaphrodites ,  e .g .
a behavioral process involved in the cycle from wakefulness through an orderly succession of sleep states and stages that occurs on an approximately 24 hour rhythm .
a process ,  occurring at the cellular level ,  that is involved in the reproductive function of a multicellular organism .
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals by one or two organisms .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the entirety of a process in which information is transmitted within a biological system .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the expulsion of feces from the rectum .
any process in which an organism enters and maintains a periodic ,  readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity .
behavior in a fully developed and mature organism .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is changed .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is increased .
 \ "behavior related to the actions or reactions of an organism in response to a sound . \ "  [ go:0031223 ] 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a neurophysiological process ,  an organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the nervous system .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a neurophysiological process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a neurophysiological process .
self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another in a behavioral context ;  the aspect of locomotory behavior having to do with movement .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any biological process ,  occurring at the level of a multicellular organism ,  pertinent to its function .
the biological process in which new individuals are produced by one or two multicellular organisms .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the controlled release of a substance by a tissue .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
 \ "a behavior that occurs predominantly or only ,  in individuals that are part of a group . \ "  [ wikipedia:social_behavior ] 
the process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components within the cell ,  which become activated themselves to further propagate the signal and finally trigger a change in the function or state of the cell .
receiving a signal and transmitting it in the cell to initiate a change in cell activity .
self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rapid eye movement  ( rem )  sleep .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the duration or quality of sleep ,  a readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity that occurs periodically in many animals .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the duration or quality of rapid eye movement  ( rem )  sleep .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the duration or quality of non - rapid eye movement  ( nrem )  sleep .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups into a molecule .
any process that stops ,  prevents or decreases the rate of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
the cycle from wakefulness through an orderly succession of sleep states and stages that occurs on an approximately 24 hour rhythm .
a stage in the circadian sleep cycle during which dreams occur and the body undergoes marked changes including rapid eye movement ,  loss of reflexes ,  and increased pulse rate and brain activity .
all sleep stages in the circadian sleep / wake cycle other than rem sleep .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the circadian sleep / wake cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a circadian rhythm .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a circadian rhythm behavior .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a circadian rhythm behavior .
the specific behavior of an organism relating to the intake of food ,  any substance  ( usually solid )  that can be metabolized by an organism to give energy and build tissue .
the specific behavior of an organism relating to the intake of liquids ,  especially water .
any process that activates or increases the activity of an enzyme .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of an enzyme .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a system process ,  a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of excretion ,  the elimination by an organism of the waste products that arise as a result of metabolic activity .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
the process of consuming the whole or part of another organism for the purposes of nutrition .
obsolete .any constituent part of a cell ,  the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals ,  involving another organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sleep ;  a readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity that occurs periodically in many animals .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of non - rapid eye movement sleep .
 \ "behavior related to the specific actions or reactions of an organism following mating . \ "  [ goc:bf ] 
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that activates or increases the duration or quality of sleep ,  a readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity that occurs periodically in many animals .
any process that activates or increases the duration or quality of rapid eye movement  ( rem )  sleep .
any process that activates or increases the duration or quality of non - rapid eye movement  ( nrem )  sleep .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell or a tissue .
the directed movement of substances within a cell .
the activity of a gene product that interacts with a receptor to effect a change in the activity of the receptor .
any process pertinent to the generation and maintenance of rhythms in the physiology of an organism .
 \ "behavior related to any biological process in an organism that recurs with a regularity of approximately 24 hours . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of whole living organisms  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of whole living organisms  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to a stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
the process ,  occurring above the cellular level ,  that is pertinent to the reproductive function of a multicellular organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that modulates the activity of an enzyme .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ go:0050795 ] 
the part of the circadian sleep / wake cycle where the organism is asleep .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of neurological system .
any process that modulates the levels of body fluids .
any physiological process involved in changing the position of a multicellular organism or an anatomical part of a multicellular organism .
the movement of an organism or part of an organism using mechanoreceptors ,  the nervous system ,  striated muscle and / or the skeletal system .
the movement of an organism or part of an organism using mechanoreceptors ,  the nervous system ,  striated muscle and / or the skeletal system that can be controlled at will .
any process that an organism uses to control its balance ,  the orientation of the organism  ( or the head of the organism )  in relation to the source of gravity .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process pertaining to the functions of the nervous and muscular systems of an organism .
the series of events involved in sensory perception in which a sensory stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a chemical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal as part of sensory perception .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a gustatory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events involved in the perception of sound vibration in which the vibration is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events involved in the perception of smell in which an olfactory chemical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events involved in the perception of taste in which a gustatory chemical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory temperature stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory electrical stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory light stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory mechanical stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a temperature stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive an orientational stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events in which a temperature stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal as part of thermoception .
the series of events in which a temperature stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal as part of sensory perception .
the series of events in which an electrical stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal as part of sensory perception .
the series of events involved in the perception of pain in which a temperature stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events involved in the perception of pain in which a mechanical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events that contribute to the perception of pain in which an electrical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events involved in the perception of pain in which a chemical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events involved in equilibrioception in which a mechanical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a mechanical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal as part of sensory perception .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a touch stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events involved in the perception of touch in which a mechanical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events by which an electrical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events by which a mechanical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported ,  tethered to or otherwise maintained in a specific location .
any process that localizes a substance or cellular component .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multicellular organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of a multicellular organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  any of the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
the series of events during equilibrioception required for an organism to receive a visual stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the series of events in which a stimulus is received by a cell or organism and converted into a molecular signal .
a cellular localization process whereby a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within a cell including the localization of substances or cellular entities to the cell membrane .
any process in which an organism has an effect on an organism of the same species .
a biological process which involves another organism of the same or different species .
any process in which an organism has a behavioral effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the sensory perception of pain ,  the series of events required for an organism to receive a painful stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sensory perception ,  the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
an automatic response to a stimulus beginning with a nerve impulse from a receptor and ending with the action of an effector such as a gland or a muscle .
the regulation of body fluids process in which parasympathetic nerves stimulate the bladder wall muscle to contract and expel urine from the body .
a compound molecular function in which an effector function is controlled by one or more regulatory components .
the specific behavior of a male organism that is associated with reproduction .
the specific behavior of a female organism that is associated with reproduction .
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of consumption of food or liquid \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "the behavior in which an organism sheds tears ,  often accompanied by non - verbal vocalizations and in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in a specific location within or in the membrane of a cell .
the series of events involved in the perception of pain in which a stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
any process that modulates a measurable attribute of any biological process ,  quality or function .
any process that modulates a qualitative or quantitative trait of a biological quality .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
the regulated release of the aqueous layer of the tear film from the lacrimal glands .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to stress .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another in a behavioral context ;  the aspect of locomotory behavior having to do with movement .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another in a behavioral context ;  the aspect of locomotory behavior having to do with movement .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another in a behavioral context ;  the aspect of locomotory behavior having to do with movement .
a molecular function that modulates the activity of a gene product or complex .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a system process ,  a multicellular organismal process carried out by the renal system .
a part of a cellular organism that is either an immaterial entity or a material entity with granularity above the level of a protein complex but below that of an anatomical system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of male mating behavior .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of male mating behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of male mating behavior .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to water deprivation .
 \ "a feeding behavior associated with the intake or the frequency of intake or preference or manner of intake of food . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of eating behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of eating behavior .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sensory perception of pain .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sensory perception of pain .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of touch .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of touch .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of touch .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mechanosensory behavior .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mechanosensory behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mechanosensory behavior .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to water deprivation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of feeding behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of feeding behavior .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling receptor activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling receptor activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of defecation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of defecation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of defecation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of grooming behavior .
a change of place or position of part of an organism that does not involve the entire organism  [ nbo:smac ] 
 \ "behavior related to the complex psychophysiological experience of an individual's state of mind as interacting with biochemical  ( internal )  and environmental  ( external )  influences . \ "  [ wikipedia:emotions ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behaviour related to involuntary movement in response to a stimulus . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the acquisition and processing of information and / or the storage and retrieval of this information over time . \ "  [ go:jic ] 
the act of moving any of the tissues and hard structures surrounding the mouth other than teeth ,  jaws or filter structures  [ nbo:ac ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior associated with the specific movement from place to place of an organism . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior relate to the usually upward movement off the ground or other surface through sudden muscular effort in the legs . \ "  [ go:0007630 ] 
the act of seizing with teeth or jaws an object or organism so as to grip or break the surface covering  [ nbo:ac ] 
 \ "emotional behavior related to fear or anxiety . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
the act of stroking or touching with the tongue  [ nbo:ac ] 
a change in place or position of the portion of the organism containing the brain ,  mouth and main sense organs  [ nbo:smac ] 
 \ "behavior associated with any process in an organism in which a relatively long - lasting adaptive behavioral change occurs as the result of experience . \ "  [ wikipedia:learning ] 
 \ "movement of the head in the horizontal plane . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity that occurs periodically in many animals . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "an uncontrolled ,  paroxysmal neuronal discharge in any part of the brain ;  it may cause physical or mental symptoms and may be convulsive or nonconvulsive \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
the act of moving the head in a plane ,  circularly ,  pivoting at the neck  [ nbo:smac ] 
 \ "absence of voluntary movement . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "reduction of voluntary movement . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a kinesthetic behavior which relatively increased . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a kinesthetic behavior which relatively decreased . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "loss of power of voluntary movement in a muscle through injury or disease of its nerve supply . \ "  [ jax: < new dbxref >  ] 
 \ "paralysis of the extensors of the wrist and fingers . \ "  [ jax: < new dbxref >  ] 
 \ "behaviour related to the activity which primary purpose is the sexual reproduction . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a behavior in which an organism produces sounds by a mechanism involving its respiratory system . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "the elimination by an organism of the waste products that arise as a result of metabolic activity .
the behavioral control of defecation .
 \ "the regulation of body fluids process by which parasympathetic nerves stimulate the bladder wall muscle to contract and expel urine from the body . \ "  [ wikipedia:urination ] 
behavior associated with and resulting in the production and subsequent release of any substance or product elaborated ,  and released by a cell or gland  [ nbo:smac ] 
 \ "the regulated release of the aqueous layer of the tear film from the lacrimal glands . \ "  [ wikipedia:lacrimation ] 
a behavior that occurs between two individuals ,  such as parent and child ,  and involves an emotional attachment that implies a special and focused relationship .
behavior associated with protection ,  or assisting growth and development of young .
behavior that serves to regulate the temperature around offspring .
 \ "behavior related the protection of offspring . \ "  [ nbo:sd ] 
 \ "play behavior that is associated with the socialization of an individual into the group . \ "  [ web:http \  \ : /  / www .bio .davidson .edu / people / vecase / behavior / spring2009 / sacco / pages / play%20fighting .html ] 
 \ "behavior related to the actions by which an organism modulates its internal body temperature . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
behavior associated with two or more individuals' achieving or maintaining close and extensive bodily contact ;  to nestle closely with another  [ nbo:ac ] 
exposure of body to sunlight ,  either by modification of body posture ,  by movement to specific areas or both  [ nbo:smac ] 
 \ "specific actions of a newborn or infant mammal that result in the derivation of nourishment from the breast . \ "  [ goc:dph ] 
the act of locomoting on limbs with body off the ground such that periodically none of the limbs are touching the ground  [ nbo:smac ] 
the act of locomoting on limbs with body off the ground such that at least one limb is always touching the ground  [ nbo:ac ] 
the act of dragging claws or nails over a surface  [ nbo:ac ] 
 \ "loss of power of voluntary movement in muscles of the forelimb through injury or disease of it or its nerve supply . \ "  [ jax: ] 
 \ "behavior related to the washing or cleansing of the body in a fluid ,  usually water or an aqueous solution . \ "  [ wikipedia:bathing ] 
 \ "a feeding behavior associated with the intake or the frequency of intake or preference or manner of intake of liquids . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to a variety of aspects of the relationship between the mind and the world with which it interacts . \ "  [ wikipedia:consciousness ] 
 \ "behavior related to the state of being conscious and engages in a coherent cognitive and behavior responses to the external world . \ "  [ nbo:sd ,  wikipedia:wakefulness ] 
 \ "behavior related to reduced or absent consciousness ,  relatively suspended sensory activity ,  and inactivity of nearly all voluntary muscles . \ "  [ wikipedia:asleep ] 
 \ "repetitive movement of a body part . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the movement facilitated by the generation of hole or tunnel dug into the ground . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
the act of repeated grinding ,  tearing ,  and or crushing with teeth or jaws  [ nbo:smac ] 
a very broad category including the partial or complete performance of adult functional behaviors in non - functional contexts ,  as well as interactive behaviors peculiar to immature animals  [ nbo:ac ] 
undirected behavior involving exercise and coordination ,  and often associated with repetition and 'practice' of adult behavior patterns in a non - functional context   [ nbo:ac ] 
the act of moving the body core lower ,  closer to the ground  [ nob:smac ] 
the act of moving the body core higher ,  away from the ground  [ nbo:smac ] 
 \ "emotional behavior related to a state of low mood  and aversion to activity . \ "  [ wikipedia:depression ] 
 \ "behavior related to the exploration / investigation of a novel object ,  situation or environment . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to defence against predation or predators . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the preparation of the body to  \  \  \ "fight \  \  \ " or  \  \  \ "flee \  \  \ " from perceived attack ,  harm or threat . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a physical aggression behavior involving attack on prey by a predator . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
behavior directed at a predator that signifies hostility and predicts an increased probability of attack  [ nbo:smac ] 
 \ "an emotional behavior related to a feeling of uneasiness or nervousness triggered by a specified triggering stimulus such as pain or the threat of danger . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "an emotional behavior related to a feeling of uneasiness or nervousness triggered by an identifiable triggering stimulus . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "an emotional behavior related to a feeling of uneasiness or nervousness in respect to an object . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "an emotional behavior related to a feeling of uneasiness or nervousness in respect to a particular situation or environment . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "an emotional behavior related to a feeling of uneasiness or nervousness in respect to a living thing . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a phobia characterised by fear of open spaces . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the exploration / investigation of a novel environment . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the exploration / investigation of a novel obhject . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the exploration / investigation of a novel odor . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "moving backwards . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "moving backwards in response to a fear stimulus . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavioral response to the presidency of the stressor where it becomes necessary to attempt some means of coping with the stress . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "exhibiting a domineering ,  assault posture and / or hostile physical action towards humans . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "exhibiting a domineering ,  assault posture and / or hostile physical action towards animals . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "exhibiting a domineering ,  assault posture and / or hostile physical action toward any type of object . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "exhibiting a domineering ,  assault posture and / or hostile physical action towards mice . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "exhibiting a domineering ,  assault posture and / or hostile physical action towards women . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "exhibiting a domineering ,  assault posture and / or hostile physical action towards men . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "exhibiting a domineering ,  assault posture and / or hostile physical action towards male mice . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "exhibiting a domineering ,  assault posture and / or hostile physical action towards female mice . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "exhibiting a domineering ,  assault posture and / or hostile physical action toward inanimate objects . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "exhibiting a domineering ,  assault posture and / or hostile physical action toward inanimate objects . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "exhibiting a domineering ,  assault posture and / or hostile physical action towards children . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "exhibiting a domineering ,  assault posture and / or hostile physical action towards pups . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "gender related exhibition of a domineering ,  assault posture and / or hostile physical action . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "exhibiting a domineering ,  assault posture and / or hostile physical action towards female animals . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "exhibiting a domineering ,  assault posture and / or hostile physical action towards male animals . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a behavior that occur quickly without control ,  planning ,  or consideration of the consequences of that behavior . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "an aggressive behavior that aims to inflicting damage on another entity using physical means . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
any behavior that tends to prevent further or future attack ,  often by signalling a willingness to yield or surrender  [ nbo:ac ] 
 \ "a behavior associated with the tendency of an organism towards being passive and willing to yield to male animals . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a behavior associated with the tendency of an organism towards being passive and willing to yield to female animals . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a behavior associated with the tendency of an organism towards being passive and willing to yield towards male mice . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
behavior by which an animal removes itself spatially from an agonistic encounter in which it is not the winner  [ nbo:ac ] 
 \ "behavior characterized by a quick excitability to annoyance ,  impatience ,  or anger . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "emotional behavior related to excitement or restlessness . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a behavior associated with the intake of liquid . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a drinking behavior associated with the intake of alcohol . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a drinking behavior associated with the intake of water . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a feeding behavior associated with the intake of food . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a feeding behavior associated with the intake of saccharin . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "predilection to ingest a liquid over other substances . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "purposeful avoidance of a liquid due to dislike . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "purposeful avoidance of liquid alcohol due to dislike . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ]   [ nbo:lksr ] 
 \ "predilection to ingest alcohol over other substances . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior of a mother towards her offspring . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior of a father towards his offspring . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "maternal behavior related to the brining up her offspring . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "paternal behavior related to the brining up his offspring . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the parent's tendency to collect stray offspring and return them to a defined location . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to all sleep stages in the circadian sleep / wake cycle other than rem sleep . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "duration of rem sleep . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "duration of rem sleep . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related with the ability of an organism's ability to store ,  retain ,  and recall information and experiences . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "learning by associating a stimulus  ( the cause )  with a particular outcome  ( the effect )  . \ "  [ wikipedia:learning#associative_learning ] 
 \ "a behavioral process whose outcome is a relatively long - lasting adaptive behavioral change whereby an organism modifies innate vocalizations to imitate or create new sounds . \ "  [ go:0042297 ] 
 \ "a decrease in a behavioral response to a repeated stimulus . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "gradual decrease in behavioral responses with repeated encounters of a particular stimulus ,  which proves of no consequence . \ "  [ wikipedia:habituation ] 
 \ "an increase in behavioral responses following repeated applications of a particular stimulus . \ "  [ wikipedia:sensitization ] 
 \ "a type of memory that allows the recall of something from several seconds to as long as a minute . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "this type of memory ,  lasting hours to months ,  critically depends on a transfer of the information from short term memory using repeated rehearsal . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "report great detail about a complex stimulus immediately following its presentation .
 \ "a memory that last for months to lifetime . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of memory that allows the recall of something from minutes to several hours . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "ability to become conscious of ,  or declare ,  facts and experiences . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "ability to consciously recall knowledge of facts that are independent of a specific time and place . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "ability to explicitly recall information about a specific event that has occurred at a specific time and place . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "non - declarative memory type of memory ,  which does not need to involve conscious awareness in the act of recollection . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "consolidating a specific motor task into memory through repetition . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of memory associated with emotional experiences . \ "  [ wikipedia:http \  \ : /  / www .scholarpedia .org / article / emotional_memory ] 
 \ "remembering to perform an intended action . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "remembering to perform an intended action in respect to a particular event . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "remembering to perform an intended action in respect to a particular time reference . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of memory for particular events within one's own life . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "ability to store and retrieve previously experienced visual sensations and perceptions when the stimuli that originally evoked them are no longer present . \ "  [ wikipedia:visual_memory ] 
 \ "the ability to recall images ,  sounds ,  or objects in memory with extreme precision and in abundant volume . \ "  [ wikipedia:eidetic_memory ] 
 \ "ability to orient oneself in space ,  to recognize and follow an itinerary ,  or to recognize familiar places . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "an implicit memory effect in which exposure to a stimulus influences response to a later stimulus . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of priming where the prime and the target are from the same semantic category and share features . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of priming where the target is a word that has a high probability of appearing with the prime ,  and is  \  \  \ "associated \  \  \ " with it but not necessarily related in semantic features . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of priming based on the meaning of a stimulus and is enhanced by semantic task . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type priming based on the form of the stimulus and is enhanced by the match between the early and later stimuli . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "change in the responsiveness of a sensory system when confronted with a constant stimulus . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a form of associative learning that requires an unconditional reflex ,  where an unconditional stimulus  ( us ) brings about an automatic ,  unlearned  ( unconditional )  response  ( ur )  .
 \ "a type of associative learning that allows organisms to acquire affective responses ,  such as fear ,  in situations where a particular context or stimulus is predictably elicits fear via an aversive context . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "operant conditioning is the use of a behavior's antecedent and / or its consequence to influence the occurrence and form of behavior . \ "  [ wikipedia:operant_conditioning ] 
 \ "avoidance learning when the action occurs . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "avoidance learning when no action occurs . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "avoid a situation completely . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "the sociological process of training individuals in a society to act or respond in a manner generally approved by the society in general and peer groups within society . \ "  [ wikipedia:social_conditioning ] 
 \ "perception of objects remains the same despite changes in their image on the retina . \ "  [ :http \  \ : /  / science .jrank .org / pages / 5094 / perception .html ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior related to the awareness of body balance and movement . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the tendency of an organism to maintain internal equilibrium . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the deprivation of water . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the deprivation of food . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the drive of an organism to engage in sexual activity . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "any process which modulates the physical craving for food . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "any process which modulates the physical craving for food over short term food deprivation . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "any process which modulates the physical craving for food over long term food deprivation . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "an observable characteristic of the behavior of an organism . \ "  [ nbo:rh ] 
 \ "a pathological anxiety characterized by long - lasting anxiety that is not focused on any one object or situation . \ "  [ wikipedia:generalized_anxiety_disorder ] 
 \ "a pathological anxiety characterized by fear or anxiety triggered by a specific stimulus or situation . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a pathological anxiety characterized by brief attacks of intense terror and apprehension ,  often marked by trembling ,  shaking ,  confusion ,  dizziness ,  nausea ,  difficulty breathing . \ "  [ wikipedia:panic_disorder ] 
 \ "a pathological anxiety primarily characterized by repetitive obsessions  ( distressing ,  persistent ,  and intrusive thoughts or images )  and compulsions  ( urges to perform specific acts or rituals )  . \ "  [ wikipedia:obsessive%e2%80%93compulsive_disorder ] 
 \ "a pathological behavior characterized by one or more symptoms of a physical dysfunction but for which there is no identifiable organic cause . \ "  [ wikipedia:somatoform_disorder ] 
 \ "a somatoform disorder characterised by a physical dysfunction  ( blindness ,  deafness ,  paralysis ,  numbness ,  etc .  ) 
 \ "a somatoform disorder characterised by a continuing belief that one has one or more serious illnesses although no medical evidence supports the belief . \ "  [ wikipedia:hypochondriasis ] 
 \ "a mood disorder formerly characterised by alternating periods of mania and depression  ( and in some cases rapid cycling ,  mixed states ,  and psychotic symptoms )  . \ "  [ wikipedia:bipolar_disorder ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behaviour related to cognitive processes . \ "  [ nbo:rh ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior associated with the intake of food or liquids . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
behaviors that are described for or done by groups of animals ,  not individual animals  [ nbo:smac ] 
 \ "a behavioral interaction between organisms in which one organism exhibits aggression using vocal or verbal means . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a discriminatory behavior that is related to age . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to having a generally positive attitude toward another person . \ "  [ mbp:gvg ] 
 \ "wanting to be with another person . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a helping behavior  ( without expectation of extrinsic rewards and sometimes involving personal risk or sacrifice )  that benefits individuals or society . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "prosocial behavior is caring about the welfare and rights of others ,  feeling concern and empathy for them ,  and acting in ways that benefit others . \ "  [ wikipedia:prosocial_behavior ] 
 \ "helping behavior refers to voluntary actions intended to help the others ,  with reward regarded or disregarded . \ "  [ wikipedia:helping_behavior ] 
 \ "reciprocal altruism is the idea that the incentive for an individual to help in the present is based on the expectation of the potential receipt in the future . \ "  [ wikipedia:helping_behavior ] 
 \ "behavior related to one or more capacities of the mind . \ "  [ wikipedia:intelligence ] 
 \ "behavior stemming from the ability to identify ,  assess ,  and control the emotions of oneself ,  of others ,  and of groups . \ "  [ wikipedia:emotional_intelligence ] 
behavior that facilitates the restoration of normal interactions between parties that recently engaged in a conflict .
 \ "behavior associated with problem finding and problem shaping . \ "  [ wikipedia:problem_solving ] 
 \ "behavior stemming from intelligence associated with the capacity of conveying information .
 \ "a domineering ,  assault posture and / or hostile physical action towards animals exhibited by male animals . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a domineering ,  assault posture and / or hostile physical action towards animals exhibited by female animals . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a domineering ,  assault posture and / or hostile physical action towards animals exhibited by a mother or attending female . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a domineering ,  assault posture and / or hostile physical action towards animals exhibited by a father or attending male . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related with the gradual loss of information and experiences stored in the memory of an organism . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related with the ability of an organism's ability to store information and experiences . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related with the ability of an organism's ability to recall information and experiences . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "cognitive perception of a sensation by any of the five senses  -  -  vision ,  touch ,  smell ,  taste ,  and hearing . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a phobia characterised by fear of social or performance situations in which embarrassment may occur . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a phobia characterised by fear of high places . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the actions of an organism in relation to sleep . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sleep . \ "  [ goc:jl ] 
 \ "the action ,  reaction ,  or performance of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ go:go \  \ :0007610 ] 
 \ "behavior related to the actions or reactions of an organism pertaining to movement of the eyes and of objects in the visual field ,  as in nystagmus . \ "  [ go:0007634 ] 
 \ "behavior related to the awareness of body balance and movement . \ "  [ mbp:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the sensation of odors . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to environmental temperature . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the sensations arising from the skin and from the muscles ,  tendons ,  and joints . \ "  [ obp:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the detection of high environmental temperature . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the detection of low environmental temperature . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "movement behavior of the body or its parts . \ "
 \ "the coordination of combinations of body movements created with the kinematic  ( such as spatial direction )  and kinetic  ( force )  parameters that result in intended actions . \ "  [ wikipedia:motor_coordination ] 
 \ "the coordinated control of eye movement with hand movement ,  and the processing of visual input to guide reaching and grasping along with the use of proprioception of the hands to guide the eyes . \ "  [ wikipedia:eye%e2%80%93hand_coordination ] 
 \ "the coordination of limb movement . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "coordination that results in spatial and temporal planning of reaching and grasping . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "coordination that results in bimanual synchronization and temporal association of the hands . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "the coordination of lower limb movement . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "the coordination of upper limb movement . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "the coordination of large muscle groups and whole body movement . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "coordination of small muscle movements which occur usually in coordination with the eye . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "coordination involved in writing . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "the coordination of the whole body movement . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "the coordination of the lower body movement . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "the coordination of the upper body movement . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "intentionally or habitually assumed arrangement of the body and its limbs . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "intentionally or habitually assumed arrangement of the body . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "intentionally or habitually assumed arrangement of the limbs . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "intentionally or habitually assumed arrangement of the body and its limbs in inactivity . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior associated with surface locomotion . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the upward thrust produced by the rapid ,  simultaneous extension of the hind legs with the intend to cross wide gaps in the locomotor surface . \ "  [ mbp:gvg ] 
 \ "the pattern of movement of the limbs of animals ,  characterized by elements of progression ,  stability ,  speed and length over the ground . \ "  [ mp:0001406 ] 
 \ "a behavioral pattern characterized by the distance covered by as many steps as there are legs . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the movement resulting by dragging the body close to the ground . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the locomotion of animals in trees . \ "  [ wikipedia:arboreal_locomotion ] 
arm over arm swinging movement through arboreal environment  [ nbo:ac ] 
 \ "behavior related to the movement of an organism from one location to another through the air . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the ascending a steep object . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the expansion lateral surface of the body with the intention of increasing the wind resistance against the body and hence reducing the speed of falling . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the upward thrust produced by the rapid ,  simultaneous extension of the hind legs with the intend to rise in the air . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the movement of an organism from one location to another through a liquid medium . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the control of the direction of locomotion . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the ability of an animal to determine and to alter its position in the environment . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "alteration of speed or direction of movement in response to a sensory stimulus . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "locomotory orientation in a specific spatial relationship to a stimulus . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the mechanical alteration of the locomotor pattern through which the animal adjusts its position . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "locomotory orientation in response to specific chemical concentration gradient . \ "  [ go:0006935 ] 
 \ "locomotory orientation in response to gravity . \ "  [ go:0048062 ] 
 \ "locomotory orientation away from the source of gravity . \ "  [ go:0048060 ] 
 \ "locomotory orientation towards the source of gravity . \ "  [ go:0048061 ] 
 \ "locomotory orientation in response to touch . \ "  [ go:0001966 ] 
 \ "locomotory orientation in response to physical parameters involved in energy generation . \ "  [ go:0009453 ] 
 \ "locomotory orientation in response to light . \ "  [ go:0042331 ] 
 \ "locomotory orientation in response to a temperature gradient . \ "  [ go:0043052 ] 
 \ "locomotory orientation in response to sound . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "locomotory orientation in response to mechanical stimulus . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "locomotory orientation in response to pressure . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to movements that occur independent of planning . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to involuntary movement in response to a stimulus . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "reflex actions originating in the central nervous system that are exhibited by normal infants in response to particular stimuli . \ "  [ wikipedia:primitive_reflexes ] 
 \ "an action or movement due to the application of a sudden unexpected stimulus . \ "  [ wikipedia:startle_reflex ] 
 \ "a reflex that arises when tilting the head back while lying on the back causes the back to stiffen and even arch backwards ,  the legs to straighten ,  stiffen ,  and push together ,  the toes to point ,  the arms to bend at the elbows and wrists ,  and the hands to become fisted or the fingers to curl . \ "  [ wikipedia:tonic_labyrinthine_reflex ] 
 \ "a reflex that assists in the birthing process and helps to develop muscle tone ,  kicking and stimulates vestibular function in utero . \ "  [ wikipedia:asymmetrical_tonic_neck_reflex ] 
 \ "a reflex that causes the eyes to alternately fixate at far and near ,  expanding vision development from arms length to far away . \ "  [ mbp:gvg ] 
 \ "it is elicited by holding the newborn in ventral suspension  ( face down )  and stroking along the one side of the spine .
 \ "a reflex elicited by the application of pressure to both palms resulting varying responses such as head flexion ,  head rotation or opening of the mouth ,  or a combination of these responses . \ "  [ wikipedia:primitive_reflexes ] 
 \ "a reflex that causes the infant to begin to paddle and kick in a swimming motion upon its placement face down in a pool of water . \ "  [ nbo:primitive_reflexes ] 
 \ "a reflex elicited when the sole of the foot is stimulated with a blunt instrument . \ "  [ wikipedia:plantar_reflex ] 
 \ "a reflex elicited by the placement of an object in the infant's hand and strokes their palm ,  causing its fingers to close and grasp it . \ "  [ wikipedia:primitive_reflexes ] 
 \ "a reflex that causes a newborn infant to turn his head toward anything that strokes his cheek or mouth ,  searching for the object by moving his head in steadily decreasing arcs until the object is found . \ "  [ wikipedia:primitive_reflexes ] 
 \ "a reflex that causes the infant to instinctively suck at anything that touches the roof of their mouth and suddenly starts to suck simulating the way they naturally eat . \ "  [ wikipedia:primitive_reflexes ] 
 \ "a reflex that causes the infant to attempt to 'walk' by placing one foot in front of the other when the soles of their feet touch a flat surface . \ "  [ wikipedia:primitive_reflexes ] 
 \ "behavior related to movements executed with intent . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a muscle contraction in response to stretching within the muscle . \ "  [ wikipedia:stretch_reflex ] 
 \ "a deep tendon reflex that elicits involuntary contraction of the biceps brachii muscle . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a deep tendon reflex elicited by striking the lateral surface of the forearm proximal to the distal head of the radius ,  characterized by normal slight elbow flexion and forearm supination . \ "  [ medical disctionary:http \  \ : /  / medical - dictionary .thefreedictionary .com / brachioradialis + reflex ] 
 \ "a reflex that elicits involuntary contraction of the extensor digitorum muscle . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a deep tendon reflex that elicits involuntary contraction of the triceps brachii muscle . \ "  [ wikipedia:triceps_reflex ] 
 \ "a deep tendon reflex that elicits extension of the leg resulting from a sharp tap on the patellar tendon . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a reflex bending of the foot resulting from contraction of the calf muscles when the achilles tendon is sharply struck . \ "  [ medical dictionary:http \  \ : /  / medical - dictionary .thefreedictionary .com / achilles + reflex ] 
 \ "a reflex that involves cranial nerves . \ "  [ wikipedia:reflex ] 
 \ "a reflex that controls the diameter of the pupil ,  in response to the intensity  ( luminance )  of light that falls on the retina of the eye ,  thereby assisting in adaptation to various levels of darkness and light ,  in addition to retinal sensitivity . \ "  [ wikipedia:pupillary_light_reflex ] 
 \ "a reflex action of the eye ,  in response to focusing on a near object ,  then looking at distant object  ( and vice versa )  ,  comprising coordinated changes in vergence ,  lens shape and pupil size . \ "  [ wikipedia:accommodation_reflex ] 
 \ "an involuntary blinking of the eyelids elicited by stimulation of the cornea . \ "  [ wikipedia:corneal_reflex ] 
 \ "a reflex eye movement that stabilizes images on the retina during head movement by producing an eye movement in the direction opposite to head movement ,  thus preserving the image on the center of the visual field . \ "  [ wikipedia:vestibulo - ocular_reflex ] 
 \ "a form of involuntary eye movement that is part of the vestibulo - ocular reflex  ( vor )  .
 \ "a reflex contraction of the back of the throat ,  evoked by touching the soft palate . \ "  [ wikipedia:gag_reflex ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior related to the readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity that occurs periodically in many animals . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a nrem parasomnia characterised by involuntarily grinding of teeth while sleeping . \ "  [ mbp:gvg ] 
 \ "a circadian rhythm sleep disorder characterized by a much later than normal timing of sleep onset and offset and a period of peak alertness in the middle of the night . \ "  [ wikipedia:delayed_sleep_phase_syndrome ] 
 \ "inability to fall asleep and / or remain asleep for a reasonable amount of time . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a dyssomnia characterised by excessive daytime sleepiness  ( eds )  in which a person experiences extreme fatigue and possibly falls asleep at inappropriate times . \ "  [ wikipedia:narcolepsy ] 
 \ "a nrem parasomnia characterised by abrupt awakening from sleep with behavior consistent with terror and a temporary inability to regain full consciousness . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a reflex that results in the contraction of the muscles of the abdominal wall in response to stimulation of the overlying skin . \ "  [ web:http \  \ : /  / www .merriam - webster .com / medical / abdominal%20reflex ] 
 \ "reflexive contraction of the external anal sphincter upon stroking of the skin around the anus . \ "  [ wikipedia:anal_wink ] 
 \ "a reflex is elicited by lightly stroking the superior and medial  ( inner )  part of the thigh resulting in a contraction of the cremaster muscle that pulls up the scrotum and testis on the side stroked . \ "  [ wikipedia:cremasteric_reflex ] 
 \ "a reflex in mammals which optimises respiration to allow staying underwater for extended periods of time . \ "  [ wikipedia:mammalian_diving_reflex ] 
 \ "an increase in tonus  ( normal tension )  of the tissues of the abdominal muscles resulting from painful stimuli originating in a viscus . \ "  [ :http \  \ : /  / www .wordinfo .info / words / index / inf ] 
 \ "a reflex of the abdominal muscles to contract upon mechanical force to the abdomen ,  and serves as protection . \ "  [ wikipedia:muscular_defense ] 
 \ "a response to activation of sensory neurons whose peripheral terminals are located on the surface of the body . \ "  [ wikipedia:scratch_reflex ] 
 \ "an action or movement due to the application of a sudden unexpected loud noise . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a reflex where the body reacts to pain or unpleasant stimuli by trying to move itself away from the source . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a reflex where the flexors in the withdrawing limb contract and the extensors relax ,  while in the other limb ,  the opposite occurs . \ "  [ wikipedia:crossed_extensor_reflex ] 
 \ "an involuntary muscle contraction that occurs in the middle ear of mammals in response to high - intensity sound stimuli . \ "  [ wikipedia:acoustic_reflex ] 
 \ "a reflex in which joint movement can reflexively cause muscle activation or inhibition . \ "  [ wikpedia:arthrokinetic_reflex ] 
 \ "a reflex by which the body rids the lower respiratory tract of any irritant that enters through the air and less frequently any fluids  ( drinks )  and solids  ( food )  that may spill into the respiratory tract . \ "  [ xx:http \  \ : /  / www .healthhype .com / cough - reflex - physiology - process - ear - cough - reflexes .html ] 
 \ "a pouting or pursing of the lips that is elicited by light tapping of the closed lips near the midline . \ "  [ wikipedia:snout_reflex ] 
 \ "a reflex elicited by repetitive tapping on the forehead which result in blinking to the first several taps . \ "  [ wikipedia:glabellar_reflex ] 
 \ "a skeletal muscle contraction causes the muscle to simultaneously lengthen and relax . \ "  [ wikipedia:golgi_tendon_reflex ] 
 \ "a reflex in which muscle groups around the vital organs begin to shake in small movements in an attempt to create warmth by expending energy . \ "  [ wikipedia:shivering ] 
 \ "a reflex in which mucus containing foreign particles or irritants is expelled and the nasal cavity is cleanses . \ "  [ wikipedia:sneeze ] 
 \ "a contraction of muscles in the gastrointestinal tract in response to distension of the tract following consumption of food and drink . \ "  [ wikipedia:vagus_reflex ] 
 \ "selectively track a moving object . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
activation of locomotory behavior .
kinesthetic behavior initiated in the absence of specific sensory input .
 \ "behavior related to the activity in which individuals in a group clean or maintain one another's body or appearance . \ "  [ wikipedia:social_grooming ] 
 \ "behavior related to the promotion of personal hygiene . \ "  [ wikipedia:social_grooming ] 
 \ "behavior related to the state or ability to perceive ,  to feel ,  or to be conscious of events ,  objects or sensory patterns . \ "  [ wikipedia:awareness ] 
 \ "the sustained focus of cognitive resources on information while filtering or ignoring extraneous information .
 \ "behavior involving responding discretely to specific visual ,  auditory or tactile stimuli . \ "  [ wikipedia:attention ] 
 \ "behavior involving maintaining a behavioral or cognitive set in the face of distracting or competing stimuli . \ "  [ wikipedia:attention ] 
 \ "behavior involving mental flexibility that allows individuals to shift their focus of attention and move between tasks having different cognitive requirements . \ "  [ wikipedia:attention ] 
 \ "behavior involving maintaining a consistent behavioral response during continuous and repetitive activity . \ "  [ wikipedia:attention ] 
 \ "behavior involving responding simultaneously to multiple tasks or multiple task demands . \ "  [ wikipedia:attention ] 
 \ "the perception of familiar objects as approximately the same size regardless of their distance from the observer . \ "  [ jrank:http \  \ : /  / science .jrank .org / pages / 5094 / perception .html ] 
 \ "the perception of a color as constant under changing conditions of illumination . \ "  [ wikipedia:color_constancy ] 
 \ "the perception of familiar objects as approximately the same shape regardless of their distance or angle of view from the observer . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "perception relating to the process of inferring the speed and direction of elements in a scene based on visual ,  vestibular and proprioceptive inputs . \ "  [ wikipedia:motion_perception ] 
 \ "perception related to the identification of objects and their distinction from each other . \ "  [ :http \  \ : /  / science .jrank .org / pages / 5094 / perception .html ] 
 \ "behavior involving an active reception and coordination of information relating to depth received through the sensory systems in order to perceive the three - dimensionality of the world and objects within it . \ "  [ :erceiving the three - dimensionality of the world and objects  read more \  \ : perception  -  perceptual systems \  \  ,  historical background \  \  ,  innate and learned  -  classical perceptual phenomena \  \  ,  broad theoretical approaches \  \  ,  current research / future developments http \  \ : /  / science .jrank .org / pages / 5094 / perception .html#ixzz1it3ooobp ] 
 \ "perception of the distance of an object . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "misperception of stimuli ,  where what is perceived does not correspond to the actual dimensions or qualities of the physical stimulus . \ "  [ jrank:http \  \ : /  / science .jrank .org / pages / 5094 / perception .html ] 
 \ "behavior related to how the body reacts to a stressor  (  a stimulus that causes stress )  ,  real or imagined . \ "  [ wikipedia:stress_ ( biological )  ] 
 \ "behavior related to the identification or realization of a threat or a stressor . \ "  [ wikipedia:stress_ ( biological )  ] 
 \ "behavior related to the depletion of the body resources for coping to stress . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a pathological sleeping behavior related to the initiating or maintaining sleep or of excessive sleepiness and are characterized by a disturbance in the amount ,  quality ,  or timing of sleep . \ "  [ wikipedia:dyssomnia ] 
 \ "a dyssomnia characterized by excessive amounts of sleepiness . \ "  [ wikipedia:hypersomnia ] 
 \ "a dyssomnia where the patient moves limbs involuntarily during sleep ,  and has symptoms or problems related to the movement . \ "  [ wikipedia:periodic_limb_movement_disorder ] 
 \ "a dyssomnia characterized by an irresistible urge to move one's body to stop uncomfortable or odd sensations . \ "  [ wikipedia:restless_legs_syndrome ] 
 \ "a sleep breathing disorder characterized by abnormal pauses in breathing or instances of abnormally low breathing ,  during sleep . \ "  [ wikipedia:sleep_apnea ] 
 \ "a dyssomnia characterized by a mistakenly perception of one's sleep as wakefulness . \ "  [ wikipedia:sleep_state_misperception ] 
 \ "a dyssomnia associated with alcohol intake . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a insomnia associated with food allergies . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a pathological circadian behavior primarily related to the timing of sleep . \ "  [ wikipedia:circadian_rhythm_sleep_disorder ] 
 \ "an extrinsic circadian rhythm sleep disorder characterized by insomnia and excessive sleepiness affecting people whose work hours are scheduled during the typical sleep period . \ "  [ wikipedia:shift_work_sleep_disorder ] 
 \ "an extrinsic circadian rhythm sleep disorder resulting from rapid long distance transmeridian  ( east west or west east )  travel . \ "  [ wikipedia:jet_lag ] 
 \ "a circadian rhythm sleep disorder characterized by difficulty staying awake in the evening and staying asleep in the morning . \ "  [ wikipedia:advanced_sleep_phase_syndrome ] 
 \ "a circadian rhythm sleep disorder which the affected individual's sleep occurs later and later each day ,  with the period of peak alertness also continuously moving around the clock from day to day . \ "  [ wikipedia:circadian_rhythm_sleep_disorder ] 
 \ "a circadian rhythm sleep disorder characterized by numerous naps throughout the 24 - hour period ,  no main night time sleep episode and irregularity from day to day . \ "  [ wikipedia:irregular_sleep - wake_rhythm ] 
 \ "a sleeping behavior phenotype that involve abnormal and unnatural movements ,  emotions ,  perceptions ,  and dreams that occur while falling asleep ,  sleeping ,  between sleep stages ,  or during arousal from sleep . \ "  [ wikipedia:parasomnia ] 
 \ "an intrinsic sleep disorder characterised by breathing abnormalities . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a sleeping behavior characterised by vibration of respiratory structures and the resulting sound ,  due to obstructed air movement during breathing while sleeping . \ "  [ wikipedia:snoring ] 
 \ "a sleep breathing disorder characterized by airway resistance to breathing during sleep . \ "  [ wikipedia:upper_airway_resistance_syndrome ] 
 \ "a hypersomnia characterized by recurrent episodes . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a hypersomnia that occurs as a result of a traumatic event involving the central nervous system . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of parasomnia that occurs during nrem sleep . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a nrem parasomnia characterised by the risef rom the slow wave sleep stage in a state of low consciousness and perform activities that are usually performed during a state of full consciousness . \ "  [ wikipedia:sleepwalking ] 
 \ "a nrem parasomnia characterised by involuntary urination while asleep after the age at which bladder control usually occurs . \ "  [ wikipedia:bedwetting ] 
 \ "a nrem parasomnia characterised by talking during sleep . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a rem parasomnia characterised by the lack of muscle atonia during sleep . \ "  [ wikipedia:rem_sleep_behavior_disorder ] 
 \ "a type of parasomnia that occurs during rem sleep . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a rbd that occurs mostly as a result of a side - effect in prescribed medication -  usually antidepressants . \ "  [ wikipedia:parasomnia ] 
 \ "idiopathic or associated with neurological disorders rem sleep behavior disorder . \ "  [ wikipedia:parasomnia ] 
 \ "a rem parasomnia consisting of breath holding and expiratory groaning during sleep that is distinct from both somniloquy and obstructive sleep apnea . \ "  [ wikipedia:catathrenia ] 
 \ "an isolted sleep paralysis that is characterized by frequent episodes or a complex of sequential episodes whose total duration may exceed one hour ,  and particularly by the range and sense of perceived reality of the subjective phenomena experienced during episodes . \ "  [ web:http \  \ : /  / www .theconsciousdreamer .org / sse .htm ] 
 \ "a sleep paralaysis characterised by the absence of narcolepsy . \ "  [ wikipedia:sleep_paralysis ] 
 \ "a rem parasomnia characterised by periods of inability to perform voluntary movements either when going to sleep or when waking up . \ "  [ wikipedia:sleep_paralysis ] 
 \ "a sleep paralysis which upon falling asleep the person remains aware while the body shuts down for rem sleep . \ "  [ wikipedia:sleep_paralysis ] 
 \ "a sleep paralysis which upon awakening ,  the person becomes aware before the rem cycle is complete ,  . \ "  [ wikipedia:sleep_paralysis ] 
 \ "behavior related to the ascending stairs . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a dyssomnia characterised by fear of sleep . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a major depressive disorder characterized by mood reactivity  ( paradoxical anhedonia )  and positivity ,  significant weight gain or increased appetite  (  \  \  \ "comfort eating \  \  \ " )  ,  excessive sleep or somnolence  ( hypersomnia )  ,  a sensation of heaviness in limbs known as leaden paralysis ,  and significant social impairment as a consequence of hypersensitivity to perceived interpersonal rejection . \ "  [ wikipedia:atypical_depression ] 
 \ "a major depressive disorder characterized by a loss of pleasure  ( anhedonia )  in most or all activities ,  a failure of reactivity to pleasurable stimuli ,  a quality of depressed mood more pronounced than that of grief or loss ,  a worsening of symptoms in the morning hours ,  early morning waking ,  psychomotor retardation ,  excessive weight loss  ( not to be confused with anorexia nervosa )  ,  or excessive guilt . \ "  [ wikipedia:melancholic_depression ] 
 \ "a major depressive disorder characterized by a major depressive episode ,  particularly of melancholic nature ,  where the patient experiences psychotic symptoms such as delusions or ,  less commonly ,  hallucinations . \ "  [ wikipedia:psychotic_major_depression ] 
 \ "a major depressive disorder characterized by psychological and motorological disturbances . \ "  [ wikipedia:catatonia ] 
 \ "a major depressive disorder characterized by a intense ,  sustained and sometimes disabling depression experienced by women after giving birth . \ "  [ wikipedia:postpartum_depression ] 
 \ "a major depressive disorder usually characterized seasonal pattern with depressive episodes coming on in the winter or summer ,  spring or autumn ,  repeatedly ,  year after year . \ "  [ wikipedia:seasonal_affective_disorder ] 
 \ "a depressive disorder characterized by chronic ,  different mood disturbance . \ "  [ wikipedia:dysthymia ] 
 \ "a depressive disorder characterized by intermittent depressive episodes ,  in women not related to menstrual cycles ,  occurring at least once a month over at least one year or more fulfilling the diagnostic criteria for major depressive episodes except for duration which in rbd is less than 14 days ,  typically 2 to 4 days . \ "  [ wikipedia:recurrent_brief_depression ] 
 \ "a depressive disorder that does not meet full criteria for major depressive disorder but in which at least two depressive symptoms are present for two weeks . \ "  [ wikipedia:minor_depressive_disorder ] 
 \ "a type of bipolar disorder distinguished by the presence or history of one or more manic episodes or mixed episodes with or without major depressive episodes . \ "  [ wikipedia:bipolar_i ] 
 \ "a bipolar disorder characterised by recurrent intermittent hypomanic and depressive episodes . \ "  [ wikipedia:mood_disorder ] 
 \ "a bipolar disorder characterised by recurrent hypomanic and dysthymic episodes ,  but no full manic episodes or full major depressive episodes . \ "  [ wikipedia:cyclothymia ] 
 \ "a bipolar disorder characterised by symptoms in the bipolar spectrum  ( e .g .
 \ "a pathological anxiety which results from a traumatic experience . \ "  [ wikipedia:post - traumatic_stress_disorder ] 
 \ "a pathological anxiety characterized by feeling of excessive and inappropriate levels of anxiety over being separated from a person or place . \ "  [ wikipedia:separation_anxiety_disorder ] 
 \ "any process in which an organism modulates its heart rate at different values with a regularity of approximately 24 hours . \ "  [ goc:rl ] 
 \ "any process in which an organism modulates its blood pressure at different values with a regularity of approximately 24 hours . \ "  [ go:go \  \ :0003052 ] 
 \ "any homeostatic process in which an organism modulates its internal body temperature at different values with a regularity of approximately 24 hours . \ "  [ goc:dbh ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of feeding behavior that relates to eating . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of feeding behavior that relates to drinking . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a pathological drinking behavior characterised by an excessive desire to drink . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a pathological drinking behavior characterised by large intake of fluids by mouth ,  usually due to excessive thirst that is relatively prolonged . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a pathological drinking behavior characterised by an excessive relative temporal desire to drink . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a pathological feeding behavior characterised by failure to eat . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
the act of moving food from the mouth cavity to the esophagus through coordinated muscular movements  [ nbo:ac ] 
 \ "a pathological eating behavior characterised by an abnormally large intake of food by mouth ,  usually due to excessive hunger that is relatively prolonged . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "lack of ability to enjoy a sense of pleasure . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behaviour related to the male activity which primary purpose is the sexual reproduction . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behaviour related to the female activity which primary purpose is the sexual reproduction . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "ability to correctly remember something that has been encountered before . \ "  [ wikipedia:recognition_memory ] 
 \ "ability to perceive the physical properties of an object  ( such as shape ,  colour and texture )  and apply semantic attributes to the object ,  which includes the understanding of its use ,  previous experience with the object and how it relates to others . \ "  [ wikipedia:cognitive_neuroscience_of_visual_object_recognition ] 
 \ "a visual object recognition that lasts hours to months and critically depends on a transfer of the information from short term object recognition memory using repeated rehearsals . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of memory responsible for recording information about one's environment and its spatial orientation . \ "  [ wikipedia:spatial_memory ] 
 \ "a type of memory that allows one to temporarily store and manage information about one's environment and its spatial orientation . \ "  [ wikipedia:spatial_memory ] 
 \ "behavior related to the activity in which a mother cleans or maintains the body or the appearance of her offsprings . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior relating to the plucking of fur / hair or whiskers / vibrissae . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the barbering of other individuals of a cohort . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the barbering of oneself . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a pathological behavior characterized by muscular rigidity and fixation of posture regardless of external stimuli ,  as well as decreased sensitivity to pain . \ "  [ wikipedia:catalepsy ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior that occurs predominantly or only ,  in individuals that are part of a group . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a pathological behavior associated with repetitive or ritualistic movement ,  posture ,  or utterance . \ "  [ wikipedia:stereotypy ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior related to the movement of the body's muscles ,  tendons ,  and joints . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "exhibiting abnormal exhaustion due to mental or physical exertion . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
movement of the head in the vertical plane .
 \ "movement of the head in multiple directions . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a degenerative state of the brain resulting in impairment of memory ,  judgment ,  attention span ,  problem solving skills ,  the inability to perform previously learned skills that cannot be attributed to deficits of motor or sensory function ,  and a global loss of cognitive abilities . \ "  [ mesh:national library of medicine_medical subject headings ] 
 \ "a reflex allows the eye to follow objects in motion when the head remains stationary . \ "  [ wikipedia:optokinetic_reflex ] 
 \ "a reflex that elucidates goose bumps  ( bumps on a person's skin at the base of body hairs )  which may involuntarily develop when a person is cold or experiences strong emotions such as fear ,  awe ,  admiration or sexual arousal \ "  [ wikipedia:goose_bumps ] 
 \ "a reflex that elucidates a characteristic ear twitch in response to an auditory stimulus . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a reflex that maintains body position and equilibrium either during rest or during movement . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a reflex process in which an animal immediately tries to turn over after being placed in a supine position . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a pathological behavior characterised by pronounced startle responses to tactile or acoustic stimuli and hypertonia . \ "  [ wikipedia:hyperekplexia ] 
 \ "a reflex that elucidates an automatic positioning of the limbs in response to a movement of the head on trunk  ( neck )  . \ "  [ web:http \  \ : /  / www .dizziness - and - balance .com / anatomy / vspine .htm ] 
 \ "a reflex which results from activation of afferents from the vestibular organs and uses neck movements to stabilize the head position in space . \ "  [ jax: ] 
 \ "a reflex that originates with vestibular stimulation and control body posture . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "change position in response to stimulation of the whiskers . \ "  [ jax: < new dbxref >  ] 
 \ "a mouse reflex that elicidated the clasping of front and / or hind feet almost immediately upon being lifted by tail . \ "  [ europhenome: ] 
 \ "a form of tetanic spasm in which the head and feet are drawn forward and the spine arches backward . \ "  [ jax: ] 
 \ "a form of tetanic spasm in which the head ,  neck and spine are bent backward and the body is bowed forward . \ "  [ jax: ] 
 \ "a sudden ,  involuntary contraction of a muscle or group of muscles associated with strychnine poisoning and tetanus . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a sudden ,  involuntary contraction of a muscle or group of muscles . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "an involuntary rhythmical ,  oscillatory movement of a body part . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "inability to coordinate voluntary muscular movements . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior related to the coordination of combinations of body movements created with the kinematic  ( such as spatial direction )  and kinetic  ( force )  parameters that result in intended actions . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "lack of coordination of movement typified by the undershoot or overshoot of intended position with the hand ,  arm ,  leg ,  or eye . \ "  [ wikipedia:dysmetria ] 
 \ "overshooting the intended position . \ "  [ wikipedia:dysmetria ] 
 \ "undershooting the intended position . \ "  [ wikipedia:dysmetria ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior related with the intentionally or habitually assumed arrangement of the body and its limbs . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "posture distinguished by a faltering gait while walking and / or a swaying motion of the trunk or head while resting . \ "  [ jax: < new dbxref >  ] 
 \ "loss of power of voluntary movement in the muscles of the hindlimb through injury or disease of it or its nerve supply . \ "  [ jax: ] 
 \ "a locomotory disorder in which sustained muscle contractions cause twisting and repetitive movements or abnormal postures . \ "  [ wikipedia:dystonia ] 
 \ "a type of memory that allows one to store and manage information about one's environment and its spatial orientation lasting hours to months . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "agitation characterised by a series of unintentional and purposeless motions that stem from mental tension and anxiety of an individual . \ "  [ wikipedia:psychomotor_agitation ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior related to the complex psychophysiological experience of an individual's state of mind as interacting with biochemical  ( internal )  and environmental  ( external )  influences . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "exhibiting indifference ,  or suppression of emotions such as concern ,  excitement ,  motivation and passion . \ "  [ wikipedia:indifference_ ( emotion )  ] 
 \ "a belief that is either mistaken or not substantiated that is held with vehemence . \ "  [ wikipedia:delusion ] 
 \ "a social behavior characterised by conscious or unconscious constraint of a behavior that might be considered objectionable in a social setting . \ "  [ wikipedia:social_inhibition ] 
 \ "a social behavior characterised by conscious or unconscious constraint or curtailment of behavior relating to specific sexual matters or practices . \ "  [ wikipedia:sexual_inhibition ] 
 \ "loss of information already encoded and stored in an individual's long term memory . \ "  [ wikipedia:forgetting ] 
 \ "behaviour related to cognitive processes . \ "  [ nbo:jh ] 
 \ "perception in the absence of a stimulus . \ "  [ wikipedia:hallucination ] 
 \ "a form of hallucination that involves perceiving images without visual stimulus . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a form of hallucination that involves perceiving sounds without auditory stimulus . \ "  [ wikipedia:auditory_hallucination ] 
 \ "a form of hallucination that involves perceiving odors without odor stimulus . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a social behavior related to the activity of conveying information . \ "  [ wikipedia:communication ] 
 \ "communication behavior related to the process of conveying meaning in the form of non - word messages through for example gesture ,  body language or posture ;  facial expression and eye contact etc . \ "  [ wikipedia: .wikipedia .org / wiki / nonverbal_communication ] 
 \ "communication behavior related to the conveyance of ideas and information through creation of visual representations . \ "  [ wikipedia:visual_communication ] 
 \ "communication behavior related to the process of conveying meaning in the form of word messages . \ "  [ wikipedia:oral_communication#oral_communication ] 
 \ "a nonverbal communication behavior that is characterised by the meeting the eyes between two individuals . \ "  [ wikipedia:eye_contact ] 
 \ "behavior stemming from understanding of a specific cause and effect in a specific context . \ "  [ wikipedia:insight ] 
 \ "an emotional behavior that arises from the perceived resistance to the fulfillment of individual will . \ "  [ wikipedia:frustration ] 
 \ "a communication disorder in which a person ,  most often a child ,  who is normally capable of speech is unable to speak in given situations ,  or to specific people . \ "  [ wikipedia:selective_mutism ] 
any highly repetitive behavior ,  where the repetition is unusual ,  difficult to disrupt ,  and neither the behavior nor repetition serve an obvious function  [ nbo:ac ] 
 \ "stereotypic behavior characterised by a tendency to repeat vocalizations . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "play behavior associated with the manipulation of objects . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior associated with interactions which resemble sexual behavior but do not lead to copulation . \ "  [ web:http \  \ : /  / www .bio .davidson .edu / people / vecase / behavior / spring2009 / sacco / pages / sex%20play .html ] 
 \ "play behavior associated to fighting simulation ,  although fighting is much slower and gentler with no intention of actual hurt . \ "  [ web:http \  \ : /  / www .bio .davidson .edu / people / vecase / behavior / spring2009 / sacco / pages / play%20fighting .html ] 
 \ "play behavior that is associated with the pursuit of an individual . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "play behavior associated with the exhibition of parenting behavior by non - parents . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "play behavior related to the copying the actions of another . \ "  [ web:http \  \ : /  / www .bio .davidson .edu / people / vecase / behavior / spring2009 / sacco / pages / imitative%20play .html ] 
harassment of and - or attack of a presumed predator or intruder by multiple individuals at once  [ nbo:smac ] 
 \ "behavior associated with signals made by the mobbing species while harassing a predator . \ "  [ wikipedia:mobbing_ ( animal_behavior )  ] 
 \ "aggressive behavior related to the defence of a fixed area against intruders ,  typically conspecifics . \ "  [ goc:hjd ] 
 \ "behavior related to the activity seen in animals exposed to adverse stimuli ,  in which the tendency to act defensively is stronger than the tendency to attack . \ "  [ web:http \  \ : /  / www .britannica .com / ebchecked / topic / 45916 / avoidance - behavior ] 
 \ "behavior related to the activity seen in animals exposed to potential danger in which they exhibit the tendency to act defensively . \ "  [ nbo:sd ] 
 \ "any process which modulates the physical craving for water over long term water deprivation . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "any process which modulates the physical craving for water over short term water deprivation . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "two or more unprovoked recurrent seizures . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior related to movements that occur independent of planning . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior related to movements executed with intent . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a rapid and repeated body muscle contract that results in an uncontrolled shaking of the body . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a seizure which affect only a part of the brain at onset . \ "  [ wikipedia:http \  \ : /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / focal_seizures ] 
 \ "a partial seizure which affect only a small region of the brain ,  often the temporal lobes and / or hippocampi whilst consciousness is unaffected . \ "  [ wikipedia:http \  \ : /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / simple_partial_seizure ] 
 \ "a seizure that is associated with bilateral cerebral hemisphere involvement and causes impairment of awareness or responsiveness ,  i .e .
 \ "a type of focal epilepsy characterized by recurrent seizures . \ "  [ nbo:http \  \ : /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / temporal_lobe_epilepsy ] 
 \ "a simple partial seizure affecting the kinesthetic behavior . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a simple partial seizure affecting any of the five senses  -  -  vision ,  touch ,  smell ,  taste ,  and hearing . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a simple partial seizure affecting the part of the nervous system that automatically controls bodily functions . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a simple partial seizure affecting the emotional behavior . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior related any of the five senses  -  -  vision ,  touch ,  smell ,  taste ,  and hearing . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a phenotype manifested by a behavior related to the sensations arising from the skin and from the muscles ,  tendons ,  and joints . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior related to the actions or reactions of an organism in response to a sound . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a phenotype manifested by a behavior related to the actions or reactions of an organism in response to a visual stimulus . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior related to the sensation of chemicals . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior related to the sensation of odors . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a seizure which affect the whole of the brain at onset . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "an absence seizure is a brief  ( usually less that 20 seconds )  ,  generalized epileptic seizure of sudden onset and termination . \ "  [ wikipedia:http \  \ : /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / absence_seizure ] 
 \ "a type of generalized seizure that consist of a brief lapse in muscle tone that are caused by temporary alterations in brain function . \ "  [ wikipedia:http \  \ : /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / atonic_seizure ] 
 \ "a type of seizure that is characterised by a very brief symmetric alternating contraction and relaxation of a muscle or a group of muscles . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure that is characterised by rhythmic symmetric alternating contraction and relaxation of a muscle or a group of muscles . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of epilepsy characterised by myoclonic seizures usually involving the neck ,  shoulders ,  and upper arms . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of epilepsy characterised by multiple different types of seizures ,  particularly including tonic  ( stiffening )  and atonic  ( drop )  types of seizures . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure generated by sudden sensor stimulation caused by the environment . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of generalized seizure characterised by a combination of tonic stiffening  ( extensions )  followed by clonic flexion motions . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure characterised by muscle rigidity . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure associated with a significant rise in body temperature . \ "  [ wikpedia:http \  \ : /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / febrile_seizure ] 
 \ "a febrile seizure that lasts less than 15 minutes  ,  does not recur in 24 hours ,  and involves the entire body . \ "  [ wikipedia:http \  \ : /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / febrile_seizure ] 
 \ "a febrile seizure characterized by longer duration ,  recurrence ,  or focus on only part of the body . \ "  [ wikipedia:http \  \ : /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / febrile_seizure ] 
 \ "benign rolandic epilepsy is characterized by either simple partial seizures involving the mouth and face or generalized tonic - clonic seizures . \ "  [ wikipedia:http \  \ : /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / rolandic_epilepsy ] 
 \ "a temporal lobe epilepsy arises in the hippocampus ,  parahippocampal gyrus and amygdala which are located in the inner aspect of the temporal lobe . \ "  [ wikipedia:http \  \ : /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / temporal_lobe_epilepsy ] 
 \ "a temporal lobe epilepsy arises in the neocortex on the outer surface of the temporal lobe of the brain . \ "  [ wikipedia:http \  \ : /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / temporal_lobe_epilepsy ] 
 \ "paroxysmal events that mimic an epileptic seizure but do not involve abnormal ,  rhythmic discharges of cortical neurons . \ "  [ wikipedia:http \  \ : /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / non - epileptic_seizure ] 
 \ "a type of seizure of psychological origin that superficially resembles an epileptic seizure ,  but without the characteristic electrical discharges associated with epilepsy . \ "  [ wikipedia:http \  \ : /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / psychogenic_non - epileptic_seizures ] 
 \ "a type of epilepsy that is characterised by myoclonic seizures . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a myoclonic epilepsy characterised by a combination of myoclonic and tonic - clonic seizures . \ "  [ wikipedia:http \  \ : /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / progressive_myoclonic_epilepsy ] 
 \ "continuous unremitting seizure lasting longer than 30 minutes or recurrent seizures without regaining consciousness between seizures for greater than 30 minutes . \ "  [ wikipedia:http \  \ : /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / status_epilepticus ] 
 \ "a convulsive status epilepticus characterized by seizures involving long - lasting stupor ,  staring and unresponsiveness . \ "  [ wikipedia:http \  \ : /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / complex_partial_status_epilepticus ] 
 \ "subtle  status epilepticus consists of electrical seizure activity in the brain that endures when the associated motor responses are fragmentary or even absent . \ "  [ web:http \  \ : /  / emedicine .medscape .com / article / 1164462 - overview ] 
 \ "simple partial se consists of seizures that are localized to a discrete area of cerebral cortex and produce no alteration in consciousness . \ "  [ web:http \  \ : /  / emedicine .medscape .com / article / 1164462 - overview ] 
 \ "a type of epilepsy characterized by brief ,  recurring seizures that arise in the frontal lobes of the brain ,  often while the patient is sleeping . \ "  [ wikipedia:http \  \ : /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / frontal_lobe_epilepsy ] 
 \ "a type of epilepsy characterised by seizure ,  usually tonic clonic ,  that occur only during sleep . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of reflex seizure caused by visual stimuli that form patterns in time or space ,  such as flashing lights ,  bold ,  regular patterns ,  or regular moving patterns . \ "  [ wikipedia:http \  \ : /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / photosensitive_epilepsy ] 
 \ "a type of seizure induced by exposure to an auditory stimulus . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "an absence seizure induced by hyperventilation . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "an absence seizure not induced by hyperventilation . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a generalized seizure that was initiated as a partial seizure . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a generalized seizure that was initiated as a partial seizure but very rapidly spread to both hemispheres . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "purposeless repetitive motor activities that often occur during a seizure . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "an automatism characterised by involuntary oral activity such as lip smacking and swallowing . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "an automatism characterised by involuntary movement of the limbs or body such as  fumbling ,  picking and rubbing . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "an automatism characterised by stereotyped series of motor actions usually involving the limbs bilaterally such as swimming  \  \ nmovements ,  kicking movements and bicycling movements . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure induced by the administration of a drug . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure induced by accidental or intentional ingestion or application of a drug in quantities greater than recommended . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure induced by termination of drug administration . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure induced by lower than normal level of blood glucose levels . \ "  [ gvg:nbo ] 
 \ "a type of seizure induced by the administration of cocaine . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure induced by the administration of isoniazide . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure induced by the administration of amphetamine . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure induced by the administration of antidepressant . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure induced by the administration of theophylline . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure induced by the administration of penicillin . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure induced by termination of alcohol administration . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure induced by termination of benzodiazepine administration . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure induced by termination of barbiturates administration . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure induced by termination of heroin administration . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure induced by lower than normal level of blood magnesium levels . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure induced by exposure to an electrical stimulus . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure induced by the administration of a brain trauma . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure induced by kindling ,  a repeated administration of seizure invoking stimulus which eventually results changes in the brain . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure induced by kindling ,  a repeated administration of electrical stimulus which eventually results changes in the brain . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure induced by kindling ,  a repeated administration of chemical stimulus which eventually results changes in the brain . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure induced by kindling ,  a repeated administration of auditory stimulus which eventually results changes in the brain . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a simple partial seizure affecting the kinesthetic behavior of one side of the body . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a simple partial seizure affecting the kinesthetic behavior of left side of the body . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a simple partial seizure affecting the kinesthetic behavior of right side of the body . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of epileptic seizures occurring in infants and characterised by clusters of myoclonic spasms . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure induced by lower than normal level of blood calcium levels . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a generalized tonic clonic seizure that was initiated as a partial seizure . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of seizure induced by exposure to a light stimulus . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of epilepsy that is characterised a sudden burst of energy ,  usually in the form of laughing . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a type of epilepsy that is characterised a sudden paroxysmal crying . \ "  [ nbo: < new dbxref >  ,  nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "agressive behavior towards oneself . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "an aggressive behavior towards other members of the society . \ "  [ nbo:rh ] 
 \ "a social behavior related to the activity of conveying information by means of a system of arbitrary signals ,  such as voice sounds ,  gestures ,  or written symbols . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
the act of displacing part or all of the tongue from its current position  [ nbo:smac ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior related to all sleep stages in the circadian sleep / wake cycle other than rem sleep . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior related to the stage in the circadian sleep cycle during which dreams occur and the body undergoes marked changes including rapid eye movement ,  loss of reflexes ,  and increased pulse rate and brain activity . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior related to the actions or interactions of an organism that are associated with reproduction . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior related to the interactions between organisms for the purpose of mating . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior related to the specific actions or reactions of an organism following mating . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior related to the activity which primary purpose is the sexual reproduction . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic related to the behavioral interactions between organisms for the purpose of attracting sexual partners . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior related to the actions or reactions of a female ,  for the purpose of attracting a sexual partner . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior related to the actions or reactions of a male ,  for the purpose of attracting a sexual partner . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior related to the act of sexual union between male and female ,  involving the transfer of sperm . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior related to the female activity which primary purpose is the sexual reproduction . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behavior related to the male activity which primary purpose is the sexual reproduction . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behaviour related to the acquisition and processing of information and / or the storage and retrieval of this information over time . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behaviour associated with any process in an organism in which a relatively long - lasting adaptive behavioral change occurs as the result of experience . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behaviour related to the ability of an organism's ability to store ,  retain ,  and recall information and experiences . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behaviour related to the elimination by an organism of the waste products that arise as a result of metabolic activity .
 \ "observable characteristic of behaviour related to the expulsion of feces from the rectum . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behaviour related to the regulation of body fluids process by which parasympathetic nerves stimulate the bladder wall muscle to contract and expel urine from the body . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behaviour related to the regulated release of the aqueous layer of the tear film from the lacrimal glands . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behaviour in which an organism sheds tears ,  often accompanied by non - verbal vocalizations and in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behaviour associated with signals made by the mobbing species while harassing a predator . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "observable characteristic of behaviour in which an organism produces sounds by a mechanism involving its respiratory system . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior as a result of an electromagnetic radiation stimulus . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior as a result of a light stimulus ,  electromagnetic radiation of wavelengths classified as infrared ,  visible or ultraviolet light . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior as a result of a chemical stimulus . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior as a result of a xenobiotic compound  ( compound foreign to living organisms )  stimulus . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior as a result of sensitivity to an addictive substance intake . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior as a result of sensitivity to cocaine alcohol . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of alcohol consumption ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the intake of substances . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the intake of addictive substances . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the intake of cocaine . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the intake of morphine . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior as a result of sensitivity to cocaine intake . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior as a result of sensitivity to morphine \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior as a result of sensitivity to nicotine intake . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the intake of nicotine . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cocaine consumption ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of consumption behavior ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of consumption of an addictive substance ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nicotine consumption ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of morphine consumption ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior as a result of sensitivity to an anasthetic intake . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "maternal behavior related to the nursing offspring . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of water consumption ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of saccharin consumption ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "a pathological drinking behavior characterised by a lack of desire to drink . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "increase in core body termperature in response to stress or anticipatory anxiety . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sexual activity ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "a regulation of drinking behavior process associated with the preference over the type of liquids that are consumed .
 \ "a regulation of drinking behavior process associated with the preference over alchohol consumption .
 \ "a regulation of drinking behavior process associated with the preference over the type of food that is consumed .
 \ "a regulation of drinking behavior process associated with the preference over saccharing consumption .
 \ "a regulation of consumption of an addictive sustance behavior process associated with the preference over the type of addictive sustance that is consumed .
 \ "a regulation of consumption of an addictive sustance behavior process associated with the preference over cocaine consumption .
 \ "a regulation of sexual activity process associated with the preference over a males or females . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
a vestibular reflex by which a response to an angular acceleration stimulus begins with an afferent nerve impulse from a receptor in the semi - circular canal and ends with the compensatory action of eye muscles .
a vestibular reflex by which a response to a linear acceleration stimulus begins with an afferent nerve impulse from a receptor in the otolith and ends with the compensatory action of eye muscles .
behavior response to addictive substance resulting from the discontinuation of an addictive substance .
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavioral response to chemical stimulus . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavioral response to chemical stimulus . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of withdrawal response . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
behavior response to an addictive substance resulting from dependence of that addictive substance as well as unctronllable cravings of that substance .
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of withdrawal response . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
deactiviation of locomotory behavior .
a predator behavior involving actively stalking prey over a distance .
a predator behavior involving a surprise attack on unsuspecting prey .
an avoidance behavior engaged in by prey that reduces the success of a predator without the prey actually attacking the predator .
a predator behavior involving subduing prey using a structure or modification of the environment created by the predator for that purpose .
feeding behavior during which a living entity acquires food and energy by actively searching for food resources .
consumption behavior that involves inhaling a material  ( such as finely ground tobacco leaves )  through the nose .
smoking behavior that involves burning a substance such as tobacco and tasting or inhaling the smoke through a pipe .
smoking behavior that involves burning a substance such as tobacco wrapped in paper and inhaling the smoke .
smoking behavior that involves burning a substance such as tobacco wrapped in tobacco leaf and inhaling the smoke .
consumption behavior that involves inhaling a material  ( such as finely ground tobacco leaves )  through the nose .
consumption of specific compounds that facilitate processing of food items .
assessment of cues and signals from encountered individual to determine reproductive condition .
postures or signals that alert other animals to presence or approach of a predator .
behavior in which one animal causes the death of another .
signal or behavior that reveals presence of the signaller directed to multiple receivers and not limited to particular receivers .
threat that will not be acted upon .
agonistic behavior involving direct physical contact including  ( but not limited to )  biting ,  kicking ,  grabbing .
perform behaviors that may induce one or more other animals to share food with the performer .
surveillance for presence or approach of predators .
active pursuit of fleeing prey .
behaviors in which predator forces potential prey to emerge from cover .
behavior associated with deposition of material by male following ejaculation to block access to female's reproductive tract during her future matings .
deposition of eggs either into the medium ,  or onto a substrate .
one member of a recently mating pair prevents the other from subsequent matings with other individuals .
currently reside in constructed or existing structure that provides reduced predator and / or environmental risk .
forcible alteration of behavior of one animal by another .
facilitating release or transfer of gametes .
caching or hoarding of food for later use and for protection from competitors ,  or use of specific substrates for cultivation .
displays or other behaviors performed by pairs in longer term pair bonds to advertise relationship to each other and to other animals nearby .
performance of behaviors that demonstrate physical condition of performer to a detected predator .
emission of signals in such a way as to prevent effective use of signals emitted by other parties .
active search for possible mates .
postures or signals performed to other animals to indicate the presence ,  and in some cases ,  the location ,  quantity ,  and quality ,  of a resource .
sensory assessment of a resource  ( usually using olfaction or taste )  ,  for suitability of subsequent usage .
a behavior on the part of one individual associated with evaluating the fighting ability or correlates of fighting ability of a potential opponent .
locomotion to a resource guided by visual or olfactory cues created by a prior finder and / or user of that resource .
behavior by one animals soliciting food provision by a potential mate .
consumption of one member of a mating pair ,  usually the male ,  usually after the mating .
process of retaining developing eggs in the mouth cavity .
construction of a structure in which builder can benefit from reduced predation risk and / or environmental stress .
behavior that signifies hostility and predicts an increased probability of attack .
use of specialized male organs to remove sperm already deposited in female's reproductive tract .
behavior in which one animal causes bodily damage to another .
carrying or manipulation of infants or equivalent items to reduce chances of aggression on carrier by other animals .
use of behavioral tactics or chemical weapons to deter predation .
insertion of sperm not in a spermatophore into female body .
building of a trap ,  web ,  net ,  or other structure to help ensnare potential food items .
behaviors that reduce detectability of performer against background .
chasing of one animal by another during an agonistic conflict .
the identification ,  avoidance ,  or neutralization of toxic substances in food .
removal of food resource from previously - stored supply of food .
alarm behavior triggered by agonistic actions or postures .
signals emitted by an animal trapped or captured by a presumed predator .
behaviors that serve to reduce body temperature as by moving to shade or panting .
approach to prey in manner designed to avoid early detection by prey .
behaviors that reveal a hidden food resource ,  such as digging ,  cracking ,  or breaking .
behaviors in which animals solicit or allow other animals to utilize a resource they currently control .
release of gametes one or both sexes into the ambient medium .
halting or diminution of activity to minimize detection by predator .
obtaining food that has been procured by other conspecifics or heterospecifics .
increasing intensity of directed agonistic behavior .
movement directed to the detection of new resources .
become immobile and reduce other evidence of living state .
spawning in which male and female are clasped or attached to ensure close proximity of released gametes
behaviors directed towards presumed predators to redirect their attention away from a location of importance to the performer .
behavior that serves to exlude an animal from a group .
conspicuous orientation towards and / or approach to detected predator .
perform physically violent acts on a presumed predator .
display behavior by the winner of a prior agonistic contest .
performance of a behavior that indicates the performer's willingness to mate or bond
creation of or modification of a structure or area that is used in attraction of mates .
behaviors ,  anatomical structures ,  or signals that imitate aposematic animals ,  plants ,  or inanimate objects that are undesirable to predators of performer .
erratic movements or similar behaviors that would confuse a predator .
behavior that serves to demonstrate non - aggressive intent by one member of a courting or potentially mating pair to the other .
any of several behaviors directed towards one animal unwilling to mate by another eager to do so .
an acitvity that seems irrelevant to its behavioral context to a human observer and often occurs when its performer is in a conflict situation .
provision of food to a potential mate
deposition of spermatophore either on substrate or in body of female .
depart  [ from ]  current location of predator .
active searching of potential mate
actions resulting in establishment or use of one locale for reproductive activity .
behaviors that appear to signifiy lack of hostility and to reduce chances of attack .
general category of behaviors including sampling of medium to detect presence of possible mates ,  and sampling of encountered individuals to determine mate suitability .
behaviors related to acquisition and utilization of external resources .
removal of food items from location by use of appendage or tool .
conspicuous postures or signals  ( often coloration )  that potential predators learn to associate with strong defense mechanisms of performer
postures or signals that can communicate to predator that it has been detected by performer .
behavior that precedes and facilitates attaining food .
suite of behaviors involved in securing a prey item once it has been located .
behaviors that result in ending flight of prey with successful predation .
the act of putting a food resource in a location in which it can be stored or protected until a future time .
behaviors that prepare food for consumption ,  such as nut - cracking or peeling .
uninvited taking of food from another animal .
behavior associated with locating and acquiring food that has been killed or procured by another animal .
usually interference by members of one sex in the completion of courtship or mating activities by one or more members of the same sex .
behavior associated with refusing courtship or solicitation behaviors by avoidance ,  retreat ,  or other active repulsion of suitor .
a behavior associated with the gathering of organisms together in some locality .
a type of aggregation behavior in which organisms  ( especially fish or tadpoles )  come together in an interactive way ,  aware of the other members of the group as shown by the way they adjust their behavior .
a type of shoaling behavior in which organisms  ( especially fish or tadpoles )  are tightly organized and move in the same direction in a coordinated manner .
a behavior in which action is rapidly taken by an organism in response to possible predation ,  examples of which include camouflage ,  freezing behavior ,  and fleeing .
a behavior involving an organism  ( especially fish or tadpoles )  breathing at or near the surface of water where the concentration of dissolved oxygen is highest .
a behavior involving avoidance of or escape from approaching visual stimuli ,  threats ,  or objects which are on a collision course .
any habitual use of the tobacco plant leaf and its products .
a behavior of chewing a type of smokeless tobacco maked from cured tobacco leaves .
the inhalation and exhalation of tobacco smoke .
the inhalation and exhalation of tobacco aerosol ,  referred to as vapor ,  which is produced by an e - cigarette or other device .
the inhalation and exhalation of marijuana smoke .
the inhalation and exhalation of cannabis aerosol ,  referred to as vapor ,  which is produced by an e - cigarette or other device .
the consuming of cannabis through eating or applying the oil sublingually .
a feeding behavior during which an animal ingests biomass produced by a plant or other primary producer
behavior related to the movement of an organism from one location to another using an inchworm like motion .
behavior related to the repeating or looping movement of the whole organism along a circular or round path .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities
a composite chromatic quality composed of hue ,  saturation and intensity parts .
a quality that is the extent of space between two entities .
a physical quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the number of the bearer's repetitive actions in a particular time .
a quality of a single physical entity inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's size or shape or structure .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ratios of distances between its features  ( points ,  edges ,  surfaces and also holes etc )  .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
the number of entities of this type that are part of the whole organism .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical magnitude .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the proportion of the bearer's amount of matter .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative position ,  shape ,  arrangements and connectivity of an organism's various parts ;  the pattern underlying its form .
a physical quality of the thermal energy of a system .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence per unit time .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's behavior aggregate of the responses or reactions or movements in a given situation .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or lacking skillful and effective interaction of movement .
a distance which is greater relative to the normal or average .
a distance which is lesser relative to the normal or average .
a frequency which is relatively high .
a frequency which is relatively low .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a sudden onset ,  sharp rise ,  and short course .
a branchiness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having branches .
a branchiness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking branches .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's deviation from normal or average .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting no deviation from normal or average .
a quality denoting the lack of an entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's existence .
an amount which is relatively high .
a duration quality of a process which is relatively high .
a duration quality of a process which is relatively low .
a size quality which is relatively high .
a size quality which is relatively low .
a coordination quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having skillful and effective interaction of movement .
a coordination quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking skillful and effective interaction of movement .
a rate which is relatively low .
a rate which is relatively high .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a quality which inheres in an process .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a physical quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with electromagnetic radiation .
an em radiation quality in which the em radiation is within the fiat range of the spectrum visible deemed to be light .
a temperature which is relatively high .
a temperature which is relatively low .
a process quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude of the temporal extent between the starting and ending point .
a quality of a process which ends later than the natural end time .
a monadic quality of continuant that exists at the cellular level of organisation .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's number of nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having no nucleus .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one nucleus .
a depth which is relatively low .
a physical quality inhering in an entity exhibiting the physical characteristics of an amorphous  ( non - crystalline )  form of matter between a gas and a solid that has a definite volume ,  but no definite shape .
the number of parts of a particular type that the bearer entity has .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a processual part as specified by the additional entity .
a mass which is lower than normal or average .
a mass which is higher than normal or average .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processual parts .
a 1 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's downward or backward or inward dimenision .
a depth quality which is relatively high .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in one dimension .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's prevailing tendency ,  mood ,  or inclination .
a quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with radiation .
a coordination which is relatively high .
a coordination which is relatively low .
a duration quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having slow progressive course of indefinite duration .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having more than one nucleus .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting cells .
a cellularity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of more than one cell .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
an amount which is relatively low .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
a quality of physical entities inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a physical part as specified by the additional entity .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n and has_part  >  0 of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
the bearer of this quality has_part  >  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the degree to which there are subdivisions or offshoots in a bearer entity .
having extra or fewer parts .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processing the form of a thin plate sheet or layer .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its constitution .
a quality that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a temporal distribution pattern of process occurrences within a regulation / reference process .
the temporal relation between the end of the process with respect to a reference process .
a disposition that can be compared on a linear scale  -  that is that it can be increased or decreased .
a tendency which is relatively high .
a tendency which is relatively low .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one or more nucleus .
the number of repeated events per unit time ,  occurring in a repeating series .
a material entity consisting of multiple components that are causally integrated .
an occurrent  [ span:occurrent ]  that exists in time by occurring or happening ,  has temporal parts and always involves and depends on some entity .
a layer of dense irregular connective tissue that lines organs and supports the mucosa ,  as well as joins the mucosa to the bulk of underlying smooth muscle .
a major division of the nervous system that contains nerves which connect the central nervous system  ( cns )  with sensory organs ,  other organs ,  muscles ,  blood vessels and glands .
part of peripheral nervous system that includes the somatic parts of the cranial and spinal nerves and their ganglia and the peripheral sensory receptors .
the sympathetic nervous system is one of the two divisions of the vertebrate autonomic nervous system  ( the other being the parasympathetic nervous system )  .
any portion of the organ that covers that body and consists of a layer of epidermis and a layer of dermis .
a non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions .
an organ of sight that includes the camera - type eyeball and supporting structures such as the lacrimal apparatus ,  the conjunctiva ,  the eyelid .
an organ that is capable of transducing sensory stimulus to the nervous system .
any hollow cylindrical anatomical structure containing a lumen through which substances are transported .
major subdivision of an organism that protrudes from the body [ dos ,  caro ]  .
the head is the anterior - most division of the body  [ go ]  .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of a secretory epithelial layer  ( mesothelium )  and a connective tissue layer .
dense regular connective tissue that connects muscle to bone [ vsao ]  .
a biological tissue mass ,  most commonly a mass of nerve cell bodies .
an eye with one concave chamber .
a tubular structure that contains ,  conveys body fluid ,  such as blood or lymph .
muscular duct that propels urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder ,  or related organs .
the fibromuscular tubular canal through which urine is discharged from the bladder to the exterior via the external urinary meatus ;  in males ,  the urethra is joined by the ejaculatory ducts and serves as a passageway for semen during ejaculation ,  as well as a canal for urine during voiding ;  in females ,  the urethra is shorter and emerges above the vaginal opening
a tubular structure that transports secreted or excreted substances .
a subdivision of the digestive tract that connects the small intestine to the cloaca or anus .
organ component adjacent to an organ cavity and which consists of a maximal aggregate of organ component layers .
material anatomical entity that is a single connected structure with inherent 3d shape generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical structure that performs a specific function or group of functions  [ wp ]  .
a part of an organ that constitutes a distinct modular sub - unit .
a multicellular structure that is a part of an organ .
anatomical structure that is part of the respiratory system .
the stage of development at which the animal is fully formed ,  including immaturity and maturity .
a life cycle stage that starts with fertilization and ends with the fully formed embryo .
end of the life of an organism .
an section of a respiratory tract .
any part or collection of parts of the central or peripheral nervous system .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements and articular elements that are part of an individual subdivision of the organism .
the surface  ( external )  layer of ectoderm which begins to proliferate shortly after separation from the neuroectoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops from the endoderm and the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops from the ectoderm ,  mesoderm and endoderm .
the second stage of the kidney .
in mammals ,  the metanephros is the excretory organ of the fetus ,  which develops into the mature kidney and is formed from the rear portion of the nephrogenic cord .
a mesonephric tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the mesonephros [ go ]  .
an epithelial swelling on the wolffian duct that elongates to invade the adjacent metanephric mesenchyme [ mp ] 
stage succeeding embryo ,  including mature structure
nonparenchymatous organ that primarily consists of dense connective tissue organized into a sheet which interconnects two or more organs ,  separates two or more body spaces from one another ,  or surrounds an organ or body part .
portion of neural crest that develops from the dorsal neural tube .
the lung vasculature is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the lungs [ go ]  .
an entire span of an organism's life ,  commencing with the zygote stage and ending in the death of the organism .
a spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of the life cycle of an organism .
a stage at which the organism is a single cell produced by means of sexual reproduction .
the first few specialized divisions of an activated animal egg ;  stage consisting of division of cells in the early embryo .
an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
a stage defined by complex and coordinated series of cellular movements that occurs at the end of cleavage during embryonic development of most animals .
staged defined by the formation of a tube from the flat layer of ectodermal cells known as the neural plate .
a stage at which the ectoderm ,  endoderm ,  and mesoderm develop into the internal organs of the organism .
the connective tissue located between the respiratory  ( airway and alveolar )  epithelium ,  the capillary endothelium and pleural mesothelium ;  it contains basement membrane composed of collagen ,  elastin ,  proteoglycans ,  and fibronectin
the epithelial layer of the lung .
a tube in the respiratory system .
structure derived from foregut that becomes a lung [ go ]  .
a fasciculated bundle of neuron projections  ( go:0043005 )  ,  largely or completely lacking synapses .
a spatially aggregated collection of nerve cell bodies in the cns ,  consisting of one or more subpopulations that share cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections ,  and including nearby cells that share the same cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections .
nucleus that receives projections from or contains neurons that send projections through one of the cranial nerves
the terminal part of the large intestine ,  continuous proximally with the rectum and distally terminates with the anus .
segment of the alimentary canal extending from the stomach to the anus and ,  in humans and other mammals ,  consists of two segments ,  the small intestine and the large intestine .
anatomical conduit that connects two adjacent body spaces  ( or a body space with the space surrounding the organism )  [ fma , modified ]  .
common chamber into which the intestines and excretory system opens .
endoderm - lined chamber that develops as pouch - like dilation of the caudal end of the hindgut and receives the allantois ventrally and two mesonephric ducts laterally ;  caudally it ends blindly at the cloacal membrane formed by the union of proctodeal  ( anal pit )  ectoderm and cloacal endoderm ,  with no intervening mesoderm [ mp ]  .
the ventral part of the cloaca remaining after septation of the rectum ,  which further develops into part of the bladder ,  part of the prostatic part of the male urethra and the urethra and vestibule in females
the proximal portion of the digestive tract ,  containing the oral cavity and bounded by the oral opening .
the orifice that connects the mouth to the exterior of the body .
anatomical cavity at the start of the digestive tract that that is enclosed by the mouth .
a section dividing a colon along a proximal - distal axis .
the pair of anatomical structures comprised of a left lung and right lung .
organ that functions in gaseous exchange between an organism and its environment .
a portion of organism substance that is the product of an excretion process that will be eliminated from the body .
a fluid that is composed of blood plasma and erythrocytes .
circulating fluid that is part of the hemolymphoid system .
a layer of membrane around a tendon .
organism at the blastula stage  -  an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
the external portion of an animal body derived from ectoderm and mesoderm layers that encloses the body cavity .
mucosa that is part of a colon .
the wall of the digestive tract .
a gland that is part of the intestinal mucosa .
a lining of mostly endodermal origin ,  covered in epithelium ,  which is involved in absorption and secretion .
the sensory nerve subdivision of the trigeminal nerve that transmits sensory information from the orbit and its contents ,  the nasal cavity and the skin of the nose and forehead .
a mucosa that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the sensory nerve subdivision of the trigeminal nerve that transmits sensory information from the palate ,  upper teeth and gingiva ,  the skin between the palpebral fissure and the mouth ,  and from the nasal cavity and maxillary sinuses .
a mucosa that is part of a respiratory airway .
the subdivision of the musculoskeletal system that consists of all the muscles of the body [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
tissue that surrounds the lens nucleus
the core of the crystalline lens ,  surrounded by the cortex .
an epithelium that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland in which the principal secretory cells are serous secreting cells .
a mucosa that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland in which the principal secretory cells are mucus secreting cells .
an anatomical wall that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of organism substance that is produced by exocrine glands .
any of several small branches of the internal carotid artery that supply the trigeminal ganglion and the walls of the cavernous and petrosal sinuses .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
multicellular ,  connected anatomical structure that has multiple organs as parts and whose parts work together to achieve some shared function .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
anatomical structure which is a subdivision of a whole organism ,  consisting of components of multiple anatomical systems ,  largely surrounded by a contiguous region of integument .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
a multicellular anatomical structure that is associated with an embryo and derived from the zygote from which it develops ,  but which does not contribute to the embryo proper or to structures that are part of the same organism after embryogenesis .
multicellular anatomical structure that consists of many cells of one or a few types ,  arranged in an extracellular matrix such that their long - range organisation is at least partly a repetition of their short - range organisation .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of cuboidal cells .
unilaminar epithelium ,  which consists of a single layer of columnar cells .
epithelium which consists of more than one layer of epithelial cells that may or may not be in contact with a basement membrane .
unilaminar epithelium which consists of a single layer of squamous cells .
epithelium that consists of epithelial cells not arranged in one ore more layers .
compound organ that contains one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
epithelium which consists of a single layer of epithelial cells .
mucus is a bodily fluid consisting of a slippery secretion of the lining of the mucous membranes in the body .
subdivision of trunk that lies between the head and the abdomen .
the subdivision of the vertebrate body between the thorax and pelvis .
anatomical entity that comprises the organism in the early stages of growth and differentiation that are characterized by cleavage ,  the laying down of fundamental tissues ,  and the formation of primitive organs and organ systems .
a layer of cells produced during the process of gastrulation during the early development of the animal embryo ,  which is distinct from other such layers of cells ,  as an early step of cell differentiation .
primary germ layer that is the outer of the embryo's three germ layers and gives rise to epidermis and neural tissue .
primary germ layer that lies remote from the surface of the embryo and gives rise to internal tissues such as gut .
the middle germ layer of the embryo ,  between the endoderm and ectoderm .
anterior part of the embryonic digestive tract that develops into a mouth .
inward fold on the surface of the embryonic ectoderm that develops into an ectodermal terminal part of the digestive tract .
the main trunk of the systemic arterial system that carries blood from the heart to all the organs and other structures of the body ,  bringing oxygenated blood to all parts of the body in the systemic circulation
a myogenic muscular circulatory organ found in the vertebrate cardiovascular system composed of chambers of cardiac muscle .
the brain is the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate ,  and most invertebrate ,  animals .
the transparent anterior portion of the fibrous coat of the eye that serves as the chief refractory structure
transparent part of camera - type eye that helps to refract light to be focused on the retina .
the retina is the innermost layer or coating at the back of the eyeball ,  which is sensitive to light and in which the optic nerve terminates .
an organ that detects light .
an organism subdivision that extends from the head to the pectoral girdle ,  encompassing the cervical vertebral column .
anatomical cluster that consists of two or more adjacent skeletal structures ,  which may be interconnected by various types of tissue [ vsao ]  .
the part of the central nervous system lying between the medulla oblongata and the midbrain ,  ventral to the cerebellum .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with reproduction .
reproductive organ that produces and releases eggs  ( ovary )  or sperm  ( testis )  .
the outer epithelial layer of the skin that is superficial to the dermis .
functional system which consists of structures involved in respiration .
an airway through which respiratory air passes in organisms .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs devoted to the ingestion ,  digestion ,  and assimilation of food and the discharge of residual wastes .
the renal system in an anatomical system that maintains fluid balance and contributes to electrolyte balance ,  acid / base balance ,  and disposal of nitrogenous waste products . .
organ system that passes nutrients  ( such as amino acids and electrolytes )  ,  gases ,  hormones ,  blood cells ,  etc .
portion of connective tissue composed of adipocytes enmeshed in areolar tissue
a subdivision of the muscular system corresponding to a subdisivision of an organism .
the nervous system is an organ system containing predominantly neuron and glial cells .
the central nervous system is the core nervous system that serves an integrating and coordinating function .
an enclosed ,  cable - like bundle of axons in the peripheral nervous system originating in a nerve root in the central nervous system  ( or a condensed nervous structure )  connecting with peripheral structures .
a nerve that transmits from sensory receptors on the surface of the body to the central nervous system .
anatomical system that overlaps the nervous system and is responsible for receiving and processing sensory information .
the sensory system for the sense of taste .
anterior subdivision of a digestive tract .
a portion of the respiratory and digestive tracts ;  its distal limit is the superior part of the esophagus and it connects the nasal and oral cavities with the esophagus and larynx ;  it contains the valleculae and the pyriform recesses ;  its upper limits are the nasal cavity and cranial base .
middle subdivision of a digestive tract [ cjm ]  .
the caudalmost subdivision of a digestive tract .
primordia are populations of contiguous cells that are morphologically distinct and already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue [ fbbt ,  hartenstein ,  v .  ( 2004 )  ]  .
in the developing vertebrate ,  the neural tube is the embryo's precursor to the central nervous system ,  which comprises the brain and spinal cord .
the terminal portion of the intestinal tube ,  terminating with the anus
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
a zone of skin that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a terminal branch of the left or right common carotid artery which supplies oxygenated blood to to the throat ,  neck glands ,  tongue ,  face ,  mouth ,  ear ,  scalp and dura mater of the meninges [ mp ] 
it ascends beneath the anterior margin of the trapezius ,  distributing branches to it ,  and to the neighboring muscles and lymph glands in the neck ,  and anastomosing with the superficial branch of the descending branch of the occipital artery .
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from the lower half of the body into the right atrium of the heart .
a zone of skin that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
excretion that is the output of a kidney
joint fluid is a transudate of plasma that is actively secreted by synovial cells .
muscle tissue that consists primarily of skeletal muscle fibers .
muscle tissue which is unstriated ,  composed primarily of smooth muscle fibers surrounded by a reticulum of collagen and elastic fibers .
simple squamous epithelium of mesodermal origin which lines serous membranes .
a major subdivision of an organism that is the entire part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
either of the pair of major vessels which arise from the renal hilus and return blood from the kidneys ,  suprarenal gland and the ureter to the inferior vena cava .
a renal vein that drains the right kidney
a renal vein that drains the left kidney
last portion of the large intestine before it becomes the rectum .
the part of the large intestine that is closest to the rectum and anus .
an anatomical wall that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
one of two laterally paired arteries that supplies the kidneys .
renal artery that supplies the right kidney
renal artery that supplies the left kidney
a mucosa that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that drains blood from the large intestine that usually terminates when reaching the splenic vein ,  which goes on to form the portal vein with the superior mesenteric vein  ( smv )  .
an ureter that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ureter that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a funnel shaped proximal portion of the ureter that is formed by convergence of the major calices  [ mp ]  .
mucosal layer that lines the intestine .
a serous membrane that is part of a wall of intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
orifice at the opposite end of an animal's digestive tract from the mouth .
an adventitia that is part of a ureter .
distensible musculomembranous organ situated in the anterior part of the pelvic cavity in which urine collects before excretion [ mp ]  .
an anatomical wall that lines the insider of a urinary bladder .
the mucous membrane lining the urinary bladder
a serous membrane that is part of a urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the organism subdivision that includes the pelvic girdle skeleton and associated soft tissue .
epithelial layer that lines the intestine .
an epithelium that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an artery that supplies blood to the upper urinary bladder .
a vein that begins near the upper part of the greater sciatic foramen ,  passes upward behind and slightly medial to the hypogastric artery and ,  at the brim of the pelvis ,  joins with the external iliac to form the common iliac vein .
muscle  ( organ )  which is a part of the pelvis .
any of the numerous small mucous - secreting glands located in the wall of the male or female urethra that help protect the epithelium from the corrosive urine
the anus and surrounding regions .
a zone of skin that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an organism subdivision that includes the pectoral girdle skeleton and associated soft tissue .
anatomical system that is a multi - element ,  multi - tissue anatomical cluster that consists of the skeleton and the articular system .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a free forelimb region .
subdivision of skeleton consisting of all skeletal elements in an hindlimb region .
a subdivision of the head that has as parts the layers deep to the surface of the anterior surface ,  including the mouth ,  eyes ,  and nose  ( when present )  .
a zone of skin that is part of a lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
skeletal element that is composed of bone tissue .
an articular capsule  ( or joint capsule )  is an envelope surrounding a synovial joint .
any muscle organ that is part of a pelvic girdle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the descending aorta is the portion of the aorta in a two - pass circulatory system from the arch of aorta to the point where it divides into the common iliac arteries [ go ]  .
the part of the aorta that extends from the origin at the heart to the diaphragm ,  and from which arises numerous branches that supply oxygenated blood to the chest cage and the organs within the chest
abdominal part of aorta: the distal part of the descending aorta ,  which is the continuation of the thoracic part and gives rise to the inferior phrenic ,  lumbar ,  median sacral ,  superior and inferior mesenteric ,  middle suprarenal ,  renal ,  and testicular or ovarian arteries ,  and celiac trunk [ bto ]  .
a bilaterally paired branched artery that originates from the aortic arches and divides into and includes as parts the internal and external carotid arteries [ cjm ]  .
a terminal branch of the left or right common carotid artery which supplies oxygenated blood to the brain and eyes [ mp ] 
a tube extending from the mouth to the anus .
subdivision of urinary system which consists of the urinary bladder and the urethra .
the segment of the respiratory tract that starts proximally with the trachea and includes all distal structures including the lungs [ wp , modified ] 
the muscles associated with the larynx .
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from the upper half of the body into the right atrium of the heart .
one of two jugular veins that collect the blood from the brain ,  the superficial parts of the face ,  and the neck .
the bronchial veins are small vessels that return blood from the larger bronchi and structures at the roots of the lungs .
the ciliary muscle is a ring of smooth muscle in the middle layer of the eye that controls the eye's accommodation for viewing objects at varying distances and regulates the flow of aqueous humour through schlemm's canal .
a branch of the external carotid artery that supplies structures of the face .
an artery that supplies deep structures of the face .
the ophthalmic artery is a branch of the internal carotid artery which supplies branches to supply the eye and other structures in the orbit .
the lacrimal artery arises close to the optic foramen ,  and is one of the largest branches derived from the ophthalmic artery: not infrequently it is given off before the artery enters the orbit .
organ consisting of a tissue made up of various elongated cells that are specialized to contract and thus to produce movement and mechanical work [ go ]  .
an epithelial tube or tree of tibes that transports blood away from the heart [ modified from aeo definition ]  .
any of the tubular branching vessels that carry blood from the capillaries toward the heart .
cranial nerve that has three branches  -  the ophthalmic  ( supplying the skin of the nose and upper jaw )  ,  the maxillary and the mandibular  ( supplying the lower jaw )  .
cranial nerve that branches into the ramus communicans  ( to the skin )  ,  the pretrematic  ( to the walls of the pharynx and mouth ,  viscero - sensory fibers )  ,  and the larval post - trematic branch  ( lost in the adult )  .
the pulmonary artery that supplies the right lung .
the pulmonary artery that supplies the left lung .
the anterior facial vein  ( facial vein )  commences at the side of the root of the nose ,  and is a direct continuation of the angular vein where it also receives a small nasal branch .
the cranial ganglion that is associated with and extends fibers into the trigeminal nerve .
the bone at the lower ,  posterior part of the skull
the large ,  irregular bone located at the base and side of the skull ;  consists of three parts at birth: squamous ,  tympanic ,  and petrous
the group of neuron cell bodies associated with the ninth cranial nerve .
subdivision of skeletal system that surrounds and protects the brain .
subdivision of skeleton which includes upper and lower jaw skeletons .
subdivision of head that consists of the lower jaw skeletal elements plus associated soft tissue  ( skin ,  lips ,  muscle )  [ cjm ]  .
the groups of nerve cell bodies associated with the twelve cranial nerves
a specialized receptor organ that is a collection of cells spanning the gustatory epithelium .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a pharynx .
a continuation of the pharynx that is involved in breathing ,  sound production ,  and protecting the trachea against food aspiration .
the cartilaginous structures that support the larynx .
a network of orbital structures of the eye that secrete and drain tears from the surface of the eyeball into the nasal cavity ;  these parts include the lacrimal glands ,  lacrimal lake ,  lacrimal ducts ,  lacrimal canals ,  lacrimal sacs ,  nasolacrimal ducts ,  and lacrimal puncta .
cranial nerve that branches into the lateral  ( to body sense organs )  and the intestino - accessorial  ( to the skin ,  muscles of shoulder ,  hyoid ,  larynx ,  gut ,  lungs ,  and heart )  .
the space in the eye ,  filled with aqueous humor ,  and bounded anteriorly by the cornea and a small portion of the sclera and posteriorly by a small portion of the ciliary body ,  the iris ,  and part of the crystalline lens
the pigmented middle of the three concentric layers that make up an eye ,  consisting of the iris ,  ciliary body and choroid [ wp , edited ]  .
the adjustable membrane ,  composed of the stroma and pigmented epithelium ,  located just in front of the crystalline lens within the eye
the smooth stratified squamous epithelium that covers the outer surface of the cornea
opaque fibrous outer layer of the eyeball [ zfa , kardong , wp ]  .
a skeletal muscle organ that is part of the trunk region .
the thickened portion of the vascular tunic ,  which lies between the choroid and the iris ,  composed of ciliary muscle and ciliary processes
vascular layer containing connective tissue ,  of the eye lying between the retina and the sclera .
a double layer covering the ciliary body that produces aqueous humor .
the any of the paired peripheral nerves formed by the union of the dorsal and ventral spinal roots from each spinal cord segment [ mp , modified ] 
any of the layers that make up the retina [ mp ]  .
cranial nerves are nerves that emerge directly from the brain ,  in contrast to spinal nerves ,  which emerge from segments of the spinal cord .
a thick watery refractive medium that fills the space between the lens and the cornea [ wp ]  .
the clusters of neurons in the somatic peripheral nervous system which contain the cell bodies of sensory nerve axons ,  interneurons and non - neuronal supporting cells .
any of the parts of the eye that lie in front of ,  or ventral to ,  the lens  ( inclusive ) 
any of the parts of the eye that lie in back of ,  or dorsal to ,  the lens  ( but not inclusive ) 
a layer of epithelial cells that is part of the eye .
the elastic ,  clear ,  membrane - like structure ,  that is outer most layer of the lens
ganglion that has dendrites that form a junction between autonomic nerves originating from the central nervous system and autonomic nerves innervating their target organs in the periphery .
a ganglion of the sympathetic nervous system .
the lacrimal glands are paired almond - shaped glands ,  located in or near the orbital region ,  that secrete the aqueous layer of the tear film .
the mucous lining of the larynx ,  which is composed of squamous epithelium in the upper larynx and ciliated columnar epithelium in the lower larynx .
aqueous substance secreted by the lacrimal gland .
one of the two fleshy folds which surround the opening of the mouth .
lip that covers the lower portion of the mouth .
the midbrain is the middle division of the three primary divisions of the developing chordate brain or the corresponding part of the adult brain  ( in vertebrates ,  includes a ventral part containing the cerebral peduncles and a dorsal tectum containing the corpora quadrigemina and that surrounds the aqueduct of sylvius connecting the third and fourth ventricles )  [ go ]  .
a segment of the developing hindbrain [ zfa ]  .
rostral segment of the hindbrain that has as its parts the pons  ( where present )  and the cerebellum [ wp , modified ]  .
organ component of neuraxis that has as its parts the medullary reticular formation ,  inferior olivary complex and cochlear nuclear complex ,  among other structures [ fma ]  .
the epithelial lining of the trachea which contains numerous ciliated cells
an endothelium that is part of a capillary  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an arteriole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a venule  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a vein  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
ventral part of the midbrain ,  separated from the hindbrain by the isthmus [ isbn:0471888893 ]  .
a multi - tissue structure that is part of a spinal cord .
the hyaline cartilaginous structures that support the bronchi ,  present as irregular rings in the larger bronchi  ( and not as regular as in the trachea )  ,  and as small plates and islands in the smaller bronchi ;  as the branching continues through the bronchial tree ,  the amount of hyaline cartilage in the walls decreases until it is absent in the smallest bronchioles [ mp ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the liquid component of blood ,  in which erythrocytes are suspended .
one of the minute vessels that collect deoxygenated blood from the capillary plexuses returns it to the veins
the smallest division of the artery located between the muscular arteries and the capillaries [ go ]  .
a vessel through which blood circulates in the body .
any of the smallest blood vessels connecting arterioles with venules .
a monolayer of specialized ,  flattened ,  mitochondria - rich cells that lines the posterior surface of the cornea and faces the anterior chamber of the eye [ wp ]  .
a layer of epithelium that lines the heart ,  blood vessels  ( endothelium ,  vascular )  ,  lymph vessels  ( endothelium ,  lymphatic )  ,  and the serous cavities of the body [ mesh ]  .
portion of semisolid bodily waste discharged through the anus [ mw , modified ] 
cartilage tissue primarily composed of type ii collagen  ( thin fibrils )  and a glassy appearance .
an artery that carries deoxygenated blood from heart to the lungs .
the tough fibrous layer surrounding the kidney which is covered in a thick layer of perirenal adipose tissue that functions to provide some protection from trauma and damage
pulmonary veins are blood vessels that transport blood from the lungs to the heart [ go ]  .
a cranial nerve that originates from neurons in the medulla and in the cervical spinal cord .
a nervous system structure composed primarily of nerve cell bodies  ( somas )  .
the most posterior of the three principal regions of the brain .
an epithelium that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
muscle tissue that contains fibers that are divided by transverse bands into striations .
a systemic artery that supplies the lung with with oxygenated blood .
the pontine raphe nucleus is one of the raphe nuclei .
respiration organ that develops as an oupocketing of the esophagus .
an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure contains fluid that is actively transported around the organism [ zfa ]  .
anatomical structure that is part of an embryo .
the truncus arteriosus and bulbus cordis are divided by the aorticopulmonary septum .
the dermis is a layer of skin between the epidermis  ( with which it makes up the skin )  and subcutaneous tissues ,  and is composed of two layers ,  the papillary and reticular dermis [ wp ]  .
lowermost layer of the integumentary system in vertebrates .
an organ that is located within the body cavity  ( or in its extension ,  in the scrotum )  ;  it consists of organ parts that are embryologically derived from endoderm ,  splanchnic mesoderm or intermediate mesoderm ;  together with other organs ,  the viscus constitutes the respiratory ,  gastrointestinal ,  urinary ,  reproductive and immune systems ,  or is the central organ of the cardiovascular system .
the postcranial subdivision of skeleton structural components forming the long axis of the vertebrate body ;  in danio ,  consisting of the notochord ,  vertebrae ,  ribs ,  supraneurals ,  intermuscular bones ,  and unpaired median fins ;  in human consists of the bones of the vertebral column ,  the thoracic cage and the pelvis [ zfa + fma ]  .
subdivision of skeleton which which consists of all the skeletal elements in in the pectoral and pelvic appendage complexes [ cjm ]  .
the organ covering the body that consists of the dermis and epidermis .
the thin membranous structure between the two heart atria or the thick muscular structure between the two heart ventricles .
organism subdivision which is the part of the body posterior to the cervical region  ( or head ,  when cervical region not present )  and anterior to the caudal region .
a paired appendage that is evolved from a paired fin .
a  ( free )  limb that is connected to a pectoral girdle .
a  ( free )  limb that is connected to a pelvic girdle region .
the sensory system subserving the sense of vision .
sensory system responsible for the perception of spatial orientation and auditory stimuli .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a paired organ of the urinary tract which has the production of urine as its primary function .
in mammals ,  the pronephros is the first of the three embryonic kidneys to be established and exists only transiently .
a a collection of brainstem nuclei that functions in multiple aspects of hearing and is an important component of the ascending and descending auditory pathways of the auditory system .
the locus ceruleus is a dense cluster of neurons within the dorsorostral pons .
nucleus containing parasympathetic neurons giving rise to the parasympathetic division of the facial nerve ,  innervating the salivary glands  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1981 ,  pg 703 )  .
the endocardium is an anatomical structure comprised of an endothelium and an extracellular matrix that forms the innermost layer of tissue of the heart ,  and lines the heart chambers [ go ]  .
lung which consists of the right upper lobe ,  middle lobe and right lower lobe .
lung which consists of the left upper lobe and left lower lobe .
the upper conducting airways of the lung ;  these airways arise from the terminus of the trachea
a portion of adipose tissue that is part of the hypodermis ,  beneath the dermis .
anatomical cluster consisting of the hematopoietic system and the lymphoid system ,  or its analogs .
the dermis ,  epidermis and hypodermis .
vasculature that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a trachea .
vasculature that is part of the eye region .
anatomical system that consists of the muscular and skeletal systems .
nonsynovial joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by cartilage .
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by an articular capsule which encloses a synovial membrane and a synovial cavity .
the part of the coelemic cavity lumen that is enclosed by the walls of the thorax .
part of the central nervous system located in the vertebral canal continuous with and caudal to the brain ;  demarcated from brain by plane of foramen magnum .
endoskeletal elements that encase the brain ,  nose ,  inner ear [ cjm ]  .
a composite substructure of the brainstem that consists of the midbrain reticular formation ,  the pontine reticular formation and the medullary reticular formation  (  carpenter - 1983  )  .
stalk - like part of the brain that includes amongst its parts the medulla oblongata of the hindbrain and the tegmentum of the midbrain [ zfa , mp , generalized ]  .
a neural nucleus that is part of the brain .
the ridge - shaped grey matter of the spinal cord that extends longitudunally through the center of each half of the spinal cord ,  and are largely or entirely composed of nerve cell bodies and their dendrites and some supportive tissue .
the cavity within the body of all animals higher than the coelenterates and certain primitive worms ,  formed by the splitting of the embryonic mesoderm into two layers .
any muscle organ that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the urethra is a renal system organ that carries urine from the bladder to outside the body .
a flexible rod - shaped body found in embryos of all chordates .
somites are spheres of epithelial cells that form sequentially along the anterior - posterior axis of the embryo through mesenchymal to epithelial transition of the presomitic mesoderm .
anatomical system that consists of the glands and parts of glands that produce exocrine secretions and help to integrate and control bodily metabolic activity .
an arterial trunk which is continuous with the heart and branches into the pulmonary arteries .
a specialized region of ectoderm found between the neural ectoderm  ( neural plate )  and non - neural ectoderm and composed of highly migratory pluripotent cells that delaminate in early embryonic development from the dorsal neural tube and give rise to an astounding variety of differentiated cell types [ mp ]  .
set of all muscles in abdomen .
embryonic ectoderm that gives rise to nervous tissue .
the lower segment of the trunk ,  inferioposterior to the abdomen proper ,  in the transition area between the trunk and the lower limbs .
a gland that secretes products  ( excluding hormones and other chemical messengers )  into ducts  ( duct glands )  which lead directly into the external environment [ wp ]  .
any skeletal muscle that is part of the head region .
any muscle that is part of the cervical  ( neck )  region .
muscle  ( organ )  which is a part of the abdomen .
tissue with cells that deposit non - polarized extracellular matrix including connective tissue fibers and ground substance .
muscle tissue is a contractile tissue made up of actin and myosin fibers [ go ]  .
anatomical system that is involved in the production of hematopoietic cells .
the autonomic nervous system is composed of neurons that are not under conscious control ,  and is comprised of two antagonistic components ,  the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems .
connected anatomical system that forms a barrier between an animal and its environment .
the abdominal segment of the torso .
skeletal tissue that is avascular ,  rich in glycosaminoglycans  ( gags )  and typically includes chondrocytes within isolated lacunae .
a gland that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of the mouth and lines the oral cavity ,  typically stratified squamous ,  and may be para -  ,  ortho -  or non -  keratinized .
a bone that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a choroid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
arteries that supply the spinal cord .
a tributary of the iliac vein that drains the urinary bladder .
clear to pale yellow watery secretions from the glands lining the small intestine walls .
skeletal tissue with a collagen - rich extracellular matrix vascularized ,  mineralized with hydroxyapatite and typically including osteocytes located in lacunae that communicate with one another by cell processes  ( in canaliculi )  .
an epithelium that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
replacement bone that forms within cartilage .
connective tissue composed of elastic fibers .
the middle layer of an artery or vein .
the innermost layer of a blood vessel which is a lining of endothelial cells facing the lumen [ kardong ]  .
an organ that functions as a secretory or excretory organ
in amniote animal embryology ,  the epiblast is a tissue type derived either from the inner cell mass in mammals or the blastodisc in birds and reptiles .
one of a series of paired bulges that develop along the lateral walls of the foregut .
ectodermal placode that develops in the head into a part of the sensory nervous system .
anatomical space which contains portions of one or more body substances and is bounded by the internal surface of one maximally connected anatomical structure .
the cavity that is enclosed by the central nervous system .
anatomical divisons of the brain according to one or more criteria ,  e .g .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a trigeminal nuclear complex .
a sensory epithelium that is part of a gustatory system .
dorsal portion of the pons ,  containing cranial nervee nuclei ,  ascending and descending tracts and reticular nuclei .
a wall ,  dividing a cavity or structure into smaller ones [ wp ]  .
the part of the brain that is the morphological boundary between the midbrain and hindbrain and that is the location of an organizing center which patterns the midbrain and hindbrain primordia of the neural plate .
a temporary epithelium that derives from the outer layer of the ectdoerm and is shed once the inner layer differentiates to form a true epidermis .
the portion of neural plate anterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
the portion of neural plate posterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
unsegmented field of paraxial mesoderm present posterior to the most recently formed somite pair ,  from which somites will form .
in mammals ,  the pronephric duct is the predecessor of the wolffian duct [ wp ]  .
blood islands are structures in the developing embryo which lead to many different parts of the circulatory system .
a horseshoe - shaped thickening of the endoderm at the cranial  ( rostral )  end of the primitive streak formed by the involution of spemann's organizer cells which ,  together with the notochord ,  induces the formation of the neural plate from the overlying ectodermal cells and contributes mesodermal type cells to the surrounding tissue
the intermediate mesoderm is located between the lateral mesoderm and the paraxial mesoderm .
lateral neurogenic placodes positioned dorsal of the epibranchial placodes .
the axial mesoderm includes the prechordal mesoderm and the chordamesoderm .
a neurogenic placode that arises at the level of the midbrain - hindbrain boundary and develops into a trigeminal ganglion .
portion of tissue that is part of the anterior neural keel and will form the optic vesicle [ zfa ]  .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of neural and non - neural epithelial layers which will form the retina and retinal pigmented epithelium of the mature eye [ zfa ]  .
a thickened portion of ectoderm which serves as the precursor to the lens .
paired organ that connects the primitive kidney wolffian body  ( or mesonephros )  to the cloaca and serves as the anlage for certain male reproductive organs .
a region of embryonic ectodermal cells that lie directly above the notochord .
the paraxial mesoderm is the mesoderm located bilaterally adjacent to the notochord and neural tube [ go ] 
focal thickenings of the embryonic ectoderm that form immediately dorsal and caudal of the clefts between the pharyngeal arches and that produce the neuroblasts that migrate and condense to form the distal cranial ganglia .
portion of the middle of the three primary germ layers of the embryo that resides on the periphery of the embryo ,  is continuous with the extra - embryonic mesoderm ,  splits into two layers enclosing the intra - embryonic coelom ,  and gives rise to body wall structures [ mp ]  .
a transitional population of migrating mesenchymal cells that derive from somites and that will become muscle cells .
trunk portion of the neural crest .
bilateral groups of cells consisting of three rows: one row of endocardial precursors medially and two rows of myocardical precursors laterally .
ventral somitic compartment that is a precursor of the axial skeleton [ xao ]  .
neural crest cells  ( nccs )  originating in the anterior part of the developing embryo and residing between the mid - diencephalon and the forming hindbrain ;  cranial nccs migrate dorsolaterally to form the craniofacial mesenchyme that differentiates into various craniofacial cartilages and bones ,  cranial neurons ,  glia ,  and connective tissues of the face ;  these cells enter the pharyngeal pouches and arches where they give rise to thymic cells ,  bones of the middle ear and jaw  ( mandible )  ,  and the odontoblasts of the tooth primordia ;  like their counterparts in the trunk ,  cranial nccs also contribute to the developing peripheral nervous system ,  along with the pigmented cell  ( i .e .
anatomical structure that overlaps the outer epithelial layer and is adjacent to the space surrounding the organism .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
portion of tissue consisting of loosely organized undifferentiated mesodermal cells that give rise to such structures as connective tissues ,  blood ,  lymphatics ,  bone ,  and cartilage [ xao ]  .
subdivision of skeleton that includes all dermal bones in the cranial skeleton [ zfa , modified ]  .
contributes to development of the cartilage of the larynx ,  laryngeal ,  pharyngeal ,  and soft palate muscles ,  superior parathyroid gland ,  and c - cells of the thymus
the 6th pharyngeal arch .contributes to the development of the sternocleidomastoid and trapezius muscles
the vessels formed within the first pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the fourth pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the sixth pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the trachea is the portion of the airway that attaches to the bronchi as it branches  [ go:dph ]  .
upper portion of the skull that excludes the mandible  ( when present in the organism )  .
anatomical structure that is part of the head consisting entirely of cranium and mandible [ wp ]  .
an organ involved in reproduction
any sense organ that functions in  ( some )  detection of chemical stimulus involved in sensory perception of taste  ( go:0050912 )  .
one of the two embryological structures that give rise to the kidney  ( the other is the ureteric bud )  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a foregut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a midgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a hindgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a eye  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subdivision of the skeleton that corresponds to the lower part of the mouth .
an endothelium that is part of a trachea .
a gland that is part of a foregut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
racemose mucous glands beneath the mucous membrane of the pharynx .
a gland that is part of a integumental system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood island that is part of a mesoderm .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing camera - type eye .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of an anal canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the submucous layer of the wall of the rectum .
a submucosa that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a spatially aggregated collection of nerve cell bodies in the pns ,  consisting of one or more subpopulations that share cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections .
a ganglion that is part of a central nervous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of an anal canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a oral opening  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a layer of epithelial cells on the surface of the mucosa .
an epithelium that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a midgut .
an epithelium that is part of a hindgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an unilaminar epithelium that surrounds a pelvic appendage bud .
an unilaminar epithelium that surrounds a pectoral appendage bud .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any of the striated muscles that move the eye and include: superior rectus ,  inferior rectus ,  medial rectus ,  lateral rectus ,  superior oblique ,  inferior oblique ,  retractor bulbi
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a trachea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage element that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a digestive tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a pelvic appendage bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a pectoral appendage bud .
an adipose tissue that is part of a dermis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any nerve that innervates the iris .
a nerve that is part of the trunk region of the body  ( not to be confused with a nerve trunk )  .
a nerve that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is located in a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a facial skeleton  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a hindlimb region .
the ureteral branches of renal artery are small branches which supply the ureter .
an artery that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the iinferior labial artery  ( inferior labial branch of facial artery )  arises near the angle of the mouth ;  it passes upward and forward beneath the triangularis and ,  penetrating the orbicularis oris ,  runs in a tortuous course along the edge of the lower lip between this muscle and the mucous membrane .
an artery that is part of a thoracic cavity [ cjm ]  .
a vein that is part of a ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the inferior labial vein is the vein receiving blood from the lower lip .
a vein that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of capillary that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a venule that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arteriole that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a heart  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a cornea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a retina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a trachea .
a blood vessel that is part of the arterial system .
a blood vessel that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a capillary that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a capillary that is part of a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gray matter that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a trachea .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a dermis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the ring - shaped cartilaginous structures that support the trachea
a skin gland that is part of a camera - type eye  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the dense connective tissue which contains predominantly elastic fibers and is found in the tunica media of the aorta wall .
the type of heart connective tissue found in the endocardial layer that consists mainly of elastic fibers .
an elastic tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a circulatory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
elastic tissue layer that lines a blood vessel layer .
elastic tissue that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a trachea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the middle layer of the aorta wall ,  containing the smooth muscle layer and elastic fibers .
the innermost layer of the aorta ,  containing the endothelium and an inner elastic membrane .
an arterial blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arterial blood vessel that is part of a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any joint that is part of a  ( free )  limb .
any muscle organ that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a forelimb .
any muscle organ that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the abdomen proper  ( excluding the pelvic cavity )  .
in anatomy ,  in the occipital bone ,  the foramen magnum is one of the several oval or circular apertures in the base of the skull ,  through which the medulla oblongata  ( an extension of the spinal cord )  enters and exits the skull vault .
the tissues that surround the organs that are present within the abdominal cavity .
a vein arising from the splenic trabecular vein in the hilum of the spleen that drains into the portal vein .
portion of tissue in the nervous system which consists of neurons and glial cells ,  and may also contain parts of the vasculature .
the major nerves supplying sympathetic innervation to the abdomen ,  including the greater ,  lesser ,  and lowest  ( or smallest )  splanchnic nerves that are formed by preganglionic fibers from the spinal cord which pass through the paravertebral ganglia and then to the celiac ganglia and plexuses and the lumbar splanchnic nerves carry fibers which pass through the lumbar paravertebral ganglia to the mesenteric and hypogastric ganglia .
a branch of the vagus nerve that supplies motor function and sensation to the larynx  ( voice box )  .
a mucous membrane that lines the mouth .
a nerve that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle tissue that is part of the urethra .
any muscle organ that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a skin of body that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a limb joint that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a limb joint that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a neural tube .
in medicine ,  gonadal vein refers to the blood vessel that carrying blood away from the gonad  ( testis ,  ovary )  toward the heart .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a midbrain .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a hindbrain .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a spinal cord .
a neural plate that develops_from a future spinal cord .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing gonad  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a ganglion .
an anatomical cavity that has the potential to develop into a coelemic cavity lumen .
the part of the coelom in the embryo between the somatopleuric and splanchnopleuric mesoderm ;  the principal body cavities of the trunk  ( thoracic ,  abdominal ,  and pelvic )  arise from this embryonic part of the coelom
one of the skeletal muscles of the head and neck ,  spine ,  and ribs .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue in the trunk .
the part of the retina that contains neurons and photoreceptor cells [ go ]  .
epithelial tubes transport gases ,  liquids and cells from one site to another and form the basic structure of many organs and tissues ,  with tube shape and organization varying from the single - celled excretory organ in caenorhabditis elegans to the branching trees of the mammalian kidney and insect tracheal system .
any endothelium that has the quality of being cylindrical  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
kidney mesenchyme is the tissue made up of loosely connected mesenchymal cells in the kidney [ go ]  .
a blood vessel that carries blood from the capillaries toward the heart
a duct that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that lines the lumen of the digestive tract .
a cartilage element of chondrocranium .
a cartilage element that is part of the cranial skeleton .
any of the organized aggregations of cells that function as secretory or excretory organs and are associated with reproduction .
the sensory system for the sense of touch and pain .
the slender connective tissue fiber in the extracellular matrix of skin tissue that is composed of microfibrils and amorphous elastin and is characterized by great elasticity
the connection between the embryo proper and extraembryonic tissues
a transitional population of migrating mesenchymal cells that derive from somites and that will become dermal cells .
the single layer of epithelial cells that lines the early neural tube and develops into the nervous system and into the neural crest cells
the layer of undifferentiated ,  proliferating cells that line the neural tube lumen that is the immediate transformation of the germinal neuroepithelium
the layer of glia and differentiating neurons that forms as a second layer around the germinal neuroepithium ;  as this develops it comes to lie between the ventricular and marginal layers and includes the basal and alar plates .
the outermost layer of the neural tube that consists of axons from the developing mantle layer and will form the white matter
the region of the mantle layer of the neural tube that lies ventral to the sulcus limitans and contains primarily motor neurons and interneurons .
any of the veins that carries deoxygenated blood from a part of the body into the right atrium of the heart .
the subdivision of the face that includes the eye  ( eyeball plus adnexa such as eyelids )  and the orbit of the skull and associated parts of the face such as the eyebrows ,  if present
any tube ,  opening or passage that connects two distinct anatomical spaces .
a vasculature that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the endoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the ectoderm .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with the production and excretion of urine and those concerned with reproduction .
the optic vesicle is the evagination of neurectoderm that precedes formation of the optic cup [ go ]  .
the first recognizable structure derived from the heart field
a specific region of the lateral mesoderm that will form the primary beating heart tube .
an epithelial tube that will give rise to the mature heart .
the outflow tract septum is a partition in the outflow tract
the outflow tract is the portion of the heart through which blood flows into the arteries
a cardiac chamber surrounds an enclosed cavity within the heart
the external genitalia are the outer sex organs ,  such as the penis or vulva in mammals
organ that is part of the hematopoietic system .
the nonstriated ,  involuntary muscle tissue located in the wall of the aorta
a portions of the gut that is derived from endoderm .
a nerve that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the smooth muscle tissue surrounding the urothelium of the kidney pelvis
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an anal region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an arteriole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
smooth muscle found within ,  and composing the majority of the wall of blood vessels .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of the dorsal region of an animal .
any muscle organ that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle that is part of the eye region .
anatomical cluster that consists of all the skeletal elements  ( eg . ,  bone ,  cartilage ,  and teeth )  of the body .
the bilaminar epithelium formed from the myotome and dermatome .
a cone - like structure that is formed when myocardial progenitor cells of the heart field fuse at the midline .
a blood vessel smooth muscle that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the primitive streak is a structure that forms during the early stages of avian ,  reptilian and mammalian embryonic development [ wp ]  .
an outgrowth on the lateral trunk of the embryo that develops into a limb .
the embryonic structure that gives rise to the corneal ectoderm
multilayered ectodermal region at the distal tip of a limb or fin bud necessary for the proper development of the underlying mesenchyme [ mp , modified ]  .
an outgrowth on the lateral trunk of the embryo that develops into a limb or paired fin .
the first of the series of pharyngeal arches that develop into jaw bones or their homologs ,  and their associated nerves and arteries
one of a series of paired embryological vascular structures formed within a pharyngeal arch ;  in the adult ,  some of these vessels give rise to the great vessels [ mp ] 
a transparent homogeneous acellular layer ,  6 to 9 um thick ,  lying between the basal lamina of the outer layer of stratified epithelium and the substantia propria of the cornea ;  it is considered to be a basement membrane .
a bone that is part of an appendage  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the collection of all skeletal elements in an individual limb .
an embryo at the neurula stage .
sum of all sensory systems in an organism .
any collection of skeletal muscles that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a body wall  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pelvic girdle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subdivision of the musculature of the body in the pectoral girdle region .
any collection of muscles that is part of a face .
the collection of muscles that are part of the larynx .
any collection of muscles that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a muscle organ  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a musculoskeletal system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
anatomical system that has as its parts the heart and blood vessels .
a vascular network consisting of blood vessels .
a kidney that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a kidney that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an eye that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an eye that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the part of the arterial system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart to the body ,  and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart .
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all arteries .
an artery of the systemic circulation ,  which is the part of the cardiovascular system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart ,  to the body ,  and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart .
the part of the venous system that drains the general body tissues [ kardong ] 
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all venous vessels .
an endothelium that lines the blood vasculature .
an anatomical wall that is part of an aorta ,  enclosing the luminal space .
the outermost layer of the aorta wall ,  containing connective tissue and collagen and elastic fibers
the raphe nuclei are thin plates of cells in and immediately adjacent to the sagittal plane .
the costocervical trunk arises from the upper and back part of the subclavian artery ,  behind the scalenus anterior on the right side ,  and medial to that muscle on the left side .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an arterial system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a venous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a vena cava  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an arterial system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a venous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel endothelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an appendage that is part of an appendage girdle complex .
paired appendage that consists of the posterior appendicular skeleton and associated soft and hard tissues ,  but excludes the pelvic girdle and its associated soft and hard tissues .
paired appendage that consists of the anterior appendicular skeleton and associated soft and hard tissues ,  but excludes the pectoral girdle and its associated soft and hard tissues .
the jugular veins are veins that bring deoxygenated blood from the head back to the heart via the superior vena cava .
the embryo and its adnexa  ( appendages or adjunct parts )  or associated membranes  ( i .e .
a transverse unitary subdivision of the neural tube that shares a common dorsoventral structure  ( floor ,  basal ,  alar ,  and roof plates )  ,  but each having differential molecular identities and fates ;  they comprise the secondary prosencephalon ,  diencephalon  ( prosomeres )  ,  the midbrain  ( mesomeres )  ,  and the hindbrain  ( rhombomeres )  .
any segmental subdivision of a nervous system .
an organ subunit that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
organism at the gastrula stage .
a specialized form of connective tissue in which the extracellular matrix is firm ,  providing the tissue with resilience ,  and / or mineralized and that functions in mechanical and structural support .
dermis - derived entity that is made of skeletal tissue .
a gland that is part of an anal canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the primitive cartilagionous skeletal structure of the fetal skull that grows to envelop the rapidly growing embyonic brain .
organ consisting of skeletal tissue .
a bone that is part of a cranium .
any bone that is part of the lower jaw skeleton .
anatomical system that consists of all the joints of the body .
a submucosa that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mucous membrane lining the respiratory tract
a mucosa that is part of a gastrointestinal system .
a mucous gland that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucous gland that is part of the skin .
any of the tissue layers that comprise a blood vessel .
the pseudostratified ciliated epithelium that lines much of the conducting portion of the airway ,  including part of the nasal cavity and larynx ,  the trachea ,  and bronchi
an epithelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lacrimal gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the cellular avascular layer of the kidney luminar surfaces
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of an anal region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of artery that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of vein that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thin layer of flat cells that line the aorta and form a barrier between circulating blood in the lumen and the rest of the vessel wall
an endothelium that is part of the cardiovascular system .
a connective tissue that surrounds a skeletal muscle tissue .
a gland that is part of a eye .
a vasculature that is part of a retina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
layer of lateral plate mesoderm that forms the circulatory system and future gut wall  -  overlies endoderm [ wp ]  .
a structure created during embryogenesis when the lateral mesoderm splits into two layers  -  the inner  ( or splanchnic )  layer adheres to the endoderm ,  and with it forms the splanchnopleure [ wp ]  .
a structure created during embryogenesis when the lateral mesoderm splits into two layers  -  the outer  ( or somatic )  layer becomes applied to the inner surface of the ectoderm ,  and with it forms the somatopleure .
a portion of the urogenital ridge which is the source of much of the urinary system [ wp ]  .
one of of the pair of folds derived from the cloacal folds which give rise to a portion of the external genitalia ;  in male embryos they close over the urethral plate and fuse to form the spongy  ( penile )  urethra and ventral aspect of the penis ,  not including the glans ;  failure of fusion of the urethral folds leads to hypospadias ;  in female embryos they fuse only anterior to the anus and form the labia minora [ mp ]  .
the central region of trunk mesoderm .
the mass of tissue made up of mesenchymal cells in the lung .
the fetal urogenital sinus  ( from which the prostate derives )  is a simple cylinder of stratified basal epithelium ,  surrounded by mesenchyme and positioned between the embryonic bladder and pelvic urethra
a neuron projection bundle that connects the retina or its analog in the eye with the brain .
anatomical cluster that connects two or more adjacent skeletal elements or hardened body parts .
a portion of the gut that is derived from ectoderm .
the region of the digestive tract extending from the beginning of the intestines to the anus [ go  -  gut definition ]  .
an epithelium surrounding a gonad .
a proximal - distal subdivision of the digestive tract .
a part of a wall of an organ that forms a layer .
the tissue underlying the tunica mucosa of the pharynx .
a submucosa that is part of a sigmoid colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the submucous layer of the wall of the urinary bladder .
a mucosa that is part of a ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a sigmoid colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a right ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a left ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a renal pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a lower lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a hemolymphoid system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the median dorsal longitudinal groove formed in the embryo by the neural plate after the appearance of the neural folds .
one of the two elevated edges of the neural groove [ go , mp ]  .
a solid rod of neurectoderm derived from the neural keel .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a hindbrain and adjacent_to a spinal cord .
the portion of the ureteric bud tube that contributes to the morphogenesis of the metanephros [ go ]  .
the portion of the ureteric bud that contributes to the morphogenesis of the ureter .
a hole in a tube [ go ]  .
an ectodermal placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that is the primordium of many structures derived from the ectoderm [ go ] 
muscle structures are contractile cells ,  tissues or organs that are found in multicellular organisms [ go ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a mesonephros  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a metanephric tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the metanephros [ go ]  .
an epithelium is a tissue that covers the internal or external surfaces of an anatomical structure [ go ]  .
any smooth muscle tissue that is part of a metanephros .
the metanephric capsule is the tough fibrous layer surrounding the metanephros ,  covered in a thick layer of perinephric adipose tissue .
a bud is a protrusion that forms from an epithelial sheet by localized folding .
any anatomical structure that is part of the reproductive system .
an epithelial sheet bent on a linear axis .
a structure consisting of multiple cell components but which is not itself a cell and does not have  ( complete )  cells as a part .
an organ or element that is in the abdomen .
an organ or element that is part of the adbominal segment of the organism .
an organ or element that part of the dorsum of the organism .
an organ or element that part of the trunk region .
an organ or element that is in the thoracic cavity .
an organ or element that is part of the pelvic region .
an organ that part of the thoracic segment region .
a vein that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a larynx submucosa  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an external ectoderm that is part of a optic eminence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ectoderm that is part of a optic eminence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a renal pelvis that is part of a metanephros .
a gland that is part of a stomodeum .
portion of primordial embryonic connective tissue of the developing head ,  consisting of mesenchymal cells supported in interlaminar jelly ,  that derive mostly from the mesoderm and contribute to head connective tissue ,  bone and musculature in conjunction with cranial neural crest cells .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing trunk .
the posterior part of the developing vertebrate hindbrain or the corresponding part of the adult brain composed of the medulla oblongata and a portion of the fourth ventricle ;  as well as the glossopharyngeal nerve  ( cn ix )  ,  vagus nerve  ( cn x )  ,  accessory nerve  ( cn xi )  ,  hypoglossal nerve  ( cn xii )  ,  and a portion of the vestibulocochlear nerve  ( cn viii )  .
a portion of tissue that is part of an embryo .
portion of tissue that is contiguous with the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells that will not contribute to the embryo .
the endothelial lining of the endocardium .
an pulmonary artery endothelium is an epithelium that lines the pulmonary artery [ go ]  .
mesonephric mesenchyme is the tissue made up of loosely connected mesenchymal cells in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
an outflow tract that is part of a aorta .
the group of sensory neuron cell bodies associated with the vagus nerve
an array of photoreceptors and any supporting cells found in an eye .
a transparent structure that is part of a visual sense organ ,  the function of which is to direct or focus light onto a photoreceptor array .
one of: the common carotid artery ,  or its branches ,  the external and internal carotid arteries .
the part of the digestive system that excludes the hepatobiliary system .
a limb bud that develops into a forelimb .
a limb bud that develops into a hindlimb .
a limb bud that develops into a forelimb or pectoral fin .
a limb bud that develops into a hindlimb or pelvic fin .
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a pectoral appendage bud .
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a pelvic appendage bud .
portion of tissue that is the inner layer of the optic cup and will become the neural retina .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the lens .
portion of tissue that is part of the eye and gives rise to the mature ,  fully layered cornea .
vagal neural crest is adjacent to the first seven somites gives rise to both ganglionic and ectomesenchymal derivatives [ zfa ]  .
the dilated structure that is lined by endothelial cells and located at the arterial pole of the heart just above  ( distal to )  the truncus arteriosus in mammalian embryos ;  it is the primordial vascular channel from which the aortic arches  ( and eventually the dorsal aortae )  arise ;  the aortic sac is homologous to the ventral aorta of gill - bearing vertebrates
the jugular foramen is a large aperture in the base of the skull .
a longitudinal groove in the neural tube wall that divides the neural tube into dorsal  ( alar )  and ventral  ( basal )  halves  ( dorsal receives input from sensory neurons ,  ventral effects motor functions )  ;  stretches from the mesencephalon caudad [ tmd ]  .
cranial neural crest which gives rise to the glossopharyngeal ganglion .
portion of tissue on the side of the lumen of the neural tube .
multi - tissue structure that arises from the heart rudiment and will become the heart tube .
a neural tube lateral wall that is part of a rhombomere .
cranial neural crest which gives rise to the trigeminal ganglion .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the immature gonad .
somite located in the head region ,  caudal to the otic vesicle
a pair of lateral diverticula just over the liver rudiment representing the primordia of the lungs ,  formed by the floor of the foregut just anterior to the liver diverticulum .
a somite that is part of a trunk .
any of the three veins including the common ,  external and internal iliac veins .
a layer of cuboidal epithelial cells bounded anteriorly by the capsule of the lens and posteriorly by the lens cortex .
arteries which arise from the abdominal aorta and distribute to most of the intestines .
a vein that returns blood from the intestines .
an epithelium that is part of a anterior chamber of eyeball .
an epithelium that is part of a lens vesicle .
an ectoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
an endoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
an endothelium that is part of a right lung .
an endothelium that is part of a left lung .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a lens vesicle .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
mesenchyme that is part of a optic eminence .
a venous system that is part of a hindbrain .
a mesoderm that has the potential to develop into a pronephros .
a sensory system that is capable of olfacttion  ( the sensory perception of smell )  .
a limb / fin field that has the potential to develop into a pectoral appendage bud mesenchyme .
a limb / fin field that has the potential to develop into a pelvic appendage bud mesenchyme .
a ring of cells capable of forming a limb or paired fin [ gilbert , modified ]  .
a ring of cells capable of forming a limb .
the outermost layer of a blood vessel ,  composed mainly of fibrous tissue .
a tunica intima that is part of a artery .
an outermost connective tissue covering of an organ ,  vessel ,  or other structure [ wp ]  .
anatomical space that is an opening in a bone ,  usually for passage of blood vessels or nerves .
the metanephros develops from the most caudal part of the nephrogenic cord that is itself derived from the intermediate plate mesoderm .
the initial renal anlage that develops from the most rostral part of the nephrogenic cord is termed the pronephros .
a acellular anatomical structure that is the bounding layer of a anatomical structure .
an acellular membrane that is part of the epithelium ,  lies adjacent to the epithelial cells ,  and is the fusion of the the basal lamina and the reticular lamina .
nephric tubules  ( nephrons )  form embryonically along the nephric ridge .
any portion of the aorta including the ascending and descending aorta ,  and aortic arch or a portion of the aortic orifice of the left ventricle .
the dorsal aorta is a blood vessel in a single - pass circulatory system that carries oxygenated blood from the gills to the rest of the body .
a delimited region of dense mesenchyme within looser mesenchyme .
cell condensation that is an aggregation of mesenchymal cells that are committed to differentiate into chondroblasts and chondrocytes .
a delimited region of dense mesenchyme within looser mesenchyme whose cells are committed to become chondroblasts .
the paired ventral prominences formed by bifurcation of the first pharyngeal arches in the embryo ;  the two prominences unite ventrally and fuse to form the mandible and lower lip
anatomical cluster that is located in the posterior region of the cranium and forms the margin of the foramen magnum and occipital condyles .
organ with organ cavity ,  which has as parts a serous membrane and a serous cavity  .
epithelium that derives from the endoderm .
subdivision of skeleton which consists of cranial skeleton ,  set of all vertebrae ,  set of all ribs and sternum [ fma ,  modified ]  .
the laminar structure of the heart
any of the arteries or veins that supply blood to the heart or return blood from the heart muscles to the circulation
anatomical structure embedded in or located in the integument that is part of the integumental system .
the mesonephric capsule is the tough fibrous layer surrounding the mesonephros ,  covered in a thick layer of perinephric adipose tissue .
the spiral septum that separates the truncus arteriosus into a ventral pulmonary trunk and the dorsal aorta [ mp ]  .
the thin bilaminar membrane derived from the prechordal plate that is devoid of mesoderm and formed by the apposition of the stomodeal ectoderm with the foregut endoderm ;  after the embryonic head fold has evolved it lies at the caudal limit of the stomodeum ,  forming a septum between the primitive mouth and pharynx ;  the membrane eventually disappears ,  and thus a communication is established between the mouth and the future pharynx .
the membrane that covers the embryonic cloaca ,  formed by the union of proctodeal  ( anal pit )  ectoderm and cloacal endoderm ,  with no intervening mesoderm ;  the urorectal septum joins the cloacal membrane and divides it into an anal membrane and a urogenital membrane ;  the point where the urorectal septum intersects the cloacal membrane is the future site of the perineal body ;  proliferation of mesoderm and ectoderm around the cloacal membrane produces primordial tissues of the external genitalia in both sexes: the genital tubercle ,  genital folds ,  and genital swellings .
an anatomical junctions that overlaps the foregut and midgut .
the embryonic precursor of the brain .
an anatomical junctions that overlaps the mouth and foregut .
the notochordal plate is the dorsal part of the notochordal process when the ventral portion breaks down .
a midline cellular cord formed from the migration of mesenchymal cells from the primitive knot
a segment of the eyeball that is filled with refractive media
body substance in a liquid or semi - solid state in the eyeball which serves to refract light .
liquid components of living organisms .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a brainstem .
an artery that connects two larger arteries .
a portion of organism substance that secreted_by a zone of skin .
a portion of organism substance that secreted_by a respiratory system .
a vasculature that is part of a kidney .
a tube in the kidney that collect and transport urine .
a tube that is part of a excretory system .
the pharynx is the part of the digestive system immediately posterior to the mouth [ go ]  .
tunica media of artery which is continuous with the myocardium of right ventricle .
the pectinate line  ( anocutaneous line ,  dentate line ,  anorectal junction )  is a line which divides the upper 2 / 3rds and lower 1 / 3rd of the anal canal .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into endoderm .
portion of embryonic tissue determined by fate mapping to become a structure .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into ectoderm .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into mesoderm .
a region of muscle in many organs in the vertebrate body ,  adjacent to the submucosa membrane .
on the interior surface of the temporal bone ,  behind the rough surface of the apex ,  is the large circular aperture of the carotid canal ,  which ascends at first vertically ,  and then ,  making a bend ,  runs horizontally forward and medialward .
a valve that is part of a vein .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a epithelium .
the edge of the cornea where it joins the sclera ;  the limbus is a common site for the occurrence of corneal epithelial neoplasm
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a trachea .
a furrow or an incomplete tube .
a muscular coat that is part of a ureter .
the distalmost portion of the digestive tract ,  derived from the hindgut ,  and terminating with the anus .
a vasculature that is part of a organ .
a head mesenchyme that develops_from a mesoderm .
mesenchyme that is part of a mandibular prominence .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a digestive tract .
an epithelium that is part of a lip .
an epithelium characterised by its most superficial layer consisting of squamous epithelial cells .
simple columnar epithelium made up of cells specialized to serve as sensory cells for the reception of external stimuli ,  as the sensory cells of the cochlea ,  vestibule ,  nasal mucosa ,  and tongue .
the vascular cord is the primordial vasculature that will develop into blood vessels by the process of tubulogenesis [ go ]  .
a capillary that is part of the coronary system .
a two dimensional anatomical structure that is the boundary between an anatomical structure and an anatomical substance ,  an anatomical space or the organism's environment .
the splanchnic mesoderm in the cardiogenic region where the heart develops ;  it gives rise to endocardial heart tubes that fuse to form the primordial cardiac tube ,  the heart primordium [ web ]  .
organism at the cleavage stage .
cranial neural crest that migrates into the mandibular arch .
a hollow ,  muscular organ ,  which ,  by contracting rhythmically ,  keeps up the circulation of the blood or analogs [ go , modified ]  .
ganglion which is located in the trunk .
an intermediate stage  ( between the neural plate and neural rod )  during the early segmentation period in the morphogenesis of the central nervous system primordium ;  the keel is roughly triangular shaped in cross section .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a midgut .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a hindgut .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a anal canal .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a colon .
the structure from the trachea ,  bronchi ,  and bronchioles that forms the airways that supply air to the lungs .
mesenchyme that develops_from a cranial neural crest .
mesenchyme that develops_from a trunk neural crest .
a tunica media that is part of a artery .
a tunica adventitia that is part of a artery .
a tunica adventitia that is part of a vein .
a tunica intima that is part of a vein .
a tunica media that is part of a vein .
gray matter of the central nervous system which is a collection of clustered nuclei .
any of the nuclei that comprise the superior olivary complex  ( superior olive )  .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a trachea .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pectoral appendage .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pelvic appendage .
any collection of muscles that is part of an appendage .
skeletal subdivision consisting of the anterior appendicular limb skeleton ,  excluding the pectoral girdle .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pelvic appendage region .
the rhombencephalon  ( or hindbrain )  is a developmental categorization of portions of the central nervous system in vertebrates .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a endocardium .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the midbrain hindbrain boundary .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a presomitic mesoderm .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a neural plate .
the part of the blastula that has the potential to develop into a paraxial mesoderm .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a pronephric mesoderm .
a blood vessel that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a blood vessel that is part of a limb / fin .
a vasculature that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a vasculature that is part of a chordate pharynx .
a vasculature that is part of a limb / fin .
the epidermis is the entire outer epithelial layer of an animal ,  it may be a single layer that produces an extracellular material  ( e .g .
portion of the dermis characterized by a well - arranged ,  plywood - like ,  collagenous network .
outermost layer of cells surrounding the embryo .
a cartilage tissue that is part of a paired limb or fin .
a cartilage tissue that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a cartilage tissue that is part of a pelvic appendage .
a nucleus of brain that spans a midbrain tegmentum .
the space within an epithelial sphere .
an epithelial tube that is open at one end only .
an epithelial tube open at both ends that allows fluid flow .
a closed epithelium with a lumen .
mesenchyme with little extracellular matrix .
mesenchymal cells that are migrating .
simple columnar epithelium in which the luminal side of the cells bears cilia .
epithelium bearing vibratile cilia on the free surface .
a thin ,  loose vascular connective tissue that makes up the membranes surrounding joints and the sheaths protecting tendons  ( particularly flexor tendons in the hands and feet )  where they pass over bony prominences .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a synovial joint .
epithelial layer of the retina ,  ciliary body ,  or iris composed of cells containing pigment granules .
a neural nucleus that is part of a medulla oblongata .
the sensory trigeminal nerve nuclei are the largest of the cranial nerve nuclei ,  and extend through the whole of the midbrain ,  pons and medulla .
an anatomical structure that connects two structures
region of the embryo into the area in which the kidney rudiment will develop .
anlagen are populations of contiguous cells ,  typically arranged in one plane ,  that are morphologically indistinct ,  but that already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue .
the minute opening of a taste bud on the surface of the oral mucosa through which the gustatory hairs of the specialised neuroepithelial gustatory cells project .
a bone that is part of a reproductive organ .
a gland that is part of a epidermis .
any bodily fluid that has passed through a membrane such as the capillary wall ,  as a result of unbalanced hydrostatic and osmotic forces
any fluid produced by a serous gland .
anatomical system that consists of all blood and lymph vessels .
adipose tissue that is located in the abdominal region .
the anteriormost subdivision of the body that includes the head ,  jaws ,  pharyngeal region and the neck  ( if present )  .
an organism subdivision that encompasses the region containing the pectoral or pelvic girdle .
a bone that is part of a appendage girdle region .
a bone that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
a bone element or fused bone that is part of pelvic girdle .
a subdivision of a limb or fin skeleton consisting of bones which connects the upper limb or fin to the axial skeleton on each side .
skeletal subdivision consisting of a set of bones linking the axial series to the hindlimb zeugopodium and offering anchoring areas for hindlimb and caudal musculature .
bone element that arises as a result of intramembranous ossification .
skeletal element that is composed of cartilage tissue and may be permanent or transient .
connective tissue ,  which consists of fibroblasts ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a regular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
connective tissue that is dominated by collagen fibres organized into a definitive pattern  ( e .g . ,  parallel to one another )  ,  with comparatively fewer cells  ( mostly fibroblasts )  .
a bone that is part of a craniocervical region .
a skeletal joint that is part of a appendage girdle region .
a anatomical surface that is part of a cartilage element .
a bone that is hollow or contains many air cells ,  such as the mastoid process of the temporal bone [ tmd ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the pelvis .
musculature system of the pharyngeal and head regions .
an endothelium that is part of a heart  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a transient embryonic complex that comprises the pharyngeal arches ,  bulges of tissues of mesoderm and neural crest derivation through which pass nerves and pharyngeal arch arteries .
a head that is part of a embryo .
a brain that develops_from a neural tube .
any skeletal muscle organ in the hypodermis  /  superficial fascia
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all pulmonary arteries and all pulmonary veins .
subdivision of endoskeleton derived from pharyngeal arches
skeletal element that forms superficially in the organism ,  usually in association with the ectoderm [ vsao ]  .
bone element that is adjacent to the notochord .
a bone that is part of a forelimb region .
system pertaining to blood vessels in the brain .
any portion of tissue that surrounds a urethra .
an artery that supplies blood to the urinary bladder .
vein that drains left lung and returns blood to the heart .
vein that drains right lung and returns blood to the heart .
epibranchial placode between geniculate and nodose .
cranial ganglion which develops from an epibranchial placode .
a vein that is part of a craniocervical region .
sum total of mesenchyme in the embryo .
the limb epidermis is the outer epithelial layer of the limb ,  it is a complex stratified squamous epithelium .
a nephric duct is a tube that drains a primitive kidney [ go ]  .
an ectoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
an endoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
mesenchyme that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a portion of mesenchymal tissue associated with an individual pharyngeal arch .
an epithelium that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hindgut .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing trachea .
an endoderm that is part of a anal region .
an endoderm that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a submucosa that is part of a intestine .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future spinal cord .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future medulla oblongata .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future metencephalon .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future myelencephalon .
mesenchyme that is part of a 1st arch mandibular component .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing left lung .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing right lung .
a neural plate that develops_from a presumptive midbrain .
a neural plate that develops_from a presumptive hindbrain .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a midbrain .
bilateral mesenchymal mesoderm parallel and immediately adjacent to the neural tube / notochord ;  it generates a subset of extra - ocular ,  and other head ,  muscles .
a basement membrane that is part of a bronchus .
a basement membrane that is part of a trachea .
nucleus located in the midbrain .
nucleus located within the hindbrain .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a embryonic cloaca .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a rectum .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a stomodeum .
the primordial embryonic connective tissue of the developing limbs ,  autopods and digits ,  consisting of mesenchymal cells supported in interlaminar jelly ,  that derive mostly from the mesoderm and contribute to limb connective tissue ,  bone and musculature in conjunction with myotome cells .
the embryonic connective tissue made up of loosely aggregated mesenchymal cells ,  supported by interlaminar jelly ,  that gives rise to the developing cardiac structures
a ganglion that is part of a abdominal segment of trunk .
the many - lobed berry cluster of cells that is the terminous of a gland where the secretion is produced is acinar in form .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a primitive urogenital sinus .
mesenchyme that surrounds primitive urogenital sinus .
an epithelium that is part of a embryonic cloaca .
branch or outpocketing of the digestive tract .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing face .
an anatomical wall that is part of a ureter .
the smooth muscle tissue surrounding the epithelium of the ureter
a multicellular organism that existence_starts_with a post - embryonic stage .
cranial ectodermal placode with potential to develop into a component of the nervous system ,  such as nerves or ganglia .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a urinary bladder .
the junction between the ureter and the renal pelvis of the kidney
the valve - like structure found at the site of entry of the ureter into the urinary bladder ,  normally displays an oblique angulation through the detrusor to avoid reflux of urine up the ureters and the kidney
an anatomical structure that has more than one cell as a part .
a small cluster of cells of various types which form a discrete structure ,  largely delimited by a morphological boundary and whose components work together to make the whole structure capable of a specific function .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 6 .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 1 .
the sum total of mesenchymal tissue in the pharyngeal arch region .
gland of the epithelium lining the oral cavity .
an epithelium consisting of cuboidal epithelial cells .
mesenchyme that has the potential to develop into a dermis .
a developing anatomical structure that has the potential to develop into a metencephalon .
a developing anatomical structure that has the potential to develop into a myelencephalon .
a gray matter that has the potential to develop into a superior salivatory nucleus .
a mucous secretion that is produced by glands in the epidermis .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a blood vessel .
a roughly circular bulge in a surface .
the paired arterial structures of the embryo that supplies each developing somite via efferent segmental arteries ;  the dorsal aortae articulate with the umbilical arteries ,  which return mixed blood to the villi of the chorion for reoxygenation
one of the laterally paired arteries that supply the gonads .
an anatomical boundary that corresponds to some physical discontinuity .
apparatus located between the lungs and the buccal cavity .
the core globe - shaped component of the camera - type eye .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch mandibular mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 4th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 6th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a rhombencephalon neural crest .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch mesenchyme .
portion of tissue that is dorsolateral to the floor plate and part of the midbrain .
portion of neural tube that gives rise to the midbrain .
an endothelium that is part of a sclera .
mesenchyme surrounding the developing optic cup which develops into the sclera .
an epithelium that is part of a extraembryonic structure .
developing anatomical structure that develops into the eyeball and associated structures .
an anatomical structure that develops from the neural crest .
an anatomical structure that has some part that develops from the neural crest .
a skeletal element that is part of a orbital region .
skeletal subdivision of the head including skull  ( cranium plus mandible )  ,  pharyngeal and / or hyoid apparatus .
mesenchyme that is part of a limb bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a limb / fin bud .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a mandibular process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a mandibular process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch mandibular mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 4th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 6th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a entire pharyngeal arch associated mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a entire pharyngeal arch associated mesenchyme .
skeletal subdivision that undergoes indirect development and includes elements that develop as a replacement or substitution of other elements or tissues .
a skeletal element that has the potential to participate in endochondral ossification ,  and may participate in intramembranous ossification .
skeletal subdivision that undergoes direct development and includes elements that either develop in association with the basement membrane of the ectoderm or are homologous with such elements ;  includes dermatocranium ,  components of the appendicular skeleton ,  teeth and tooth - like elements of the oropharynx ,  and integumentary elements .
epithelium composed of cells that develops from the ectoderm [ fma , modified ]  .
mesenchyme that develops_from a somatopleure .
mesenchyme that develops_from a splanchnopleure .
an organ cavity that is part of a urethra .
the integrated unit  ( of the eye )  that consists of the conjunctiva ,  the corneal surface ,  and the ocular mucosal adnexa including the lid margins and the meibomian gland openings ,  the lacrimal glands and the lacrimal drainage system ,  all which are critical to maintain ocular surface integrity and provide protection from external antigens and pathogenic microorganisms .
an orifice that is part of a lower urinary tract .
the ciliary processes are formed by the inward folding of the various layers of the choroid ,  i .e .
a bone that is shaped as a broad flat plate and composed of two thin layers of compact tissue enclosing between them a variable quantity of cancellous tissue ,  which is the location of red bone marrow .
a simple columnar epithelium that looks stratified but is not ,  because its cells are arranged with their nuclei at different levels .
epithelium composed of a single layer of cells ,  appearing as layered because the column - shaped cells vary in height so the nuclei are at different levels .
skeletal element that forms as a replacement or substitution of another element or tissue .
a vessel of the microcirculature ,  lying between the arterioles and venules ;  includes capillaries  ( blood and lymphatic )  ,  metarterioles and arteriovenous anastomoses .
an organ cavity that surrounded_by a bone .
an organism subdivision that includes both an appendage and its associated girdle region .
appendage girdle complex that when present ,  encompasses the pectoral appendicular skeleton and the pectoral girdle .
appendage girdle complex that when present ,  encompasses the pelvic appendicular skeleton and the pelvic girdle .
skeletal subdivision that is a segment of the limb skeleton .
the subdivision of the skeleton of either the pectoral or pelvic girdle .
a bone that is part of an appendage girdle complex  ( i .e .
a bone that is part of a pectoral complex .
a bone that is part of a pelvic complex .
a skeletal element that is part of a limb and composed of cartilage tissue .
a skeletal element that is part of a limb and composed of pre - cartilage tissue .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a forelimb bone .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a forelimb bone .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a hindlimb bone .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a hindlimb bone .
muscles of the pelvic girdle ,  hindlimb or pelvic fin .
a muscle of a pectoral girdle ,  pectoral fin or anterior limb .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements  ( i .e .
any muscle organ that is part of either the head or the neck .
a cartilage element that is part of a splanchnocranium .
a skeleton of pelvic girdle that is part of a right pelvic girdle region .
a skeleton of pelvic girdle that is part of a left pelvic girdle region .
a pelvic girdle region that is in the right side of a multicellular organism .
a pelvic girdle region that is in the left side of a multicellular organism .
the lacrimal nerve is the smallest of the three branches of the ophthalmic division of the trigeminal nerve .
a synovial joint that is part of a pelvic girdle region .
a synovial joint that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
a skeletal joint that connects a laryngeal cartilage .
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by ligaments or fibrocartilage without an intervening synovial cavity .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the axial skeleton plus associated joints .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the postcranial axial skeleton plus associated joints .
any synovial joint that is part of a  ( free )  limb .
subdivision of urinary system which consists of the kidney and the ureters .
gland of the lamina epithelialis mucosae which perforate the lamina muscularis ,  with their adenomeres located in the submucosal connective tissue .
subdivision of skull that consists of the facial bones .
the skull can be divided into two: the neurocranium and the facial skeleton
a bone that is part of a neurocranium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle layer that is part of a large intestine .
a multi cell part structure that is part of a central nervous system .
a subdivision of an anatomical system .
synovial sac which surrounds parts of one or more tendons .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the appendicular skeleton plus associated joints .
the part of the trunk that is in the dorsum [ cjm ]  .
a blood vasculature that is part of a head .
a tube lumen that is part of a mesonephric duct .
the collection of all skeletal elements in an individual limb or fin .
anatomical structure that is an aggregation of similar cells from which cartilages and bones form ,  and from which chondrogenesis and osteogenesis are initiated during repair and / or regeneration .
a subdivision of the head that corresponds to the jaw skeleton ,  containing both soft tissue ,  skeleton and teeth  ( when present )  .
an epithelium that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a oral epithelium .
a major subdivision of an organism that divides an organism along its main body axis  ( typically anterio - posterior axis )  .
a cardiovascular system that is part of a conceptus .
an anatomical space that is part of a bone of lower jaw .
a cranial nerve nucleus that is associated with a vagus nerve .
a neural nucleus that is part of the spinal cord .
a nerve that is part of a head .
ectodermal placode that does not develop into a component of the nervous system .
connective tissue ,  which consists of a population of connective tissue cells ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains an irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
irregular connective tissue is an irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a dense irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
dense connective tissue is mainly composed of collagen type i .
irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a sparse irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
an acinus that is part of a lacrimal gland .
an acinus that is part of a exocrine gland .
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of aorta tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of pulmonary tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of bone tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of tendon tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
front  ( ventral )  portion of the vascular ,  pigmentary ,  or middle coat of the eye ,  including the ciliary body and the iris .
epimysium is a layer of connective tissue which ensheaths the entire muscle .
the aggregate of the coelemic cavity lumen plus the membranes that line the lumen .
the cavity within a myotome
bone that forms as a replacement of another structural tissue .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a bronchus .
anatomical system that consists of the integumental system plus all mucosae and submucosae .
a zone of skin that is part of a craniocervical region .
network of tubes that carries blood through the distensible musculomembranous organ that serves to collect and store urine excreted by the kidneys [ mp ] 
external opening or orifice of the urethra through which urine and seminal fluid  ( in males only )  leave the body ;  in males the meatus presents as a vertical slit normally positioned at the tip of glans penis ;  in females the meatus is located between the clitoris and the vagina in the vulvular vestibule of the female genitalia [ mp ]  .
the usually crescent - shaped opening of the urinary bladder into the urethra ,  placed at the anteroinferior angle  ( apex )  of the urinary bladder trigone
an artery that originates from the abdominal aorta
an epithelium that consists of columnar epithelial cells .
epithelium that derives from the mesoderm .
one of the pair of mesenchymal swellings  ( folds )  located on either side of the cloacal membrane during the indifferent stage of embryonic development ;  cranial to the cloacal membrane the folds unite to form the genital tubercle ;  caudally the folds are subdivided into urogenital folds anteriorly and anal folds posteriorly
a mucosa that is part of a urethra .
one of five swellings formed during the development of the face
an artery of the neck
the deep cervical artery  ( profunda cervicalis )  is an artery of the neck .
a bone element that is part of a jaw region .
a muscle layer that is part of an intestine .
a muscular coat that is part of a urinary bladder .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system venous blood vessel .
the sclera and cornea form the fibrous tunic of the bulb of the eye ;  the sclera is opaque ,  and constitutes the posterior five - sixths of the tunic ;  the cornea is transparent ,  and forms the anterior sixth .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a cloaca .
the opening of the cloacal chamber to the outside of the organism .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a terminal part of digestive tract .
an anatomical space with no opening to another space or to the exterior .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pectoral complex  -  i .e .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pelvic complex  -  i .e .
a gland that is part of a cloaca .
a mucosa that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a cloaca .
a submucosa that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscular coat that is part of a cloaca .
a muscular coat that is part of a colon .
a muscular coat that is part of a anal canal .
a vein that is part of a abdomen .
a vein that drains a lip .
any vein within the general circulation that transports blood back to the right atrium of the heart .
a gland that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
the secretory unit of a serous gland .
the precursor of the urethra
anatomical cavity that is the lumen of the skull and contains the brain .
a blood vessel endothelium that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the space that surrounds an organism .
anatomical space that is an opening in a bone of the skull .
an anatomical space which is the lumen of some anatomical conduit and connects two or more spaces together [ fma , modified ]  .
vascular endothelium found in blood vessels of the blood - brain - barrier .
vascular endothelium found in colon blood vessels .
musculature of the head and neck ,  spine ,  and ribs .
a principle subdivision of an organism that includes all structures along the primary axis ,  typically the anterior - posterior axis ,  from head to tail ,  including structures of the body proper where present  ( for example ,  ribs )  ,  but excluding appendages .
the region of the organism associated with the visceral organs .
a tubular passage that extends from the primitive pit into the head process during the early stages of embryonic development in mammals .
fluid contained within the notochordal canal
a organ component layer that is part of a integumental system .
a blood that is part of a artery .
a blood that is part of a vein .
a blood that is part of a capillary .
any of the organs or elements that are part of the digestive system .
great vessels is a term used to refer collectively to the large vessels that bring blood to and from the heart .
mesenchyme that develops_from the neural crest [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any member of the network of tubes that return blood from the renal tissues to the systemic circulation .
subcutaneous adipose tissue that is located in the abdominal region .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all skeletal elements in the thoracic region of the trunk .
a unilaminar epithelium that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a anal region .
the secretory unit of a mucous gland .
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive midbrain
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive spinal cord
any muscle organ that is part of a cloaca .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pelvic complex .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pectoral complex .
any muscle organ that is part of a pectoral appendage  ( forelimb or pectoral fin )  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pelvic appendage  ( hindlimb or pelvic fin )  .
a muscle organ that consists of skeletal muscle tissue ensheathed in epimysium ,  that develops from myotome and that is innervated by some somatic motor neuron .
a portion of tissue that will develop into vasculature .
a forelimb bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a hindlimb bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a limb bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a gland that is typically found in or near the orbital region ,  in or around either the medial or lateral canthi ,  and is typically associated with secretions onto the eyeball or associated ducts .
a gland that is located in or around the ocular region ,  nearer the outer canthi .
an eye consisting of multiple light - sensing organs
a region of somite adjacent to presomitic mesoderm .
epithelium located in the intersomitic region .
any structure that is placed on one side of the left - right axis of a bilaterian .
a hollow ,  muscular organ ,  which ,  by contracting rhythmically ,  contributes to the circulation of lymph ,  blood or analogs .
a basement membrane of epithelium that is part of a respiratory system .
a mesenchyme that is part of a urethra .
a valve that is part of a ureter .
a epithelium that is part of a anal canal .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a hypodermis .
a epithelium that is part of a camera - type eye .
a epithelium that is part of a foregut .
a capillary that is part of a lung .
is the sensory system for the sense of hearing .
the external part of the developing pharynx that is made of ectoderm .
a layer of of the central nervous system that is part of gray matter .
mucus produced in the respiratory tract .
any mucus produced by a mucosae of the respiratory system .
an roughly circular indentation in a surface .
primordium that develops into the central nervous system
primordium that develops into the nervous system
epithelium lining the distalmost portion of the digestive tract .
any muscle tissue of the distalmost portion of the digestive tract .
the part of the conceptus that may be lost before birth or will be discarded at birth ,  or when the embryo becomes an independent organism .
an embryonic anatomical entity that will turn into one or more other anatomical entities ,  perhaps with other anatomical entities ,  later in development .
the dorsal part of the body wall
a mesenchyme - derived anatomical entity undergoing a transtion to become another structure .
a viscus that is part of a abdomen .
a muscle layer that is part of the rectum
any portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of the rectum
a renal pelvis that is part of a left ureter .
a renal pelvis that is part of a right ureter .
a zone of skin that is part of a lower lip .
a boundary delimiting a rhombomere .
a vein that drains a lacrimal gland .
any portion of submucosa that lines the digestive tract .
any organ component layer that consists of muscle tissue .
a muscular coat that is part of a digestive tract .
foramen that allows the passge of the glossopharyngeal nerve  ( cranial nerve ix )  .
the anatomical space within the intestine .
muscle innervated by the trigeminal nerve  ( cranial nerve v )  .
an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the heart .
a membranous sac in animals that serves as the receptacle of a liquid or contains gas .
adipose tissue which is located throughout skeletal muscle and is responsible for the marbling seen in certain cuts of beef .
any region of epithelium that is part of a skin region .
the part of the eye that consists of both the retina and the optic choroid
an exocrine gland that is part of a integumental system .
the spinal accessory nucleus lies within the cervical spinal cord  ( c1 - c5 )  in the ventral horn .
the single bud - like invagination of the conjunctival fornix epithelium at the temporal aspect of the eye that signals lacrimal gland formation  ( int rev cytol .
a portion of organism substance that is secreted by a reproductive gland .
single layer of a laminar structure ,  identified by different density ,  arrangement or size of cells and processes arranged in flattened layers or lamina [ cumbo ]  .
serous membrane layer that is adjacent to and lines an organ .
serous membrane layer that lines to a body cavity .
a specific region of the foregut into the area in which the lung will develop .
an embryonic or larval epithelium that is committed to form part of the nervous system .
an epithelium that is undergoing proliferation to provide large numbers of neuronal cells .
a neuroepithelium some of whose cells are undergoing terminal differentiation to become neuronal cells .
any of the cranial nerves ,  or their central nervous system analogs  ( the optic tract ,  the epiphyseal tract )  .
a taste bud that is located external to the digestive tube ,  on the head or body ,  as found in species such as goldfish .
a taste bud that is located on a lip .
a taste bud that is located on the skin of the head .
a taste bud that is located in the pharynx .
a taste bud that is located on the skin of the trunk .
the autonomic nerve is a small nerve which carries postganglionic sympathetic and parasympathetic neurons from the zygomaticotemporal nerve ;  a branch of the maxillary nerve ,  to the lacrimal nerve ;  a branch of the ophthalmic nerve .
any substance in the body or expelled from the body that is in a gaseous state .
any portion of gas located in a part of the respiratory system that is composed primarily of air .
the area of axial mesoderm that develops into the prechordal plate
an multicellular anatomical structure that has subparts of multiple organs as a part .
a cluster of cells ,  largely surrounded by a morphological boundary .
a collection of anatomical structures that are alike in terms of their morphology or developmental origin .
any organ component layer that consists of smooth muscle tissue .
any portion of gas located in a part of the respiratory system .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any material entity that is located in the digestive tract .
anatomical surface ,  which is the external surface of the whole body .
the part of the circulatory system that lies within the subcutaneous tissue layers close to the surface of the skin .
any of the veins carrying deoxygenated blood from the subcutaneous tissue layers .
the part of the circulatory system that lies deep beneath the subcutaneous tissue layers away from the surface of the skin .
a blood vessel carrying deoxygenated blood far beneath the skin usually accompanying an artery .
any chamber of the left side of the heart
any chamber of the right side of the heart
an embryonic structure positioned halfway between the prospective eye and ear ,  adjacent to the future midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
the parts of the orbital region that are outside of the the eyeball ,  including the lacrimal apparatus ,  the extraocular muscles and the eyelids ,  eyelashes ,  eyebrows and the conjunctiva
any nerve that innervates the larynx .
the primordial mouth region of the developing head .
a muscle layer that is part of the sigmoid colon
the sum of epicardial and paracardial fat deposits .
any fat deposit surrounding a visceral organ .
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the abdominal segment of the trunk ,  which encompasses the abdomen proper plus pelvic cavity .
an region of the mesoderm that includes anterior lateral mesoderm of the first heart field plus contiguous pharyngeal mesoderm that gives rise to second - heart - field - derived regions of the heart and branchiomeric muscles .
an anatomical junction that is between the sigmoid colon and rectum .
material anatomical entity that forms the outermost boundary of an anatomical structure .
a bodily fluid that is located in the coelom .
any gland that is part os the respiratory system .
a notochord that has persisted beyond the embryonic stage .
a transudate found in the serous sac .
the zygomaticotemporal nerve or zygomaticotemporal branch  ( temporal branch )  is derived from the maxillary branch of the trigeminal nerve  ( cranial nerve v )  .
a mucosa that is part of a lip region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the upper tract of the renal system .
a zone of skin that is part of the face .
cartilage which is part of the axial skeleton .
non neural ectoderm that surrounds the presumptive neural plate and gives rise to neurogenic placodes .
structures of the dermis ,  epidermis ,  glands and pigment cells recognizable on the external surfaces of the integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the external head integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the body integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the limb integument .
blood vessels in respiratory skin .
an anatomical surface that is part of a bone
mesenchyme that is part of a forelimb bud .
x ventral_to y iff x is further along the dorso - ventral axis than y ,  towards the front .
obsolete .aggressive behavior involving attack on prey by a predator .
obsolete .the specific behavior of an organism following mating .
any process in which an organism has an effect on an organism of the same species .
"observable characteristic of behaviour related to the ability of an organism's ability to store ,  retain ,  and recall information and experiences ."
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
a thin layer of loose connective tissue which lies beneath the epithelium and together with the epithelium constitutes the mucosa [ wp ]  .
a potential space between the visceral and parietal layers of the pericardium .
endocardium that is part of the cardiac ventricle .
an epicardial layer that lines a cardiac ventricle
muscular layer of the cardiac ventricle composed of a compact myocardial layer surrounding the trabecular layer .
muscle tissue composed of cardiac muscle cells ,  forming the muscles of the heart [ zfa , modified ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
cardiac chamber in which blood enters the heart .
cardiac chamber through which blood leaves the heart .
endocardium that is part of the atrium .
the atrial part of middle layer of the heart ,  comprised of involuntary muscle
a lamina propria that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a region of the serous membrane that forms the innermost layer of the pericardium and the outer surface of the heart .
the middle layer of the heart ,  comprised mainly of striated cardiac muscle fibers
the cardiac conduction system consists of specialized cardiomyocytes that regulate the frequency of heart beat [ go ] 
serous membrane which is divided into parietal and visceral serous pericardium .
membrane organ which is attached to the pericardial sac proper and the central tendon of diaphragm and is continuous with the pretracheal fascia .
a double - walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels .
the combination of pericardial sac  ( a double - walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels )  plus fibrous pericardium .
parietal serous membrane which is part of the pericardium and forms the outer layer of the pericardial sac .
transudate contained in the pericardial cavity .
visceral serous membrane which is continuous with the parietal serous pericardium and is attached to the myocardium [ fma ]  .
a mesothelium that is part of a pericardium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
vein of heart that drains the myocardium
an embryonic group of progenitor cells that forms from an outpouching of the septum transversum near the venous pole of the heart and gives rise to the epicardium
a thick plate of mesodermal tissue that occupies the space between the thoracic cavity and yolk stalk in the early embryo ,  forming a transverse partition partially separating the coelomic cavity into thoracic and abdominal portions .
dense connective tissue that separates the atria from the ventricles and provides physical support for the heart .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of an atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a cardiac septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a myocardium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a gastrointestinal system .
an anatomical wall that is part of a cardiac ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a mucosa of oral region .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac ventricle .
loose connective tissue located at the outer and inner layers of organs .
a lamina propria that is part of a colonic mucosa .
a mesothelium that is part of a serous pericardium .
any portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of the conducting system of heart or the purkinje fibers .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac atrium .
a lamina propria that is part of a large intestine .
an anatomical junction that divides and overlaps with and atrium and a ventricle in the heart .
a layer of tissue between the muscularis and serosa .
visceral intrapericardial fat contiguous with the myocardial surface .
fat deposits in the mediastinum outside the parietal pericardium  .
wall of organ which has as its parts the endocardium ,  myocardium  ,  epicardium ,  and the cardiac septum ,  surrounded by the pericardial sac proper and is continuous with the walls of the systemic and pulmonary arterial and venous trees .
mesenchyme that is part of a hindlimb bud .
