a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biological context .
strictly ,  a substance intended to kill pests .
intended use of the molecular entity or part thereof by humans .
a substance that kills or slows the growth of microorganisms ,  including bacteria ,  viruses ,  fungi and protozoans .
a role is a particular behaviour which a material entity may exhibit .
the production of new individuals that contain some portion of genetic material inherited from one or more parent organisms .
cell motility due to movement of eukaryotic cilia or bacterial - type flagella or archaeal - type flagella .
the part of a cell or its extracellular environment in which a gene product is located .
the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
any cellular metabolic process involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any cellular metabolic process involving deoxyribonucleic acid .
the cellular metabolic process in which a cell duplicates one or more molecules of dna .
the cellular synthesis of rna on a template of dna .
the cellular metabolic process in which a protein is formed ,  using the sequence of a mature mrna molecule to specify the sequence of amino acids in a polypeptide chain .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aromatic compounds ,  any organic compound characterized by one or more planar rings ,  each of which contains conjugated double bonds and delocalized pi electrons ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic or inorganic compounds that contain nitrogen ,  including  ( but not limited to )  nitrogen fixation ,  nitrification ,  denitrification ,  assimilatory / dissimilatory nitrate reduction and the interconversion of nitrogenous organic matter and ammonium .
the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cellular component without the involvement of an external agent such as a transporter or a pore .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism ,  or the directed growth of a cell guided by a specific chemical concentration gradient .
the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells ,  tissues ,  organs ,  and organisms .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ;  typically the energy - requiring part of metabolism in which simpler substances are transformed into more complex ones .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to physical parameters involved in energy generation ,  such as light ,  oxygen ,  and oxidizable substrates .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to environmental oxygen .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the physiological and developmental changes that occur in a spore following release from dormancy up to the earliest signs of growth  ( e .g .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
the process in which a gene's sequence is converted into a mature gene product or products  ( proteins or rna )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
the cellular chemical reactions and pathways involving rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
any transcriptional or post - transcriptional process carried out at the cellular level that results in long - term gene inactivation .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of aromatic compounds ,  any substance containing an aromatic carbon ring .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a specific protein ,  rather than of proteins in general .
the biological process in which new individuals are produced by either a single cell or a group of cells ,  in the absence of any sexual process .
the cellular process that ensures successive accurate and complete genome replication and chromosome segregation .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells ,  e .g .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a cellular spore ,  a cell form that can be used for dissemination ,  for survival of adverse conditions because of its heat and dessication resistance ,  and / or for reproduction .
the formation of spores derived from the products of mitosis .
a multilayered structure surrounding all or part of a cell ;  encompasses one or more lipid bilayers ,  and may include a cell wall layer ;  also includes the space between layers .
any process involved in mediating the movement of discrete segments of dna between nonhomologous sites .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an integrated living unit: an anatomical structure  ( which may be a subcellular structure ,  cell ,  tissue ,  or organ )  ,  or organism over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
the process in which a cell gives rise to an endospore ,  a dormant ,  highly resistant spore with a thick wall that forms within the mother cell .
the process in which differentiated ,  resting cells are formed ,  usually within a fruiting body by myxobacteria .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving various organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell .
self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to an external stimulus .
a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
any process involved in the controlled movement of a bacterial cell which is dependent on the presence of type iv pili .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a heterocyst ,  a differentiated cell in certain cyanobacteria whose purpose is to fix nitrogen .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a spore over time ,  from its initiation to the mature structure .
the formation of a cellular spore derived from the products of mitosis .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving those compounds which are formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a specific protein ,  rather than of proteins in general ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds .
any constituent part of a cell ,  the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
a biological process that involves only one organism .
a metabolic process  -  chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances  -  which involves a single organism .
a biosynthetic process  -  chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances  -  involving a single organism .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  occurring within a single organism .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an integrated living unit: an anatomical structure  ( which may be a subcellular structure ,  cell ,  tissue ,  or organ )  ,  or organism over time from an initial condition to a later condition ,  involving only one organism .
the dna - dependent dna replication that takes place as part of the cell cycle .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of an anatomical structure from unspecified parts .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cell over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
any process involved in the controlled self - propelled movement of a cell that results in translocation of the cell from one place to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to or maintained in a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates a measurable attribute of any biological process ,  quality or function .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
cell motility due to the motion of one or more bacterial - type flagella .
cell motility that results in the smooth movement of a cell through a liquid medium .
cell motility that results in the smooth movement of a cell along a solid surface .
bacterial - type flagellum - dependent cell motility in which the action of numerous flagella results in the smooth movement of a group of cells along a solid surface .
any cellular metabolic process involving nucleic acids .
cell motility due to movement of bacterial -  or archaeal - type flagella .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic cyclic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic cyclic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the observable manifestation of the genotype of a microbial cell or group of cells in an environment .
a locomotion phenotype where the trait in question is the self - propelled movement of a microbe from one location to another .
an altered motility phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of a microbe's motility is decreased relative to a designated control .
a microbial phenotype where the trait in question is the arrangement of cells of a microbe in relation to one another .
a locomotion phenotype where the directed movement of a motile microbe is in response to an external stimulus .
a motility phenotype where a microbe possesses the ability to perform controlled self - propelled movement that results in translocation from one place to another .
an akinete formation phenotype where a cell or cells have the ability to differentiate into an akinete .
an akinete formation phenotype where a cell or cells do not possess the ability to form an akinete .
a budding phenotype where an organism reproduces by the process of budding .
a heterocyst formation phenotype where a cell possesses the ability to differentiate into a heterocyst .
a heterocyst formation phenotype where an organism does not possess the ability to differentiate into a heterocyst .
a decreased spore germination phenotype where no spores germinate .
an altered endospore formation phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of  endospore formation is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered endospore formation phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of endospore formation is increased relative to a designated control .
a heterocyst formation phenotype where heterocyst formation is decreased relative to a designated control .
a spore germination phenotype where a spore undergoes germination after a longer than usual dormancy period .
an endospore formation phenotype where the cell possesses the ability to form an endospore .
an endospore formation phenotype where the cell does not possess the ability to form an endospore .
a myxospore formation phenotype where an organism possesses the ability to form myxospores .
a myxospore formation phenotype where an organism does not possess the ability to form myxospores .
an altered myxospore formation phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of myxospore formation is decreased relative to a designated control .
a flagellum distribution phenotype where the flagellum filament of an organism is located in the periplasm and does not extend past the cell envelope .
an altered flagellum phenotype where the length of the flagellum is altered relative to a designated control .
a microbial phenotype related to the ability of a host to be infected by and / or support reproduction of a virus .
a cell projection morphology phenotype relating to the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of flagella ,  which are threadlike structures borne either singly or in groups by a motile cell ,  which propel the cell .
a presence of pilus phenotype where a microorganism has fewer pili per cell relative to a designated control .
a flagellum phenotype where the organism possesses a flagellum or flagella in at least some environments .
a flagellum phenotype where the organism does not possess a flagellum or flagella .
an altered flagellum phenotype where the shape of the flagellum is altered relative to a designated control .
a pilus phenotype where an organism does not possess a pilus .
a pilus phenotype where a microorganism produces a pilus or pili in one or more growth conditions .
a pilus phenotype where the cell possesses a pilus that was distorted during formation .
an altered capsule phenotype where the amount of capsule is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered flagellum length phenotype where the length of the flagellum is longer than a designated control .
a population growth range phenotype related to how growth of a microbial population is affected by different concentrations of oxygen gas  ( o2 )  in the environment .
an altered cell size phenotype where the size of a cell or cells is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered cell size phenotype where the volume of a cell or cells is increased relative to a designated control .
a nucleoid phenotype where the nucleoid is absent in some fraction of cells in a population .
a nucleoid phenotype dealing with the number of nucleoid regions in the cell .
cell circularity is defined as  ( 2*pi*cell area /  ( cell perimeter ) ^2 )  .
an altered motility phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of motility of a microbe is increased relative to a designated control .
a chemotaxis phenotype where a motile microbe displays directed movement in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient .
a taxis phenotype where directed movement of a motile microbe is in response to environmental oxygen  ( o2 )  .
a taxis phenotype where the directed movement of a motile microbe is in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient .
an aerotaxis phenotype where a motile microbe displays directed movement in response to environmental oxygen  ( o2 )  .
an altered capsule phenotype where the amount of capsule produced is decreased relative to a designated control .
a presence of chemotaxis phenotype where a motile microbe displays directed movement towards a higher concentration of a chemical .
a presence of chemotaxis phenotype where a motile microbe displays directed movement toward a lower concentration of a chemical  ( away from a higher concentration of a chemical )  .
an absence of chemotaxis phenotype where an organism doesn't display directed movement toward a higher concentration of a specific chemical .
an absence of chemotaxis phenotype where an organism doesn't display directed movement toward a lower concentration of a specific chemical .
a presence of aerotaxis phenotype where a motile cell or organism displays directed movement towards a higher concentration of environmental oxygen .
a presence of aerotaxis phenotype where a motile cell or organism displays directed movement towards a lower concentration of environmental oxygen .
an absence of aerotaxis phenotype where a motile microbe doesn't display directed movement towards a higher concentration of environmental oxygen  ( o2 )  .
an absence of aerotaxis phenotype where a motile microbe doesn't display directed movement away from a  higher concentration of environmental oxygen  ( o2 )  .
a quorum sensing phenotype where an organism possesses the ability to monitor its population density by detecting the concentration of small ,  diffusible signal molecules .
an altered virulence phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of the ability of a microbe to cause disease in another organism  ( the host )  is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered virulence phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of the ability of a microbe to cause disease in another organism  ( the host )  is increased relative to a designated control .
a quorum sensing phenotype where an organism does not possess the ability to monitor its population density by detecting the concentration of small ,  diffusible signal molecules .
a virulence phenotype where an organism does not possess the ability to cause disease in another organism  ( host )  .
a decreased virulence phenotype where rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of the ability of a microbe to cause disease in a host is abolished .
a presence of motility phenotype where a population of microbes exhibit coordinated translocation across solid or semi - solid surfaces .
a microbe - host interaction phenotype related to the ability of a microbe to cause disease in another organism  ( the host )  .
a microbial communication phenotype where cells sense their population density by detecting the concentration of small ,  diffusible signal molecules produced by the cells themselves .
a microbial phenotype where the trait in question is the progression of a cell from an initial condition to a later condition .
a microbial phenotype related to the form and structure of a microbe .
a cell arrangement phenotype where cells are joined end - to - end in linear chains .
a cell morphology phenotype where the trait in question is the shape of a cell .
a cell morphology phenotype where the trait in question is the size of a cell .
a spheroid cell phenotype where a cell is spherical or nearly spherical .
a cylindrical cell phenotype where an organism has rod - shaped cells .
a spiral cell shape phenotype where a rod - shaped cell is curved to form a comma - like shape or incomplete spiral .
a flagellum phenotype where the trait in question is the location of the flagellum on an organism .
a flagellum distribution phenotype where an organism has a single flagellum .
a flagellum distribution phenotype where an organism has a single flagellum at each end of the cell .
a flagellum distribution phenotype where an organism has multiple flagella located at one or both ends of a cell .
a flagellum distribution phenotype where an organism has multiple flagella dispersed across the cell surface .
a cell morphology phenotype relating to the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of a structure that is a prolongation or process extending from a cell .
a cell projection phenotype morphology where the structure in question is a proteinaceous hair - like appendage on the surface of a microbial cell .
a cell morphology phenotype relating to the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of the envelope that surrounds a microbial cell .
a cell shape phenotype where a cell is helical or cork - screw shaped .
a microbial phenotype that describes a microorganism that does not require oxygen gas  ( o2 )  for growth but will utilize o2 in metabolic reactions when it is present .
a colony form phenotype characterized by growth of thin individual projections in the colony .
an asexual reproduction phenotype related to the process of budding ,  where a new individual forms from an outgrowth  ( bud )  on the body of the parental organism .
an organismal growth phenotype dealing with the lifespan of a microorganism ,  cell ,  or cells .
a cell development phenotype related to formation of a spore ,  a dormant differentiated cell that can be used for dissemination ,  survival in adverse conditions ,  or reproduction .
a cell development phenotype related to development of a heterocyst ,  a differentiated cell in certain cyanobacteria whose purpose is to fix nitrogen .
a cell development phenotype related to the development of an akinete ,  a thick - walled dormant cell derived from the enlargement of a vegetative cell .
a sporulation phenotype where development concerns formation of an endospore ,  a dormant ,  highly resistant spore with a thick wall that forms within the mother cell .
a cell development phenotype regarding the physiological and developmental changes that occur in a spore following release from dormancy up to the earliest signs of growth  ( e .g .
a sporulation phenotype related to development of a myxospore ,  a differentiated ,  resting cell usually within a fruiting body by myxobacteria .
a chemotaxis phenotype where a motile microbe doesn't display directed movement in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient .
a virulence phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  time ,  or extent of the ability of a microbe to cause disease in another organism  ( host )  is altered relative to a designated control .
a differential test phenotype that describes whether a cell or cells exhibits the ability to lyse red blood cells .
a multicellular phenotype dealing with the physical characteristics of an assemblage of microorganisms growing on a solid surface such as the surface of an agar culture medium .
a multi - organism phenotype where microbial organisms communicate and coordinate their activities through chemical signals that either diffuse through the environment or remain cell associated .
a colony morphology phenotype dealing with the degree to which light can pass through a colony .
a colony morphology phenotype dealing with the basic shape or form of a colony or colonies .
a colony morphology phenotype dealing with the height or vertical growth of the colony .
a microbial phenotype that describes a microorganism that does not require oxygen gas  ( o2 )  for growth and doesn't utilize o2 even when it is present .
a colony surface phenotype characterized by a soft luster on the surface .
a colony morphology phenotype related to the color of a colony or colonies .
a colony morphology phenotype dealing with the interaction of a colony or colonies and light .
a mucoid colony phenotype where the colonies are mucoid .
a colony opacity phenotype characterized by inability of light to pass through it .
a presence of motility phenotype where a microbe exhibits smooth movement through a liquid medium .
a presence of motility phenotype where a microbe exhibits smooth movement along a solid surface .
a presence of motility phenotype where a microbe exhibits movement over moist surfaces by the extension ,  tethering ,  and then retraction of polar pili .
a colony opacity phenotype characterized by an almost clear but distorted ,  frosted glass appearance .
a colony opacity phenotype characterized by a clear appearance .
a colony pigmentation phenotype where colonies are pigmented .
a cell arrangement phenotype where an organism forms pairs of coccus cells ,  which arise from a division event in one plane .
a cell arrangement phenotype where chains of coccus cells arise from division events in one plane .
a cell arrangement phenotype where squares of four coccus cells arise from division in two planes .
a cell arrangement phenotype where cubes of eight coccus cells arise from a division event in three planes .
a cell arrangement phenotype where irregular clumps of coccus cells arise from division events in random planes .
a cell arrangement phenotype where bacillis cells are arranged in chains .
a cell shape phenotype where a cell is intermediate in shape between a coccus  ( sphere )  and a bacillus  ( rod )  .
a spiral cell shape phenotype where a cell forms a rigid spiral .
a spiral cell shape phenotype where a cell forms a flexible spiral .
a cell arrangement phenotype that consists of chains of cells in which the individual cells ,  which are usually wider than long ,  are closely appressed for the whole or the greater part of their width .
a cell arrangement phenotype where chains of cells are enclosed in a hyaline envelope or sheath .
a cell shape phenotype where a cell possesses an appendage called a stalk or prostheca  ( plural ,  prosthecae )  ,  which is a tubular extension of the cell envelope and contains cytosol .
a cell shape phenotype where a cell has a cube - like shape ;  there are six sides and the width is approximately equal to the height of the cell .
a cell shape phenotype where a cell has projections that form points .
a cell shape phenotype where a cell has curved or rounded projections or divisions  ( lobes )  .
a cell shape phenotype where a cell is variable in shape and lacks a single ,  characteristic form .
a motility phenotype where a microbe lacks the ability to perform controlled self - propelled movement that results in translocation of the cell from one place to another .
an akinete morphology phenotype where the organism forms a spherical akinete .
an akinete formation phenotype where the traits described are from the cells thick - walled outer membrane .
a nucleoid phenotype dealing with shape of the nucleoid region .
a colony pigmentation phenotype colonies are non - pigmented .
cell circularity is defined as  ( 2*pi*cell area /  ( cell perimeter ) ^2 )  .
a colony form phenotype characterized by a dull luster on the surface .
a nucleoid phenotype that describes the distribution of within a cell or cells .
a nucleoid spacing phenotype where multiple nucleoids within a single cell exhibit regular spacing .
a nucleoid spacing phenotype where multiple nucleoids within a single cell exhibit irregular spacing .
a nucleoid number phenotype where there is only one nucleoid region in the cell .
a nucleoid number phenotype where there is more than one nucleoid regions in the cell .
a nucleoid phenotype that describes the location of the nucleoid within a cell or cells .
a nucleoid localization phenotype where the nucleoid is localized at the center of the cell .
a nucleoid localization phenotype where the nucleoid is located in one of the polar regions of the cell .
a nucleoid localization phenotype where the nucleoid is localized midway between the pole and midpoint of a cell .
a colony morphology phenotype dealing with the shape of the edge of a colony viewed with magnification .
a genetic material phenotype where the trait in question is the nucleoid ,  the region of a bacterial or archaeal cell to which the dna is confined .
a colony margin phenotype characterized by smooth growth ,  with no projections along the edge .
a nucleoid shape phenotype where the nucleoid isolated from a cell is shaped like a dumbbell .
a nucleoid shape phenotype where the nucleoid isolated from a cell is compacted .
a colony margin phenotype characterized by wavy growth along the colony edge .
a colony margin phenotype characterized by lobed growth along the colony edge .
a colony margin phenotype characterized by growth that appears jagged or zig - zagged along the edge of the colony .
a colony margin phenotype characterized by thread or filamentous shaped edge .
a colony margin phenotype characterized by growth that appears as waves or curls along the edge of the colony .
an aerotaxis phenotype where a motile microbe doesn't display directed movement in response to environmental oxygen  ( o2 )  .
a colony elevation phenotype characterized by no growth above the medium .
a colony elevation phenotype characterized by uniform growth above the medium .
a colony elevation phenotype characterized by sloping up from the edges .
a colony elevation phenotype characterized by sloping steeply from edges and very high in the center .
a colony elevation phenotype characterized by raised growth in the center .
a colony size phenotype where colony size is increased relative to a designated control .
a colony form phenotype characterized by growth in a round shape .
a colony form phenotype characterized by growth without a defined shape or size .
a colony form phenotype characterized by the growth of thin ,  branching projections .
a colony form phenotype characterized by growth being wide in the middle then tapering at both ends .
an oxygen growth range phenotype where growth and reproduction requires oxygen but at levels below that found in air  ( approx .
a stress response phenotype dealing with the response to exposure to chemical stimuli .
a biological process phenotype related to a change in state or activity of a microbe  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a microbial phenotype related to the increase in size or mass over time of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism ,  or a cell .
a cell projection phenotype where the structure in question is a tube .
a multi - organism phenotype dealing with the process in which microorganisms attach to and grow on a surface and produce extracellular polymers that facilitate attachment and matrix formation .
a growth phenotype dealing with the morphological characteristics of a culture growing in a liquid medium .
a liquid culture morphology phenotype where cells aggregate together in suspension to form clumps of many cells known as flocs .
a colony morphology phenotype dealing with the size of the colony .
a microbial phenotype that deals with the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
a colony pigmentation phenotype characterized by the presence of diffusible / water soluble pigments that color the agar around the colony .
a differential test phenotype that describes ability of an organism to produce a gas ,  such as co2 ,  as the result of metabolic activities during growth .
a presence of anaerobic respiration phenotype where sulfate  ( so4 )  is used as the terminal electron acceptor .
a microbial phenotype that describes a microorganism that does not grow in the presence of oxygen gas  ( o2 )  .
a microbial phenotype that describes a microorganism that requires the presence of oxygen gas  ( o2 )  for growth .
a liquid culture morphology phenotype where cells group together and form small particles in the medium .
a gram stain phenotype where a cell or cells retain crystal violet stain when decolorized with an organic solvent such as ethanol .
a gram stain phenotype where a cell or cells do not retain crystal violet stain when decolorized with an organic solvent such as ethanol .
a gram stain phenotype where a cell or cells give variable results to the gram stain .
a cell staining phenotype where microorganisms are grouped based on their ability to retain crystal violet stain when decolorized with an organic solvent such as ethanol .
a metabolic phenotype that deals with the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of chemicals .
a catalase test phenotype where an organism exhibits catalase activity .
an altered catalase activity phenotype where catalase activity is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered catalase activity phenotype where catalase activity is increased relative to a designated control .
a microbial phenotype related to the interactions between a microbe and its host ( s )  .
a catalase test phenotype where an organism doesn't exhibit catalase activity .
a cell - staining phenotype where a cell or cells are classified based on whether they are decolorized by an acid - alcohol mixture after staining ,  typically with carbolfuchsin .
a colony pigmentation phenotype characterized by pigmentation only in the colony .
a microbial communication phenotype communication is facilitated between one or more microbes by a connected nanotube .
a cell envelope phenotype that describes the ability of a cell or cells to produce outer membrane vesicles .
a cell envelope phenotype where the trait in question is the capsule ,  a layer of polysaccharide or poly - amino acids surrounding a microbial cell .
a capsule phenotype where a cell or cells have a capsule .
a biofilm phenotype where the biofilm is formed by a single species .
a hemolysis test phenotype where the ability to cause hemolysis is altered relative to a designated control .
a microbial phenotype that is distinguished by the presence a specific surface antigen .
a hemolysis test phenotype where a cell or cells does not cause hemolysis .
a colony pigmentation phenotype where the prominent morphological characteristic of the colony ( ies )  is the presence of fluorescence .
a colony morphology phenotype that describes the appearance of the surface of a colony or colonies .
a capsule phenotype where a cell or cells lack capsule .
a colony surface phenotype where colonies have a shiny glistening surface .
an altered flagellum phenotype where the number of flagella per cell is increased relative to a designated control .
a microbial phenotype where a cell or cells are treated with a dye or dyes for purposes of identification and classification .
an altered flagellum phenotype where the number of flagella per cell is decreased relative to a designated control .
a respiration phenotype where oxygen  ( o2 )  is used as the terminal electron acceptor .
an altered hemolysis phenotype where hemolysis is increased relative to a designated control .
a differential test phenotype that relates to the presence or absence of catalase ,  an enzyme that catalyzes the decomposition of hydrogen peroxide into oxygen and water .
a differential test phenotype that describes the ability of an organism to catalyze the removal of a carboxyl group from an amino acid ,  typically lysine ,  ornithine ,  or arginine .
a differential test phenotype that relates to the presence or absence of cytochrome oxidase based on the ability of an organism to oxidize certain aromatic amines to form colored end products .
a microbial phenotype that affects an enzymatic activity .
a differential test phenotype that relates to the presence or absence of urease ,  an enzyme that hydrolyzes urea to ammonia and carbon dioxide .
a metabolic phenotype that deals with the specific process an organism uses to produce energy carriers .
a chemical production phenotype where carbon dioxide is produced .
a colony surface phenotype where a colony or colonies have a dull ,  bumpy ,  granular ,  or matte surface .
a colony morphology phenotype that describes the consistency or texture of a colony or colonies when tested with a needle .
a colony surface phenotype that is characterized by a surface that is wrinkled .
a colony elevation phenotype characterized by growth into the medium not above it .
a colony opacity phenotype characterized by varying colors being observed in reflected light .
a colony consistency phenotype where a colony or colonies have a butter - like consistency .
a colony consistency phenotype where a colony or colonies have a brittle or powdery consistency .
a morphology phenotype dealing with the smell a colony produces .
a colony elevation phenotype characterized by crater like growth .
a colony surface phenotype that is characterized by a surface arranged in parallel folds or ridges ;  pleated .
a colony form phenotype where a colony or colonies are small ,  but not microscopic ,  with a diameter of  < 1 mm .
a colony size phenotype where colony size is decreased relative to a designated control .
a colony surface phenotype characterized by rippled surface that radiate outward from a central point or axis .
a colony form phenotype characterized by the formation of wedged shaped sectors of varying colors and appearance in colonies growing on a solid substrate .
a colony form phenotype characterized by growth of small ,  round or cone - shaped protuberances .
a biofilm phenotype where the formation involves two or more species .
a nanotube phenotype where a cell or cells have the ability to produce nanotubes .
a nanotube phenotype where a cell or cells lack the ability to produce nanotubes .
a biofilm phenotype dealing with the structural formation of the biofilm .
an altered hemolysis phenotype where hemolysis is decreased relative to a designated control .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cell division is altered relative to a designated control .
a metabolic phenotype that deals with the accumulation of small intermediate or products of metabolism .
a microbial phenotype that affects expression of a gene or genes .
an increased transcription phenotype where a gene or genes whose transcription is normally regulated are now transcribed constitutively .
a growth phenotype related to the morphology of colonies on solid medium .
a colony morphology phenotype that describes the appearance of colonies on macconkey agar indicator medium . \ n \ n** this term was made obsolete because the appearance of colonies on macconkey agar was determined to be evidence for a phenotype rather than a phenotype itself .
a colony morphology phenotype where cells form a red colony on macconkey agar medium .
an altered gene expression phenotype where expression of a gene or genes is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered gene expression phenotype where expression of a gene or genes is decreased relative to a designated control .
a microbial phenotype related to the enzymatic or other activity of a protein .
a microbial phenotype related to the resistance or sensitivity of a microbe to antimicrobial agents that kill  ( microbiocidal )  or inhibit growth  ( microbiostatic )  of a microbe .
an altered cell morphology in which microbial cells are longer than a designated control ;  i .e .
an altered population growth rate phenotype where the rate at which a microbial population multiplies is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered growth rate phenotype where the rate at which a microbial population multiplies is increased relative to a designated control .
an anucleoid phenotype where the fraction of anucleoid cells in a population is increased relative to a designated control .
a microbial phenotype dealing with the various aspects of the nucleic acid carrier of a microbe's primary genetic information .
a genophore is the chromosome equivalent in any organism ,  cellular organelle ,  or virus ,  however ,  the term is commonly used to refer to chromosomes other than the nuclear chromosomes of eukaryotes .
a genetic material phenotype related to supercoiling of a double - stranded dna molecule .
a dna supercoiling phenotype where the dna twists around its axis in the opposite direction from the clockwise turns of the right - handed double helix .
a dna supercoiling phenotype where the dna twists around its axis in the same direction as the clockwise turns of the right - handed double helix .
an enzymatic activity phenotype where galactose - 1 - phosphate uridyl transferase activity is present .
a substrate binding phenotype where a protein has increased affinity for a substrate .
a biosynthesis phenotype dealing with the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
a genetic material phenotype related to the process of dna - dependent dna replication that takes place as part of the cell cycle .
a dna replication phenotype where the frequency of initiating new rounds of dna replication is increased relative to a designated control .
a metabolic phenotype dealing with the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ;  typically the energy - requiring part of metabolism in which simpler substances are transformed into more complex ones .
a biosynthetic phenotype dealing with the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of small molecules ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
a small molecule biosynthesis phenotype dealing with the metabolic pathways that take precursor molecules and synthesize amino acids by remodeling the carbon skeleton and adding an amino group or sulfur .
a microbial phenotype where the trait in question is the self - propelled movement of a microbe from one location to another .
an antimicrobial compound resistance phenotype related to resistance or sensitivity to compounds with a macrolide ring -  - a large lactone ring with multiple keto and hydroxyl groups -  - that is linked to one or more sugars and that have antimicrobial properties .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype related to resistance or sensitivity to aminopyrimidine compounds .
an aminopyrimidine resistance phenotype where resistance is increased relative to a designated control .
an aminopyrimidine resistance phenotype where resistance is decreased relative to a designated control .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype related to resistance or sensitivity to compounds that contain a beta - lactam ring in their molecular structure .
an aminopyrimidine resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is resistant to one or more aminopyrimidine compounds .
an aminopyrimidine resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is sensitive to one or more  aminopyrimidine compounds .
an antimicrobial compound resistance phenotype where a cell or cells are resistant to ampicillin .
an antimicrobial compound resistance phenotype where a cell or cells are resistant to penicillin .
a nutrient utilization phenotype that is related to utilization of chemical elements required by living organisms in minute amounts .
an iron source utilization phenotype where the nutrient being utilized is heme ,  which is a compound of iron complexed in a porphyrin  ( tetrapyrrole )  ring .
an altered heme utilization phenotype where the ability to utilize heme is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered heme utilization phenotype where the ability to utilize heme is decreased relative to a designated control .
a heme utilization phenotype where a cell or cells don't exhibit the ability to utilize heme as a source of iron .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype related to resistance or sensitivity to compounds containing basic nitrogen in a heterocyclic structure .
an alkaloid resistance phenotype that is related to resistance or sensitivity to caffeine ,  which is a trimethylxanthine in which the three methyl groups are located at positions 1 ,  3 ,  and 7 .
a caffeine resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is resistant to caffeine .
a caffeine resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is sensitive to caffeine .
an altered caffeine resistance phenotype where resistance is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered caffeine resistance phenotype where resistance is decreased relative to a designated control .
a cell envelope phenotype where the trait in question is the presence or absence of  a lipid bilayer membrane located outside the peptidoglycan cell wall .
an outer membrane phenotype where a cell or cells possess an outer membrane .
a pilus phenotype where there is an increased number of pili per cell relative to a designated control .
an outer membrane phenotype where a cell or cells lack an outer membrane .
an altered aerotaxis phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of aerotaxis is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered aerotaxis phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of aerotaxis is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered chemotaxis phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of chemotaxis by a motile microbe is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered chemotaxis phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of  chemotaxis by a motile microbe is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered dna supercoiling phenotype where negative supercoiling is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered dna supercoiling phenotype where negative supercoiling is decreased relative to a designated control .
an enzymatic activity phenotype that alters phospholipase activity .
a caffeine resistance phenotype that is altered relative to a designated control .
a population growth range phenotype related to how growth of a microbial population is affected by the temperature of the environment .
a population growth phenotype where optimal growth of a microbial population occurs between 85 c and 113 c .
a population growth phenotype where growth of a microbial population can occur at 55 c or higher and optimal growth occurs between 55 c and 65 c .
a population growth phenotype where optimal growth of a microbial population occurs between 20 c and 45 c .
a population growth phenotype where growth of a microbial population can occur between 0 to 7 degrees c with optimum growth at 20 to 30 degrees c . the maximum temperature for population growth is around 35 degrees c .
a population growth phenotype where growth of a microbial population can occur at 0 c and optimal growth occurs at temperatures of 15 c or lower .
a population growth phenotype relating to how the rate and / or extent of growth of a microbial population is affected by the ph of the environment .
a population growth phenotype that applies to microorganisms whose optimal growth occurs between ph 0 and 5 .5 .
a population growth phenotype that applies to microorganisms whose optimal growth occurs between ph 5 .5 and 8 .0 .
a population growth phenotype that applies to microorganisms whose optimal growth occurs between ph 8 .0 to 11 .5 .
a population growth range phenotype related to how growth of a microbial population is affected by pressure .
a population growth range phenotype related to how growth of a microbial population is affected by  the concentration of solutes  ( water activity )  in the environment .
a pressure growth range phenotype where growth is more rapid at high hydrostatic pressure .
a solute and water activity phenotype where growth and proliferation can occur over wide ranges of water activity or osmotic concentration .
a solute and water activity phenotype where growth and proliferation requires high levels of sodium chloride ,  usually above or about 0 .2 m .
a gene expression phenotype related to the expression of a gene or genes that are part of the sos response .
an sos response phenotype where expression of one or more genes in the sos response is altered relative to a designated control .
a phospholipase activity phenotype where an organism doesn't exhibit phospholipase activity .
an altered basal expression of the sos response phenotype where basal expression of one or more genes in the sos response is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered basal expression of the sos response phenotype where basal expression of one or more genes in the sos response is decreased relative to a designated control .
an sos response phenotype where a cell or cells lack an sos response .
an sos response phenotype where a cell or cells exhibit an sos response .
an altered induced expression of the sos response phenotype where induced expression of one or more genes in the sos response is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered induced expression of the sos response phenotype where induced expression of one or more genes in the sos response is decreased relative to a designated control .
a phospholipase activity phenotype where an organism exhibits phospholipase activity .
a genetic material phenotype relating to the process or processes that give rise to mutations that occur after imposition of a non - lethal stress .
a phospholipase activity phenotype where phospholipase activity is altered relative to a designated control .
a tetracycline resistance phenotype where resistance to a tetracycline compound is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered stress - induced mutagenesis phenotype where mutagenesis is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered stress - induced mutagenesis phenotype where the frequency of mutagenesis is decreased relative to a designated control .
a stress - induced mutagenesis phenotype where a cell or cells exhibit stress - induced mutagenesis .
a stress - induced mutagenesis phenotype where a cell or cells don't exhibit stress - induced mutagenesis .
a quinolone resistance phenotype where resistance to a quinolone compound is altered relative to a designated control .
a conditional dna replication phenotype where incorporation of dntps into dna ceases at the same rate as inactivation or depletion of a required gene product upon shift to a restrictive condition .
a conditional dna replication phenotype where incorporation of dntps into dna does not stop at the same rate as inactivation or depletion of a required gene product upon shift to a restrictive condition .
a dna replication phenotype in which replication of the chromosome ( s )  is independent of the origin of replication .
a stress response phenotype dealing with the response to cyclic freezing and melting .
a stress response phenotype dealing with the response to the environmental stress of ph at or below 6 .5 .
a response to stress phenotype dealing with the response to an environment with a ph at or above 7 .5 .
a genetic material phenotype dealing with the process that occurs when two segments of dna with identical or very similar sequences pair up and exchange or replace some portion of their dna .
a genetic material phenotype where there is non - homologous recombination at a particular sequence of dna .
a mitotic recombination phenotype term where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of mitotic recombination is altered relative to a designated control .
a genetic material phenotype dealing with the exchange ,  reciprocal or nonreciprocal of genetic material between one dna  molecule and a homologous region of dna that occurs  during mitotic cell cycles .
a genetic material phenotype dealing with the transcriptional or post - transcriptional processes carried out at the cellular level that results in long - term gene inactivation .
a genetic material phenotype concerning the process in which replicated chromosome ( s )  are physically separated and apportioned as a set to daughter cells .
a genetic material phenotype dealing with the frequency of mutations .
a homologous recombination phenotype where the prevalence of homologous recombination is increased relative to a designated control .
a homologous recombination phenotype where homologous recombination is decreased relative to a designated control .
a homologous recombination phenotype a cell or cells have the ability to perform homologous recombination .
a homologous recombination phenotype a cell or cells lack the ability to perform homologous recombination .
an altered sos response phenotype where induced expression of one or more genes in the sos response is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered sos response phenotype where basal or uninduced expression of one or more genes in the sos response is altered relative to a designated control .
a site specific recombination phenotype where the prevalence of site specific recombination is increased relative to a designated control .
a site specific recombination phenotype where site specific recombination is decreased relative to a designated control .
a site - specific recombination phenotype where a cell or cells lack the ability to perform site - specific recombination .
a site - specific recombination phenotype where a cell or cells have the ability to perform site - specific recombination .
a genetic material phenotype dealing with dna sequences that change positions within the genome .
an altered chromosome segregation phenotype where the frequency of chromosome missegregation is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered chromosome segregation phenotype where the frequency of chromosome missegregation is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered phospholipase activity phenotype where phospholipase activity is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered phospholipase activity phenotype where phospholipase activity is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered gene silencing phenotype where the incidence of gene silencing is increased relative to a designated control .
an gene silencing phenotype where gene silencing is decreased relative to a designated control .
a gene silencing phenotype where a cell or cells doesn't exhibit the ability to perform gene silencing .
a gene silencing phenotype where a cell or cells exhibit the ability to perform gene silencing .
an altered mutation frequency phenotype where the mutation frequency is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered mutation frequency phenotype where the mutation frequency is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered mitotic recombination phenotype where the mitotic recombination is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered mitotic recombination phenotype where mitotic recombination is decreased relative to the designated control .
a mitotic recombination phenotype where a cell or cells lack the ability to perform mitotic recombination .
a mitotic recombination phenotype where a cell or cells have the ability to perform mitotic recombination .
a transposable element transposition phenotype where dna sequences change position at a higher frequency relative to a designated control .
a transposable element transposition phenotype where dna sequences change position at a lower frequency relative to the designated control .
an altered acidic ph stress phenotype were resistance of microbes in a population to acidic ph is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered acidic ph stress phenotype were resistance of microbes in a population to acidic ph is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to alkaline ph stress phenotype where resistance of microbes in a population to alkaline ph is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to alkaline ph stress phenotype where resistance of microbes in a population to alkaline ph is decreased relative to a designated control .
a stress response phenotype dealing with the removal or immobilisation of water .
a stress response phenotype related to resistance or sensitivity to energy in the form of electromagnetic waves at various wavelengths .
a stress response phenotype dealing with the resistance response to normally lethal high temperature levels .
a response to radiation stress phenotype dealing with short wavelength ,  highly energetic radiation .
a population growth phenotype relating to the ability of a microbial population to grow when exposed to uv radiation  ( typically ,  irradiation by wavelengths 100 - 400 nm )  .
a radiation stress phenotype related to the resistance or sensitivity that microbes in a population show when exposed to gamma - ray radiation .
a resistance to radiation stress phenotype related to the resistance or sensitivity that microbes in a population show when exposed to x - rays .
an altered dessication stress phenotype where resistance of microbes in a population to dessication stress is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered dessication stress phenotype where resistance of microbes in a population to dessication stress is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered freeze / thawing stress phenotype where resistance is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered freeze / thawing stress phenotype where resistance is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered oxidative stress phenotype where resistance of microbes in a population to an oxidative stress is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered oxidative stress phenotype where resistance of microbes in a population to an oxidative stress is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to gamma - ray radiation phenotype where the resistance of microbes in a population to gamma - rays is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to gamma - ray radiation phenotype where the resistance of microbes in a population to gamma - rays is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered x - ray radiation phenotype were resistance is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered x - ray radiation phenotype where resistance is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered uv - radiation resistance phenotype where the resistance of microbes in a population to uv radiation is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered uv radiation resistance phenotype where the resistance of microbes in a population to uv radiation is decreased relative to a designated control .
a stress response phenotype dealing with the response to deprivation of nourishment .
a growth phenotype where growth is dependent on the presence of a macrolide .
a growth phenotype where growth is dependent on the presence of an aminoglycoside .
an altered enzymatic activity phenotype where a specified enzymatic activity is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered enzymatic activity phenotype where a specified enzymatic activity is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased resistance to dessication stress phenotype where the resistance of microbes in a population to dessication stress is abolished .
a decreased resistance to freeze / thawing stress phenotype where resistance to freeze / thawing is abolished .
a lifespan phenotype where lifespan is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered lifespan phenotype where the lifespan is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered cell size phenotype where the diameter of a spherical microbial cell or cells is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered cell size phenotype where the diameter of a spherical microbial cell or cells is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased phospholipase activity phenotype where phospholipase activity is abolished .
a microbe - host interaction phenotype relating to the resistance or sensitivity of a microbe to killing by a host .
a stress response phenotype dealing with the response to exposure to sds - edta .
an altered resistance to sds - edta stress phenotype where the resistance that microbes in a population show when exposed to sds - edta is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to sds - edta stress phenotype where the resistance that microbes in a population show when exposed to sds - edta is increased relative to a designated control .
a cellular process phenotype that relates to the progression of biochemical and morphological events that occur in a cell during cell replication or nuclear replication events .
a microbial phenotype related to a biological process that involves two or more organisms of the same or different species .
a hemolysis test phenotype where a cell or cells causes hemolysis .
a resistance to acidic ph stress phenotype where the resistance or sensitivity that microbes in a population show when exposed to acidic ph is altered relative to a designated control .
a resistance to alkaline ph stress phenotype where the resistance or sensitivity that microbes in a population show when exposed to alkaline ph stress is altered relative to a designated control .
a resistance to dessication stress phenotype where the resistance or sensitivity that microbes in a population show when exposed to dessication stress is altered relative to a designated control .
a resistance to freeze / thawing stress phenotype where the resistance or sensitivity that microbes in a population show when exposed to cycles of freezing and thawing is altered relative to a designated control .
a resistance to oxidative stress phenotype where the resistance or sensitivity that microbes in a population show to an oxidative stress is altered relative to a designated control .
a resistance to gamma - ray radiation phenotype where the resistance or sensitivity that microbes in a population show when exposed to gamma - ray radiation is altered relative to a designated control .
a resistance to x - ray radiation phenotype where the resistance or sensitivity that microbes in a population show when exposed to x - rays is altered relative to a designated control .
a uv - radiation resistance phenotype where the resistance or sensitivity that microbes in a population show when exposed to uv radiation is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered chemical stress phenotype where the resistance or sensitivity that microbes in a population show when exposed to sds - edta is altered relative to a designated control .
a decreased resistance to acidic ph stress phenotype where resistance of microbes in a population to acidic ph is abolished .
a decreased resistance to alkaline ph stress phenotype where the resistance of microbes in a population to alkaline ph is abolished .
a biofilm formation phenotype where the occurrence ,  extent ,  or timing of biofilm formation is altered relative to a designated control .
an enzymatic activity phenotype where a specified enzymatic activity is altered relative to a designated control .
a decreased resistance to oxidative stress phenotype where the resistance of microbes in a population to oxidative stress is abolished .
a decreased resistance to gamma - ray radiation phenotype where the resistance of microbes in a population to gamma - ray radiation is abolished .
a decreased x - ray radiation resistance phenotype where resistance to x - ray radiation is abolished .
a decreased resistance to uv radiation phenotype where the resistance of microbes in a population to uv radiation is abolished .
a decreased sds - edta stress phenotype where the resistance that microbes in a population show when exposed to sds - edta is abolished .
a cellular process phenotype where the progression of a microbial cell through the cell cycle is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered septation phenotype where formation of new cell septa is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered septation phenotype where formation of new cell septa is decreased relative to a designated control .
a resistance to killing by host phenotype where a microbe is resistant to killing by a host .
a resistance to killing by host phenotype where a microbe is sensitive to killing by a host .
a resistance to killing by host phenotype where the resistance or sensitivity of a microbe to killing by a host cells is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to killing by host phenotype where the ability of a microbe to resist killing by a host is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to killing by host phenotype where the ability of a microbe to resist killing by a host is decreased relative to a designated control .
a cell morphology phenotype that relates to the morphology of the vacuole ,  a closed structure ,  found primarily in eukaryotic cells ,  that is completely surrounded by a unit membrane and contains liquid material .
a vacuolar morphology phenotype where the morphology of a vacuole or vacuoles in a cell is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered vacuolar morphology phenotype where the size of the vacuole is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered vacuolar morphology phenotype where the size of the vacuole is increased relative to a designated control .
an enzymatic activity phenotype that relates to the presence or absence of ferric reductase ,  a class of flavin reductases .
a ferric reductase phenotype where an organism does not exhibit ferric reductase activity .
a ferric reductase phenotype where ferric reductase activity is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered ferric reductase activity phenotype where ferric reductase activity is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered ferric reductase activity phenotype where ferric reductase activity is increased relative to a designated control .
a ferric reductase phenotype where an organism exhibits ferric reductase activity .
an enzymatic activity phenotype that relates to the presence or absence of protein kinase a ,  an enzyme that belongs to the kinase agc group .
a protein kinase a phenotype where an organism does not exhibit protein kinase a activity .
a protein kinase a phenotype where protein kinase a activity is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered protein kinase a activity phenotype where protein kinase a activity is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered protein kinase a activity phenotype where protein kinase a activity is increased relative to a designated control .
a protein kinase a phenotype where an organism exhibits protein kinase a activity .
an enzymatic activity phenotype that relates to the presence or absence of phosphatase ,  an enzyme that acts to modulate protein activity in cells .
a phosphatase phenotype where an organism does not exhibit phosphatase activity .
a phosphatase phenotype where phosphatase activity is altered relative to a designated control .
a phosphatase activity phenotype where phosphatase activity is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered phosphatase activity phenotype where phosphatase activity is increased relative to a designated control .
a phosphatase phenotype where an organism exhibits phosphatase activity .
an enzymatic activity phenotype relating to the presence or absence of  superoxide dismutase ,  an enzyme that catalyzes the reaction:  2 superoxide  +  2 h +  = o2  +  hydrogen peroxide .
a superoxide dismutase phenotype where an organism does not exhibit superoxide dismutase activity .
a superoxide dismutase phenotype where superoxide dismutase activity is altered relative to a designated control .
a superoxide dismutase activity phenotype where superoxide dismutase activity is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered superoxide dismutase activity phenotype where superoxide dismutase activity is increased relative to a designated control .
a superoxide dismutase phenotype where an organism exhibits superoxide dismutase activity .
an altered cell cycle phenotype where progression of the cell cycle is delayed relative to a designated control .
an enzymatic activity phenotype that relates to the presence or absence of acid phosphatase ,  an enzyme that removes phosphoryl groups from other molecules .
an acid phosphatase activity phenotype where a cell or cells exhibits acid phosphatase activity .
an acid phosphatase activity phenotype where a cell or cells lacks acid phosphatase activity .
an acid phosphatase activity phenotype where acid phosphatase activity is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered acid phosphatase activity phenotype where acid phosphatase activity is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased acid phosphatase activity phenotype where acid phosphatase activity is abolished .
an altered acid phosphatase activity phenotype where acid phosphatase activity is increased relative to a designated control .
a physical cellular phenotype relating to the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the cytoskeleton of a microbial cell .
a cytoskeleton morphology phenotype where the morphology of the cytoskeleton is altered relative to a designated control .
a subcellular component phenotype relating to the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the actin cytoskeleton of a microbial cell .
an actin cytoskeleton phenotype where a microbial cell or cells lack an actin cytoskeleton .
an actin cytoskeleton phenotype where a microbial cell or cells exhibit an actin cytoskeleton .
an altered actin cytoskeleton phenotype where the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the actin cytoskeleton is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered cytoskeleton morphology phenotype where  \ ncytoskeleton morphology is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased cytoskeleton morphology phenotype where cytoskeleton morphology is abolished .
an altered cytoskeleton morphology phenotype where  \ ncytoskeleton morphology is increased relative to a designated control .
a population growth range phenotype related to whether a microbial population can grow in the absence of oxygen .
a population growth range phenotype where a microbial population is able to grow in the absence of oxygen .
an anaerobic growth range phenotype where a microbial population cannot grow in the absence of oxygen .
a population growth range phenotype where the ability of a microbial population to grow in the absence of oxygen is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered anaerobic growth phenotype where the anaerobic growth yield is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered anaerobic growth phenotype where the anaerobic growth yield is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered anaerobic population growth phenotype where growth of a microbial population in the absence of oxygen is abolished .
an altered anaerobic growth phenotype where the anaerobic growth rate is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered anaerobic growth phenotype where the anaerobic growth rate is decreased relative to a designated control .
an enzymatic activity phenotype that relates to the presence or absence of alpha - 1 , 3 -  mannosyltransferase .
an alpha - 1 , 3 - mannosyltransferase activity phenotype where an organism exhibits alpha - 1 , 3 - mannosyltransferase activity .
an alpha - 1 , 3 - mannosyltransferase activity phenotype where an organism lacks alpha - 1 , 3 - mannosyltransferase activity .
an alpha - 1 , 3 -  mannosyltransferase activity phenotype where alpha - 1 , 3 - mannosyltransferase activity is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered alpha - 1 , 3 - mannosyltransferase activity phenotype where alpha - 1 , 3 -  mannosyltransferase activity is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered alpha - 1 , 3 - mannosyltransferase activity phenotype where alpha - 1 , 3 -  mannosyltransferase activity is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered alpha - 1 , 3 - mannosyltransferase activity phenotype where alpha - 1 , 3 -  mannosyltransferase activity is abolished .
a biological process phenotype that relates to the ability of a microbe to attach to a substrate in the environment or in a host ,  either directly or indirectly .
an adhesion phenotype that relates to the ability of a microbe to attach to a host via adhesion molecules ,  general stickiness ,  etc . ,  either directly or indirectly .
an adhesion to host phenotype where a microbe lacks the ability to attach to a host .
an adhesion to host phenotype where a microbe has the ability to attach to a host .
an adhesion to host phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of attachment of a microbe to a host is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered adhesion to host phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of attachment of a microbe to a host is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased adhesion to host phenotype where attachment of a microbe to a host is abolished .
an altered adhesion to host phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of attachment of a microbe to a host is increased relative to a designated control .
an adhesion phenotype where a microbe has the ability to attach to a substrate in the environment or in a host ,  either directly or indirectly .
an adhesion phenotype where a microbe lacks the ability to attach to a substrate in the environment or in a host ,  either directly or indirectly .
an adhesion phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of attachment of a microbe to a surface is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered adhesion phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of attachment of a microbe to a surface is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered adhesion phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of attachment of a microbe to a surface is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased adhesion phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of attachment of a microbe to a surface is abolished .
a cellular process phenotype involving the fusion of individual cells from different organisms .
a cell fusion phenotype where fusion of individual cells from different organisms occurs .
a cell fusion phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of cell fusion is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered cell fusion phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of cell fusion is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered cell fusion phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of fusion is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased cell fusion phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing or extent of cell fusion is abolished .
an altered cell fusion phenotype where the occurrence of cell fusion is delayed relative to a designated control .
a cell fusion phenotype relating to the fusion of individual cells from each partner during mating .
a cell fusion during mating phenotype where individual cells from each partner fuse during mating .
a cell fusion during mating phenotype where cell fusion does not occur during mating .
a cell fusion during mating phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of cell fusion during mating is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered cell fusion during mating phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of cell fusion is increased during mating .
an altered cell fusion during mating phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,   or extent of cell fusion is decreased during mating .
a decreased cell fusion during mating phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of fusion during mating is abolished .
this term was made obsolete because it is a duplicate of omp:0005233 .
a cell wall morphology phenotype where the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of the cell wall is altered relative to a designated control .
a cell wall morphology phenotype where a cell or cells exhibit a cell wall .
a cell wall morphology phenotype where a cell or cells lack a cell wall .
a cellular component phenotype relating to the golgi apparatus ,  which is the endomembranous cytoplasmic eukaryotic organelle involved in secretion and intracellular transport .
a golgi apparatus phenotype that relates to the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of the golgi apparatus or its parts .
a golgi apparatus morphology phenotype where the morphology of the golgi apparatus is altered relative to a designated control .
a golgi apparatus phenotype where a cell or cells exhibit a golgi apparatus .
a golgi apparatus phenotype where a cell or cells lack a golgi apparatus .
an altered cell fusion during mating phenotype where the timing of cell fusion during mating is delayed relative to a designated control .
an organismal growth phenotype relating to the process by which a multicellular organism ,  a unicellular organism ,  or a group of unicellular organisms grow in a threadlike ,  filamentous shape .
a filamentous growth phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of  filamentous growth is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered filamentous growth phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of filamentous growth is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered filamentous growth phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of filamentous is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased filamentous growth phenotype where the ability of a microorganism to exhibit filamentous growth is abolished .
a filamentous growth phenotype where a microbe exhibits filamentous growth .
a filamentous growth phenotype where a microbe does not exhibit filamentous growth .
a population growth range phenotype related to the ability of a microbial population to grow in the presence of oxygen gas  ( o2 )  at the level found in air  ( approximately 21% )  .
an aerobic population growth phenotype where a microbial population cannot grow in the presence of atmospheric levels of o2  ( approximately 21% )  .
a population growth range phenotype where the ability of a microbial population to growth in the presence of atmospheric levels of oxygen gas  ( approximately 20% o2 )  is altered relative to a designated control .
a population growth range phenotype where a microbial population is able to grow in the presence of atmospheric levels of oxygen gas  ( approximately 21% o2 )  .
a population growth range phenotype relating to the ability of a microbial population to grow when o2 levels are within the range xx - xx% o2 ,  but does not grow at higher levels of o2 or in the absence of o2 .
a hypoxic growth phenotype in which a cell or cells are able to grow and / or reproduce in hypoxic conditions .
a population growth range phenotype in which a microbial population cannot grow in a microaerophilic environment .
a population growth range phenotype where the ability of a microbial population to grow in a microaerophilic environment is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered microaerophilic population growth phenotype where the rate of growth of a microbial population in a microaerophilic environment is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered microaerophilic population growth phenotype where the rate of growth of a microbial population in a microaerophilic environment is decreased relative to a designated control .
a cellular process phenotype relating to transport ,  which is the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  or cellular components  ( such as complexes and organelles )  into ,  out of ,  or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter ,  pore or motor protein .
a transport phenotype relating to endocytosis ,  which is a vesicle - mediated transport process in which cells take up external materials or membrane constituents by the invagination of a small region of the plasma membrane to form a new membrane - bounded vesicle .
an endocytosis phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of the process of endocytosis is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered endocytosis phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of endocytosis is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered endocytosis phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of endocytosis is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased endocytosis phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of endocytosis is abolished .
an altered endocytosis phenotype where endocytosis begins later than in a designated control .
an endocytosis phenotype where an organism ,  cell , or cells possess the ability to perform endocytosis .
an endocytosis phenotype where an organism ,  cell ,  or cells lacks the ability to perform endocytosis .
a cellular component phenotype relating to the endomembrane ,  a collection of membranous structures involved in transport within the cell .
an endomembrane system phenotype that relates to the form and structure of components of the endomembrane system .
an endomembrane system morphology phenotype where the morphology of the endomembrane system is altered relative to a designated control .
an endomembrane system phenotype where an organism ,   cell ,  or cells exhibit an endomembrane system .
an endomembrane system phenotype where an organism ,  cell ,  or cells lack an endomembrane system .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype related to resistance or sensitivity to an organic heterocyclic compound ,  which is any cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of carbon and at least of one other element .
an organic heterocyclic compound resistance phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of resistance to an organic heterocyclic compound is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered organic heterocyclic compound resistance phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of resistance to an organic heterocyclic compound is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased resistance to organic heterocyclic compounds phenotype where resistance an organic heterocyclic compound is abolished .
an altered organic heterocyclic compound resistance phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of resistance to an organic heterocyclic compound is increased relative to a designated control .
an organic heterocyclic compound resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is sensitive to an organic heterocyclic compound .
an organic heterocyclic compound resistance phenotype where an organism ,  cell ,  or cells is resistant to an organic heterocyclic compounds .
a colonization of a host phenotype relating to the ability of a microbe to colonize a host tissue .
a colonization of host tissue phenotype where a microbe is able to colonize the tissue of a host .
a colonization of host tissue phenotype where a microbe is unable to colonize the tissue of a host .
a colonization of host tissue phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of colonization of a host tissue is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered colonization of host tissue phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of colonization of a host tissue is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered colonization of host tissue phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of colonization of a host tissue is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased colonization of host tissue phenotype where colonization of  a host tissue is abolished .
a colonization of a host phenotype that deals with the ability of a microbe to colonize tissue of an immunocompromised host .
a colonization of tissue in an immunocompromised host phenotype where a microbe is able to colonize tissue of an immunocompromised host .
a colonization of tissue in an immunocompromised host phenotype where a microbe is unable to colonize tissue of an immunocompromised host .
a colonization of tissue in an immunocompromised host phenotype where the frequency rate ,  timing ,  or extent of colonization of tissue of an immunocompromised host is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered colonization of tissue in an immunocompromised host phenotype where the frequency rate ,  timing ,  or extent of colonization of tissue in an immunocompromised host is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered colonization of tissue in an immunocompromised host phenotype where the frequency rate ,  timing ,  or extent of colonization of tissue is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased colonization of tissue in an immunocompromised host phenotype where colonization is abolished .
a colonization of host tissue phenotype related to the ability of a microbe to colonize mouse tissue .
a colonization of mouse tissue phenotype where a microbe is able to colonize mouse tissue .
a colonization of mouse tissue phenotype where a microbe is unable to colonize mouse tissue .
a colonization of mouse tissue phenotype where the frequency rate ,  timing ,  or extent of colonization is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered colonization of mouse tissue phenotype where the frequency rate ,  timing ,  or extent of colonization is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered colonization of mouse tissue phenotype where the frequency rate ,  timing ,  or extent of colonization is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased colonization of mouse tissue phenotype where colonization is abolished .
a colonization of host tissue phenotype that related to the ability of a microbe to colonize tissue of an immunocompromised mouse .
a colonization of tissue in an immunocompromised mouse phenotype  where a microbe is able to colonize the tissue of an immunocompromised mouse .
a colonization of immunocompromised mouse tissue phenotype where a microbe is unable to colonize the tissue of an immunocompromised mouse .
a colonization of tissue in an immunocompromised mouse phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of colonization is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered colonization of tissue in an immunocompromised mouse phenotype  where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of colonization is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered colonization of tissue in an immunocompromised mouse phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of colonization is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased colonization of tissue in an immunocompromised mouse phenotype where colonization is abolished .
a colonization of host tissue phenotype related to the ability of a microbe to colonize rabbit tissue .
a colonization of rabbit tissue phenotype where a microbe is able to colonize rabbit tissue .
a colonization of rabbit tissue phenotype where a microbe is unable to colonize rabbit tissue .
a colonization of rabbit tissue phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of colonization is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered colonization of rabbit tissue phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of colonization in rabbit tissue is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered colonization of rabbit tissue phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of colonization is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased colonization of rabbit tissue phenotype where the colonization of rabbit tissue is abolished .
a colonization of host tissue phenotype related to the ability of a microbe to colonize tissue in an immunocompromised rabbit .
a colonization of tissue in an immunocompromised rabbit phenotype where a microbe is able to colonize tissue of an immunocompromised rabbit .
a colonization of tissue in an immunocompromised rabbit phenotype a microbe is unable to colonize the tissue of an immunocompromised rabbit .
a colonization of tissue in an immunocompromised rabbit phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of colonization is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered colonization of tissue in an immunocompromised rabbit phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of colonization is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered colonization of tissue in an immunocompromised rabbit phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of colonization is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased colonization of tissue in an immunocompromised rabbit phenotype where colonization is abolished .
a cell motility by swarming phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of swarming is altered relative to a designated control .
a cell motility by swimming phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of swimming is altered relative to a designated control .
an organismal growth phenotype relating to the ability of a microbe to penetrate agar media during growth .
an agar invasion phenotype where a microbe has the ability to penetrate agar media during growth .
an agar invasion phenotype where a microbe lacks the ability to penetrate agar media during growth .
an agar invasion phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of agar invasion is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered agar invasion phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of agar invasion is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered agar invasion phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of agar invasion is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased agar invasion phenotype where the ability to invade agar media is abolished .
a cellular component phenotype relating to the localization or placement of proteins within a cell .
a protein localization phenotype in which the localization or placement of proteins within a cell is altered relative to a designated control .
a protein localization phenotype where an organism ,   cell ,  or cells exhibit protein localization .
a protein localization phenotype where an organism ,  cell ,  or cells lack protein localization .
a cell death phenotype relating to cytolysis ,  which is the rupture of cell membranes and the loss of cytoplasm .
a cell lysis phenotype where cytolysis doesn't occur .
a cell lysis phenotype where cytolysis occurs .
a cell lysis phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of cytolysis is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered cell lysis phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of cytolysis is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased cell lysis phenotype where cytolysis is abolished .
an altered cell lysis phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of cytolysis is increased relative to a designated control .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype related to resistance or sensitivity to an organic aromatic compound .
an organic aromatic compound resistance phenotype where resistance to an organic aromatic compound is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered organic aromatic compound resistance phenotype where resistance to one or more is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased resistance to organic aromatic compounds phenotype where resistance to one or more organic aromatic compounds is abolished .
an altered organic aromatic compound resistance phenotype where resistance to one or more organic aromatic compounds is increased relative to a designated control .
an organic aromatic compound resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is sensitive to one or more organic aromatic compounds .
an organic aromatic compound resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is resistant to one or more organic aromatic compounds .
a mating phenotype where an organism uses the process of conjugation for sexual reproduction .
a mating phenotype where an organism does not use the process of conjugation for sexual reproduction .
a mating phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of sexual reproduction by conjugation  is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered mating phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of sexual reproduction by conjugation  is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered mating phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of sexual reproduction by conjugation is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased mating phenotype where sexual reproduction by conjugation is abolished .
a sexual reproduction phenotype relating to the efficiency of mating ,  which is the proportion of cells within a population that are able to mate .
a mating efficiency phenotype where the efficiency of mating is altered relative to a designated control .
a mating efficiency phenotype where the efficiency of mating is increased relative to a designated control .
a mating efficiency phenotype where the efficiency of mating is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased mating efficiency phenotype where mating is abolished .
a taxis phenotype where the directed movement of a motile microbe is in response to an osmotic concentration gradient  ( formerly called osmolarity )  .
an osmotaxis phenotype where a motile microbe displays directed movement in response to an osmotic concentration gradient .
an osmotaxis phenotype where a motile microbe doesn't display directed movement in response to an osmotic concentration gradient .
a presence of osmotaxis phenotype where a motile microbe displays osmotaxis towards a higher osmotic concentration .
a presence of osmotaxis phenotype where a motile microbe displays osmotaxis away from a higher osmotic concentration .
a decreased osmotaxis phenotype where osmotaxis by a motile microbe is abolished .
an absence of osmotaxis phenotype where an organism doesn't display negative osmotaxis .
a decreased negative osmotaxis phenotype where negative osmotaxis by a motile microbe is abolished .
a presence of osmotaxis phenotype where an organism doesn't display positive osmotaxis .
a decreased positive osmotaxis phenotype where positive osmotaxis by a motile microbe is abolished .
an osmotaxis phenotype where directed movement of a motile microbe in response to an osmotic concentration gradient is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered osmotaxis phenotype where osmotaxis by a motile microbe is decreased relative to a designated control .
a cell population phenotype relating to the fraction of cells in a population that form spores under sporulation - inducing conditions .
an altered osmotaxis phenotype where osmotaxis by a motile microbe is increased relative to a designated control .
an increased osmotaxis phenotype where negative osmotaxis by a motile microbe is increased relative to a designated control .
an increased osmotaxis phenotype where positive osmotaxis by a motile microbe  is increased relative to a designated control .
a sporulation frequency phenotype relating to the fraction of cells in a population that undergo meiosis and forms spores under sporulation - inducing conditions .
a sexual sporulation efficiency phenotype where the efficiency of sexual sporulation is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered sexual sporulation frequency phenotype where the fraction of cells in a population that undergo meiosis and forms spores under sporulation - inducing conditions is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered sexual sporulation frequency phenotype where the fraction of cells in a population that undergo meiosis and forms spores under sporulation - inducing conditions is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased sexual sporulation frequency phenotype where the fraction of cells in a population that undergo meiosis and forms spores under sporulation - inducing conditions is below the limits of detection .
a virion morphology phenotype that is referring to the form and structure of tails on viral particles .
a tail morphology phenotype where the virus has a tail present .
a tail length phenotype where the maximum length of the tail is 17 nm .
a tail length phenotype ranging from 18 nm to 109 nm .
a virion morphology phenotype related to the form and structure of the capsid of the virion .
a tail length phenotype ranging from 110 nm to 300 nm .
a phage tail phenotype where the tail contracts to inject its dna into the host .
a phage tail phenotype where the tail does not contract to inject its dna into the host .
a phage tail phenotype where only one tail per virion is present .
a phage tail phenotype where more than one tail per virion is present .
a tail morphology phenotype where the virus has no tail .
a virion morphology phenotype where the isolated virions do not show presence of a tail ,  but rather ,  the tail is only seen during infection or through some other manipulation of the virion .
a capsid morphology phenotype where the capsid is shaped like a polyhedron which is a solid formed by plane faces .
a capsid morphology phenotype where the capsid is shaped like an icosahedron ,  which is a polyhedron with 20 faces .
a capsid morphology phenotype where the capsid is shaped isometrically which is a shape that is characterized by equality of measure .
a capsid morphology phenotype where the capsid is shaped like an octahedron which is a polyhedron with 8 plane faces .
a capsid morphology phenotype where the capsid is shaped like a dodecahedron which is a polyhedron with 12 plane faces .
a small molecule biosynthesis phenotype where an organism produces a secondary metabolite ,  which is a compound not directly involved in normal growth ,  development or reproduction .
a chromosome segregation phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of chromosome segregation is altered relative to a designated control .
a homologous recombination phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of recombination is altered relative to a designated control .
a gene silencing phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of gene silencing is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered budding phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of budding is increased relative to a designated control .
a site specific recombination phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of site - specific recombination is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered budding phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of budding is decreased relative to a designated control .
a heterocyst formation phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of heterocyst formation is altered relative to a designated control .
a phototrophic phenotype where light is used as an energy source to fix carbon to create chemical energy in the form of carbohydrate molecules .
a myxospore formation phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of myxospore formation is altered relative to a designated control .
a pilus phenotype where the morphology ,  number ,  or location of a pilus is altered relative to a designated control .
a bacteriocin resistance phenotype related to resistance or sensitivity to peptides that contain the thioether amino acids lanthionine or methyllanthionine ,  and the unsaturated amino acids dehydroalanine and 2 - aminoisobutyric acid .
a lantibiotic resistance phenotype where resistance is decreased relative to a designated control .
a transposable element transposition phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of transposable element transposition is altered relative to a designated control .
a lantibiotic resistance phenotype where resistance is increased relative to a designated control .
a transposable element transposition phenotype where a cell or cells have  transposition of transposable elements .
a transposable element transposition phenotype where a cell or cells lack transposition of transposable elements .
an aminoglycoside resistance phenotype where resistance to an aminoglycoside compound is altered relative to a designated control .
an aminopyrimidine resistance phenotype where resistance to an aminopyrimidine compound is altered relative to a designated control .
an azole resistance phenotype where resistance to an azole compound is altered relative to a designated control .
a bacteriocin resistance phenotype where resistance to a bacteriocin is altered relative to a designated control .
a beta - lactam resistance phenotype where resistance to a beta - lactam compound is altered relative to a designated control .
a microbial phenotype that affects the utilization of a nutrient ,  which is a substance used for biosynthesis or energy release and capture .
a nutrient utilization phenotype related to the ability of a microbe to utilize a nutrient as a source of carbon .
a carbon source utilization phenotype where a microorganism is able to utilize an organic molecule as its carbon source .
a chloramphenicol resistance phenotype where resistance to chloramphenicol is altered relative to a designated control .
a nutrient utilization phenotype where the nutrient is being utilized as a source of nitrogen .
an antimicrobial peptide resistance phenotype related to resistance or sensitivity to bacteriocins ,  which are polypeptides synthesized by specific strains of bacteria that are active against other cells of the same or different species .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype related to resistance or sensitivity to heteromonocyclic organic compounds consisting of a five - membered mancude - ring containing nitrogen .
an antimicrobial compound resistance phenotype related to resistance or sensitivity to a quinolone: an organonitrogen heterocyclic compound whose structure contains a quinolone or quinolone - related structure .
a nitrogen source utilization phenotype where dinitrogen  ( n2 )  is the source of nitrogen .
a macrolide resistance phenotype where resistance to a macrolide compound is altered relative to a designated control .
a pteridine resistance phenotype where resistance to a pteridine compound is altered relative to a designated control .
an lifespan phenotype that is altered relative to a designated control .
a stress - induced mutagenesis phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of stress - induced mutagenesis is altered relative to a designated control .
a budding phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of the process of budding is altered relative to a designated control .
a macrolide compound resistance phenotype where resistance to a macrolide compound is decreased relative to a designated control .
a macrolide compound resistance phenotype where resistance to a macrolide compound is increased relative to a designated control .
a macrolide compound resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is sensitive to one or more macrolide compounds .
a macrolide compound resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is resistant to one or more macrolide compounds .
a quinolone compound resistance phenotype where resistance to a quinolone compound is decreased relative to a designated control .
a quinolone compound resistance phenotype where resistance to a quinolone compound is increased relative to a designated control .
a quinoline compound resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is sensitive to one or more quinolone compounds .
a quinoline compound resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is resistant to one or more quinolone compounds .
a beta - lactam compound resistance phenotype where resistance to a beta - lactam compound is decreased relative to a designated control .
a beta - lactam compound resistance phenotype where resistance to a beta - lactam compound is increased relative to a designated control .
a beta - lactam compound resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is sensitive to one or more beta - lactam compounds .
an beta - lactam compound resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is resistant to one or more beta - lactam compounds .
an altered bacteriocin resistance phenotype where resistance is decreased relative to a designated control .
a bacteriocin compound resistance phenotype where resistance to a bacteriocin is increased relative to a designated control .
a bacteriocin resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is sensitive to one or more bacteriocins .
a bacteriocin resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is resistant to one or more bacteriocins .
an azole compound resistance phenotype where resistance to an azole compound is decreased relative to a designated control .
an azole compound resistance phenotype where resistance to an azole compound is increased relative to a designated control .
an azole compound resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is sensitive to one or more azole compounds .
an azole compound resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is resistant to one or more azole compounds .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype related to resistance or sensitivity of a microbe to an aminoglycoside antibiotic .
an altered aminoglycoside resistance phenotype where resistance to an aminoglycoside is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered aminoglycoside compound resistance phenotype where resistance is increased relative to a designated control .
an aminoglycoside resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is sensitive to one or more aminoglycosides .
an aminoglycoside resistance phenotype where microbe is resistant to one or more aminoglycoside compounds .
a tetracycline compound resistance phenotype where resistance to a tetracycline compound is decreased relative to a designated control .
an antimicrobial compound resistance phenotype related to resistance or sensitivity to tetracyclines: a subclass of polyketides having an octahydrotetracene - 2 - carboxamide skeleton .
a tetracycline compound resistance phenotype where resistance to a tetracycline compound is increased relative to a designated control .
a tetracycline compound resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is sensitive to one or more tetracyclines .
a tetracycline compound resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is resistant to one or more tetracycline compounds .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype related to resistance or sensitivity to an organochlorine compound that is dichloro - substituted acetamide containing a nitrobenzene ring ,  an amide bond and two alcohol functions .
a chloramphenicol compound resistance phenotype where resistance to a chloramphenicol compound is decreased relative to a designated control .
a chloramphenicol compound resistance phenotype where resistance to a chloramphenicol compound is increased relative to a designated control .
a chloramphenicol compound resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is sensitive to chloramphenicol .
a chloramphenicol compound resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is resistant to chloramphenicol .
a mutation frequency phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of mutations is altered relative to a designated control .
a lantibiotic resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is sensitive to one or more lantibiotics .
a lantibiotic resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is resistant to one or more lantibiotic compounds .
a pteridine resistance phenotype where resistance to a pteridine compound is increased relative to a designated control .
a pteridine compound resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is sensitive to one or more pteridine compounds .
a pteridine compound resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is resistant to one or more pteridine compounds .
a catalase test phenotype where catalase activity is altered relative to a designated control .
a decarboxylase test phenotype where an organism doesn't exhibit decarboxylase activity .
a decarboxylase test phenotype where the phenotype of an organism on a decarboxylase test medium is altered relative to a designated control .
a decarboxylase test phenotype where an organism exhibits decarboxylase activity .
an altered decarboxylase test phenotype where decarboxylase activity is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered decarboxylase test phenotype where decarboxylase activity is decreased relative to a designated control .
an oxidase test phenotype where the phenotype of an organism is altered relative to a designated control .
an oxidase test phenotype where an organism doesn't exhibit oxidase activity .
an oxidase test phenotype where an organism exhibits oxidase activity .
an altered oxidase test phenotype where oxidase activity is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered oxidase test phenotype where oxidase activity is decreased relative to a designated control .
a urease test phenotype where urease activity is altered relative to a designated control .
a urease test phenotype where an organism exhibits urease activity .
a urease test phenotype where an organism doesn't exhibit urease activity .
an altered urease activity phenotype where urease activity is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered urease activity phenotype where there urease activity is decreased relative to a designated control .
a quorum sensing phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of quorum sensing is altered relative to a designated control .
a decreased decarboxylase activity phenotype where decarboxylase activity is abolished .
a decreased enzymatic activity phenotype where a specified enzymatic activity is abolished .
a decreased oxidase activity phenotype where oxidase activity is abolished .
a decreased urease activity phenotype where urease activity is abolished .
a decreased aerotaxis phenotype where the ability of a microbe to perform aerotaxis is abolished .
a decreased budding phenotype where the fraction of budding cells is decreased to zero .
a decreased motility by swimming phenotype where the ability of a microbe to move by swimming motility is abolished .
a caffeine resistance phenotype where resistance to caffeine is abolished .
a decreased amount of capsule phenotype where capsule is abolished .
a decreased carbon source utilization phenotype where the ability to utilize an organic carbon source is abolished .
a decreased catalase activity phenotype where catalase activity is abolished .
a secondary metabolite production phenotype where the metabolite produced is an antimicrobial peptide ,  which can have protective properties against bacteria ,  fungi ,  viruses ,  or protozoa .
an antimicrobial peptide production phenotype where the production of an antimicrobial peptide is altered relative to a designated control .
a outer membrane vesicles phenotype where a cell or cells produce outer membrane vesicles .
a decreased chemotaxis phenotype where chemotaxis by a motile microbe is abolished .
a outer membrane vesicles phenotype where a cell or cells don't produce outer membrane vesicles .
a decreased endospore formation phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of endospore formation is abolished .
a altered chromosome segregation phenotype where the ability to partition a set of chromosomes to daughter cells is abolished .
a decreased frequency of gene silencing phenotype where the ability to silence genes is abolished .
a decreased frequency of homologous recombination phenotype where the ability to perform homologous recombination is abolished .
a decreased frequency of site - specific recombination phenotype where the ability to perform site - specific recombination is abolished .
a decreased gene expression phenotype where expression of a gene or genes is abolished relative to a designated control .
an altered population growth phenotype where growth of a microbial population at acidic ph  (  <  ph 7 )  is abolished .
an altered population growth phenotype where growth of a microbial population at alkaline ph  (  >  ph 7 )  is abolished .
an antimicrobial peptide production phenotype where the amount of antimicrobial peptide produced is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased hemolysis phenotype where hemolysis is abolished .
a decreased heterocyst formation phenotype where the ability to form a heterocyst is abolished .
a decreased induced expression of the sos response phenotype where induced expression of one or more genes in the sos response is abolished .
a decreased basal expression of the sos response phenotype where basal expression of one or more genes in the sos response is abolished .
a decreased mitotic recombination phenotype where the ability to perform mitotic recombination is abolished .
a decreased mutation frequency phenotype where mutations no longer occur . \ n \ n**this term was made obsolete because it describes a phenotype that is unlikely to occur in nature .
a decreased myxospore formation phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of myxospore formation is abolished .
a dna supercoiling phenotype where supercoiling is altered relative to a designated control .
a decrease negative dna supercoiling phenotype where the ability to form negative supercoils in dna is abolished .
a decreased positive dna supercoiling phenotype where the ability to form positive supercoils in dna is abolished .
a dna supercoiling phenotype where negative supercoiling is absent .
a dna supercoiling phenotype where positive supercoiling is absent .
a decreased number of flagella phenotype where the number of flagella per cell is decreased to zero .
a decreased number of pili phenotype where the number of pili is decreased to zero .
a decreased purine requirement phenotype where the requirement for a purine base as a growth factor is abolished .
a decreased quorum sensing phenotype where the ability to perform quorum sensing is abolished .
a decreased biofilm formation phenotype where the ability to form a biofilm is abolished .
a decreased rate of transposition phenotype where the ability to perform transposition is abolished .
a decreased resistance to aminoglycoside phenotype where resistance to an aminoglycoside is abolished .
a decreased resistance to aminopyrimidines phenotype where resistance to aminopyrimidine compounds is abolished .
a decreased resistance to azole phenotype where resistance to azole is abolished .
a decreased resistance to bacteriocin phenotype where resistance to one or more bacteriocins is abolished .
a decreased resistance to beta - lactam phenotype where resistance to beta - lactam is abolished .
a decreased resistance to chloramphenicol phenotype where resistance to chloramphenicol is abolished .
a decreased resistance to lantibiotics phenotype where resistance to lantibiotics is abolished .
a decreased resistance to macrolide phenotype where resistance to macrolides is abolished .
a decreased resistance to pteridine phenotype where resistance to pteridine is abolished .
a decreased resistance to quinolone phenotype where resistance to a quinolone is abolished .
a decreased resistance to tetracycline phenotype where resistance to tetracycline is abolished .
a decreased stress - induced mutagenesis phenotype where stress - induced mutagenesis is abolished .
a decreased dinitrogen utilization phenotype where the ability to fix dinitrogen is abolished .
a decreased utilization of inorganic nitrogen phenotype where an organism loses the ability to utilize inorganic nitrogen .
a decreased utilization of inorganic phosphorus phenotype where the ability to utilize inorganic phosphorus is abolished .
a decreased utilization of inorganic sulfur phenotype where the ability to utilize an inorganic sulfur source is abolished .
an altered nitrogen source utilization phenotype where the ability to use an organic n - containing compound as the source of nitrogen is abolished .
a decreased utilization of organic phosphorus phenotype where the ability to utilize organic phosphorus is abolished .
a decreased utilization of organic sulfur phenotype where the ability to utilize an organic sulfur source is abolished .
an outer membrane vesicle phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of production of outer membrane vesicles is altered relative to a designated control .
a decreased vitamin / enzyme cofactor requirement phenotype where the requirement for a vitamin / enzyme cofactor is abolished .
an altered outer membrane vesicle production phenotype where production of outer membrane vesicles is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered outer membrane vesicle production phenotype where production of outer membrane vesicles is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased outer membrane vesicle phenotype where the ability to produce outer membrane vesicles is abolished .
a endospore formation phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of endospore formation is altered relative to a designated control .
a nanotube phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of formation of the tube structure is altered relative to a designated control .
a heme utilization phenotype where a cell or cells exhibit the ability to utilize heme as a source of iron .
an colony size phenotype where size is altered relative to a designated control .
an akinete morphology phenotype where the organism forms a cylindrical akinete .
a binary fission phenotype where an organism multiplies by the process of binary fission .
a decreased motility by swarming phenotype where the ability of a microbe to move by swarming motility is abolished .
a binary fission phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of binary fission is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered binary fission phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of binary fission is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered binary fission phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of binary fission is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased binary fission phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of binary fission is abolished .
an antimicrobial peptide production phenotype where the amount of antimicrobial peptide produced is increased relative to a designated control .
a multiple fission phenotype where an organism reproduces by the process of multiple fission .
a multiple fission phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of the process of multiple fission is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered multiple fission phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of multiple fission is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered multiple fission phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of multiple fission is increased relative to a designated control .
a decreased multiple fission phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of the process of multiple fission is abolished .
an antimicrobial peptide production phenotype where the organism's ability to produce an antimicrobial peptide is abolished .
an antimicrobial peptide production phenotype where an organism has the ability to produce an antimicrobial peptide .
an antimicrobial peptide production phenotype where an organism does not have the ability to produce an antimicrobial peptide .
a decreased motility phenotype where the ability of a microbe to be motile is abolished .
a motility phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of a microbe's motility is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered dna supercoiling phenotype where positive supercoiling is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered dna supercoiling phenotype where positive supercoiling is increased relative to a designated control .
a pteridine resistance phenotype where resistance to a pteridine compound is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased chemotaxis phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of negative chemotaxis by a motile microbe is decreased relative to a designated control .
a microbial phenotype where the phenotype is observed at the level of a microbial population .
a nutrient utilization phenotype concerning the uptake of one or more nutrients from the environment .
an altered population growth phenotype where the rate and / or extent of growth of a microbial population at an acidic ph  (  < ph 7 )  is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered population growth phenotype where rate and / or extent of growth of a microbial population at acidic ph  (  <  ph 7 )  is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered population growth phenotype where rate and / or extent of growth of a microbial population at alkaline ph  (  >  ph 7 )  is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered population growth phenotype where rate and / or extent of growth of a microbial population at alkaline ph  (  >  ph 7 )  is increased relative to a designated control .
a carbon source utilization phenotype where a microbe can use an inorganic form of carbon ,  typically co2 or carbonate ,  as the sole or primary carbon source .
a nitrogen source utilization phenotype where an inorganic nitrogen - containing compound is the source of nitrogen .
a nitrogen source utilization phenotype where an organic nitrogen - containing compound is the source of nitrogen .
a nutrient uptake phenotype that is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered nutrient import phenotype where import is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased nutrient import phenotype where the ability to import a nutrient into a cell or organism is abolished .
a growth factor requirement phenotype where an organism can synthesize all organic compounds essential for its growth from a single carbon substrate and inorganic chemicals .
an amino acid requirement phenotype where an organism's requirement for an amino acid in the growth medium is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered biofilm phenotype where the amount of biofilm is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered amino acid requirement phenotype where an organism's requirement for an amino acid in the growth medium is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered purine requirement phenotype where an organism's requirement for a purine base is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered purine requirement phenotype where an organism's requirement for a purine base is increased relative to a designated control .
a vitamin / enzyme cofactor requirement phenotype the requirement for a vitamin / enzyme cofactor is increased relative to a designated control .
a vitamin / enzyme cofactor requirement phenotype the requirement for a vitamin / enzyme cofactor in the growth medium is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered biofilm phenotype where the amount of biofilm is decreased relative to a designated control .
a quorum sensing phenotype where organisms ability to monitor their population density is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered quorum sensing phenotype where the ability of organisms to monitor their population density is decreased relative to a designated control .
a dinitrogen  ( n2 )  utilization phenotype where the ability to use n2 as a nitrogen source is decreased relative to a designated control .
a dinitrogen  ( n2 )  utilization phenotype where the nitrogen source is increased relative to a designated control .
a dinitrogen utilization phenotype where an organism can use n2 as the source of nitrogen .
an inorganic nitrogen source utilization phenotype where the ability to use an inorganic n - containing compound as the source of nitrogen is decreased relative to a designated control .
an inorganic nitrogen source utilization phenotype where the ability to use an inorganic n - containing compound as the source of nitrogen is increased relative to a designated control .
an inorganic nitrogen source utilization phenotype where an inorganic n - containing compound can be used as a nitrogen source .
an altered nitrogen source utilization phenotype where the ability to use an organic n - containing compound as the source of nitrogen is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered nitrogen source utilization phenotype where the ability to use an organic n - containing compound as the source of nitrogen is increased relative to a designated control .
an organic nitrogen source utilization phenotype where an organism can use an organic n - containing compound as the source of nitrogen .
a growth factor requirement phenotype where the required growth factor is one or more amino acids .
a requires growth factor ( s )  phenotype where the required growth factor is a purine base .
a requires growth factor ( s )  phenotype where the required growth factor is a vitamin or enzyme cofactor .
a decreased chemotaxis phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of positive chemotaxis by a motile microbe is decreased relative to a designated control .
a nutrient utilization phenotype where the nutrient is used as a source of sulfur .
a nutrient utilization phenotype where the nutrient is being used as a source of phosphorus .
a nutrient utilization phenotype related to whether an organism requires an essential organic compound  ( growth factor )  for growth and reproduction .
a phosphorus source utilization phenotype where an inorganic p - containing compound is used as the source of phosphorus .
a phosphorus source utilization phenotype where an organic p - containing compound is used as the source of phosphorus .
an inorganic phosphorus source utilization phenotype where the ability to use an inorganic p - containing compound as the source of phosphorus is decreased relative to a designated control .
an inorganic phosphorus source utilization phenotype where the ability to use an inorganic p - containing compound as the source of phosphorus is increased relative to a designated control .
an inorganic phosphorus source utilization phenotype where an organism can use an inorganic p - containing compound as the source of phosphorus .
an organic phosphorus source utilization phenotype where the ability to use an organic p - containing compound as the source of phosphorus is decreased relative to a designated control .
an organic phosphorus source utilization phenotype where the ability to use an organic p - containing compound as the source of phosphorus is increased relative to a designated control .
an organic phosphorus source utilization phenotype where an organism can use an organic p - containing compound as the source of phosphorus .
an increased chemotaxis phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of positive chemotaxis by a motile microbe is increased relative to a designated control .
an increased chemotaxis phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of negative chemotaxis by a motile microbe is increased relative to a designated control .
an inorganic sulfur source utilization phenotype where the organism has decreased ability to use an inorganic s - containing compound as the source of sulfur relative to a designated control .
an inorganic sulfur source utilization phenotype where the organism has increased ability to use an inorganic s - containing compound as the source of sulfur relative to a designated control .
a sulfur source utilization phenotype where an organism uses an inorganic s - containing compound as the source of sulfur .
an organic sulfur source utilization phenotype where the organism has decreased ability to use an organic s - containing compound as the source of sulfur relative to a designated control .
an organic sulfur source utilization phenotype where the organism has increased ability to use an organic s - containing compound as the source of sulfur relative to a designated control .
a sulfur source utilization phenotype where an organism uses an organic s - containing compound as the source of sulfur .
a nutrient utilization phenotype where the nutrient is being used as a source of iron .
a heterocyst formation phenotype where the ability to form heterocysts is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered myxospore formation phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of myxospore formation is increased relative to a designated control .
an energy metabolism phenotype where light is used as the energy source .
an antimicrobial compound resistance phenotype related to resistance or sensitivity to an organonitrogen heterocyclic compound .
a microbial phenotype related to asexual reproduction ,  the biological process in which new individuals are produced by either a single cell or by a group of cells in the absence of any sexual process .
an asexual reproduction phenotype related to the process of binary fission ,  where a parental cell divides into two daughter cells of approximately equal size and shape .
an asexual reproduction phenotype related to the process of multiple fission ,  where the genome is multiplied multiple times prior to division of the cytoplasm and formation of multiple daughter cells .
a growth factor requirement phenotype where a microorganism is unable to synthesize an organic compound that is required for growth and reproduction .
an altered carbon source utilization phenotype where the ability to use an organic carbon source is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered carbon source utilization phenotype where the ability to use an organic carbon source is increased relative to a designated control .
a respiration phenotype where electrons are transferred to a final electron acceptor that is not oxygen  ( o2 )  .
an energy metabolism phenotype where electrons derived from oxidation of a nutrient are transferred to an endogenous terminal electron acceptor without the involvement of an electron transport chain .
a growth factor requirement phenotype where an organism's requirement for one or more growth factors is increased relative to a designated control .
a growth factor requirement phenotype where the requirement for one or more growth factors is decreased relative to a designated control .
an aerotaxis phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of directed movement in response to environmental oxygen is altered relative to a designated control .
a chemotaxis phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of chemotaxis by a motile microbe is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered nutrient utilization phenotype where the ability of a microbe to utilize a nutrient as the source of carbon is altered relative to a designated control .
a growth factor requirement phenotype where an organism's requirement for a growth factor for growth and reproduction is altered relative to a designated control .
a gene expression phenotype where expression of a gene or genes is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered growth factor requirement phenotype where the requirement for a purine base as a growth factor is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered growth factor requirement phenotype where the requirement for a vitamin / enzyme cofactor in the growth medium s altered relative to a designated control .
an altered cell morphology phenotype in which the volume or dimensions of a microbial cell are altered relative to a designated control .
an altered cell size phenotype where the long axis of a cell or cells is decreased relative to a designated control .
a microbial phenotype that is altered in some way relative to a designated control .
a sulfur source utilization phenotype that is altered relative to a designated control .
an iron source utilization phenotype that is altered relative to a designated control .
a heme utilization phenotype altered relative to a designated control .
a decreased heme utilization phenotype where the ability to utilize heme as a source of iron is abolished .
an altered cell shape phenotype where a cell's shape is more rod - like than that of a designated control .
a decreased motility phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of cell motility by gliding is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased motility phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of motility by swarming is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased motility phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of motility by swimming is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased motility phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of motility by twitching is decreased relative to a designated control .
an increased motility phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of motility by gliding is increased relative to a designated control .
an increased motility phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of motility by swarming is increased relative to a designated control .
an increased motility phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of motility by swimming is increased relative to a designated control .
an increased motility phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of motility by twitching is increased relative to a designated control .
a cell shape phenotype where a cell has a consistently - sized round cross section .
a cell shape phenotype where a cell has a sphere - like shape ,  i .e .
a cell shape phenotype where the shape of a cell is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered cell shape phenotype where a cell's shape is rounder than that of a designated control .
a cell morphology phenotype where the morphology  ( i .e . ,  size ,  shape ,  and structure )  of a cell is altered relative to a designated control .
a nutrient utilization phenotype that is altered relative to a designated control .
a flagellum phenotype where the composition ,  structure ,  or number of flagella is altered relative to a designated control .
a gene expression phenotype that affects dna - dependent transcription .
a gene expression phenotype that affects translation of one or more mrnas .
a transcription phenotype where transcription of a gene or genes is altered relative to a designated control .
an energy metabolism phenotype where energy is obtained from the oxidation of chemicals .
a chemotrophic phenotype where energy is obtained from the oxidation of inorganic chemicals .
a chemotrophic phenotype where energy is derived from the oxidation of organic molecules .
an energy metabolism phenotype where electrons from an oxidized chemical are transferred via an electron transport chain to an exogenous electron acceptor .
a chemolithotrophic phenotype where energy is obtained from the oxidation of ferrous iron  ( fe2 +  )  .
a chemolithotrophic phenotype where energy is derived from the oxidation of hydrogen sulfide  ( h2s )  .
a population growth phenotype where the rate at which a population of microbes multiplies is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered cell shape phenotype where the stalk of a stalk - shaped cell is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered transcription phenotype where transcription of a gene or genes is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered transcription phenotype where transcription of a gene or genes is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased transcription phenotype where transcription of a gene or genes is abolished relative to a designated control .
a decreased transcription phenotype where transcription of a gene or genes dependent upon a particular sigma factor is decreased relative to a designated control .
an increased transcription phenotype where transcription of a gene or genes dependent upon a particular sigma factor is increased relative to a designated control .
a translation phenotype where translation of one or more mrnas is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered translation phenotype where translation of one or more mrnas is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered translation phenotype where translation of one or more mrnas is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased translation phenotype where translation of one or more mrnas is abolished .
a colony consistency phenotype where a colony or colonies have a sticky or gummy consistency .
a taxis phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of directed movement of a microbe in response to an external stimulus is altered relative to a designated control .
a cell arrangement phenotype where the arrangement of cells is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered outer membrane vesicles phenotypes where the production of outer membrane vesicles is altered relative to a designated control .
a microbial phenotype related to the presence or absence of a biochemical activity in a test used to differentiate and identify microorganisms .
a differential media phenotype where the results of a differential test are altered relative to a designated control .
an altered flagellum length phenotype where the length of the flagellum is shorter than a designated control .
a capsule phenotype where the capsule layer is altered relative to a designated control .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype where resistance or sensitivity to an antimicrobial agent is altered relative to a designated control .
an alkaloid resistance phenotype where a cell or cells lack resistance to an alkaloid compound .
an alkaloid resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is resistant to one or more alkaloid compounds .
an alkaloid resistance phenotype where resistance to an alkaloid compound is altered relative to a designated control .
a population growth phenotype where the rate and / or extent of growth of a microbial population at a specified ph is altered relative to a designated control .
a lantibiotic resistance phenotype where resistance to one or more lantibiotics is altered relative to a designated control .
a multiple fission phenotype related to the process of schizogeny ,  where the nucleus of  the parent cell divides multiple times before the cytoplasm separates and each nucleus is encased in its own membrane to form an individual cell .
a schizogeny phenotype where an organism reproduces by the process of schizogeny .
a sporulation phenotype related to the formation of spores derived from the products of mitosis .
an asexual sporulation phenotype where an organism reproduces by the process of forming mitotic spores .
an asexual reproduction phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of  asexual reproduction is altered relative to a designated control .
an asexual sporulation phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of the process of forming mitotic spores is altered relative to a designated control .
a schizogeny phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of schizogeny is altered relative to a designated control .
a dna replication phenotype in which the process of dna replication is altered relative to a designated control .
a cell cycle phenotype related to the process in a proliferating cell or organism in which the cytoplasm and cell envelope are separation into two or more daughter cells .
a cytokinesis phenotype related to the process of forming a septum that separates daughter cells .
a decreased motility by gliding phenotype where the ability of a microbe to move by gliding motility is abolished .
a colony pigmentation phenotype where the color of a colony or colonies is altered relative to a designated control .
a growth phenotype related to persister cells ,  which are dormant variants of vegetatively growing cells that form stochastically in microbial populations .
a persister cell phenotype where the character or frequency of persister cells in a microbial population is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered persister cell phenotype where the fraction of cells in a microbial population that are persister cells is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered persister cell phenotype where the fraction of cells in a microbial population that are persister cells is decreased relative to a designated control .
a population growth phenotype concerning the rate at which a microbial population multiplies over time .
a population growth phenotype where the rate and / or extent of growth of a microbial population is altered relative to a designated control .
a response to stress response phenotype where the change in state or activity of a microbe  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a radiation stress phenotype that is altered relative to a designated control .
a colony morphology phenotype where the morphology of a colony or colonies is altered relative to a designated control .
a microbial phenotype that affects the regulation of a molecular function ,  biological process ,  or biological quality .
a regulation phenotype that affects the regulation of gene expression .
a gene expression phenotype that affects the regulation of dna - dependent or rna - dependent transcription .
a gene expression regulation phenotype that affects the regulation of translation .
a septation phenotype where the process of forming a septum between daughter cells is altered relative to a designated control .
a cytokinesis phenotype where the process of cytokinesis is altered relative to a designated control .
a microbial phenotype relating to the growth of a microbial population ,  i .e .
a decreased septation phenotype where formation of new cell septa is abolished .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype related to resistance or sensitivity to peptides with antimicrobial activity .
an antimicrobial peptide resistance phenotype where resistance or sensitivity to one or more host defense peptides is altered relative to a designated control .
a host defense peptide resistance phenotype where a microbe is resistant to one or more antimicrobial peptides .
a host defense peptide resistance phenotype where a microbe is sensitive to one or more host defense peptides .
an altered host defense peptide resistance phenotype where resistance to is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered host defense peptide resistance phenotype where resistance is increased relative to a designated control .
an aerobic respiration phenotype where an organism ,  cell ,  or cells have the ability to perform aerobic respiration .
an aerobic respiration phenotype where an organism ,  cell ,  or cells lack the ability to perform aerobic respiration .
an aerobic respiration phenotype that is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered aerobic respiration phenotype where the ability to perform aerobic respiration is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered aerobic respiration phenotype where the ability to perform aerobic respiration is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased aerobic respiration phenotype where the ability to perform aerobic respiration is abolished .
an anaerobic respiration phenotype where an organism ,  cell ,  or cells have the ability to perform anaerobic respiration .
an anaerobic respiration phenotype where an organism ,  cell ,  or cells lack the ability to perform anaerobic respiration .
an anaerobic respiration phenotype where the ability to perform anaerobic respiration is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered anaerobic respiration phenotype where the ability to perform anaerobic respiration is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered anaerobic respiration phenotype where the ability to perform anaerobic respiration is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased anaerobic respiration phenotype where the ability to perform anaerobic respiration is abolished .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities .
a quality which inheres in an process that is altered in same way relative to a designated control .
a quality which inheres in a bearer that is altered relative to the quality that inheres in a designated control entity .
a dinitrogen utilization phenotype where the ability to utilize dinitrogen is altered relative to a designated control .
a dinitrogen utilization phenotype where an organism lacks the ability to use dinitrogen as the source of nitrogen .
a population growth phenotype related to how non - nutrient environmental factors affect growth of a microbial population .
a physical object quality that is altered relative to a designated control .
a microbial phenotype that affects a biological process .
a biological process phenotype related to the resistance or sensitivity of a microbe to a chemical entity .
an akinete formation phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of akinete formation is altered relative to a designated control .
a microbial phenotype that affects a quality of a cellular component .
a presence of resistance to uv radiation where microbes in a population continue to grow and divide when exposed to uv - a radiation  ( typically ,  wavelengths of 315 - 400 nm )  .
a presence of resistance to uv radiation where microbes in a population continue to grow and divide when exposed to uv - b radiation  ( typically ,  wavelengths of 280 - 315 nm )  .
a presence of resistance to uv radiation where microbes in a population continue to grow and divide when exposed to uv - c radiation  ( typically ,  wavelengths of 100 - 280 nm )  .
a decreased resistance to uv - radiation resistance phenotype where the resistance of microbes in a population to uv - c radiation  ( typically ,  100 - 280 nm )  is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased resistance to uv - c radiation phenotype where the resistance of microbes in a population to uv - c radiation  ( 100 - 280 nm )  is abolished .
a gene expression regulation phenotype that is altered relative to a designated control .
a decreased resistance to uv radiation phenotype where the resistance of microbes in a population to uv - a radiation  ( typically ,  315 - 400 nm )  is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased resistance to uv radiation phenotype where the resistance of microbes in a population to uv - b radiation  ( typically ,  280 - 315 nm )  is decreased relative to a designated control .
an increased uv - radiation resistance phenotype where the resistance of microbes in a population to uv - a radiation  ( typically ,  315 - 400 nm )  is increased relative to a designated control .
an increased uv - radiation resistance phenotype where the resistance of microbes in a population to uv - b radiation  ( typically ,  280 - 315 nm )  is increased relative to a designated control .
an increased uv - radiation resistance phenotype where the resistance of microbes in a population to uv - c radiation  ( typically ,  100 - 280 nm )  is increased relative to a designated control .
a homologous recombination phenotype where homologous recombination in a cell or cells is mediated by the reca protein .
a homologous recombination phenotype where homologous recombination in a cell or cells is mediated by the bacteriophage lambda red proteins  ( bet - gam - exo )  .
a trace element utilization phenotype that is altered relative to a designated control .
a phosphorus source utilization phenotype where the ability to utilize one or more sources of phosphorus is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered phosphorus source utilization phenotype  where the ability to utilize one or more inorganic sources of phosphorus is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered phosphorus source utilization phenotype  where the ability to utilize one or more organic sources of phosphorus is altered relative to a designated control .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype related to resistance or sensitivity to one or more rifamycin compounds .
a rifamycin resistance phenotype where resistance to one or more rifamycin compounds is altered relative to a designated control .
a rifamycin resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is sensitive to one or more rifamycins .
a rifamycin resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is resistant to one or more rifamycins .
an altered rifamycin resistance phenotype where resistance to one or more rifamycins is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered rifamycin resistance phenotype where resistance to one or more rifamycins is altered relative to a designated control .
a decreased resistance to rifamycin phenotype where resistance to one or more rifamycins  is abolished .
a transcription regulation phenotype where the level of a transcript ( s )  increases as the growth rate of the culture increases .
a spore germination phenotype where the percentage of spores that germinate is decreased relative to a designated control .
an endospore morphology phenotype that describes the characteristic  location of the mature spore in the mother cell  ( the sporangium )  .
an endospore location phenotype where mature spores are located in the center of the mother cell  ( sporangium )  .
an endospore location phenotype where mature spores are located at one terminus of  the mother cell  ( sporangium )  .
a xx .
a spore morphology phenotype that is related to the form and structure of an endospore .
an endospore morphology phenotype that relates to the structures that lie outside the inner membrane of and surround the entire endospore .
an endospore external encapsulating structure phenotype related to the exposporium ,  which when present is the outermost layer of a mature spore .
an endospore exosporium phenotype where an exosporium is present as a component of the mature endospore .
an exosporium phenotype where the mature endospore lacks an exosporium .
a binary fission phenotype where an organism lacks the ability to multiply by the process of binary fission .
a budding phenotype where an organism lacks to the ability to multiply by the process of budding .
a multiple fission phenotype where an organism lacks the ability to multiply by the process of multiple fission .
an asexual sporulation phenotype where an organism lacks the ability to multiple by the formation of mitotic spores .
a host - virus interaction phenotype related to whether a bacterium can be infected by and / or support growth of a bacteriophage .
a bacteriophage sensitivity phenotype where a bacterium exhibits sensitivity to a bacteriophage .
a bacteriophage sensitivity phenotype where a bacterium cannot be infected by and / or support reproduction of a bacteriophage .
an absence of bacteriophage sensitivity phenotype where a bacterium is resistant to a bacteriophage because the cell or cells are defective for adsorption of the bacteriophage .
an absence of bacteriophage sensitivity phenotype where a bacterium is resistant to a bacteriophage because it cannot support reproduction of the bacteriophage after absorption and injection .
a host - virus interaction phenotype that is altered relative to a designated control .
a bacteriophage sensitivity phenotype where sensitivity of a bacterial cell or cells to a bacteriophage is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered bacteriophage sensitivity phenotype where the sensitivity of a cell or cells to a bacteriophage is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased bacteriophage sensitivity phenotype where the sensitivity of a bacterial cell or cells to a bacteriophage is abolished .
a chemical resistance phenotype where a microbe is not resistant  to a chemical .
a chemical resistance phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe occurs in the presence of a chemical .
a chemical resistance phenotype where resistance or sensitivity of a microbe to a chemical is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered chemical resistance phenotype where the resistance of a microbe to a chemical is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered chemical resistance phenotype where the resistance of a microbe to a chemical is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered chemical sensitivity phenotype where the sensitivity of a cell ,  cells ,  or microbe to a chemical is abolished .
a microbe - host interaction phenotype that relates to the ability of a microbe to colonize a host organism .
a colonization of a host phenotype where a microbe is able to colonize a host organism .
a colonization of a host phenotype where a microbe lacks the ability to colonize a host organism .
a colonization of a host phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of colonization is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered colonization of a host phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of colonization is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered colonization of a host phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of colonization is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased colonization of a host phenotype where colonization of a host organism is abolished .
a cell phenotype related to the ability of a microbial cell to survive and go on to grow and reproduce under the specified conditions .
a cell viability phenotype where under the specified conditions the viability of a microbial cell is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered cell viability phenotype where under the specified conditions the viability of a microbe ,  cell ,  or cells is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered viability phenotype where under the specified conditions the viability of a microbe ,  cell ,  or cells is increased relative to a designated control .
a population growth phenotype related to whether reproduction of an organism is dependent on the presence of a drug in the growth medium .
a drug - dependent population growth phenotype where reproduction of an organism is dependent on the presence of a drug in the growth medium .
a drug - dependent population growth phenotype where reproduction of an organism is not dependent on the presence of a drug in the growth medium .
a drug - dependent population growth phenotype where dependence of reproduction on the presence of a drug in the growth medium is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered drug - dependent population growth phenotype where dependence of reproduction on the presence of a drug in the growth medium is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered drug - dependent population growth phenotype where dependence of reproduction on the presence of a drug in the growth medium is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased drug - dependent population growth phenotype where dependence of reproduction on the presence of a drug in the growth medium is abolished .
an altered bacteriophage sensitivity phenotype where the sensitivity of a cell or cells to a bacteriophage is increased relative to a designated control .
an increased resistance to bacteriocin phenotype that results from decreased binding of the bacteriocin to cells .
an increased resistance to bacteriocin phenotype where cells still bind the bacteriocin but are resistant to its effects .
a carbon source utilization phenotype where a microbe can switch between using organic and inorganic sources of carbon instead of having a single trophic mode .
an altered taxis phenotype where the frequency at which the direction of flagellar rotation reverses is altered relative to a designated control .
a decreased positive chemotaxis phenotype where the threshold concentration for responding to an attractant is increased relative to a designated control .
a chemolithotrophic phenotype where the biological disproportionation of thiosulfate occurs via an intramolecular redox change at each of the sulfur atoms and produces 1 mol of sulfate and 1 mol of sulfide .
a protein activity phenotype where the enzymatic or other activity of a protein is altered relative to a designated control .
an enzymatic activity phenotype where a specified enzymatic activity is present in a cell ,  cells ,  or organism .
an enzymatic activity phenotype where a specified enzymatic activity is absent in a cell ,  cells ,  or organism .
a uv - radiation resistance phenotype where microbes in a population continue to grow and divide when exposed to uv radiation .
a uv - radiation resistance phenotype where microbes in a population stop growing  ( and may die )  when exposed to uv radiation .
a virulence phenotype where a microbe possesses the ability to cause disease in another organism  ( the host )  .
a catalytic activity phenotype that relates to the presence or absence of laccase ,  a family of oxidoreductases that act on diphenols and related substances as donors and use oxygen as the acceptor .
a laccase phenotype where an organism exhibits laccase activity .
a laccase phenotype where an organism doesn't exhibit laccase activity .
a laccase activity phenotype where laccase activity is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered laccase activity phenotype where laccase activity is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered laccase activity phenotype where laccase activity is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased laccase activity phenotype where laccase activity is abolished .
a spore germination phenotype where the percentage of spores that germinate is altered relative to a designated control .
a spore germination phenotype where the percentage of spores that germinate is increased relative to a designated control .
a cell staining phenotype where microorganisms are classified based on their color after staining with diazonium blue b  ( dbb )  .
a diazonium blue b staining phenotype where cells appear pink to red or violet after staining with diazonium blue b .
a diazonium blue b staining phenotype where cells appear yellow or brown after staining with diazonium blue b .
a diazonium blue b  ( dbb )  staining phenotype where the appearance of cells after staining with dbb is altered relative to a designated control .
an acid - fast stain phenotype where a cell or cells that have been stained ,  typically with carbolfuchsin ,  are not easily decolorized by acid -  - alcohol .
an acid - fast stain phenotype where a cell or cells that have been stained ,  typically with carbolfuchsin ,  are not easily decolorized by acid -  - alcohol .
an acid - fast stain phenotype where the resistance of a cell or cells to decolorization by an acid - alcohol mixture during staining is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered diazonium blue b  ( dbb )  staining phenotype where dbb staining of cells is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered diazonium blue b  ( dbb )  staining phenotype where dbb staining of cells is increased relative to a designated control .
a decreased diazonium blue b  ( dbb )  staining phenotype where dbb staining of cells is abolished .
a cell staining phenotype that is altered relative to a designated control .
an inorganic nitrogen source utilization phenotype that is altered relative to a designated control .
an inorganic nitrogen source utilization phenotype where a cell or cells can use an inorganic compound as the source of nitrogen .
an inorganic nitrogen source utilization phenotype where a cell or cells lacks the ability to use inorganic compounds as the source of nitrogen .
a biological process phenotype that relates to the cessation of life of an individual cell .
an energy - dependent ,  programmed form of cell death that is characterized by phenotypic markers such as increased levels of reactive oxygen species  ( often detected via dhe staining )  ,  externalization of phosphatidylserine  ( measured by annexin v staining )  ,  and dna fragmentation  ( detected using the tunel assay )  .
an apoptosis phenotype where a cell or cells cannot undergo apoptosis .
an apoptosis phenotype where a cell or cells can undergo apoptosis .
an apoptosis phenotype where the occurrence of apoptosis is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered apoptosis phenotype where the occurrence of apoptosis is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered apoptosis phenotype where the occurrence of apoptosis is increased relative to a designated control .
a microbial phenotype related to the appearance of a microbial population ,  such as a colony ,  liquid culture ,  or biofilm .
a decreased superoxide dismutase activity phenotype where superoxide dismutase activity is abolished .
a decreased protein kinase a activity phenotype where the activity is abolished .
a decreased ferric reductase activity phenotype where ferric reductase activity is abolished .
a colony surface phenotype that is characterized by a surface with a viscous ,  slimy ,  or gummy appearance ,  typically due to the presence of extracellular polysaccharides produced by cells in the colony .
a mucoid colony phenotype where the organism forms nonmucoid colonies .
a mucoid colony phenotype where the mucoid or nonmucoid appearance of colonies is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered mucoid colony pheotype where colonies are less mucoid than a designated control .
a decreased mucoidy phenotype where mucoid colonies are abolished .
a sulfur source utilization phenotype where an organism cannot use an inorganic s - containing chemical as the source of sulfur .
a sulfur source utilization phenotype where an organism cannot use an organic s - containing chemical as the source of sulfur .
a cell morphology phenotype relating to the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of a bud ,  a protuberance from a cell of an organism that reproduces by budding .
a bud morphology phenotype where the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of a bud is altered relative to a designated control .
a bud morphology phenotype relating to the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of the bud neck ,  which is the region where the bud joins the mother cell .
a bud neck morphology phenotype where the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of the bud neck is altered relative to a designated control .
a decreased apoptosis phenotype where the ability of a cell or cells to undergo apoptosis is abolished .
a biological process phenotype that affects a cellular process ,  which is any biological process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
a cellular process phenotype related to the process of autophagy in which cells digest parts of their own cytoplasm .
an autophagy phenotype related to the formation of autophagic vesicles .
an autophagic vesicle formation phenotype that is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered autophagic vesicle formation phenotype where autophagic vesicle formation is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered autophagic vesicle formation phenotype where autophagic vesicle formation is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased autophagic vesicle formation phenotype where autophagic vesicle formation is abolished .
a cell morphology phenotype related to the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of the nucleus .
a nuclear morphology phenotype where the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of the nucleus is altered relative to a designated control .
a cell death phenotype where death of a cell or cells is altered relative to a designated control .
a cellular process phenotype where a cellular process is altered relative to a designated control .
an autophagy phenotype where autophagy in a cell or cells is altered relative to a designated control .
a cell morphology phenotype related to the location of a nucleus or nucleus within a cell or between separating cells .
a nuclear position phenotype where the location of the nucleus or nuclei within a cell or between separating cells is altered relative to a designated control .
a biological process phenotype related to the process of protein secretion ,  which is the controlled release of proteins from a cell .
a protein secretion phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing or extent of the process of protein secretion is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered protein secretion phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing or extent of the process of protein secretion is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered protein secretion phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing or extent of the process of protein secretion is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased protein secretion phenotype where the process of protein secretion is abolished .
a biological process phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of a biological process is altered relative to a designated control .
a cell development phenotype where development of a cell or cells is altered relative to a designated control .
a spore germination phenotype where germination of a spore or spores is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered growth factor requirement phenotype where the requirement for an amino acid in the growth medium is altered relative to a designated control .
a decreased amino acid requirement phenotype where an organism's requirement for an amino acid in the growth medium is abolished .
an antimicrobial resistance phenotype related to resistance or sensitivity to a quinone .
a cellular component phenotype where a quality of a cellular component is altered relative to a designated control .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype relating to resistance or sensitivity to a compound that is a nucleoside: an n - glycosyl compound that has both a nucleobase ,  normally adenine ,  guanine ,  xanthine ,  thymine ,  cytosine or uracil ,  and either a ribose or deoxyribose as functional parents .
a nucleoside resistance phenotype where an organism ,  cell ,  or cells is resistant to a nucleoside .
a nucleoside resistance phenotype where an organism ,  cell ,  or cells is not resistant to a nucleoside .
a nucleoside resistance phenotype where resistance of an organism ,  cell ,  or cells to a nucleoside is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to a nucleoside phenotype where resistance to a nucleoside is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to a nucleoside phenotype where resistance to a nucleoside is decreased relative to a designated control .
an decreased resistance to a nucleoside phenotype where resistance to a nucleoside is abolished .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype relating to resistance or sensitivity of a microbe to an antimicrobial agent that includes an acridine moiety: a polycyclic heteroarene that is anthracene in which one of the central ch groups is replaced by a nitrogen atom .
an acridine resistance phenotype where an organism ,  cell ,  or cells is resistant to an acridine .
an acridine resistance phenotype where an organism ,  cell ,  or cells is not resistant to an acridine .
an acridine resistance phenotype where resistance of an organism ,  cell ,  or cells to an acridine is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to an acridine phenotype where resistance is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to an acridine phenotype where resistance is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased resistance to an acridine phenotype where resistance abolished .
a chemical resistance phenotype relating to resistance or sensitivity of a microbe to an alkylating agent: a highly reactive chemical that introduces alkyl radicals into biologically active molecules and thereby prevents their proper functioning .
an alkylating agent resistance phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe is resistant to an alkylating agent .
an alkylating agent resistance phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe does not occur in the presence of an alkylating agent .
an alkylating agent resistance phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe in the presence of an alkylating agent is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to an alkylating agent phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe in the presence of an alkylating agent is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to an alkylating agent phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe in the presence of an alkylating agent is decreased relative to a designated control .
an decreased resistance to an alkylating agent phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe in the presence of an alkylating agent is abolished .
a requires growth factor ( s )  phenotype where the required growth factor is a pyrimidine base .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype relating to resistance or sensitivity to a benzamide .
a benzamides resistance phenotype where an organism ,  cell ,  or cells is resistant to a benzamide .
a benzamides resistance phenotype where an organism ,  cell ,  or cells is not resistant to a benzamide .
a benzamides resistance phenotype where the resistance of an organism ,  cell ,  or cells to a benzamide is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered benzamides resistance phenotype where the resistance of an organism ,  cell ,  or cells to a benzamide is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered benzamides resistance phenotype where the resistance of an organism ,  cell ,  or cells to a benzamide is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased resistance to benzamides resistance phenotype where the resistance of an organism ,  cell ,  or cells to a benzamide is abolished .
an altered growth factor requirement phenotype where the requirement for a pyrimidine base as a growth factor is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered pyrimidine requirement phenotype where an organism's requirement for a purine base is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered pyrimidine requirement phenotype where an organism's requirement for a purine base is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased pyrimidine requirement phenotype where the requirement for a pyrimidine base as a growth factor is abolished .
a decreased viability phenotype where the viability of a microbe ,  cell ,  or cells is abolished under the specified conditions .
a cell viability phenotype where a microbial cell is able to survive and go on to grow and reproduce under the specified conditions .
a cell viability phenotype where a microbial cell is not viable under the specified conditions .
a microbe - host interaction phenotype related to the ability of a microbe to infect and cause death of a host .
a lethality phenotype where infection by a microbe can cause death of the host .
a lethality phenotype where infection by a microbe does not cause death of the host .
a lethality phenotype where the ability of an infectious  microbe to cause death of the host is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered lethality phenotype where the ability of an infectious microbe to cause death of the host is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased lethality phenotype where the ability of an infectious microbe to cause death of the host is abolished .
an altered lethality phenotype where the ability of an infectious microbe to cause death of the host is increased relative to a designated control .
a sexual sporulation phenotype related to the formation of an ascospore ,  a dormant ,  highly resistant ,  sexual spore with a thick wall that forms within the mother cell .
an ascospore formation phenotype where a microbe has the ability to form ascospores .
a microbe - host interaction phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of interaction is altered relative to a designated control .
a decreased resistance to killing by host phenotype where resistance of a microbe to killing by a host is abolished .
a sporulation phenotype related to the formation of spores derived from the products of meiosis .
a microbial phenotype related to sexual reproduction: the biological process that creates a new organism by combining the genetic material of two organisms .
an ascospore formation phenotype where a microbe lacks the ability to form ascospores .
an ascospore formation phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of formation of ascospores is altered relative to a designated control .
a spore morphology phenotype relating to the form and structure of an akinete ,  which is a thick - walled  ( encysted )  dormant cell derived from the enlargement of a vegetative cell .
an akinete morphology phenotype where the morphology of the akinetes produced by an organism is altered relative to a designated control .
a spore morphology phenotype where the morphology of spores produced by a microbe is altered relative to a designated control .
a sexual reproduction phenotype that affects conjugation with cellular fusion ,  which is the union of cellular and genetic information from compatible mating types .
a multi - organism process phenotype relating to the union or introduction of genetic information from compatible cell types that results in a genetically different individual .
a conjugation phenotype where mating does not occur through the process of conjugation .
a conjugation phenotype where mating occurs through the process of conjugation .
a conjugation phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of conjugation is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered conjugation phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of conjugation is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered conjugation phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of conjugation is increased relative to a designated control .
a decreased conjugation phenotype where conjugation is abolished .
an altered akinete formation phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of akinete formation is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered akinete formation phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of akinete formation is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased akinete formation phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of akinete formation is abolished .
a decreased budding phenotype where the fraction of budded cells  ( budding index )  in a proliferating cell population is decreased relative to a designated control .
an increased budding phenotype where the fraction of budded cells  ( budding index )  in a proliferating cell population is increased relative to a designated control .
a schizogeny phenotype where an organism does not reproduce by the process of schizogeny .
an altered schizogeny phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of schizogeny is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered schizogeny phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of schizogeny is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased schizogeny phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of schizogeny is abolished .
an altered asexual sporulation phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of the process of forming asexual  ( mitotic )  spores is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered asexual sporulation phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of the process of forming asexual  ( mitotic )  spores is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased asexual spore formation phenotype where the process of forming asexual  ( mitotic )  spores is abolished .
an altered flagellum phenotype where the number of flagella per cell or cells is altered relative to a designated control .
a sexual sporulation phenotype where an organism is able to produce sexual spores .
a sexual sporulation phenotype where an organism is not able to produce sexual spores .
a sexual sporulation phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of the process of forming sexual spores is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered sexual sporulation phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of the process of forming sexual spores is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered sexual sporulation phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of the process of forming sexual spores is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased sexual sporulation phenotype where the formation of sexual spores is abolished .
a sexual reproduction phenotype where an organism is able to reproduce sexually .
a sexual reproduction phenotype where an organism is not able to reproduce sexually .
a sexual reproduction phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of sexual reproduction is altered relative to a designated control .
a presence of lethality phenotype where infection by a microbe can cause death of a mouse  ( or mice )   ( mus musculus )  .
a presence of lethality phenotype where infection by a microbe can cause death of an immunocompromised mouse  ( or mice )   ( mus musculus )  .
an absence of lethality phenotype where the host of the infection is a mouse  ( or mice )   ( mus musculus )  .
an absence of lethality phenotype where the host of the infection is an immunocompromised mouse  ( or mice )   ( mus musculus )  .
a decreased lethality phenotype where the ability of an infectious microbe to cause death of its murine host is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased lethality phenotype where the ability of an infectious microbe to cause death of an immunocompromised mouse host is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased lethality phenotype where the ability of an infectious microbe to cause death of its murine host is abolished .
a decreased lethality phenotype where the ability of an infectious microbe to cause death of its immunocompromised murine host is abolished .
a decreased lethality phenotype where the ability of an infectious microbe to cause death of its murine host is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased lethality phenotype where the ability of an infectious microbe to cause death of an immunocompromised murine host is decreased relative to a designated control .
a presence of resistance to killing by host that describes the ability of a microbe to survive ingestion by host macrophages .
a population phenotype relating to the proportion of a population that is viable under the specified conditions .
a cell population viability phenotype where all ,  or almost all ,  of the cells are viable under the specified conditions .
a cell population phenotype in which none of the cells in the population are viable .
a cell population viability phenotype where the proportion of cells that remain viable under the specified conditions is altered relative to a designated control .
a cell population phenotype in which cells in the population are viable in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell population phenotype in which all cells in the population are nonviable in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a microbe - host interaction phenotype relating to the ability of a microbe to colonize an invertebrate host .
a flocculation phenotype where cells or organisms in liquid culture aggregate to form clumps of many cells .
a flocculation phenotype where cells or organisms in liquid culture do not aggregate to form clumps of many cells .
a flocculation phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of flocculation is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered flocculation phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of flocculation is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered flocculation phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of flocculation is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased flocculation phenotype where flocculation is abolished .
a liquid culture morphology phenotype where the visible appearance of a liquid culture is altered relative to a designated control .
a population morphology phenotype where the visible appearance of a microbial population is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered ascospore formation phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of formation of ascospores is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered ascospore formation phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of formation of ascospores is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered ascospore formation phenotype where the formation of ascospores is abolished .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype related to resistance or sensitivity to an antimicrobial agent that belongs to the class phenols ,  which are organic aromatic compounds having one or more hydroxy groups attached to a benzene or other arene ring .
a phenols resistance phenotype where an organism ,  cell ,  or cells is resistant to phenols .
a phenols resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is sensitive to phenols .
a phenol resistance phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of resistance to phenols is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to phenols phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of resistance to phenols is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to phenols phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of resistance to phenols is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased resistance to phenols phenotype where resistance to phenols is abolished .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype relating to the resistance or sensitivity of a microbe to a quaternary ammonium salt .
a quaternary ammonium salts resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is resistant to one or more quaternary ammonium salts .
a quaternary ammonium salts resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is sensitive to one or more quaternary ammonium salts .
a quaternary ammonium salts resistance phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of resistance to quaternary ammonium salts is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to quaternary ammonium salts where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of resistance to quaternary ammonium salts is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to quaternary ammonium salts where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of resistance to quaternary ammonium salts is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased resistance to quaternary ammonium salts where resistance to quaternary ammonium salts is abolished .
an absence of  motility phenotype where a microbe is not capable of gliding motility .
an absence of motility phenotype where a microbe is not capable of swarming motility .
an absence of motility phenotype where a microbe is not capable of swimming motility .
an absence of motility phenotype where a microbe is not capable of twitching motility .
a motility by gliding phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of gliding is altered relative to a designated control .
a cell motility by twitching phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of twitching is altered relative to a designated control .
a decreased motility by twitching phenotype where the ability of a microbe to move by twitching motility is abolished .
an antimicrobial resistance phenotype relating to resistance or sensitivity to an epoxide .
an epoxide resistance phenotype where an organism ,  cell ,  or cells is resistant to an epoxide .
an epoxide resistance phenotype where an organism or cell is sensitive to an epoxide .
an epoxide resistance phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of resistance to an epoxide is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered epoxide resistance phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of resistance to epoxide is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered epoxide resistance phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of resistance to an epoxide is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased resistance to an epoxide phenotype where resistance to an epoxide is abolished .
a capsule morphology phenotype where the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of the capsule is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered capsule morphology phenotype where the size of the capsule is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered capsule size phenotype where the size of the capsule is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered capsule size phenotype where the size of the capsule is decreased relative to a designated control .
a cell morphology phenotype relating to the form and structure of titan cells ,  which are large vegetative cells produced by fungi that typically exhibit altered capsule structure ,  a thickened cell wall ,  increased ploidy ,  and resistance to nitrosative and oxidative stresses .
a titan cell phenotype where a microbe is able to form titan cells .
a titan cell phenotype where a microbe cannot form titan cells .
a titan cell phenotype where the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of titan cells is altered relative to a designated control .
a titan cell formation phenotype where the frequency ,  rate ,  timing ,  or extent of titan cell formation is altered relative to a designated control .
a spore morphology phenotype that is related to the form and structure of an ascospore ,  which is a thick - walled spore that stores and protects one or more nuclei following sexual reproduction in an ascomycete .
an ascospore morphology phenotype in which the form and structure of an ascospore is altered relative to a designated control .
an endospore morphology phenotype where the form and structure of an endospore is altered relative to a designated control .
a decreased osmotaxis phenotype where negative osmotaxis by a motile microbe is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased osmotaxis phenotype where positive osmotaxis by a motile microbe is decreased relative to a designated control .
a population growth phenotype relating to the vegetative growth of a microbial population in conditions of high osmolarity ,  which refers to osmotic conditions where the osmolarity of the environment is higher than the osmolarity that allows for optimal population growth .
a population growth phenotype where a microbial population can grow in conditions of high osmolarity .
a population growth phenotype where a microbial population doesn't grow in conditions of high osmolarity .
a population growth phenotype where the growth of a microbial population in conditions of high osmolarity is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered population growth in high osmolarity phenotype where growth of a microbial population in conditions of high osmolarity is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered growth in high osmolarity phenotype where growth of a microbial population in high osmolarity is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased population growth in high osmolarity phenotype where growth of the microbial population is abolished in conditions of high osmolarity .
a population growth range phenotype where the rate and / or extent of growth of a microbial population in a specified environmental condition is altered relative to a designated control .
a presence of lethality phenotype where infection by a microbe can cause death of an invertebrate host .
an absence of lethality phenotype where the infected host is an invertebrate .
an altered lethality phenotype where the ability of an infectious  microbe to cause death of an invertebrate host is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered lethality phenotype where the ability of an infectious microbe to cause death of an amoeba host is altered relative to a designated control .
a presence of lethality phenotype where infection by a microbe can cause death of an amoeba host .
an absence of lethality phenotype where infection by a microbe doesn't cause death of an amoeba host .
an altered lethality in an amoeba host phenotype where the ability of an infectious microbe to cause death of an amoeba host is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered lethality in an amoeba phenotype where the ability of an infectious microbe to cause death of an amoeba host is increased relative to a designated control .
a decreased lethality in an amoeba host phenotype where the ability of an infectious microbe to cause death of an amoeba host is abolished .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype relating to resistance or sensitivity to compounds that are structural derivatives of urea .
a ureas resistance phenotype where a microbe is resistant to a derivative of urea .
a ureas resistance phenotype where a microbe is not resistant to a derivative of urea .
a urea derivative resistance phenotype where resistance or sensitivity to a urea derivative is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to a urea derivative phenotype where resistance to a derivative of urea is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to a urea derivative phenotype where resistance to a derivative of urea is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased resistance to a urea derivative phenotype where resistance to a structural derivative of urea is abolished .
a microbial phenotype related to the form and structure of a virus .
a virus phenotype related to the form and structure of a virion .
an asexual reproduction phenotype where progeny are contained in a fruiting body that forms as the result of mating between strains of the same mating - type or self - mating .
a haploid fruiting phenotype where a microbe can reproduce by the process of haploid fruiting .
a haploid fruiting phenotype where a microbe is unable to reproduce by the process of haploid fruiting .
a haploid fruiting phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of the process of haploid fruiting is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered haploid fruiting phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of the process of haploid fruiting is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered haploid fruiting phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of the process of haploid fruiting is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased haploid fruiting phenotype where the process of haploid fruiting is abolished .
this term was made obsolete because it is a duplicate of omp:0007351 .
do not use .this is a duplicate of omp:0007157 ,  which is the correct term to use for annotations .
an increased haploid fruiting phenotype where the rate of the process of haploid fruiting is increased relative to a designated control .
a decreased haploid fruiting phenotype where the rate of the process of haploid fruiting is increased relative to a designated control .
a hyphal morphology phenotype relating to the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of a clamp cell ,  which is a hook - like projection that forms on the apical cell of a fungal hypha and will form a clamp connection with the pre - apical cell .
a microbial phenotype relating to the formation of titan cells ,  which are large cells produced by fungi that typically exhibit altered capsule structure ,  a thickened cell wall ,  increased ploidy ,  and resistance to nitrosative and oxidative stresses .
a microbial phenotype relating to the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of a multicellular microorganism .
a multicellular microorganism morphology phenotype relating to the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of a hypha ,  which is a branching filamentous structure that consists of one or more cells surrounded by a tubular cell wall .
a filamentous growth phenotype in which a multicellular microbe grows in a threadlike ,  filamentous shape .
a xxx phenotype relating to the formation of clamp cells ,  which are hook - shaped cells found at the septa of dikaryotic hyphae .
an asexual sporulation phenotype relating to the formation of a conidium ,  which is a nonmotile spore formed by higher fungi ;  conidia are typically produced by conversion of hyphal elements ,  or are borne on sporogenous cells on or within specialized structures termed conidiophores .
a cellular process phenotype related to one or both of the nuclear divisions that occur as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
a meiotic nuclear division phenotype in which both the first and second meiotic nuclear divisions occur .
a meiotic nuclear division phenotype in which both the first and second meiotic nuclear divisions are absent .
a meiotic nuclear division phenotype where one or both of the meiotic nuclear divisons is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered meiotic nuclear division phenotype in which one or both meiotic nuclear divisions is abolished .
an abolished meiotic nuclear division phenotype in which the first meiotic nuclear division ,  in which homologous chromosomes are normally paired and segregated from each other ,  does not occur .
an abolished meiotic nuclear division phenotype in which the second meiotic nuclear division ,  in which two chromatids in each chromosome are normally separated ,  does not occur .
a population growth phenotype related to the resistance or sensitivity that microbes in a population show when exposed to a stress .
a resistance to stress phenotype related to the resistance or sensitivity that microbes in a population show when exposed to oxidative stress ,  such as exposure to reactive oxygen species or reactive nitrogen species .
a resistance to oxidative stress phenotype where microbes in a population continue to grow and divide when exposed to oxidative stress .
a resistance to oxidative stress phenotype where microbes in a population stop growing  ( and may die )  when exposed to oxidative stress .
a resistance to stress phenotype where the resistance or sensitivity that microbes in a population show when exposed to a stress is altered relative to a designated control .
a resistance to stress phenotype related to the resistance or sensitivity that a microbial population shows when exposed to environmental ph at or below 6 .5 .
a resistance to stress phenotype related to the resistance or sensitivity that microbes in a population show when exposed to environmental alkaline ph  ( typically ,  ph  > 7 .5 )  .
a resistance to stress phenotype related to the resistance or sensitivity that microbes in a population show when exposed to dessication stress .
a resistance to stress phenotype related to the resistance or sensitivity that microbes in a population show when exposed to radiation .
a resistance to stress phenotype related to the resistance or sensitivity that microbes in a population show when exposed to a chemical .
a resistance to stress phenotype related to the resistance or sensitivity of a microbial population to cold shock .
a resistance to stress phenotype related to the resistance or sensitivity of a microbial population to heat shock .
a resistance to cold phenotype where microbes in a population continue to grow and divide when exposed to a temperature below the optimal growth temperature of the microbe .
a resistance to cold phenotype where microbes in a population stop growing  ( and may die )  when exposed to a temperature below the optimal growth temperature of the microbe .
a resistance to cold shock phenotype where the resistance or sensitivity of a microbial population to a cold shock is altered relative to a designated control .
a resistance to heat shock phenotype where a microbial population is resistant to heat shock .
a resistance to heat shock phenotype where a microbial population stops growing and may begin to die when exposed to a heat shock .
a resistance to heat shock phenotype where the resistance or sensitivity of a microbial population to heat shock is altered relative to a designated control .
a resistance to chemical stress phenotype where the resistance or sensitivity that microbes in a population show when exposed to a chemical stress is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to cold phenotype where the resistance of microbes in a population to temperatures below the optimal growth temperature is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to cold phenotype where the resistance of microbes in a population to temperatures below the optimal growth temperature is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased resistance to cold phenotype where the resistance of microbes in a population to temperature below the optimal growth temperature is abolished .
an altered resistance to heat shock phenotype where the resistance of a microbial population to heat shock is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to heat shock phenotype where the resistance of a microbial population to heat shock is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased resistance to heat shock phenotype where the resistance of a microbial population to heat shock is abolished .
a resistance to stress phenotype related to the resistance or sensitivity that microbes in a population show when exposed to repeated cycles of freezing and thawing .
a resistance to radiation stress phenotype where the resistance or sensitivity that microbes in a population show when exposed to radiation stress is altered relative to a designated control .
a population growth phenotype where a microbial population is able to reproduce .
a population growth phenotype where the number of individuals in a microbial population does not increase .
an altered population growth phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of reproduction of a microbial population is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered population growth phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of reproduction of a microbial population is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased population growth phenotype where reproduction of a microbial population is abolished .
a chromosome segregation phenotype where replicated chromosome ( s )  are physically separated and apportioned as a set to daughter cells .
a chromosome segregation phenotype where replicated chromosome ( s )  are not apportioned as a set to daughter cells .
a genetic material phenotype related to the occurrence of dna breaks in chromosomal dna .
a dna break phenotype where breaks in chromosomal dna occur .
a dna break phenotype where breaks in chromosomal dna don't occur .
a dna break phenotype where the frequency of breaks in chromosomal dna is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered frequency of dna breaks phenotype where the frequency of breaks in chromosomal dna is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered frequency of dna breaks phenotype where the frequency of breaks in chromosomal dna is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased frequency of dna breaks phenotype where dna breaks are abolished .
a presence of dna break phenotype where single - strand breaks in chromosomal dna occur .
a presence of dna break phenotype where double - strand breaks in chromosomal dna occur .
an absence of dna breaks phenotype where single - strand dna breaks  don't occur .
an absence of dna breaks phenotype where double - strand dna breaks don't occur .
an increased frequency of dna breaks phenotype where the frequency of single - strand breaks in chromosomal dna is increased relative to a designated control .
an increased frequency of dna breaks phenotype where the frequency of double - strand breaks in chromosomal dna is increased relative to a designated control .
a decreased frequency of dna breaks phenotype where the frequency of single - strand breaks in chromosomal dna is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased frequency of dna breaks phenotype where the frequency of double - strand breaks in chromosomal dna is decreased relative to a designated control .
a genetic material phenotype related to the occurrence of holliday junction structures in chromosomal dna .
a holliday junction structure phenotype where holliday junction structures are present in chromosomal dna .
a holliday junction structure phenotype where holliday junction structures are not present in chromosomal dna .
a holliday junction structure phenotype where the frequency of holliday junction structures in chromosomal dna is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered frequency of holliday junction phenotype where the frequency of holliday junction structures in chromosomal dna is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered frequency of holliday junction phenotype where the frequency of holliday junction structures in chromosomal dna is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased frequency of holliday junction structure phenotype where the occurrence of holliday junction structures in chromosomal dna is abolished .
a presence of cell wall phenotype where the cell wall of a microbe contains chitin  ( chebi:17029 )  .
a presence of cell wall phenotype where the cell wall of a microbe doesn't contain chitin  ( chebi:17029 )  .
an altered cell wall morphology phenotype where the amount of chitin  ( chebi:17029 )  measured in the cell wall of a microbe is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered cell wall chitin level phenotype where the amount of chitin measured in the cell wall of a microbe is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered cell wall chitin level phenotype where the amount of chitin measured in the cell wall is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased cell wall chitin level phenotype where the amount of chitin in the cell wall is abolished .
an altered cell wall morphology phenotype where the amount of a cell wall protein measured in a cell is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered cell wall protein level where the amount of cell wall protein measured in a cell is increased relative to a designated control .
a microbial phenotype that is observed at the level of an individual cell .
a cell phenotype that affects any physical object quality of a microbial cell ,  such as morphology ,  number ,  location ,  etc . ,  of a cell or a cellular component .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of a specific substance measured in a cell is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered level of substance in a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered level of substance in cell phenotype in which the amount of a polysaccharide measured in a cell is altered relative to a designated control .
a cellular physical quality phenotype where any physical object quality such as morphology ,  number ,  location ,  etc . ,  of a microbial cell or a cellular component is altered relative to a designated control .
a phenotype observed at the level of an individual cell that is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered cell wall protein level where the amount of cell wall protein measured in a cell is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased cell wall protein level phenotype where the amount of cell wall protein is abolished .
a population growth phenotype related to the number of individuals in a microbial population produced per amount of nutrient ( s )  consumed .
a population growth yield phenotype where the number of microbes produced per amount of nutrient ( s )  consumed is  altered relative to a designated control .
an altered population growth yield phenotype where the number of microbes produced per amount of nutrient ( s )  consumed is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered population growth yield phenotype where the number of microbes produced per amount of nutrient ( s )  consumed is decreased relative to a designated control .
a microbial phenotype related to the typical way of life of a microbe .
a microbial lifestyle phenotype that is the summative outcome of multiple phenotypes that ,  acting together ,  typically provide an organism some advantage while competing for niche space in a fluid medium ,  unattached to other organisms or non - living ,  solid material entities .
a microbial lifestyle phenotype relating to whether a microbe grows and reproduces while physically attached to a surface .
an attached lifestyle phenotype where a microbe typically grows and reproduces while physically attached to a  \ n \ n \ n is the summative outcome of multiple phenotypes that ,  acting together ,  typically provide a microbe some advantage while competing for niche space while it is physically anchored to some portion of solid material . \ n \ nmay include the expression of pili or other structures used for attachment ,  antibiotic compounds ,  extracellular matrix remodelling proteins ,  and the like .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype related to resistance or sensitivity to a mitomycin .
a mitomycin resistance phenotype where resistance to a mitomycin is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to mitomycin phenotype where resistance to a mitomycin is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to mitomycin phenotype where resistance to a mitomycin is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased resistance to mitomycin phenotype where resistance to a mitomycin is abolished .
a cell phenotype relating to the amount of reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  measured in a cell .
a cell phenotype where the amount of reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  measured in a cell is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered level of cellular reactive oxygen species where the amount of reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  measured in a cell is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered cell size phenotype where the width of a nonspherical microbial cell is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered cell size phenotype where the width of a nonspherical microbial cell is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered cell morphology phenotype where a microbial cell or cells exhibit a prominent bulge not present in the designated control .
an altered cell shape morphology where microbial cells continue to grow and lengthen without undergoing cell division under conditions where the designated control cell continues to both grow and divide .
a transport phenotype where a microbe is able to transport a specific substrate ( s )  into ,  out of ,  or within a cell or between cells .
a transport phenotype where a microbe doesn't transport a specific substrate ( s )  into ,  out of ,  or within a cell or between cells .
a transport phenotype where transport of a specific substrate ( s )  into ,  out of ,  or within a cell or between cells is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered transport phenotype where transport of a substrate ( s )  is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered transport phenotype where transport of a substrate ( s )  is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased transport phenotype where transport of a substrate ( s )  is abolished .
a microbial phenotype that affects a specific molecular function .
a molecular function phenotype that affects a transporter activity in a microbe .
a transporter activity phenotype where a microbe has a specified transporter activity that translocates its substrate at some observed rate .
a transporter activity phenotype where a microbe lacks a specific transporter activity .
an transporter activity phenotype where the observed rate of a specified transporter activity is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered transporter activity phenotype where the observed rate of a specified transporter activity is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered transporter activity phenotype where the observed rate of a specified transporter activity is increased relative to a designated control .
a decreased transporter activity phenotype where a specified transporter activity is abolished .
a microbial phenotype that is the phenotype exhibited by a microbe as it becomes nonviable .
a growth phenotype related to cell growth ,  which is the process in which a cell irreversibly increases in size over time by accretion and biosynthetic production of matter similar to that already present .
a cell growth phenotype where a cell irreversibly increases in size over time by accretion and biosynthetic production of matter similar to that already present .
a cell growth phenotype where a cell does not irreversibly increase in size over time by accretion and biosynthetic production of matter similar to that already present .
a cell growth phenotype where the rate ,  timing ,  or extent of cell growth is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered cell growth phenotype where the rate ,  timing ,  or extent of cell growth is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered cell growth phenotype where the rate ,  timing ,  or extent of cell growth is increased relative to a designated control .
a decreased cell growth phenotype where cell growth is abolished .
a cell growth phenotype related to the growth of a cell in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a vegetative cell growth phenotype in which cell growth occurs in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a vegetative cell growth phenotype in which cell growth does not occur in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a vegetative cell growth phenotype in which the rate ,  timing ,  or extent of growth of the cell in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered vegetative cell growth phenotype in which the rate ,  timing ,  or extent of growth of the cell in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered vegetative cell growth phenotype in which the rate ,  timing ,  or extent of growth of the cell in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased vegetative cell growth phenotype in which growth of the cell in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle is abolished .
a population phenotype that is observed at the level of a population of microbial cells .
a cell population phenotype in which none of the cells in a population of spores are viable .
an altered cell population viability phenotype where the proportion of cells that survive a specified treatment is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered cell population viability phenotype where the proportion of cells that survive a specified treatment is increased relative to a designated control .
a cell population phenotype that describes the proportion of a microbial population that is able to survive a particular treatment .
a cell population phenotype in which cells in a population of spores are viable .
an increased cell length phenotype where cells in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle are longer than a designated control .
an altered cell shape phenotype where the shape of a cell in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered colony morphology phenotype in which the colony spreads to a lesser extent  and grows vertically to a greater extent ,  resulting in a more convex shape ,  than a designated control colony .
an altered conjugation phenotype in which conjugation takes place in cells that are not subject to glucose starvation .
an altered conjugation phenotype where conjugation takes place in cells that are not subject to nitrogen starvation .
an altered cell shape phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a daughter cell begins to grow from the lateral portion of the long axis of the cell ,  and at an angle to the septum or cell division site of the mother cell ,  resulting in the formation of a single cell that has a branch .
an xx phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the volume or dimensions of a microbial cell are altered relative to a designated control .
an altered cell shape phenotype seen in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle where a cell is more curved along the long axis than the designated control .
an altered cell morphology phenotype where the morphology  ( i .e . ,  size ,  shape ,  and structure )  of a cell in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle is altered relative to a designated control .
a cell viability phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle where a microbial cell is able to survive and go on to grow and reproduce in the specified conditions .
an altered microbial cell viability phenotype observed in the vegetative phase of the growth cycle where the viability of a vegetative microbial cell is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered microbial cell viability phenotype where the viability of cells in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle is abolished .
an altered cell size phenotype in which the volume of the cell is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered cell size phenotype in which the volume of a cell in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered cell size phenotype where the diameter of cells in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered cell size phenotype where the length of a cell in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle is decreased relative to a designated control .
a cell viability phenotype observed in the vegetative phase of the growth cycle where the ability of a microbial cell to survive ,  germinate ,  and go on to grow and reproduce in the specified conditions is altered relative to a designated control .
a vegetative cell viability phenotype in which a microbial spore germinates but fails to produce dividing cells that can survive and go on to grow and reproduce under the conditions specified .
an altered spore viability phenotype in which a spore is unable to survive under conditions in which spores of the designated control strain are able to survive .
an altered cell shape phenotype in which a cell in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle tapers at one end to a diameter smaller than the other .
a cellular process phenotype in which the rate ,  frequency ,  or occurrence of progression of a cell through a mitotic cell cycle is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered cell population viability phenotype where the viability of cells in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered vegetative cell population viability phenotype where the viability of vegetative cells is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered vegetative cell population viability phenotype where the viability of vegetative cells is abolished .
a cell population phenotype relating to the septation index of the population .
a septation index phenotype where the septation index is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered septation index phenotype in which the septation index is lower than a designated control .
an altered septation index phenotype where the septation index is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered colony morphology phenotype where the margin of a colony growing on a solid surface is not symmetrical .
a cell morphology phenotype relating to the form and structure of the germ tube ,  which is the slender tubular outgrowth first produced by many spores upon germination .
a cell morphology phenotype where the shape ,  size ,  structure ,  or number of germ tubes is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered germ tube morphology phenotype where the length of the germ tube is increased relative to a designated control .
a cell lysis phenotype relating to lysis of a cell that is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell lysis phenotype where cytolysis of a cell in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle occurs .
a vegetative cell lysis phenotype where cytolysis of a cell in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle does not occur .
a cell lysis phenotype where the lysis of cells in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle is altered relative to a designated control .
a phenotype that is observed at the level of an individual cell ,  when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the cell cycle .
a phenotype observed at the level of an individual vegetative cell that is altered relative to a designated control .
an actin cytoskeleton morphology phenotype where the morphology of the actin cytoskeleton in a cell that is in the vegetative phase of the growth cycle is altered relative to a designated control .
a phenotype related to any physical object quality ,  such as morphology ,  number ,  location ,  etc . ,  of a microbial cell or a cellular component in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular physical quality phenotype observed during vegetative growth where a cellular physical quality of a microbial cell or cellular component is altered relative to a designated control .
a cellular physical quality phenotype relating to the amount ,  distribution ,  composition ,  or morphology of a microbial cell part .
a cellular physical quality phenotype where the amount ,  distribution ,  composition ,  or morphology of a microbial cell part is altered relative to a designated control .
a cellular physical quality phenotype in which the amount ,  distribution ,  or morphology of all or part of the cytoskeleton is altered relative to a designated control .
an actin cytoskeleton phenotype where the amount ,  distribution ,  or morphology of all or part of the actin cytoskeleton is altered relative to a designated control .
a cellular physical quality phenotype relating to the amount ,  distribution ,  composition ,  or morphology of the cytoskeleton of a microbial cell .
a cellular physical phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount ,  distribution ,  or morphology of all or part of the actin cytoskeleton is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell diameter is larger and the cell length is shorter than the designated control .
an altered cell shape phenotype seen in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle where a cell's shape is more spherical than that of a designated control .
a subcellular component phenotype relating to the amount ,  distribution ,  composition ,  or morphology of the actin cytoskeleton of a microbial cell .
a subcellular component phenotype relating to the amount ,  distribution ,  composition ,  or morphology of the microtubule cytoskeleton of a microbial cell .
a microtubule cytoskeleton phenotype where the amount ,  distribution ,  or morphology of all or part of the microtubule cytoskeleton is altered relative to a designated control .
a microtubule cytoskeleton phenotype where a microbial cell or cells exhibit a microtubule cytoskeleton .
a microtubule cytoskeleton phenotype where a microbial cell or cells lack a microtubule cytoskeleton .
a microtubule cytoskeleton morphology phenotype where the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the microtubule cytoskeleton is altered relative to a designated control .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cortical patch localization is altered relative to a designated control .
a physical cellular phenotype affecting the amount ,  distribution ,  morphology ,  or other physical characteristic of a cell part when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle where the amount ,  distribution ,  morphology ,  or other physical characteristic of a cell part is altered relative to a designated control .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the position or morphology of all or part of the septum is altered relative to a designated control .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in the which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the septum is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle characterized by the presence of more than one septum in a cell .
a population growth phenotype where a microbial population is able to grow and reproduce at alkaline ph  ( ph > 7 )  .
a population growth phenotype observed in the vegetative phase of the life cycle where the rate or extent of reproduction of a microbial population is altered relative to a designated control .
a population growth phenotype where a microbial population is able to grow on a defined medium .
a population growth phenotype relating to the growth of a microbial population in the vegetative phase of the life cycle to reproduce on a defined medium .
a population growth on defined medium phenotype where the rate and / or extent of growth on defined medium is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered population growth on defined medium phenotype where the rate and / or extent of growth on defined medium is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered population growth on defined medium phenotype where the rate or extent of growth on defined medium is abolished .
a population growth on defined medium phenotype where the rate and / or extent of growth is increased relative to a designated control .
a population growth on defined medium phenotype where a microbial population cannot grow on a specified defined medium .
a cell phenotype in which a microbial cell in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle is nonviable in the specified conditions .
a nonviable cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell undergoes septation despite abnormal chromosome segregation and gives rise to nonviable daughter cells .
a nonviable cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell undergoes septation in the absence of nuclear division ,  such that the septum physically divides the nucleus into two parts and produces nonviable daughter cells .
a phenotype that affects a cellular process in the vegetative phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of a specified cellular process during vegetative growth is altered relative to a designated control .
a microbial phenotype where a microbe does not carry out the specified cellular process .
a cellular process phenotype observed during vegetative growth where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of cell separation after cell division is altered relative to a designated control .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cell separation after cell division is abolished .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the frequency of cell separation after cell division is decreased and results in the formation of chains of cells .
a cellular physical quality phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cortical patches are localized throughout the cell cortex rather than concentrated at the cell ends .
a cellular process phenotype observed during the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle where cells do not separate after cell division .
a cell population phenotype where a population of microbial cells in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle increases in number .
a cell population phenotype that affects the rate or extent of growth of a population of microbial cells .
a cell population phenotype that affects the rate or extent cell population growth in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell population phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle where the rate and / or extent of growth of a population of microbial cells at a temperature above the optimal growth temperature of the microbe is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered cell population viability phenotype observed in the vegetative phase of the life cycle where the proportion of cells that survive a specified treatment is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered cell population viability phenotype where the proportion of cells that survive starvation for one or more essential nutrients is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered cell population viability phenotype where the proportion of cells that survive nitrogen starvation is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered cell population viability phenotype where the proportion of cells that survive nitrogen starvation is decreased relative to a designated control .
a cell population growth phenotype where the rate or extent of growth of a population of microbial cells is altered relative to a designated control .
a cellular process phenotype that affects the occurrence of pigment accumulation in a microbial cell .
a cellular process phenotype where the process of accumulating pigment occurs in a cell or cells of a microorganism .
a cellular process phenotype observed during the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle where a cell or cells of a microorganism accumulate pigment .
a cellular pigment accumulation phenotype where the rate ,  extent ,  or timing of the process of pigment accumulation by a microbial cell or cells is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered cellular pigment accumulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle where the rate ,  extent ,  or timing of the process of pigment accumulation by a microbial cell or cells is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered cellular pigment accumulation phenotype  where the rate ,  extent ,  or timing of the process of pigment accumulation by a microbial cell or cells is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered cellular pigment accumulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle where the rate ,  extent ,  or timing of the process of pigment accumulation by a microbial cell or cells is decreased relative to a designated control .
a cellular process phenotype where the process of accumulating pigment doesn't occur in a cell or cells of a microorganism .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle where the process of accumulating pigment does not occur in a cell or cells of a microorganism .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype related to resistance or sensitivity to a nitrofuran compound .
a nitrofuran resistance phenotype where a microbe is resistant to one or more nitrofuran compounds .
a nitrofuran resistance phenotype where a microbe is sensitive to one or more nitrofuran compounds .
a nitrofuran resistance phenotype where resistance to a nitrofuran compound is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered nitrofuran resistance phenotype where resistance to a nitrofuran compound is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered nitrofuran resistance phenotype where resistance to a nitrofuran compound is abolished .
an altered nitrofuran resistance phenotype where resistance to a nitrofuran compound is increased relative to a designated control .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype related to resistance or sensitivity of a microbe to one or more sulfonamide compounds .
a sulfonamide antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe is not affected by the presence of a sulfonamide antimicrobial agent .
a sulfonamide antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe does not occur in the presence of a sulfonamide antimicrobial agent .
a sulfonamide antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype where the ability of microbe to grow and reproduce in the presence of a sulfonamide antimicrobial agent is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered sulfonamide antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype where resistance of a microbe to a sulfonamide antimicrobial agent is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered sulfonamide antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype where resistance of a microbe to a sulfonamide antimicrobial agent is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased sulfonamide antimicrobial resistance phenotype where the ability of a microbe to grow and reproduce in the presence of a sulfonamide antimicrobial agent is abolished .
a cell viability phenotype related to the ability of a microbial spore to survive ,  germinate ,  and go on to grow and reproduce under the specified conditions .
a cell viability phenotype in which a microbial spore is able to survive and go on to grow and reproduce under the specified conditions .
a cell viability phenotype in which a microbial spore is unable to survive under the specified conditions .
a spore viability phenotype where the ability of a microbial spore to survive ,  germinate ,  and go on to grow and reproduce is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered spore viability phenotype where the ability of a microbial cell to survive ,  germinate ,  and go on to grow and reproduce is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered spore viability phenotype where the ability of a microbial spore to survive ,  germinate ,  and go on to grow and reproduce is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered microbial cell viability phenotype observed in the vegetative phase of the growth cycle where the viability of a vegetative microbial cell is increased relative to a designated control .
a cell morphology phenotype where a germinating microbial spore has a germ tube .
a cell morphology phenotype where a germinating microbial spore lacks a germ tube .
an altered germ tube morphology phenotype where the germ tube is curved along its long axis .
an altered germ tube morphology phenotype where the germ tube does not contain any septa and does not go on to form a viable dividing cell .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype relating to the resistance or sensitivity of a microbe to fosfomycin .
a chemical resistance phenotype relating to resistance or sensitivity of a microbe to  a member or members of the class phenols ,  which are organic aromatic compounds having one or more hydroxy groups attached to a benzene or other arene ring .
a metabolic phenotype where an organism can switch between using different sources of energy instead of having a single trophic mode .
an altered carbon source utilization phenotype where the ability to use an inorganic carbon source is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered carbon source utilization phenotype where the ability to use an inorganic carbon source is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased inorganic carbon source utilization phenotype where the ability to use an inorganic carbon source is abolished .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype relating to the resistance or sensitivity of a microbe to fosmidomycin .
an antimicrobial resistance phenotype where a microbe has the ability to grow and reproduce in the presence of fosfomycin .
an antimicrobial resistance phenotype where a microbe cannot grow and reproduce in the presence of fosfomycin .
a fosfomycin resistance phenotype where the ability of a microbe to grow and reproduce in the presence of fosfomycin is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered fosfomycin resistance phenotype where the ability of a microbe to grow and reproduce in the presence of fosfomycin is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered fosfomycin resistance phenotype where the ability of a microbe to grow and reproduce in the presence of fosfomycin is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased fosfomycin resistance phenotype where the ability of a microbe to grow and reproduce in the presence of fosfomycin is abolished .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe occurs in the presence of the antimicrobial agent specified in the annotation extension field .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe is inhibited by the presence of the antimicrobial agent specified in the annotation extension field .
an altered resistance to an antimicrobial agent phenotype where resistance to the antimicrobial agent specified in the annotation extension field is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to an antimicrobial agent phenotype where resistance to the antimicrobial agent specified in the annotation extension field is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased resistance to an antimicrobial agent phenotype where resistance to the antimicrobial agent specified in the annotation extension field is abolished .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype relating to resistance or sensitivity to an antimicrobial peptide that is synthesized as part of the innate immune response of a eukaryotic host .
a decreased resistance to host defense peptide phenotype where resistance is abolished .
a decreased resistance to a chemical phenotype where resistance to the specified chemical is abolished .
a metal resistance phenotype where growth of a microbial population occurs in the presence of a metal .
a metal resistance phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe  doesn't occur in the presence of a metal .
a metal resistance phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe in the presence of a metal is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased metal resistance phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe in the presence of a metal is abolished .
a metal resistance phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe in the presence of a metal is increased relative to a designated control .
a metal resistance phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe in the presence of a metal is altered relative to a designated control .
a chemical resistance phenotype relating to the resistance or sensitivity of growth and reproduction of a microbial population in the presence of a metal .
a chemical resistance phenotype relating to the resistance or sensitivity of growth and reproduction of a microbial population in the presence of a surfactant .
a surfactant resistance phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe occurs in the presence of a surfactant .
a surfactant resistance phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe doesn't occur in the presence of a surfactant .
a surfactant resistance phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe in the presence of a surfactant is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered surfactant resistance phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe in the presence of a surfactant is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered surfactant resistance phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe in the presence of a surfactant is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased surfactant resistance phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe in the presence of a surfactant is abolished .
a chemical resistance phenotype relating to the resistance or sensitivity of growth and reproduction of a microbial population to bile acids .
a bile acids resistance phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe occurs in the presence of bile acids .
a bile acids resistance phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe doesn't occur in the presence of bile acids .
a bile acid resistance phenotype where resistance to a bile acid is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to bile acids phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe in the presence of bile acids is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered resistance to bile acids phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe in the presence of bile acids is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased resistance to bile acids phenotype where growth and reproduction of a microbe in the presence of bile acids is abolished .
a biofilm formation phenotype where a microbe is capable of forming a biofilm .
a biofilm formation phenotype where a microbe is incapable of forming a biofilm .
an altered cell size phenotype in which the width of a nonspherical cell in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered anaerobic population growth phenotype where growth of a microbial population in the absence of o2 is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered anaerobic population growth phenotype where growth of a microbial population in the absence of o2 is decreased relative to a designated control .
microbial taxa are commonly described in terms of phenotypic characteristics that are shared by all or almost all members of a particular taxonomic group .
a population growth phenotype where growth of a microbial population in a microaerophilic environment is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered microaerophilic population growth phenotype where growth of a microbial population in a microaerophilic environment is increased relative to a designated control .
a microbial population phenotype where the phenotype of a microbial population is altered in some way relative to a designated control .
a resistance to stress phenotype related to the resistance or sensitivity of a microbial population to limitation for an essential nutrient .
a resistance to stress phenotype where a microbial population is resistant to limitation for an essential nutrient .
a resistance to stress phenotype where a microbial population isn't resistant to limitation for an essential nutrient .
a resistance to stress phenotype where the resistance of a microbial population to nutrient limitation is altered relative to a designated control .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sets of chromosomes in a microbial cell ,  i .e .
an altered cell phenotype observed in the vegetative phase of the life cycle in which haploid microbial cells spontaneously form cells with diploid dna content at a higher frequency than the designated control .
a population growth phenotype where a microbial population is able to grow and reproduce at acidic ph  ( ph <  7 )  .
a population growth phenotype where a microbial population isn't  able to grow and reproduce at acidic ph  ( ph <  7 )  .
a population growth phenotype where a microbial population is able to grow and reproduce at alkaline ph  ( ph > 7 )  .
a population growth phenotype where a microbial population isn't able to grow and reproduce at alkaline ph  ( ph > 7 )  .
a population growth phenotype where a microbial population is able to grow and reproduce at a temperature that is towards the upper end of the organism's temperature growth range .
a population growth phenotype where a microbial population isn't able to grow and reproduce at a temperature that is towards the upper end of the organism's temperature growth range .
a population growth phenotype where the rate and / or extent of growth of a microbial population at a temperature that is towards the upper end of the organism's temperature growth range is altered relative to a designated control .
a population growth phenotype where growth of a microbial population occurs under conditions of limitation for an essential nutrient  ( i .e .
a cell population growth phenotype where growth of a microbial population doesn't occur under conditions of limitation for an essential nutrient  ( i .e .
a cell population growth phenotype related to the rate or extent of growth of a microbial population under conditions of limitation for an essential nutrient  ( i .e .
a cell population growth phenotype where the rate or extent of growth of a microbial population under conditions of limitation for an essential nutrient  ( i .e .
an altered cell population growth phenotype where the rate or extent of growth of a microbial population under conditions of limitation for an essential nutrient  ( i .e .
an altered cell population growth phenotype where the rate or extent of growth of a microbial population under conditions of limitation for an essential nutrient  ( i .e .
a decreased cell population growth where the ability of a microbial population to grow under conditions of nutrient limitation  (  ( i .e .
an antimicrobial agent resistance phenotype that describes the ability of microorganisms to survive  a transient exposure to antimicrobial agents  at concentrations that would otherwise be lethal .
an antimicrobial agent tolerance phenotype where tolerance ,  the ability to survive transient exposure to an antimicrobial agent ,  is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered tolerance to an antimicrobial agent phenotype where minimum duration of killing is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered tolerance to an antimicrobial agent phenotype where minimum duration of killing is decreased relative to a designated control .
a microbial phenotype that is related to the form and structure of a spore or spores produced by a microbe .
an endospore external encapsulating structure phenotype that relates to the germ cell wall ,  a separate layer of peptidoglycan located underneath the cortex and that will become the vegetative cell wall upon endospore germination .
an endospore germ cell wall phenotype where an endospore lacks a germ cell wall .
an endospore germ cell wall phenotype where an endospore has a germ cell wall .
an endospore internal structure phenotype that relates to the endospore core ,  the center of an endospore ,  which exists in a dehydrated state and contains the bacterial genome ,  ribosomes ,  and a large amount of  dipicolinic acid .
an endospore core phenotype where an endospore lacks a central core .
an endospore core phenotype where the central core is present in an endospore .
an endospore external encapsulating structure phenotype related to the endospore coat ,  which is on the exterior of all spores and is composed of many structural proteins that confer additional resistance .
an endospore coat phenotype where an endospore lacks a coat layer .
an endospore coat phenotype where an endospore has a coat layer .
an endospore external encapsulating structure phenotype related to the outer endospore membrane ,  a phospholipid bilayer ,  derived from the mother cell ,  located between the endospore cortex and endospore coat .
an outer endospore membrane phenotype where an endospore lacks an outer membrane .
an outer endospore membrane phenotype where an endospore has an outer membrane .
an endospore morphology phenotype that relates to the inner membrane or core of an endospore .
an endospore internal structure phenotype related to the inner membrane ,  which surrounds the core .
an inner endospore membrane phenotype where an endospore lacks an inner membrane .
an inner endospore membrane phenotype where the endospore has an inner membrane .
an interrupted endospore formation phenotype where sporulation is stopped before any visible morphological changes have occurred ,  and the cell or cells have the appearance of vegetative cells .
an altered endospore formation phenotype where development of the endospore is interrupted before the process is complete .
an interrupted endospore formation phenotype where sporulation is stopped after formation of the septum ,  but before engulfment of the forespore by the mother cell .
an interrupted endospore formation phenotype where sporulation is stopped after engulfment but before production of the endospore cortex and coat .
an interrupted endospore formation phenotype where sporulation is stopped after deposition of the cortex and germ cell wall ,  but before formation of the endospore coat .
an interrupted endospore formation phenotype where sporulation is stopped after formation of the coat ,  but before the endospore has developed its characteristic resistance properties .
an interrupted endospore formation phenotype where endospore formation and maturation is complete ,  but before lysis of the mother cell .
an endospore external encapsulating structure phenotype that relates to the endospore cortex ,  a layer surrounding an endospore that lies between the outer and inner endospore membranes and consists of peptidoglycan which is typically less cross - linked than that found in vegetable cell walls .
an endospore cortex phenotype where an endospore lacks a cortex .
an endospore cortex phenotype where an endospore has a cortex .
an endospore coat phenotype where the endospore coat is altered relative to a designated control .
a genetic material phenotype relating to the ability of microbes to serve as a donor of recipient in the transfer of genetic material .
an endospore cortex phenotype where the endospore cortex is altered relative to a designated control .
an endospore germ cell wall phenotype where the germ cell wall is altered relative to a designated control .
an endospore exosporium phenotype where the exposporium is altered relative to a designated control .
an outer endospore membrane phenotype where the outer membrane is altered relative to a designated control .
an endospore core phenotype where the core is altered relative to a designated control .
an inner endospore membrane phenotype where the inner membrane is altered relative to a designated control .
a genetic transfer phenotype related to the ability of microbes to take up extracellular dna from the environment under natural conditions .
a natural competence phenotype where a microbe lacks the ability to be transformed by taking up extracellular dna from the environment .
a natural competence phenotype where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of natural competence is altered relative to a designated control .
a natural competence phenotype where a microbe has the ability to be transformed by taking up extracellular dna from the environment .
an altered natural competence  phenotype where the where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of natural competence is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered natural competence  phenotype where the where the rate ,  frequency ,  timing ,  or extent of natural competence is increased relative to a designated control .
a decreased natural competence phenotype where the ability to be transformed by taking up extracellular dna is abolished .
a bacteriophage plaque morphology phenotype where the bacteria shows a certain size and appearance of the plaque .
a bacteriophage plaque morphology phenotype where bacteria shows an size of the viral plaque .
a bacteriophage plaque morphology phenotype where the appearance and the size of the plaque is altered to a designated control .
a bacteriophage plaque morphology phenotype where the size of viral plaque is altered relative to a designated control .
a bacteriophage plaque morphology phenotype where bacteria shows an appearance of the viral plaque .
a bacteriophage plaque morphology phenotype where the appearance of viral plaque is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered bacteriophage plaque morphology phenotype where the appearance of a viral plaque is more turbid than a designated control .
an altered bacteriophage plaque morphology phenotype where the appearance of viral plaque is clearer relative to a designated control .
a bacteriophage plaque morphology phenotype where the size of viral plaque is increased relative to a designated control .
a bacteriophage plaque morphology phenotype where the size of viral plaque is decreased relative to a designated control .
a bacteriophage plaque morphology phenotype where the viral plaque has a turbid appearance .
a bacteriophage plaque morphology phenotype where the viral plaque appears to be clear .
an altered bacteriophage plaque morphology phenotype where the appearance of viral plaque has a high central density of surviving colonies and then a depletion region ,  followed by a high - colony - density region and then finally an apparently clear zone .
an altered bacteriophage plaque morphology phenotype where the appearance of viral plaque edge becomes fuzzy relative to a designated control .
a bacteriophage plaque morphology phenotype where the appearance of viral plaque has a high central density of surviving colonies and then a depletion region ,  followed by a high - colony - density region and then finally an apparently clear zone .
an altered bacteriophage plaque morphology phenotype where the appearance of viral plaque change from either clear or turbid to bull's eye .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities
a quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to move freely .
a quality inhering in a substance by virtue of the amount of the bearer's there is mixed with another substance .
a physical quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the number of the bearer's repetitive actions in a particular time .
a quality of a single physical entity inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's size or shape or structure .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ratios of distances between its features  ( points ,  edges ,  surfaces and also holes etc )  .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to synthesize a particular organic compound required for its growth .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting repetition of placement of its parts .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
the number of entities of this type that are part of the whole organism .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical magnitude .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the distance between two points .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's placement which is defined by the angle between the bearer and an axis ,  or the angle between the bearer and another object .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial location relative to other objects in the vicinity .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative position ,  shape ,  arrangements and connectivity of an organism's various parts ;  the pattern underlying its form .
a physical quality of the thermal energy of a system .
a morphologic quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative size ,  organization and distribution of its surface elements or the representation or invention of the appearance of its surface ;  visual and tactile surface characteristics .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence per unit time .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of the bearer's disposition to survive and develop normally or the number of surviving individuals in a given population .
a quality of a process which ends earlier than the natural end time or reference process .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude of or the relationships between its repeated parts lack consistency .
a branchiness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having branches .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or being marked by a curve or smoothly rounded bend .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being such that every part of the surface or the circumference is equidistant from the center .
a branchiness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking branches .
a nutritional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's inability to synthesize a particular organic compound required for its growth .
a nutritional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to synthesize a particular organic compound required for its growth .
a pattern quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a repeatable or predictable placement .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's deviation from normal or average .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting no deviation from normal or average .
a quality denoting the lack of an entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's existence .
a duration quality of a process which is relatively high .
a duration quality of a process which is relatively low .
a quality of a process which starts later than the natural start time or the reference process .
a length quality which is relatively large .
a length quality which is relatively small .
a size quality which is relatively high .
a size quality which is relatively low .
a thickness which is relatively high .
a thickness which is relatively low .
a volume which is relatively high .
a volume which is relatively low .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one or more angle ( s )  in its length .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's being changed in abnormal position .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being merged with another entity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being no longer merged with another entity .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being uninterrupted in time ,  sequence ,  substance ,  or extent .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by breaks or interruptions .
a quality of a process which starts earlier than the natural start time or the reference process .
a texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's irregular surface .
a texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processing a surface free of roughness or irregularities .
a viability quality inhering in a population by virtue of the bearer's long term survival inability .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of the bearer's ability to survive or the long term survival ability of a given population .
a rate which is relatively low .
a rate which is relatively high .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the dimension through an object as opposed to its length or width .
a 3 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of 3 - dimensional space it occupies .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a sharp or tapered end or point .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being oval with two axes of symmetry ,  as produced by a conical section .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being permeated or pervaded by a gas or liquid  ( as by osmosis or diffusion )  .
a permeability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable to be permeated or pervaded by a gas or liquid  ( as by osmosis or diffusion )  .
a permeability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being incapable of being permeated or pervaded by a liquid  ( as by osmosis or diffusion )  .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting concentration .
a concentration which is higher relative to the normal or average .
a concentration which is lower relative to the normal or average .
a quality which inheres in an process .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a temperature which is relatively high .
a temperature which is relatively low .
a process quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude of the temporal extent between the starting and ending point .
a shape quality that obtains by virtue of the bearer having inward facing edges ;  having a surface or boundary that curves or bulges outward ,  as the exterior of a sphere .
a surface feature shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having deeply undulating edges forming lobes .
a monadic quality of continuant that exists at the cellular level of organisation .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's number of nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one nucleus .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's terminating in a point or edge .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having connection or association with another entity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer includes all its components .
a broken quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being broken open .
an attachment quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking connection or association with another entity .
a quality of a process inhering in bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to respond to stimulation .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling a ball  ( a sphere whose equatorial diameter is equal to the polar diameter )  .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking some outer layer .
a sensitivity of a process which is higher than normal or average .
a sensitivity of a process which is lower than normal or average .
the number of parts of a particular type that the bearer entity has .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a processual part as specified by the additional entity .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having additional processual parts .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processual parts .
a permeability which is relatively high .
a permeability which is relatively low .
a surface shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a degree of bending .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's extending out above or beyond a surface or boundary .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being gathered or tending to gather into a mass or whole .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being distributed or spread over a considerable extent .
a size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a short ,  stocky build .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in one dimension .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in three dimensions .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being divided or broken up into parts or divisions .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having multiple angles in its length .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having no opening .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being entwined and difficult to unravel .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being drawn together ,  compressed or squeezed physically .
a shape quality in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's curving inward .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a quadric surface in three dimensions obtained by rotating an ellipse about one of its principal axes .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of two curves ,  in opposite directions .
the bearer of this quality has_part = n ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having more than one nucleus .
a surface shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's shape of features present on its surface or outer shell .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
a quality of physical entities inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a physical part as specified by the additional entity .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n and has_part  >  0 of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
the bearer of this quality has_part  >  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
surface shape that refers to the inward or outward curvature of the surface .
a shape that inheres in a 2 dimensional entity ,  such as a cross section or projection of a 3 dimensional entity .
a complete three dimensional shape in which for every line connecting pair of points on the object is within the object .
a complete three dimensional shape in which there is a line connecting pair of points on the object that lies outside the object .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the degree to which there are subdivisions or offshoots in a bearer entity .
a structural quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing hollow areas .
an occurrence which is relatively high .
an occurrence which is relatively low .
having extra or fewer parts .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a hole or holes ,  especially a row or array of small holes .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's being changed in position .
a quality which inheres in a molecular entity ,  a single molecule ,  atom ,  ion ,  radical etc .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's shape being inversely clavate .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's shape resembling falling drop .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a point .
a shape that inheres in a 3 dimensional entity .
a quality that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a shape constituting a transition between a rectangle and a circle ;  a closed curve ,  of which the circle and ellipse are special cases ,  whose parametric equation is x = a .cos2 / rt ,  y = b .cos2 / rt
a temporal distribution pattern of process occurrences within a regulation / reference process .
the temporal relation between the end of the process with respect to a reference process .
the temporal relation between the start of the process with respect to a reference process .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a quadric surface in three dimensions obtained by rotating less than half of a circular arc about an axis passing through the endpoints of the arc
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two connected parts ,  roughly spherical ,  of different sizes .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one or more nucleus .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being fully formed compared to entities lacking parts .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking parts or having a reduced form compared to fully formed entities .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped in the form of the letter c .
a' is a variant  ( mutation )  of a = definition every instance of a' is either an immediate mutation of some instance of a ,  or there is a chain of immediate mutation processes linking a' to some instance of a .
an altered cell shape phenotype where the cell aspect ratio  ( cell diameter / cell length )  of a microbial cell is altered relative to a designated control .
an altered cell aspect ratio phenotype where the cell aspect ratio  ( cell diameter / cell length )  of a microbial cell is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered cell aspect ratio phenotype where the cell aspect ratio  ( cell diameter / cell length )  of a microbial cell is increased relative to a designated control .
population growth phenotype
4 pi area /  ( perimeter ) ^2 or 2 pi area /  ( perimeter ) ^2?
cell aspect ratio  ( diameter / length ) 
a cell population phenotype where the trait is variability in cell shape within a microbial cell population .
a cell population phenotype where variability in cell shape is altered relative to a designated control .
population growth phenotype
a response to stress phenotype related to how exposure of a microbial cell or cells to a small decrease in ph affects
a biological process phenotype concerning whether cells of one strain of a microbial taxon are able to  discriminate between cells of the same strain and cells that belong to a different strain of the same taxon ,  i .e .
a cell - cell self - recognition phenotype where cells of a microbial strain recognizes self and different populations of the same strain will merge when grown on solid medium .
an altered transcription phenotype where transcription of a gene or genes is increased relative to a designated control .
an altered transcription phenotype where transcription of a gene or genes is decreased relative to a designated control .
a decreased transcription phenotype where transcription of a gene or genes is abolished relative to a designated control .
an altered cell size phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle where the diameter of a microbial cell with a circular cross - section is decreased relative to a designated control .
a cell population phenotype that describes the extent of cell size variability within a growing microbial cell population .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped in the form of the letter j .
