a state of being ,  an external or environmental factor or a treatment observed or administered prior to or concurrent with an investigative procedure such as an assessment of a morphological or physiological state or property in a single individual or sample or in a group of individuals or samples ,  especially a state ,  factor or treatment which has the potential to influence the outcome of such an assessment .
the state of being involved in some action ,  either physical or mental .
a state in which the organism is not exhibiting any physical exertion .
a state in which the organism is on an non - operating exercise machine in which there is an endless belt that moves when operational so that the organism can walk or run in place .
the action of ambulation on an exercise apparatus with an endless moving belt on which the organism can walk in place .
the act of rapidly moving the feet on an exercise apparatus with an endless belt that allows the user to perform the action of running in place .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is the action of moving one's appendages to propel oneself through water .
the act of ambulation ,  moving oneself forward on legs or on an exercise apparatus .
condition in which the major influencing factor is the action of rapid movement of feet that propels the organism forward or is done on an exercise machine so that the organism performs the activity in place .
an experimental condition in which the amount of one or more of the gases which make up the air surrounding an organism are controlled ,  or in which additional components are added to the air surrounding an organism ,  as part of the experiment on that organism .
a condition in which the oxygen level of the air surrounding an organism or breathed by the organism is controlled as part of the experiment .
the degree of heat or cold of the air surrounding an organism .
a condition in which the level of carbon dioxide in the air surrounding the organism or breathed by the organism is controlled as part of the experiment .
the food and drink consumed by an organism day to day .
a regimen of solid food in which the amount of one or more elements of the diet are controlled .
a regimen of solid food in which the number of calories consumed is controlled .
surgical removal of kidney .
surgical removal of both kidneys .
the solid food that is consumed by an organism .
a liquid consumed by an organism .
the clear ,  colorless ,  odorless ,  tasteless liquid each molecule of which contains one atom of oxygen and two atoms of hydrogen  ( h2o )  ,  specifically ,  as supplied for drinking ,  that is ,  to be brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst ,  for nourishment ,  etc .
a regimen of solid food in which the amount of sodium consumed is controlled .
a drink made up of water and a specified amount of ethanol ,  the alcohol with chemical formula ch3 - ch2 - oh obtained from the fermentation of sugars and starches or by chemical synthesis which is the intoxicating ingredient of alcoholic beverages ,  for consumption by an organism in an experiment .
a regimen of solid food in which the amount of iron consumed is controlled .
a regimen of solid food in which the amount of fat consumed is controlled .
the process of ablating or extracting an organ ,  gland or other body part from an organism prior to ,  or in the process of ,  an experiment being performed on the organism .
any insertion of a tissue ,  material or device into the body using a procedure involving incision into the body .
a drink containing caffeine ,  one of the methylxanthines soluble in water and alcohol and obtainable from coffee ,  tea ,  guarana and mate .
a regimen of solid food in which the amount of carbohydrates consumed is controlled .
a regimen of solid food in which the amount of protein consumed is controlled .
a regimen of solid food in which the amount of calcium consumed is controlled .
a regimen of solid food in which the amount of potassium consumed is controlled .
the condition of being subjected to any type of energy transmitted by waves through space or through some medium or to a stream of particles ,  such as electrons or alpha particles .
the condition of being subjected to transmitted energy composed of particles that individually carry enough kinetic energy to liberate an electron from an atom or molecule .
the condition of being subjected to high frequency ,  high energy electromagnetic radiation ,  that is ,  energy emitted and absorbed by charged particles ,  which exhibits wave - like behavior as it travels and has both electric and magnetic field components .
the condition of being subjected to transmitted energy from the gaseous radioactive element ,  atomic number 86 ,  resulting from decay of radium .
the condition of being subjected to electromagnetic radiation ,  that is ,  energy emitted and absorbed by charged particles ,  which exhibits wave - like behavior as it travels and has both electric and magnetic field components ,  in the part of the electromagnetic spectrum with wavelengths between about 10 and 400 nm .
the condition of being subjected to electromagnetic radiation ,  that is ,  energy emitted and absorbed by charged particles ,  which exhibits wave - like behavior as it travels and has both electric and magnetic field components ,  with wavelengths between approximately 0 .01 and 10 nm .
the condition of being subjected to transmitted energy that does not carry enough energy per quantum to completely remove an electron from an atom or molecule .
the condition of being subjected to energy emitted and absorbed by charged particles ,  which exhibits wave - like behavior as it travels and has both electric and magnetic field components .
the condition of being subjected to electromagnetic radiation ,  that is ,  energy emitted and absorbed by charged particles ,  which exhibits wave - like behavior as it travels and has both electric and magnetic field components ,  with wavelengths longer than those of visible light ,  i .e .
an action or condition designed to cause the registration or perception of a stimulus and the voyage made by incoming nerve impulses from the sense organs to the nerve centers .
any action or condition designed to cause the registration or perception of a stimulus by organs and receptors involved in the sense of hearing .
any action or condition designed to cause the registration or perception of a stimulus by the optical sense organs .
any action or condition designed to cause the registration or perception of a stimulus ,  by organs or receptors involved in the sense of smell .
any action or condition designed to cause the registration or perception of a stimulus by the gustatory receptors in the tongue .
any action or condition designed to cause the registration or perception of a stimulus by organs and receptors involved in the sense of touch ,  that is ,  the physiological sense by which external objects or forces are perceived through contact with the body .
an activity or condition involving a high temperature directed toward a particular part of an organism's body .
an activity or condition involving a low temperature directed toward a particular part of an organism's body .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is the stimulation of nerves involved in the physiological sense by which external objects or forces are perceived through contact with the body via application of an electric current .
a baseline condition in which none of the experimental manipulations are performed .
breathing in again air which has been exhaled .
the temperature of the air surrounding an organism which is considered the most common level for the facility .
action in which a part of the body or whole body is involved in movement .
being in a state of action within the mind often involving manipulation of words or numbers .
an activity in which a person starts with a number and deducts a specified number from that and then deducts the same number from the remainder of the first computation ,  without using a calculator or pencil and paper .
the action of riding on a stationary or moving vehicle with wheels that is propelled by the movement of a person's legs .
the act of propelling the wheel or wheels of a fixed exercise machine through the action of one's legs .
the action of propelling a two wheeled vehicle by the movement of a person's legs .
the action of squeezing an apparatus that measures the muscular contraction of the hand ,  used as a condition of exertion in experiments measuring other physiological functions .
change in position or attitude of body as part of the experiment in which measurements are taken before ,  during and / or after the change .
a drink containing ethanol ,  a transparent ,  colorless ,  volatile , flammable liquid ,  which is formed by microbial fermentation of carbohydrates .
an alcoholic drink brewed by fermenting malt with sugar and yeast and flavored with hops .
alcoholic drink made by fermenting the juice of grapes .
alcoholic beverage produced by distillation .
a drink made up of water and a specified amount of caffeine consumed by an organism as part of an experiment .
a drink made of the decoction or infusion of the dried ,  roasted sees of coffea arabica or coffea canephora .
the use of any product made for human consumption from nicotiana tabacum .
the action of smoking ,  inhalation of the gases and hydrocarbon vapors generated by burning a cigar ,  a rolled cylinder of tobacco wrapped in tobacco leaves .
the action of smoking ,  inhalation of the gases and hydrocarbon vapors generated by burning a cigarette ,  a small roll of finely cut tobacco enclosed in a wrapper of thin paper .
mastication of a form of the prepared leaves of nicotiana tabacum that is chewed .
the attitude or posture of the body .
a position of rest in which the weight is largely supported by the buttocks ,  usually with the body vertical .
a position in which an organism is upright balanced on two legs for bipedal organisms or four legs for quadrapedal organisms .
a position in which the organism is lying face up .
a fixed series of exercises or body movements repeated at intervals over a specified period of time as part of a program to improve strength ,  aerobic capacity or other elements of fitness .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a substance having a specific molecular composition obtained by or used in a reaction involving changes to atoms or molecules .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a chemical ,  i .e . ,  a substance having a specific molecular composition obtained by or used in a reaction involving changes to atoms or molecules ,  which has the copacity to promote the formation of neoplasms ,  new and abnormal growths ,  specifically those in which cell multiplication is uncontrolled and progressive .
a tetraphene having methyl substituents at the 7 -  and 12 -  positions .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a naturally occurring compound or related synthetic analog with a molecular structure based on the cyclopenta [ a ] phenanthrene carbon skeleton ,  that is ,  a phenanthrene ,  to the a side of which a three - carbon fragment is fused .
the predominant circulating form of estrogen ,  the female sex hormone .
any organic compound whose molecules are composed only of hydrogen ,  the element with atomic number 1 ,  and carbon ,  the element with atomic number 12 ,  and whose carbon atoms form continuous or closed chains linked by alternating double and single bonds that may be represented graphically by multiple interlinking circular or triangular forms .
the removal of one or both ovaries ,  the female gonads ,  from an organism .
surgical removal of both ovaries .
surgical removal of a single ovary .
surgical removal of the right ovary .
surgical removal of the left ovary .
a baseline condition in which the experimental observations or measurements may be evaluated .
a surgical treatment or procedure that is performed as a control and that is similar to but omits a key therapeutic element of the treatment or procedure under investigation .
a treatment or procedure used as a control in which a saline or other solution is injected in the same manner as the experimental solution minus the key element of the experimental solution .
abstaining from the consumption of food ,  often for a specified period of time .
a mixture in which molecules of glucose ,  the monosaccharide sugar  ( c6h12o6 )  which is the end product of carbohydrate metabolism ,  and the chief source of energy for living organisms ,  are distributed uniformly throughout another substance  ( the solvent )  ,  usually water ,  so that the mixture is homogeneous at the molecular level .
a mixture in which 2 .8 moles of glucose ,  the monosaccharide sugar  ( c6h12o6 )  which is the end product of carbohydrate metabolism ,  and the chief source of energy for living organisms ,  are distributed uniformly throughout a sufficient volume of another substance  ( the solvent )  ,  usually water ,  so that the mixture is homogeneous at the molecular level and the final volume is one liter .
surgical removal of part or all of the pancreas ,  the combined endocrine / exocrine gland situated transversely behind the stomach ,  between the spleen and the duodenum .
condition in which the main influencing factor is a drug or agent used to reduce or eliminate pain or sensation .
short to intermediate acting barbiturate used as a sedative and hypnotic .
sodium salt of pentobarbital ,  a short to intermediate acting barbiturate used as a sedative and hypnotic .
potent inhalational anesthetic .
a position in which the organism is lying face down .
surgical removal of a single kidney .
surgical removal of the right kidney .
surgical removal of the left kidney .
any fluid which is injected or pumped into ,  or poured through ,  an organ or tissue ,  usually via a blood vessel .
a buffered ,  aqueous solution usually containing the cations sodium ,  potassium ,  calcium and magnesium ,  and anions chloride ,  sulfate ,  bicarbonate and phosphate and often including glucose as an energy source which is injected or pumped into ,  or poured through ,  an organ or tissue ,  usually via a blood vessel .
a fluid containing a specified amount of a chemical salt ,  for example sodium chloride ,  which is injected or pumped into ,  or poured through ,  an organ or tissue ,  usually via a blood vessel .
a condition in which a fluid which has been injected or pumped into ,  or poured through ,  an organ or tissue ,  usually via a blood vessel ,  remains in but is no longer actively passed through the organ or tissue for a specified period of time .
any naturally occurring or synthetic organic compound containing an amino group ,  a carboxylic acid group and a side chain .
a substance or compound which interferes with a chemical reaction or a molecular or physiological process or activity .
a basic amino acid ,  commonly known as l - name ,  used as a non - selective inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase .
a chemical which tends to increase the excretion of urine .
a compound containing a sulfonamide functional group .
a diuretic drug which inhibits nkcc2 ,  one of the na - k symporters and reduces the reabsorption of sodium chloride .
a chemical substance which in its endogenous state is produced by an organ ,  cells of an organ or scattered cells ,  having a specific regulatory affect on the activity of an organ or tissue .
a peptide hormone which increases blood pressure by causing blood vessel constriction .
a catecholamine neurotransmitter and stress hormone with multiple physiological roles including affects on heart rate ,  blood pressure and vascular tone .
drinking water with a specified concentration of ng - nitroarginine methyl ester  ( l - name )  added to it .
an analgesic and anesthetic which functions as a noncompetitive nmda receptor  ( nmdar )  antagonist ,  binding to the allosteric site of the nmda receptor and effectively inhibiting its channel .
an alpha2 - adrenergic receptor agonist used for sedation ,  anesthesia ,  muscle relaxation ,  and analgesia in animals .
a phenothiazine - derivative antipsychotic drug used in animals as a sedative and antiemetic and which can also cause peripheral vasodilation .
a condition in which the major influencing factor is a chemical compound to which the body can mount a specific localized or systemic immune reaction ,  e .g .
a synthetic choline ester that acts as a non - selective muscarinic receptor agonist ,  that is ,  a chemical which when bound to the receptor produces a physiologic reaction typical of the naturally occurring ligand ,  in the parasympathetic nervous system .
a drug or other chemical that can combine with a receptor to produce a physiologic reaction typical of a naturally occurring substance .
an oligopeptide substrate for continuous spectrophotometric assay of angiotensin converting enzyme  ( ace )  which hydrolyzes fapgg to furylacryloylphenylalanine  ( fap )  and glycylglycine with a resulting decrease in absorbance at 340 nm .
methylene blue is monoamine oxidase inhibitor and nitric oxide synthase inhibitor ,  as well as a cationic dye used as a redox indicator .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is a molecule that directly or indirectly acts upon blood vessels to cause constriction or dilation .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is a molecule that functions to dilate or increase the interior diameter of blood vessels .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is a molecule that acts to constrict or reduce the interior diameter of blood vessels .
the red - coloured inorganic salt with the formula na2 [ fe ( cn ) 5no ] ·2h2o used as a potent vasodilator .
an organic ,  polyatomic cation ,  formed as an ester of acetic acid and choline ,  that acts as a neurotransmitter in both the peripheral nervous system  ( pns )  and central nervous system  ( cns )  in many organisms .
a selective alpha1 - adrenergic receptor agonist used primarily as a decongestant ,  as an agent to dilate the pupil ,  and as a vasoconstrictor .
a buffered ,  aqueous solution usually containing the cations sodium ,  potassium ,  calcium and magnesium ,  and anions chloride ,  sulfate ,  bicarbonate and phosphate and often including glucose as an energy source in which a specified amount of the tasteless ,  odorless ,  colorless gas essential for aerobic respiration with atomic number 8 has been dissolved ,  which is injected or pumped into ,  or poured through ,  an organ or tissue ,  usually via a blood vessel .
a fluid which is injected or pumped into an organ or tissue ,  usually via blood vessels ,  composed of a solution of sodium chloride at a concentration which closely approximates the osmolarity of salt in blood .
a fluid which is injected or pumped into an organ or tissue ,  usually via blood vessels ,  composed of a solution of sodium chloride at a concentration which closely approximates the osmolarity of salt in blood ,  and which contains a specific ,  controlled concentration of oxygen gas ,  the tasteless ,  odorless ,  colorless gas with atomic number 8 essential for aerobic respiration ,  dissolved in it .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is an atom or molecule that has gained or lost one or more electrons and thereby acquired a charge ,  or is any of a large class of chemical compounds formed when a positively charged ion  ( a cation )  bonds with a negatively charged ion  ( an anion )  .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is an atom of potassium ,  the chemical element with atomic number 19 ,  that has lost one electron ,  forming a cation with a charge of  + 1 .
the condition of exposing an organism ,  organ or tissue to a series of increasing or decreasing doses of a drug or other chemical from which a single measurement value is obtained .
a predetermined and specified amount of time during which an experimental specimen sits undisturbed ,  for example to allow a chemical reacion to proceed .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a homogeneous mixture of one or more ions ,  i .e .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is a homogeneous mixture of atoms of sodium ,  the chemical element with atomic number 11 ,  that have lost one electron forming a cation with a charge of  + 1 ,  and an equivalent number of atoms of chlorine ,  the chemical element with atomic number 17 ,  that have gained one electron forming an anion with a charge of  - 1 dispersed molecularly in a sufficient quantity of dissolving medium  ( solvent )  such as water .
a solution of sodium chloride  ( nacl )  and water in which the level of nacl is maintained at a mass concentration of 9 grams per liter  ( 0 .9 grams per 100 mls of solution ,  or 0 .9 % m / v )  .
the use of manual or mechanical means to limit some or all of an animal's normal movement for the purpose of examination ,  collection of samples ,  drug administration ,  therapy ,  or experimental manipulation .
the use of mechanical means ,  i .e .
the use of a tube type rodent restrainer ,  that is ,  a hollow cylinder usually made of a rigid clear material in a size that approximates the size of the animal and can be capped at one or both ends to prevent escape ,  to limit some or all of an animal's normal movements .
a substance that binds to a receptor without eliciting a biological response ,  blocking binding of substances that could elicit such responses .
angiotensin receptor antagonist and vasodilator which consists of a biphenylyltetrazole where a 1 , 1' - biphenyl group is attached at the 5 - position .
nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist ,  ganglionic blocking agent and vasodilator which consists of a dication whose structure comprises a pentane backbone linking two 1 - methylpyrrolidinium groups .
drinking water in which the amount of one or more solutes are adjusted to a requirement .
a drink made up of water and a specified amount of sodium ,  i .e .
any process involving manual and instrumental techniques for incision or excision of a part of an organism to investigate and / or treat a pathological condition .
any experimental condition in which the internal or external environment of an organ ,  that is ,  a differentiated ,  structural part of a system of the body that performs a specific function ,  is experimentally manipulated ,  for example through perfusion ,  increased or decreased blood flow ,  etc .
any experimental condition in which the internal or external environment of one or both kidneys ,  the organ which functions to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes ,  is experimentally manipulated ,  for example through perfusion ,  increased or decreased blood flow ,  etc .
condition in which the difference in pressure between the arteries and veins in the kidney ,  the organ which functions to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes ,  is experimentally regulated ,  for example by injecting or pumping a fluid into the kidney at a specified pressure or by regulating the blood flow through the kidney ,  without removal of the organ from the body .
any chemical to which a tracer has been added such as the addition of a fluorescent tag or inclusion of a radioactive element during synthesis .
chemical to which a fluorescent tag has been added as a tracer .
chemical into which a radioactive element has been incorporated as a tracer .
any of a group of organic compounds that includes sugars ,  starches ,  celluloses ,  and gums and serves as a major energy source in the diet of animals .
a macromolecule consisting of large numbers of monosaccharide residues ,  that is ,  simple carbohydrate residues each consisting of a single basic sugar unit with the general formula cn ( h2o ) n ,  linked glycosidically .
a fructose - based starch derived from rhizomes of plants from the compositae family and used as a diagnostic aid in tests of kidney function ,  specifically glomerular filtration .
inulin ,  a fructose - based starch derived from rhizomes of plants from the compositae family and used as a diagnostic aid in tests of kidney function ,  specifically glomerular filtration ,  into which the mass 3 radioactive isotope of hydrogen has been incorporated as a tracer .
any of numerous proteins or conjugated proteins produced by living organisms and functioning as specialized catalysts for biochemical reactions .
an enzyme in blood formed from prothrombin that facilitates blood clotting by reacting with fibrinogen to form fibrin ,  as well as participating in additional steps in the coagulation pathway .
a non - competitive inhibitor the sarco  /  endoplasmic reticulum ca2 +  atpase  ( serca )  class of enzymes .
the condition of being subjected to electromagnetic radiation ,  that is ,  energy emitted and absorbed by charged particles ,  which exhibits wave - like behavior as it travels and has both electric and magnetic field components ,  with wavelengths between 10 and 120 nm .
the condition of being subjected to electromagnetic radiation ,  that is ,  energy emitted and absorbed by charged particles ,  which exhibits wave - like behavior as it travels and has both electric and magnetic field components ,  with wavelengths between 120 and 400 nm .
condition in which the presence or absence of visible light ,  that is ,  electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths between approximately 390  ( violet )  and 770  ( red )  nanometers ,  capable of stimulating the subjective sensation of sight ,  is constrained .
condition in which the natural ,  usual or environmental level and / or time of exposure to visible light ,  that is ,  electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths between approximately 390  ( violet )  and 770  ( red )  nanometers ,  capable of stimulating the subjective sensation of sight ,  is controlled .
condition during which visible light ,  that is ,  electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths between approximately 390  ( violet )  and 770  ( red )  nanometers ,  capable of stimulating the subjective sensation of sight ,  is removed .
the divalent cation of calcium ,  the chemical element with symbol ca and atomic number 20 .
a solution of the divalent cation of calcium ,  the chemical element with symbol ca and atomic number 20 .
a toxic selective nicotinic cholinergic alkaloid from the seed of laburnum anagyroides and other leguminosae .
a drug that counteracts cholinergic transmission at the ganglion type of nicotinic receptors of the autonomic ganglia by acting as a non - depolarizing competitive antagonist at the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor .
calcium channel blocker .
immobilization of a subject on a frame or platform by securing all four limbs to it ,  e .g .
the 10 amino acid cleavage product produced by the action of renin on angiotensinogen .
the 8 amino acid cleavage product produced by the action of angiotensin - converting enzyme  ( ace )  on ang i .  ang ii is considered to be the main effector of the renin - angiotensin system  ( ras )  ,  has endocrine ,  autocrine / paracrine ,  and intracrine hormone activities in the body and acts as a powerful vasoconstrictor .
the acetate ester of 11 - deoxycorticosterone ,  a steroid hormone produced by the adrenal gland that possesses mineralocorticoid activity and acts as a precursor to aldosterone .
any natural or synthetic complex organic macromolecule composed of chain ( s )  of amino acids .
an immunoglobulin molecule having a specific amino acid sequence that gives each antibody the ability to adhere to and interact only with the antigen that induced its synthesis and with molecules containing structures similar to that antigen .
a membrane protein expressed on the oligodendrocyte cell surface and the outermost surface of myelin sheaths .
atp - sensitive potassium channel inhibitor used as an anti - arrhythmia drug and a hypoglycemic / anti - diabetes drug .
any substance that indicates the presence ,  absence ,  or concentration of another substance or the degree of reaction between substances by means of a characteristic change ,  especially in color .
any substance that indicates the concentration of hydrogen ions ,  that is the acidity level ,  of a solution by means of a characteristic change ,  especially in color .
any substance which indicates the oxidation status of another substance or of a reaction by means of a characteristic change ,  especially in color .
a monocarboxylic acid that serves as an intermediate in the metabolism of leucine and a substrate for nadph - dependent dehydrogenases .
surgical removal of one or both testes .
surgical removal of a single testis .
surgical removal of both testes .
the principal androgenic ,  that is ,  male sex hormone .
an agent that causes or increases the frequency of permanent ,  heritable changes in the dna sequence or chromosomal structure of a cell or organism .
a component of tobacco smoke which has been shown to be mutagenic and carcinogenic in animal studies .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is 3 - methyl - 4' - dimethylaminoazobenzene  ( mdab )  ,  an azobenzene in which one of the phenyl groups is substituted at position 3 by a methyl group ,  while the other is substituted at position 4 by a dimethylamino group .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is 2 - acetamidofluorene  ( 2 - aaf )  an ortho - fused polycyclic arene that consists of 9h - fluorene bearing an acetamido substituent at position 2 .
any substance that makes another substance active or reactive ,  induces a chemical reaction ,  or combines with an enzyme to increase its catalytic activity .
a fluid which is injected or pumped into an organ or tissue ,  usually via blood vessels ,  composed of a solution of sodium chloride at a concentration which closely approximates the osmolarity of salt in blood ,  and which contains a specific ,  controlled concentration of calcium ions ,  divalent cations of the metallic chemical element with atomic number 20 ,  dissolved in it .
any chemical substance which increases the activity of an ion channel ,  one or more membrane - bound globular proteins that allow diffusion of specific ions across a cell membrane .
any chemical substance which increases the activity of a cation channel ,  one or more membrane - bound globular proteins that allow diffusion of positively charged ions across a cell membrane .
a phorbol ester analog that is an activator of trpv4  ( transient receptor potential cation channel ,  subfamily v ,  member 4 )  channels .
a capsaicinoid which is an irritant and a selective trpv1  ( transient receptor potential cation channel ,  subfamily v ,  member 1 )  agonist .
any chemical substance which increases the activity of an anion channel ,  one or more membrane - bound globular proteins that allow diffusion of negatively charged ions across a cell membrane .
any chemical substance which decreases or interferes with the activity of an ion channel ,  one or more membrane - bound globular proteins that allow diffusion of specific ions across a cell membrane .
any chemical substance which decreases or interferes with the activity of a cation channel ,  one or more membrane - bound globular proteins that allow diffusion of positively charged ions across a cell membrane .
any chemical substance which decreases or interferes with the activity of an anion channel ,  one or more membrane - bound globular proteins that allow diffusion of negatively charged ions across a cell membrane .
an inorganic dye which also intereacts with many types of proteins including ion channels and enzymes .
any chemical substance which decreases or interferes with the activity of a potassium ion channel ,  that is ,  a complex of membrane - bound and membrane - spanning proteins that specifically allow diffusion of positively charged potassium ions across a cell membrane .
an 18 amino acid peptide neurotoxin from bee venom which blocks small - conductance ca2 +  - activated k +  channels .
a 37 amino acid peptide neurotoxin from scorpion venom that is a blocker of large -  and intermediate - conductance ca2 +  - activated k +  channels .
a molecular chain compound composed of two or more amino acids joined by peptide bonds that in its endogenous state is produced in one part or organ of the body and initiates or regulates the activity of an organ or a group of cells in another part of the body .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is a chemical substance the structure of which is based on the basic 17 - carbon - atom ring system steroid nucleus but may or may not have the characteristic arrangement of four fused cycloalkane rings ,  and which is produced in its endogenous state by an organ ,  cells of an organ or scattered cells ,  having a specific regulatory affect on the activity of an organ or tissue .
a chemical substance consisting of an amine compound which contains one amino group and was derived from an aromatic amino acid ,  that in its endogenous state is produced in one part or organ of the body and initiates or regulates the activity of an organ or a group of cells in another part of the body .
antibody directed against the rt6 .1 cell surface alloantigen  ( also known as art2 ,  pta .a2 ,  and ag - f1 )  .
a high - molecular - weight polymeric compound composed of nucleotides ,  each consisting of a purine or pyrimidine base ,  a ribose or deoxyribose sugar ,  and a phosphate group .
a long ,  polymeric chain of alternating phosphate and ribose units with the bases adenine ,  guanine ,  cytosine ,  and uracil bonded to the ribose .
a long ,  polymeric chain of alternating phosphate and deoxyribose units with the bases adenine ,  guanine ,  cytosine ,  and thymine bonded to the deoxyribose .
poly i:c is a synthetic analog of dsrna ,  which is the ligand of choice for toll - like receptor 3  ( tlr3 )  .
an biological agent that causes disease ,  especially a living microorganism such as a bacterium ,  virus ,  or fungus .
a virus which has the potential to cause disease .
a common parvovirus pathogen which causes largely asymptomatic infections in rats .
a chemical or biological substance which is capable of causing illness ,  debilitation or death ,  to living organisms ,  tissues or cells .
a protein or conjugated protein produced by some higher plants ,  certain animals ,  and pathogenic bacteria ,  that is highly poisonous for other living organisms .
a  condition in which the main influencing factor is streptozotocin ,  a naturally occurring chemical that is particularly toxic to the insulin - producing beta cells of the pancreas in mammals .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is alloxan ,  an oxygenated pyrimidine derivative which is toxic to the pancreatic insulin - producing beta cells of the islets of langerhans in rodents and other animals and can therefore be used for modeling type 1 diabetes mellitus through destruction of the beta cells .
surgical removal of a portion of the pancreas ,  resulting in reduction but not elimination of the physiological functions of the pancreas .
a solid diet in which the amount of fructose ,  the monosaccharide found in honey and many sweet fruits which chemically combines with glucose to form the disaccharide sucrose ,  is maintained at a specified level .
a protein hormone formed from proinsulin in the beta cells of the pancreatic islets of langerhans .
a regimen of solid food in which the amount of cholesterol ,  a steroid alcohol found in animal fats and oils ,  is controlled .
a regimen of solid food to which a specified amount of olive oil has been added .
a surgical procedure in which one or both kidneys from a donor organism are implanted into a recipient organism .
a surgical procedure in which the left kidney from a donor organism is implanted into a recipient organism .
a surgical procedure in which the right kidney from a donor organism is implanted into a recipient organism .
any agent that induces exocrine ,  endocrine ,  or paracrine secretion .
a first generation potassium channel blocker and sulfonylurea oral hypoglycemic drug which stimulates the secretion of insulin by the pancreas .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is an atom of sodium ,  the chemical element with atomic number 11 ,  that has lost one electron ,  forming a cation with a charge of  + 1 .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is a homogeneous mixture of atoms of sodium ,  the chemical element with atomic number 11 ,  that have lost one electron ,  forming a cation with a charge of  + 1 dispersed molecularly in a sufficient quantity of dissolving medium  ( solvent )  such as water .
an immunoglobulin molecule or a preparation of multiple antibody molecules having specific amino acid sequences with the ability to adhere to and interact specifically with one or more components of the structure located between endothelial cells of renal capillaries and the visceral epithelial cells of the kidney glomerulus .
a drug which is structurally similar to epinephrine and that binds to beta - adrenergic receptors to produce a physiologic reaction similar to or the same as that of epinephrine .
a drink made up of water containing a specified amount of hydrogen ions ,  the chemical element with atomic number 1 that have lost one electron forming a cation with a charge of  + 1 ,  for consumption by an organism in an experiment .
any phenomenon ,  chemical or biologic substance ,  or organism that exerts some force or effect resulting in a deviation from or interruption of the normal structure or function of any body part ,  organ ,  or system that is manifested by a characteristic set of symptoms and signs .
a substance having a specific molecular composition obtained by or used in a reaction involving changes to atoms or molecules that exerts some force or effect resulting in a deviation from or interruption of the normal structure or function of any body part ,  organ ,  or system that is manifested by a characteristic set of symptoms and signs .
a condition in which the major influencing factor is a peptide or protein ,  that is ,  any of a group of complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  capable of inducing a specific localized and / or systemic immune response .
a substance having a specific molecular composition obtained by or used in a reaction involving changes to atoms or molecules that ,  when administered ,  results in the inflammation of one or more joints ,  the sites of junction or union between bones ,  especially those that allow motion of the bones .
a condition in which the major influencing factor is any of a family of extracellular ,  closely related proteins occurring as a major component of connective tissue ,  giving it strength and flexibility ;  composed of molecules of tropocollagen .
a condition in which the major influencing factor is an acyclic saturated hydrocarbon derived from phytane by loss of its c - 16 terminal methyl group .
a nonspecific stimulator of the immune response consisting of a water - in - oil emulsion into which a specific antigen can be added to illicit a specific immune response .
a water - in - oil emulsion incorporating antigen ,  in the aqueous phase ,  into lightweight paraffin oil with the aid of an emulsifying agent to induce strong persistent antibody formation .
a water - in - oil emulsion incorporating antigen ,  in the aqueous phase ,  and killed ,  dried mycobacteria ,  e .g . ,  mycobacterium butyricum in lightweight paraffin oil .
a condition in which the major influencing factor is a polymer found in the cell walls of prokaryotes that consists of polysaccharide and peptide chains in a strong molecular network .
a technique of mechanically widening narrowed or obstructed arteries by use of a soft catheter with an inflatable tip .
any chemical substance which decreases or interferes with the activity of a calcium channel ,  one or more membrane - bound globular proteins that display selective permeability to calcium ions ,  the chemical element with atomic number 20 that has lost two electrons forming a cation with a charge of  + 2 ,  and allow diffusion of these ions across a cell membrane .
a sulfur - containing carboxylic acid with a pyrrolidine substituent at c - 1 ,  which decreases or interferes with the activity of  angiotensin converting enzyme  ( ace )  inhibitor ,  used as an anti - hypertensive drug .
a substance that opposes oxidation ,  a reaction in which the atoms in an element lose electrons ,  and / or inhibits reactions brought about by dioxygen or peroxides .
a heterocyclic compound used as an agent for detoxifying reactive oxygen species .
a family of linear ,  sulfated ,  high - molecular - weight polysaccharides made up of repeating galactose and 3 , 6 - anhydrogalactose units with alternating alpha 1 - 3 and beta 1 - 4 glycosidic linkages .
any simple carbohydrate consisting of a single basic sugar unit with the general formula cn ( h2o ) n ,  with n ranging from 3 to 8 .
a monosaccharide sugar ,  c6h12o6 ,  occurring widely in plant and animal tissues .
any of a large group of organic compounds whose molecules are composed only of hydrogen ,  the element with atomic number 1 ,  and carbon ,  the element with atomic number 12 .
any organic compound whose molecules are composed only of hydrogen ,  the element with atomic number 1 ,  and carbon ,  the element with atomic number 12 ,  and whose carbon atoms form a continuous or closed chain linked by bonds that may be represented graphically by one or more circular or triangular forms .
any organic compound whose molecules are composed only of hydrogen ,  the element with atomic number 1 ,  and carbon ,  the element with atomic number 12 ,  and whose carbon atoms form continuous or closed chains linked by bonds that may be represented graphically by multiple interlinking circular or triangular forms .
any of a large and diverse class of organic compounds which are composed only of hydrogen ,  the element with atomic number 1 ,  and carbon ,  the element with atomic number 12 ,  which are derived biosynthetically from units of isoprene and which have the general molecular formula  ( ch2=c ( ch3 ) ch=ch2 ) n where n is the number of linked isoprene units .
a triterpene ,  that is a terpine containing six isoprene units ,  consisting of 2 , 6 , 10 , 15 , 19 , 23 - hexamethyltetracosane having six double bonds at the 2 -  ,  6 -  ,  10 -  ,  14 -  ,  18 -  and 22 - positions with  ( all - e )  - configuration .
a condition in which the major influencing factor is the fibrillar collagen which comprises the main component of cartilage and is also found in the vitreous humor of the eye .
an immunoglobulin molecule having a specific amino acid sequence that gives it the ability to adhere to and interact only with thy1 ,  i .e .
exposure to visible light in a manner ,  such as for a length of time or at a level ,  which would not be considered natural ,  usual or environmental and which is  designed to elicit or evoke an action or response in a cell ,  an excitable tissue ,  or an organism .
condition during which a subject or sample is directly in the presence of or influenced by visible light ,  that is ,  electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths between approximately 390  ( violet )  and 770  ( red )  nanometers ,  capable of stimulating the subjective sensation of sight ,  at a constrained level and / or for a constrained period of time .
a drink made up of water and a specified amount of the basic amino acid commonly known as l - name and used as a non - selective inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase ,  consumed by an organism as part of an experiment .
a condition in which the major influencing factor is a highly antigenic ,  soluble photoreceptor protein expressed in the retina and the pineal gland and involved in desensitization of the photoactivated transduction cascade .
a condition in which the major influencing factor is a large glycoprotein ,  found primarily in the interphotoreceptor matrix of the retina between the retinal pigment epithelium and the photoreceptor cells ,  which is known to bind retinoids and thought to transport them between the retinal pigment epithelium and the photoreceptors .
a condition in which the major influencing factor is a 15 amino acid peptide  ( aa 1177 - 1191 )  derived from the interphotoreceptor retinoid - binding protein ,  a large glycoprotein ,  found primarily in the interphotoreceptor matrix of the retina between the retinal pigment epithelium and the photoreceptor cells ,  which is known to bind retinoids and thought to transport them between the retinal pigment epithelium and the photoreceptors .
a condition in which the major influencing factor is a 23 amino acid peptide  ( aa 1169 - 1191 )  derived from the interphotoreceptor retinoid - binding protein ,  a large glycoprotein ,  found primarily in the interphotoreceptor matrix of the retina between the retinal pigment epithelium and the photoreceptor cells ,  which is known to bind retinoids and thought to transport them between the retinal pigment epithelium and the photoreceptors .
a condition in which the major influencing factor is a fatty acid and cholesterol binding protein which together with myelin basic protein constitutes a major fraction of the peripheral nervous system myelin proteins .
a condition in which the major influencing factor is the peptide  ( knteisfklgqefeettadnrktk )  representing residues 58 to 81 of peripheral myelin protein 2 ,  a fatty acid and cholesterol binding protein which together with myelin basic protein constitutes a major fraction of the peripheral nervous system myelin proteins .
a condition in which the major influencing factor is peripheral nerve myelin ,  a lipoproteinaceous substance largely composed of phospholipids and proteins ,  which forms the sheaths surrounding the axons of peripheral nerves ,  that is ,  nerves that are not part of either the brain or spinal cord of the organism .
a coordination complex of technetium - 99m ,  a radioisotope of the chemical element technetium ,  atomic number 43 ,  a gamma emitter having a half - life of approximately 6 hours ,  and methoxyisobutylisonitrile  ( mibi )  ,  a lipophilic cation ,  used as an agent in nuclear medicine imaging .
any of the  naturally - occuring ,  primary female sex hormones or  related synthetic molecules with the capacity to perform the same function ( s )  ,  i .e .
a synthetic estrogen analog with chemical formula c18h20o2 .
the act of rapidly moving the feet on an exercise apparatus with an endless belt that allows the user to perform the action of running in place and that is maintained at an angle which deviates from the horozontal by a specified amount .
condition in which liquids for drinking  ( bringing a liquid into the mouth and swallowing it to quench thirst ,  for nourishment ,  etc .
water ,  the clear ,  colorless ,  odorless ,  tasteless liquid each molecule of which contains one atom of oxygen and two atoms of hydrogen  ( h2o )  supplied as a drink ,  that is ,  as a liquid to be brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst ,  for nourishment ,  etc . ,  in which the amount of saccharin ,  a cyclic imine of 2 - sulfobenzoic acid which is 500 times sweeter than sugar and used as a nonnutritive sweetener ,  is adjusted to a requirement .
condition in which a drink ,  that is ,  a liquid to be brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst ,  for nourishment ,  etc . ,  made up of water and a specified amount of ethanol ,  the alcohol with chemical formula ch3 - ch2 - oh obtained from the fermentation of sugars and starches or by chemical synthesis which is the intoxicating ingredient of alcoholic beverages ,  is supplied as the only available drink option for consumption by an organism in an experiment .
condition in which a drink ,  that is ,  a liquid to be brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst ,  for nourishment ,  etc . ,  made up of water and a specified amount of ethanol ,  the alcohol with chemical formula ch3 - ch2 - oh obtained from the fermentation of sugars and starches or by chemical synthesis which is the intoxicating ingredient of alcoholic beverages ,  is supplied along with additive - free water ,  the clear ,  colorless ,  odorless ,  tasteless liquid each molecule of which contains one atom of oxygen and two atoms of hydrogen  ( h2o )  ,  as an additional drink option for consumption by an organism in an experiment .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is a homogeneous mixture of atoms of lithium ,  the chemical element with atomic number 3 ,  that have lost one electron ,  forming a cation with a charge of  + 1 dispersed molecularly in a sufficient quantity of dissolving medium  ( solvent )  such as water .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is a homogeneous mixture of atoms of lithium ,  the chemical element with atomic number 3 ,  that have lost one electron forming a cation with a charge of  + 1 ,  and an equivalent number of atoms of chlorine ,  the chemical element with atomic number 17 ,  that have gained one electron forming an anion with a charge of  - 1 dispersed molecularly in a sufficient quantity of dissolving medium  ( solvent )  such as water .
the surgical excision of one or both of the adrenal glands ,  two small ,  dissimilarly shaped endocrine glands ,  one located above each kidney ,  consisting of the cortex ,  which secretes several steroid hormones ,  and the medulla ,  which secretes epinephrine .
the surgical excision of both adrenal glands ,  two small ,  dissimilarly shaped endocrine glands ,  one located above each kidney ,  consisting of the cortex ,  which secretes several steroid hormones ,  and the medulla ,  which secretes epinephrine .
the surgical excision of only one of the adrenal glands ,  two small ,  dissimilarly shaped endocrine glands ,  one located above each kidney ,  consisting of the cortex ,  which secretes several steroid hormones ,  and the medulla ,  which secretes epinephrine .
an activity or condition which involves subjecting all or part of an organism to a relatively low ,  i .e . ,  lower than considered normal ,  temperature .
an activity or condition in which the air surrounding or encircling the organism has a relatively low ,  or lower than considered normal ,  temperature ,  i .e . ,  air in which the molecules possess a lower than normal amount of random kinetic energy .
an activity or condition which involves subjecting all or part of an organism to a relatively high ,  or higher than considered normal ,  temperature ,  that is ,  possessing a higher than normal level of random kinetic energy of atoms ,  molecules ,  or ions .
an activity or condition in which the air surrounding or encircling the organism has a relatively high ,  or higher than considered normal ,  temperature ,  i .e . ,  air in which the molecules possess a higher than normal amount of random kinetic energy .
an antihypertensive agent that acts by selectively inhibiting transmission in post - ganglionic adrenergic nerves .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is a homogeneous mixture of atoms of potassium ,  the chemical element with atomic number 19 ,  that have lost one electron ,  forming a cation with a charge of  + 1 dispersed molecularly in a sufficient quantity of dissolving medium  ( solvent )  such as water .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is a homogeneous mixture of atoms of potassium ,  the chemical element with atomic number 19 ,  that have lost one electron forming a cation with a charge of  + 1 ,  and an equivalent number of atoms of chlorine ,  the chemical element with atomic number 17 ,  that have gained one electron forming an anion with a charge of  - 1 ,  dispersed molecularly in a sufficient quantity of dissolving medium  ( solvent )  such as water .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is an atom of lithium ,  the chemical element with atomic number 3 ,  that has lost one electron ,  forming a cation with a charge of  + 1 .
any substance or mixture of substances that ,  in solution  ( typically aqueous )  ,  resists change in ph upon addition of small amounts of acid or base .
a homogeneous mixture of molecules ,  atoms and / or ions ,   one or more of which have the capacity to cause the solution to resist change in ph upon addition of small amounts of acid or base ,  dispersed molecularly in a sufficient quantity of dissolving medium  ( solvent )  such as water .
a homogeneous mixture which does not contain calcium ,  the chemical element with atomic number 20 ,  but does contain molecules ,  atoms and / or ions one or more of which have the capacity to cause the solution to resist change in ph upon addition of small amounts of acid or base ,  dispersed molecularly in a sufficient quantity of dissolving medium  ( solvent )  such as water .
a homogeneous mixture of calcium ,  the chemical element with atomic number 20 ,  with other molecules ,  atoms and / or ions one or more of which have the capacity to cause the solution to resist change in ph upon addition of small amounts of acid or base ,  dispersed molecularly in a sufficient quantity of dissolving medium  ( solvent )  such as water .
a process in which manual and instrumental techniques are used to assemble or combine parts or substances ,  especially in order to create something new .
a surgically created passageway between the abdominal aorta and inferior vena cava .
either of two compounds  ( c12h30br2n2 or c12h30cl2n2 )  used in the treatment of hypertension .
the compound c12h30br2n2 ,  consisting of a hexamethonium cation and dibromide anion ,  used in the treatment of hypertension .
the compound c12h30cl2n2 ,  consisting of a hexamethonium cation and dichloride anion ,  used in the treatment of hypertension .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is an alcohol ,  a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a primary alcohol ,  a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has either three hydrogen atoms attached to it or only one other carbon atom and two hydrogen atoms attached to it .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is ethanol ,  a primary alcohol with chemical formula ch3 - ch2 - oh ,  that is ethane in which one of the hydrogens is substituted by a hydroxy group .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is ethanol ,  the colorless ,  volatile ,  flammable liquid ,  ch3ch2oh ,  produced by yeast fermentation of carbohydrates or synthesized by hydration of ethylene ,  suspended in a saline solution ,  a homogeneous mixture of atoms of sodium ,  the chemical element with atomic number 11 ,  that have lost one electron forming a cation with a charge of  + 1 ,  and an equivalent number of atoms of chlorine ,  the chemical element with atomic number 17 ,  that have gained one electron forming an anion with a charge of  - 1 dispersed molecularly in a sufficient quantity of dissolving medium  ( solvent )  such as water .
a drink ,  that is ,  a liquid that is brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst and / or for nourishment ,  made up of water and a specified amount of quinine ,  and consumed by an organism as part of an experiment .
a drink ,  that is ,  a liquid that is brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst and / or for nourishment ,  made up of water and a specified amount of deoxycorticosterone ,  and consumed by an organism as part of an experiment .
a drink ,  that is ,  a liquid that is brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst and / or for nourishment ,  made up of saline and a specified amount of deoxycorticosterone ,  and consumed by an organism as part of an experiment .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is deoxycorticosterone ,  a steroid hormone produced by the adrenal gland that possesses mineralocorticoid activity and acts as a precursor to aldosterone ,  or a derivative of that hormone .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is ru28362 ,  a highly selective neuroactive agonist of the glucocorticoid  ( corticoid type ii )  receptor ,  but not of the mineralocorticoid  ( corticoid type i )  receptor .
a drink ,  that is ,  a liquid that is brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst and / or for nourishment ,  made up of water and a specified amount of ru28362 ,  and consumed by an organism as part of an experiment .
a drink ,  that is ,  a liquid that is brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst and / or for nourishment ,  made up of saline and a specified amount of ru28362 ,  and consumed by an organism as part of an experiment .
the surgical excision of only the adrenal gland on the left side of the body .
the surgical excision of only the adrenal gland on the right side of the body .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is an agent that binds to but does not activate adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists ,  substances that have an affinity for and stimulate physiologic activity at adrenergic receptors .
a condition in which an air jet ,  i .e .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a particle ,  i .e .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a particle ,  i .e .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a homogeneous mixture of molecules ,  atoms and / or ions dispersed molecularly in a sufficient quantity of dissolving medium  ( solvent )  such as water .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a substance having a specific molecular composition obtained by or used in a reaction involving changes to atoms or molecules and which has the capacity to perform a particular role or initiate or participate in a particular activity or process .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a substance having a specific molecular composition obtained by or used in a reaction involving changes to atoms or molecules ,  where that molecular composition explicitly contains one or more particular parts or groups that are held or put together in a particular way .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a chemical having a nitroso  ( r - n=o )  and a urea moiety .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a chemical with three major moieties ,  a propyl group  ( a linear three - carbon alkyl substituent with chemical formula  - c3h7 )  ,  a nitroso group  ( r - n=o )  and a urea group  ( two  - nh2 groups joined by a carbonyl  ( c=o )  functional group )  .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a chemical with three major moieties ,  an ethyl group  ( a two - carbon alkyl substituent with chemical formula  - c2h5 )  ,  a nitroso group  ( r - n=o )  and a urea group  ( two  - nh2 groups joined by a carbonyl  ( c=o )  functional group )  .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a chemical with three major moieties ,  a methyl group  ( a one - carbon alkyl substituent with chemical formula  - ch3 )  ,  a nitroso group  ( r - n=o )  and a urea group  ( two  - nh2 groups joined by a carbonyl  ( c=o )  functional group )  .
a surgical manipulation causing blockage of a blood vessel ,  any one of the network of muscular tubes that carry blood through the body .
a surgical manipulation causing blockage of the middle cerebral artery  ( mca )  ,  one of the three major paired arteries that supply blood to the cerebrum .
any phenomenon ,  chemical or biologic substance ,  or organism that ,  when administered ,  results in the inflammation of one or more joints ,  the sites of junction or union between bones ,  especially those that allow motion of the bones .
a biologic agent consisting of a more or less purified preparation of cell walls from streptococcus bacteria .
a condition in which the major influencing factor is 4 - nitroquinoline n - oxide ,  a tumorigenic derivative of quinoline n - oxide containing a nitro functional group  (  - no2 )  at the 4 position of the quinoline bicyclic structure .
a condition in which the major influencing factor is myelin ,  a lipoproteinaceous substance largely composed of phospholipids and proteins ,  which forms the sheaths surrounding the myelinated nerve fibers .
a condition in which the major influencing factor is the lipoproteinaceous substance largely composed of phospholipids and proteins ,  which forms the sheaths surrounding the myelinated nerve fibers of the central nervous system ,  i .e . ,  the brain and spinal cord .
a guanidine derivative with a nitro group  (  - no2 )  on the nitrogen at position 3 and a methyl group  (  - ch3 )  and nitroso group  (  - no )  on the nitrogen at position 1 .
a drink ,  that is ,  a liquid that is brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst and / or for nourishment ,  made up of water and a specified amount of n - methyl - n' - nitro - n - nitrosoguanidine  ( mnng )  ,  and consumed by an organism as part of an experiment .
a condition in which the major contributing factor is a preparation of spinal cord which has been rendered uniform in structure and / or composition throughout ,  for example by grinding the tissue until it has been reduced to particles which are evenly distributed thoughout a fluid .
the action of ambulation on an exercise apparatus with an endless belt that allows the user to perform the action of running in place and that is maintained at an angle which deviates from the horozontal by a specified amount .
a substance administered specifically to aid diagnosis of a disease or condition .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is an organic sodium salt that is the monosodium salt of p - aminohippuric acid ,  an amide derivative of the amino acid glycine and para - aminobenzoic acid .
the insertion of a tubular ,  flexible surgical instrument into an artery to withdraw or introduce fluid .
the forcible surgical separation from the spine of the motor root of a left side spinal nerve between the #3 and #5 lumbar vertebrae .
the use of a pouch made from a very thin flexible plastic  ( any of various organic compounds produced by polymerization ,  capable of being molded ,  extruded ,  cast into various shapes and films )  to limit some or all of an animal's normal movements .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is a single - celled or multicellular organism that has the capacity to cause disease ,  and the cell ( s )  of which individually have a true nucleus ,  that is ,  one  that is bounded by a nuclear membrane ,  contains one or more chromosomes ,  and divides by mitosis .
a condition  in which the main influencing factor is a sporozoan species that is an intracellular parasite in a variety of vertebrates and is the causative agent of toxoplasmosis .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is toxoplasma gondii cysts .
a surgery in which a device is inserted which lacks the chemical or drug that in the experimental samples it would dispense .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a chemical that causes an anti - self reaction by the immune system of the treated individual .
an antirheumatic of slow action that ,  in certain susceptible individuals ,  causes a gold - induced ,  th2 - dependent autoimmunity .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is any form of  trichinella spiralis ,  a nematode parasite that occurs in animals such as rodents ,  pigs ,  bears ,  and in humans .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is the infective larvae of the nematode parasite trichinella spiralis .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is dexamethasone ,  a long - acting synthetic adrenocorticoid ,  analogous to but more potent than cortisol  ( a natural hormone produced by the adrenal glands )  ,  with anti - inflammatory and immunosuppressant activities .
the resection or complete surgical removal of a nerve ,  any of the cordlike structures that convey impulses between the central nervous system and one or more parts of the body ,  and that each consist of an outer connective tissue sheath surrounding a bundle of conductive fibers .
surgical transection or severing of an axon ,  the process of a neuron capable of conducting action potentials or self - propagating nerve impulses away from the cell body .
surgical transection or severing of one or more axons of the sciatic nerve ,  the large sensory and motor nerve that in humans arises from the sacral plexus and passes through the greater sciatic foramen to midthigh where it divides into the common peroneal and tibial nerves .
surgical transection or severing of one or more axons of the saphenous nerve ,  a sensory nerve that is a terminal branch of the femoral nerve ,  in humans extending from the femoral triangle to the foot ,  becoming subcutaneous on the medial side of the knee .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is any of a group of unrelated organic substances occurring in many foods in small amounts and necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is any of a group of at least eight related fat - soluble compounds with similar biological antioxidant activity ,  particularly alpha - tocopherol but also including other isomers of tocopherol and the related compounds tocotrienol and tocomonoenol .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is the most active form of vitamin e ,  a 6 - hydroxychroman derivative  ( chromene )  with methyl groups in position 2 , 5 , 7 ,  and 8 and a phytyl side chain attached at carbon 2 .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is a hydrophobic 13 carbon saturated chain with methyl side groups at the 4' ,  8' and 12' positions .
condition in which the main influencing factor is the steroid hormone progesterone ,  the principal pro - gestational hormone liberated by the corpus luteum ,  adrenal cortex ,  and placenta ,  whose function is to prepare the uterus for the reception and development of the fertilized oocyte by inducing transformation of the endometrium from the proliferative to the secretory stage .
a drink made up of water and a specified amount of captopril consumed by an organism as part of an experiment .
a drink made up of water and a specified amount of losartan consumed by an organism as part of an experiment .
a drink made up of water and a specified amount of tempol consumed by an organism as part of an experiment .
any substance ,  such as a chemical ,  a mix of chemicals or a pathogen ,  which has the capacity to cause the development of the symptoms of glomerulonephritis ,  kidney inflammation characterized by inflammation of the capillary loops in the renal glomeruli .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is a relatively undefined mix of macromolecules such as glycoproteins ,  proteoglycans ,  and fragmented collagens ,  derived from the basement membrane of renal glomeruli via treatment with collagenase ,  an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in triple helical regions of collagen ,  one of the major components of basement membranes .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is a relatively undefined mix of macromolecules such as glycoproteins ,  proteoglycans ,  and fragmented collagens ,  derived from the basement membrane of renal glomeruli from rats  ( i .e . ,  members of the species rattus norvegicus )  via treatment with collagenase ,  an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in triple helical regions of collagen ,  one of the major components of basement membranes .
condition in which the main influencing factor is acetaminophen ,  an analgesic and antipyretic with effects similar to aspirin but only weakly antiinflammatory .
a condition in which the air surrounding an organism or breathed by the organism contains a controlled amount of cigarette smoke ,  the combined gases and particulates given off when tobacco in the form of a cigarette burns or smolders .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is a substance which competes with or replaces a metabolite  ( a chemical that is part of the normal metabolism of a cell or body )  ,  and so prevents or reduces its normal utilization or activity .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is 5 - bromo - 2' - deoxyuridine  ( brdu )  ,  a synthetic nucleoside analog and antimetabolite of thymidine .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is any of various compounds consisting of a purine or pyrimidine base and a sugar ,  usually ribose or deoxyribose ,  with  ( nucleotide )  or without  ( nucleoside )  one or more phosphate groups .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is 1 , 2 - dimethylhydrazine ,  dna alkylating agent that is a potent carcinogen ;  used to induce colon tumours in experimental animals .
a regimen of solid food to which a specified amount of bile acid has been added .
a drink made up of water and a specified amount of 4 - nitroquinoline n - oxide ,  a tumorigenic derivative of quinoline n - oxide containing a nitro functional group  (  - no2 )  at the 4 position of the quinoline bicyclic structure .
any organic aromatic compound consisting of at least one phenolic group ,  that is ,  a group having one or more hydroxy groups attached to a benzene or other arene ring .
a synthetic phenolic compound with the chemical formula  ( ch3 ) 2c ( c6h4oh ) 2 ,  i .e .
a chemotherapy drug in which two ammine ligands and two chloro ligands are oriented in a cis planar configuration around a central platinum ion .
a metal ion surrounded by ,  and forming coordinate covalent bonds with ,  a set of ligands comprised of any combination of other molecules or ions able to donate an electron pair .
a surgical manipulation in which one tissue ,  organ or body part is forcibly torn away from the whole ,  or in which an attached or anchored tissue is torn away from another tissue or body part .
the surgical tearing apart of the nerve root ,  the part of a nerve adjacent to the center to which it is connected ,  from that center ,  for example ,  surgical separation of one or both of two bundles of nerve fibers  ( the posterior and anterior roots )  from the spinal cord by tearing rather than cutting .
a condition in which an experimental subject is exposed to an experimental apparatus in order to habituate the individual to the apparatus .
a solid diet in which the amount of cisplatin ,  a chemotherapy drug in which two ammine ligands and two chloro ligands are oriented in a cis planar configuration around a central platinum ion ,  is maintained at a specified level .
a solid diet in which the amount of bisphenol a is maintained at a specified level .
a drink made up of water and a specified amount of cisplatin consumed by an organism as part of an experiment .
a drink made up of water and a specified amount of bisphenol a consumed by an organism as part of an experiment .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is a substance which has the ability to lower the level of glucose ,  particularly blood glucose ,  in an organism .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is metformin ,  an oral antidiabetic drug in the biguanide class which functions to supress the production of glucose by the liver  ( hepatic gluconeogenesis )  .
a drink made up of water and a specified amount of metformin consumed by an organism as part of an experiment .
a solid diet in which the amount of metformin ,  an oral antidiabetic drug in the biguanide class which functions to supress the production of glucose by the liver  ( hepatic gluconeogenesis )  ,  is maintained at a specified level .
any experimental condition that is specifically related to the reproduction of the organism ,  that is ,  to the cellular ,  genetic ,  behavioral and temporal processes by which an organism produces offspring similar to itself so that the species is perpetuated .
the state of a female and / or her offspring ,  and the processes which occur ,  during the period from conception to birth or termination of the pregnancy .
the emergence and separation of offspring from the body of the mother .
the process of synthesis and secretion of milk from the mammary glands in the nourishment of offspring .
the nutrient fluid produced by the mammary gland of a female mammal for the nourishment of her young and consumed by her offspring or a fosterling of the same species .
a nutrient fluid containing proteins ,  fats ,  lactose ,  and various vitamins and minerals produced by the mammary gland of a female mammal .
a solid diet in which the amount of one or more phytoestrogens ,  any of a group of weakly estrogenic ,  nonsteroidal compounds widely occurring in plants ,  is maintained at a specified level .
a solid diet which specifically contains no phytoestrogens ,  any of a group of weakly estrogenic ,  nonsteroidal compounds widely occurring in plants .
a solid diet specifically containing no soy ,  that is ,  no derivative of soybeans ,  the bean of the leguminous plant ,  glycine max ,  which contains little starch but is rich in protein and phytoestrogens .
a condition in which the environment of the offspring within the uterus is controlled during any or all of the period between fertilization and parturition .
any condition which occurs while an organism is still within the uterus of its mother during the gestation period .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a quinone ,  a member of a class of compounds having a fully conjugated cyclic dione structure ,  such as that of benzoquinones ,  derived from aromatic compounds by conversion of an even number of  - ch= groups into  - c ( =o )  -  groups with any necessary rearrangement of double bonds .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is thymoquinone ,  an antioxidant phytochemical compound found in the plant nigella sativa .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is benfotiamine ,  a synthetic thioester s - acyl derivative and analogue of thiamine  ( vitamin b1 )  ;  used as an antioxidant dietary supplement .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is lactotransferrin ,  a multifunctional protein of the transferrin family which is a major iron - binding protein in milk and body secretions ,  and has antimicrobial activity .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is 1h - pyrazole ,  an antioxidant ,  heterocyclic organic compound with the formula c3h3n2h which is a 5 - membered ring of three carbon atoms and two adjacent nitrogen centers ,  i .e . ,  with nitrogens at positions 1 and 2 of the ring .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is lycopene ,  a bright red polyunsaturated carotenoid hydrocarbon  ( i .e .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is fructose ,  a monosaccharide isomer of glucose which ,  although it is a 6 - carbon sugar  ( hexose )  ,  generally exists as a 5 - member hemiketal ring .
a drink made up of water and a specified amount of fructose consumed by an organism as part of an experiment .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is silymarin ,  a strongly antioxidant mixture of flavonolignans extracted from the milk thistle plant  ( silybum marianum )  .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a disaccharide ,  a member of the class of sugars that yield two monosaccharide molecules upon hydrolysis .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is sucrose ,  a nonreducing disaccharide of glucose and fructose used as a food ,  a sweetener ,  a preservative and a pharmaceutical aid .
a drink made up of water and a specified amount of sucrose consumed by an organism as part of an experiment .
condition in which the main influencing factor is octylphenol ,  a phenolic ring with an 8 - carbon side chain .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is any chemical that inhibits or prevents the proliferation of neoplasms .
a solid diet in which the amount of n - propyl - n - nitrosourea  ( pnu )  is maintained at a specified level .
a drink made up of water and a specified amount of n - propyl - n - nitrosourea  ( pnu )  consumed by an organism as part of an experiment .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is candesartan ,  a substituted benzimidazolecarboxylic acid which functions as an angiotensin ii receptor antagonist and is used for the treatment of hypertension .
a drink made up of water and a specified amount of 3 - methyl - 4' - dimethylaminoazobenzene  ( mdab )  ,  a substituted azobenzene compound that acts as a potent liver carcinogen ,  consumed by an organism as part of an experiment .
a solid diet in which the amount of 3' - methyl - 4 - dimethylaminoazobenzene  ( mdab )  ,  a substituted azobenzene compound that acts as a potent liver carcinogen ,  is maintained at a specified level .
a drink made up of water and a specified amount of 2 - acetamidofluorene ,  a substituted ortho - fused polycyclic arene that is a carcinogenic and mutagenic derivative of fluorene ,  consumed by an organism as part of an experiment .
a solid diet in which the amount of 2 - acetamidofluorene ,  a substituted ortho - fused polycyclic arene that is a carcinogenic and mutagenic derivative of fluorene ,  is maintained at a specified level .
a solid diet in which the amount of dexamethasone  ( dex )  is maintained at a specified level .
a drink made up of water and a specified amount of dexamethasone  ( dex )  consumed by an organism as part of an experiment .
a relatively standardized solution of sodium chloride to which one or more phosphate salts have been added to maintain a neutral ph .
one of the two types of reproductive cycles .
a regularly recurrent state of sexual excitability during which the female of non - primate mammalian species will accept the male and is capable of conceiving .
the period of regression and sexual inactivity in females of non - primate mammalian species between estrus and diestrus .
a period of sexual quiescence that intervenes between two periods of estrus in females of non - primate mammalian species between .
a preparatory period immediately preceding estrus and characterized by growth of graafian follicles ,  increased estrogenic activity ,  and alteration of uterine and vaginal mucosa .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is a neurotropic virus that is a member of the herpesviridae family and that ,  once the infection becomes chronic ,  has the ability to cycle through recurring outbreak periods followed by periods of latency or dormancy in which the virus is inactive but still present in infected nerve cells .
a solid diet in which the amount of casein is maintained at a specified level .
a solid diet in which the amount of butter is maintained at a specified level .
a solid diet in which the amount of a specified oil is maintained at a specified level .
a solid diet in which the amount of corn oil is maintained at a specified level .
any condition in which the primary influencing agent is retinyl palmitate ,  the synthetic ester of retinol  ( vitamin a )  and palmitic acid ,  with formula c36h60o2 .
a solid diet in which the amount of any retinoid is maintained at a specified level .
a solid diet in which the amount of retinyl palmitate is maintained at a specified level .
a recurring series of conditions in which an organism experiences successive periods of exposure to controlled ambient light followed by exposure to darkness ,  the lack of such light ,  which is in turn followed by exposure to controlled ambient light and so forth .
induction and / or maintenance of a hollow cavity beneath the skin between the scapulae  ( the flat triangular bones at the top or back of the shoulder )  ,  by injection or other introduction of a specified volume of air .
a dietary regimen in which access to food is limited ,  e .g .
the portion of a controlled light / dark cycle in which the subject is exposed to ambient light  ( that is ,  during which the room is lit )  .
the portion of a controlled light / dark cycle in which the subject is not being exposed to ambient light  ( that is ,  during which the room is darkened )  .
any experimental condition in which the internal or external environment of an organ ,  that is ,  a differentiated ,  structural part of a system of the body that performs a specific function ,  is experimentally manipulated or regulated ,  for example through perfusion ,  increased or decreased blood flow ,  etc .
any experimental condition in which the internal or external environment of an artery ,  one of the large blood vessels carrying blood in a direction away from the heart to the tissues ,  is experimentally manipulated or regulated ,  for example through perfusion ,  increased or decreased blood flow ,  etc .
a condition in which the pressure ,  or force per area ,  exerted by a perfusate against the walls of an artery after removal from the body but while the tissue is still viable ,  is regulated or maintained at a specified level .
condition in which the main influencing factor is a retinoid ,  any of a group of compounds containing 20 carbon atoms and structurally related to retinal ,  retinol ,  and other substances ,  some of which exhibit vitamin a activity .
condition in which the main influencing factor is vitamin a ,  a group of fat - soluble retinoids produced via metabolism of provitamin a carotenoids .
condition in which the main influencing factor is isotretinoin ,  a synthetic first generation retinoid compound used for the treatment of severe cases of acne and other skin diseases .
condition in which the main influencing factor is a flavonoid ,  any of a class of plant secondary metabolites that have the general structure of a 15 - carbon skeleton ,  which consists of two phenyl rings  ( a and b )  and a heterocyclic ring  ( c )  .
condition in which the main influencing factor is quercetin ,  a pentahydroxyflavone having the five hydroxy groups placed at the 3 -  ,  3' -  ,  4' -  ,  5 -  and 7 - positions .
condition in which the main influencing factor is chrysin ,  a dihydroxyflavone in which the two hydroxy groups are located at positions 5 and 7 .
condition in which the main influencing factor is naringenin ,  a trihydroxyflavanone that is flavanone substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 5 ,  6 and 4' .
condition in which the main influencing factor is alendronate  ( the anionic form of alendronic acid )  ,  a bisphosphonate drug used for osteoporosis and several other bone diseases ,  because it inhibits osteoclast - mediated bone - resorption .
any condition in which the primary influencing agent is a bacterial pathogen ,   a disease - causing unicellular prokaryotic microorganism that commonly multiplies by cell division ,  lacks a nucleus or membrane - bound organelles ,  and generally has a cell wall .
a condition in which the primary influencing factor is streptococcus pneumoniae ,  a species of gram - positive ,  alpha - hemolytic ,  facultative anaerobic bacteria commonly found in the nasopharynx of healthy human carriers .
a condition in which the primary influencing factor is streptococcus pneumoniae d39 ,  a potentially virulent strain of the s . pneumoniae species of gram - positive ,  alpha - hemolytic ,  facultative anaerobic bacteria commonly found in the nasopharynx of healthy human carriers .
a condition in which the primary influencing factor is streptococcus pneumoniae tigr4 ,  a potentially virulent strain of the s . pneumoniae species of gram - positive ,  alpha - hemolytic ,  facultative anaerobic bacteria commonly found in the nasopharynx of healthy human carriers .
a condition in which the primary influencing factor is haemophilus influenzae ,  a gram - negative ,  coccobacillary ,  facultatively anaerobic bacterium which is considered an opportunistic pathogen ,  i .e .
a condition in which the primary influencing factor is one or more nontypeable strain ( s )  of haemophilus influenzae  ( nthi )  .
a condition in which the primary influencing factor is the 86 - 028np strain of haemophilus influenzae .
a substance that kills or slows the growth of one or more microorganisms ,  including bacteria ,  viruses ,  fungi and protozoans .
a substance that kills or slows the growth of bacteria ,  unicellular prokaryotic microorganisms that commonly multiply by cell division ,  lack a nucleus or membrane - bound organelles ,  and generally have a cell wall .
a third - generation cephalosporin antibacterial agent with broad - spectrum activity against both gram - positive and gram - negative bacteria .
a condition in which the primary influencing factor is the h2 mutant of the 86 - 028np strain of haemophilus influenzae .
a condition in which the primary influencing factor is the c5 mutant of the 86 - 028np strain of haemophilus influenzae .
a condition in which the primary influencing factor is the luxs mutant of streptococcus pneumoniae tigr4 .
any condition related to or affecting the external interactions and relationships of a single organism ,  between single organisms ,  or within or between groups of organisms .
any condition in which the social environment of an organism is set or changed for a specified and / or limited period of time .
any condition in which the social environment of an organism is set or changed for an extended period of time or on a continual basis .
an experimental condition in which a test subject is placed in social contact with an organism from the same species .
an experimental condition in which a test subject is placed in social contact with a juvenile  ( young ,  not yet mature ,  not fully grown and / or not fully developed )  organism from the same species .
an experimental condition in which a test subject is placed in social contact with an adult   ( an organism that is fully developed and has reached physical and / or sexual maturity )  from the same species .
the physiological period after the natural cessation of estrus or menstruation cycles in an aging female mammal .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is any substance that is poisonous or destructive to nerve cells or tissue ,  or that can be metabolized into a substance that is destructive to nerve cells or tissue .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is a peptide ,  a protein or a conjugated protein produced by some higher plants ,  animals ,  and pathogenic bacteria ,  that is poisonous or destructive to nerve cells or tissue .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is a synthetic or naturally derived compound that causes loss of dopaminergic neurons and induces parkinson - like symptoms  ( parkinsonism )  in animal models and / or parkinson disease in humans .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is oxidopamine ,  a neurotoxic organic compound used to induce degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in animal models .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is1 - methyl - 4 - phenyl - 1 , 2 , 3 , 6 - tetrahydropyridine  ( mptp )  ,  the precursor to the toxic metabolite mpp +   ( 1 - methyl - 4 - phenylpyridinium cation )  which promotes degeneration of dopaminergic neurons .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is paraquat ,  a herbicidal organic cation used to model parkinson's disease in mice .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is rotenone ,  an insecticide and piscicide extracted from leguminosa plants .
a condition characterized by an alteration in the placement ,  arrangement or orientation of any part of the body of an organism such as an organ or extremity .
a condition characterized by an alteration in the placement ,  arrangement or orientation of the head of an organism .
a condition characterized by rotation or twisting of the head parallel to the coronal plane of the body  ( that is ,  the plane which separates the belly from the back of the organism )  at an increasing velocity .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is a chemical which counteracts or suppresses inflammation .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is a chemical which counteracts or suppresses inflammation but which is not a steroid .
condition in which the main influencing factor is a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug with chemical formula c15h12clno2 ,  used as a veterinary analgesic .
an auditory stimulus consisting of a sound which is at a frequency and level to be perceptible to the ear ,  especially the human ear .
an auditory stimulus consisting of sound waves which are beyond the upper limit of perception by the human ear .
an experimental condition characterized by rotation or twisting of the head parallel to the coronal plane of the body  ( that is ,  the plane which separates the belly from the back of the organism )  at a relatively constant velocity .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a substance is a chemical compound derived from the linkage of an organic or inorganic acid and an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol with the loss of water  ( h2o )  formed from one hydrogen derived from an acidic hydroxy group of the acid and an  - oh  ( hydroxy )  group of the alcohol .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a substance with adverse or toxic effects on an embryo or fetus resulting in birth defects ,  specifically ,  altered development ,  growth retardation ,  functional defect and / or embryo death .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is dibutyl phthalate  ( dbp )  ,  the diester obtained by the formal condensation of the carboxy groups of phthalic acid with two molecules of butan - 1 - ol .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is metoprolol ,  a selective beta - 1 adrenergic receptor blocker used to treat hypertension ,  angina ,  acute myocardial infarction ,  tachycardia ,  and congestive heart failure ,  and to prevent migraine headaches .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is metoprolol tartrate ,  an immediate - release formulation of metoprolol .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is metoprolol succinate ,  an extended - release formulation of metoprolol .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is an immunoglobulin molecule or a preparation of multiple antibody molecules having specific amino acid sequences with the ability to adhere to and interact specifically with any or all of the transforming growth factor beta cytokines .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is an immunoglobulin molecule or a preparation of multiple antibody molecules having specific amino acid sequences with the ability to adhere to and interact specifically with the beta subunit of shiga toxin from shigella dysenteriae 1 .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is an immunoglobulin molecule having specific amino acid sequences with the ability to adhere to and interact specifically with the beta subunit of shiga toxin from shigella dysenteriae 1 .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is the alteration of nerve activity through targeted delivery of a stimulus ,  such as electrical stimulation or chemical agents ,  to specific neurological sites in the body .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is the alteration of nerve activity through targeted delivery of an electrical stimulus directly to a specific nerve or nerves ,  for example through the use of microelectrodes or an implanted device .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is the alteration of nerve activity through targeted delivery of an electrical stimulus directly the common peroneal nerve ( s )  ,  for example through the use of microelectrodes or an implanted device .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a chemical which decreases or interferes with the activity of an enzyme ,  a protein that catalyzes chemical reactions of other substances without itself being destroyed or altered upon completion of the reactions .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a chemical which decreases or interferes with the activity of angiotensin converting enzyme  ( ace )  .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is benazepril ,  a benzazepine in which the carboxy group of the 2 - amino - 4 - phenylbutanoic acid moiety of benazeprilat has been converted to the corresponding ethyl ester .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is the action of moving one's appendages to propel oneself through water while carrying weights  ( for example ,  aquatic dumbbells ,  ankle cuffs ,  or weighted belt )  to increase resistance and / or decrease buoyancy thereby increasing the difficulty of the action .
a condition in which the genotype or the gene expression of an organism or a cell has been modified .
a condition in which copies of an exogenous gene have been   ( transiently or stably )  inserted into a living cell or organism in order to induce synthesis of that gene's product .
a condition in which gene transfer has been performed using an adenovirus as the carrier of the genetic material .
a condition in which the mouse angiotensin i converting enzyme 2  ( ace2 )  gene has been  ( transiently or stably )  transferred into a cell or organism using an adenovirus carrier in order to induce synthesis of that gene's product in the recipient cell or organism .
a condition in which the enhanced green fluorescent protein  ( egfp )  gene has been  ( transiently or stably )  transferred into a cell or organism using an adenovirus carrier in order to induce synthesis of that gene's product in the recipient cell or organism .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a substance which disrupts one or more of the processes that lead directly to the generation of new proteins ,  that is ,  that inhibits the process of translation of mrnas into proteins .
condition in which the main influencing factor is puromycin ,  an aminonucleoside antibiotic derived from the streptomyces alboniger bacterium ,  that causes premature chain termination during translation taking place in the ribosome .
condition in which the main influencing factor is sunitinib ,  an antineoplastic agent which acts as a receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor and an antagonist for multiple platelet - derived growth factor and vascular endothelial growth factor receptors .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is lisinopril ,  an antihypertensive competitive inhibitor of angiotensin - converting enzyme  ( ace )  .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is an agent that blocks one or more angiotensin ii receptors .
an experimental condition in which the main influencing factor is olmesartan medoxomil ,  an angiotensin ii receptor blocker which is used as an antihypertensive agent .
an experimental condition in which the main influencing factor is temocapril ,  an angiotensin - i converting enzyme  ( ace )  inhibitor consisting of a dipeptide prodrug with a thiazepine ring .
an experimental condition in which the main influencing factor is doxorubicin ,  a cytotoxic anthracycline antibiotic isolated from cultures of streptomyces peucetius var .
an experimental condition in which the main influencing factor is delapril ,  an antihypertensive prodrug that ,  when converted to its active metabolites 5 - hydroxy delapril diacid and delapril diacid ,  acts as an angiotensin - converting enzyme  ( ace )  inhibitor .
an experimental condition in which the main influencing factor is bosentan ,  a competitive antagonist of endothelin - 1 that blocks the binding of endothelin to both the endothelin - a  ( et - a )  and endothelin - b  ( et - b ) receptors .
an experimental condition in which the main influencing factor is enalapril ,  a prodrug that is rapidly metabolized in the liver to enalaprilat ,  a potent ,  competitive inhibitor of angiotensin - converting enzyme  ( ace )  .
an experimental condition in which the main influencing factor is one or more closely related forms  ( vitamers )  of vitamin d ,  a group of fat - soluble secosteroid vitamins  ( when ingested from dietary sources )  and / or hormones  ( when produced by the skin in response to ultraviolet radiation )  .
an experimental condition in which the main influencing factor is vitamin d2 ,  a type of vitamin d found in food and used as a dietary supplement .
an experimental condition in which the main influencing factor is vitamin d3 ,  a form of vitamin d which is naturally synthesized in the skin of animals by the action of ultraviolet b  ( uvb )  radiation on 7 - dehydrocholesterol .
an experimental condition in which the main influencing factor is a compound with structural and / or functional similarity to a vitamin and can therefore be substituted for the analogous vitamin .
an experimental condition in which the main influencing factor is paricalcitol ,  an analog of vitamin d2 used for the prevention and treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism .
an experimental condition in which the main influencing factor is ramipril ,  a prodrug that is metabolized in the liver to ramiprilat ,  a potent ,  competitive inhibitor of angiotensin - converting enzyme  ( ace )  .
a surgical manipulation causing blockage of the left anterior descending coronary artery ,  the artery supplying blood to approximately half of the left ventricle of the heart including the anterolateral myocardium ,  apex ,  and interventricular septum .
an experimental condition in which the main influencing factor is reserpine ,  an indole alkaloid which irreversibly blocks the vesicular monoamine transporters  ( vmats )  ,  slc18a1 and slc18a2 .
an experimental condition in which the main influencing factor is hydralazine ,  a vasodilator that appears to have multiple ,  direct effects on smooth muscles of the arterial vessels ,  thereby reducing systemic vascular resistance and arterial pressure .
an experimental condition in which the main influencing factor is hydrochlorothiazide ,  a thiazide diuretic that acts by reducing the reabsorption of electrolytes from the renal tubules ,  resulting in increased excretion of water and electrolytes ,  including sodium ,  potassium ,  chloride ,  and magnesium .
an experimental condition in which the main influencing factor is everolimus ,  a mammalian target of rapamycin  ( mtor )  inhibitor which is selective for the mtorc1 protein complex ,  with little or no effect on mtorc2 .
a regimen of solid food in which the amount of phosphorus consumed is controlled .
a drink made up of water and a specified amount of lisinopril consumed by an organism as part of an experiment .
any amino sugar that is a monosaccharide in which one alcoholic hydroxy group is replaced by an amino group .
glucosamine ,  commonly used as a treatment for osteoarthritis ,  is an amino sugar and a prominent precursor in the biochemical synthesis of glycosylated proteins and lipids .
taxifolin is an intermediate between flavonols and flavanolignins beloning to a class of anti - inflammatory agents that are non - steroidal in nature .
a biogenic amine that is found in animals and plants .
a solid diet in which the amount of melatonin is maintained at a specified level .
antidepressants are mood - stimulating drugs used primarily in the treatment of affective disorders and related conditions .
a glucoside of tyrosol found in the plant rhodiola rosea .
omacor is a prescription medicine for adults called a lipid - regulating medicine .
a member of the anthranilic acid derivatives class of nsaid drug used for joint ,  muscular pain ,  arthritis and dysmenorrhea .
a pharmaceutical drug for treatment of type 2 diabetes .
a solid diet in which the amount of ipragliflozin ,  an oral antidiabetic drug ,  is maintained at a specified level .
a vasodilator and an antioxidant .
a selective and competitive arginine vasopressin receptor 2 antagonist .
a complex glycopeptide from streptomyces orientalis .
meropenem is a broad - spectrum antibiotic used to treat a variety of bacterial infections .
proton pump inhibitors  ( ppis )  reduce the production of acid by blocking h +  / k +  atpase in the wall of the stomach .
a highly effective inhibitor of gastric acid secretion used in the therapy of stomach ulcers and zollinger - ellison syndrome .
any experimental condition in which the internal or external environment of the gastrointestinal system is altered .
the administration of food or drugs by force ,  especially to an animal ,  typically through a tube leading down the throat to the stomach .
introduction of material ,  foods or drugs into the stomach by a tube via the oral cavity .
oral gavage in which the amount of one or more solutes are adjusted to a requirement .
an oral gavage solution made up of solvent and a specified amount of omeprazole .
an oral gavage delivery made up of a specified amount of harvested cecal material .
a control oligonucleotide with a non - specific scrambled sequence .
stereotaxic implant with a stainless steel cannula into a cerebral ventricle ,  which can be connected via silastic tubing to a miniosmotic pump for chronic infusion .
perindopril is a nonsulfhydryl prodrug that belongs to the angiotensin - converting enzyme  ( ace )  inhibitor class of medications .
a non - sulfhydryl - containing precursor of the active angiotensin - converting enzyme  ( ace )  inhibitor moexiprilat .
a synthetic decapeptide that is a bradykinin receptor antagonist used for the treatment of hereditary angioedema .
a prodrug that is metabolized to quinaprilat  ( quinapril diacid )  ,  a competitive inhibitor of angiotensin - converting enzyme  ( ace )  .
a prodrug that is hydrolyzed to its main metabolite cilazaprilat ,  an inhibitor of angiotensin - converting enzyme  ( ace )  .
the aminonucleoside portion of the antibiotic puromycin .
a partial angiotensin ii receptor agonist which is used as an antihypertensive agent .
a surgical narrowing of the lumen of a blood vessel .
a surgical narrowing of the lumen of the abdominal aorta .
a surgical narrowing of the lumen of the thoracic aorta .
a pregnane - based steroidal hormone produced by the outer - section  ( zona glomerulosa )  of the adrenal cortex in the adrenal gland ,  and acts on the distal tubules and collecting ducts of the kidney to cause the conservation of sodium ,  secretion of potassium ,  increased water retention ,  and increased blood pressure .
a polychlorinated dibenzodioxine that has formula c12h4cl4o2 .
a condition in which the rat natriuretic peptide b gene has been  ( transiently or stably )  transferred into a cell or organism using an adenovirus carrier in order to induce synthesis of that gene's product in the recipient cell or organism .
a peroxisome proliferator - activated receptor gamma agonist ;  reduces lipid availability ,  improves insulin action & glucoregulation
hesperetin belongs to the flavanone class of flavonoids .
aprotinin ,  also known as bovine pancreatic trypsin inhibitor ,  bpti  ( trasylol ,  bayer )  is a protein ,  that is used as medication administered by injection to reduce bleeding during complex surgery ,  such as heart and liver surgery .
an aflatoxin having a tetrahydrocyclopenta [ c ] furo [ 3' , 2':4 , 5 ] furo [ 2 , 3 - h ] chromene skeleton with oxygen functionality at positions 1 ,  4 and 11 .
amg - 8718 is the inhibitor of &#946 ;  - site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme  ( bace1 )  .
product of the oxidation of ethanol and of the destructive distillation of wood .
an isothiocyanate with the formula ch2=chch2n=c=s .
a potent and selective blocker of trpc4 channels .
a morphinane alkaloid that is a highly potent opiate analgesic psychoactive drug .
nifedipine is a potent vasodilator agent with calcium antagonistic action .
endothelin - 1 is a 21 - amino acid peptide produced in a variety of tissues including endothelial and vascular smooth - muscle cells ,  neurons and astrocytes in the central nervous system ,  and endometrial cells .
adenosine triphosphate  ( atp )  is an adenine nucleotide comprised of three phosphate groups esterified to the sugar moiety ,  found in all living cells .
a phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitor with antidepressant properties .
injection of coagulated blood clot to middle cerebral artery to induced an embolic stroke model in animals .
verapamil is a calcium channel blocker that is a class iv anti - arrhythmia agent .
quinidine sulfate is an optical isomer of quinine ,  extracted from the bark of the chinchona tree and similar plant species .
a class of drugs that act by inhibition of sodium influx through cell membranes .
a cardenolide glycoside that is digitoxin &#946 ;  - hydroxylated at c - 12 .
vinblastine is a natural alkaloid isolated from the plant vinca rosea linn .
verapamil hydrochloride ,  tritiated on the n - methyl group .
a short - acting barbiturate derivative invented in the 1950s .
antineoplastic agent that is also used as a veterinary anesthetic .
surgical removal of a maxillary molar crown at the gingival line .
spironolactone is a potassium sparing diuretic like eplerenone that competitively inhibits mineralocorticoid receptors in the distal convoluted tubule to promote sodium and water excretion and potassium retention .
atorvastatin  ( lipitor )  is a member of the drug class known as statins .
an agent derived from licorice root .
agents that bind to cholinoceptors  ( muscarinic or nicotinic )  and prevent the effects of acetylcholine  ( ach )  and other cholinergic agonists .
a naturally occurring belladonna alkaloid ,  is a racemic mixture of equal parts of d -  and l - hyoscyamine ,  whose activity is due almost entirely to the levo isomer of the drug .
a monocarboxylic acid amide obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of  ( 2s )  - amino ( 3 - hydroxyadamantan - 1 - yl ) acetic acid with the amino group of  ( 1s , 3s , 5s )  - 2 - azabicyclo [ 3 .1 .0 ] hexane - 3 - carbonitrile .
cortisol is a steroid hormone ,  in the glucocorticoid class of hormones .
an antidiuretic is a substance that helps to control fluid balance in an animal's body by reducing urination ,  opposing diuresis .
a a hormone cocktail designed to stabilize the circulating levels of the most important sodium - retaining and waterretaining hormones .
an agent that suppresses immune function by one of several mechanisms of action .
a cyclic nonribosomal peptide of eleven amino acids ;  an immunosuppressant drug widely used in post - allogeneic organ transplant to reduce the activity of the patient's immune system ,  and therefore the risk of organ rejection .
a benzazepine that is 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 - tetrahydro - 1h - 2 - benzazepine which is substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 7 and 8 and on the nitrogen atom by a 2 -  ( p - chlorophenyl ) ethylaminothiocarbonyl group .
peptides developed according to the calcineurin a - interacting site on the c - terminus of trpv1 was were synthesized as 1 polypeptide with transactivator of transcription  ( tat ) 47&#8208 ; 57 carrier in the following order: n&#8208 ; terminustat47&#8208 ; 57spacer  ( gly&#8208 ; gly ) cargoc terminus .
any experimental condition in which the internal or external environment of the myocardial system is altered .
any experimental condition in which the flow of blood to the heart is restored after a period of blood vessel occlusion occurred naturally or experimentally .
monocrotaline is a pyrrolizidine alkaloid and a toxic plant constituent that poisons livestock and humans through the ingestion of contaminated grains and other foods .
a monoclonal antibody that appears to be specific for a constant determinant of the rat alpha / beta heterodimeric t cell receptor .
a phenol resulting from the formal substitution of the hydrogen at the 2 position of 1 , 3 - diisopropylbenzene by a hydroxy group .
azoxymethane  ( aom )  ,  a gene mutation agent ,  may be used with dextran sulfate sodium  ( dss )  to create cancer models in laboratory animals which can be used to study mechanisms of cancer progression and chemoprevention .
a selective endothelin eta receptor antagonist .
an organochlorine compound that is methylene chloride in which both hydrogens are replaced by phosphonic acid groups .
an optically active form of 4 - hydroxyproline having l - trans - configuration .
a drink made up of water and a specified amount of cilazapril consumed by an organism as part of an experiment .
e4177 is an agent that blocks one or more angiotensin ii receptors .
a drink made up of water and a specified amount of e4177 consumed by an organism as part of an experiment .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is an agent that blocks the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a channel that opens when glutamate has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
kynurenate is a product of the metabolism of l - tryptophan and appears in urine in vitamin b6 deficiencies .
an abnormal form of prion protein that in mammals includes pathogenic forms which arise sporadically ,  as a result of genetic mutation ,  or by transmission  ( as by ingestion of infected tissue )  and which upon accumulation in the brain cause a prion disease  ( such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy or creutzfeldt - jakob disease .
an oxopurine that is guanine substituted by a  [  ( 1 , 3 - dihydroxypropan - 2 - yl ) oxy ] methyl group at position 9 .
a substance that kills or slows the growth of a virus .
a racemate consisting of equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - nisoldipine .
a regimen of solid food in which the amount of nisoldipine consumed is maintained at a specified level .
a drink made up of water and a specified amount of nisoldipine in which the amount of nisoldipine consumed is maintained at a specified level .
a surgical manipulation causing blood vessel blockage by the clipping of one renal artery and surgical removal of the contralateral kidney .
a surgical manipulation causing blood vessel blockage by the clipping of one renal artery .
a surgical manipulation causing blood vessel blockage by the dissection and clipping of both renal arteries .
an agent that selectively binds to and activates adrenergic receptors .
a substance that selectively binds to and activates beta - adrenergic receptors .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a substance that causes an increase in the expansion of a bronchus or bronchial tubes .
a beta - adrenergic receptor agonist that is 2 , 6 - dichloroaniline in which the hydrogen at position 4 has been replaced by a 2 -  ( tert - butylamino )  - 1 - hydroxyethyl group .
the insertion of a tubular ,  flexible surgical instrument into an artery to withdraw a substantial ,  yet controlled ,  amount of blood .
a benzothiadiazine that is the s , s - dioxide of 2h - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine which is substituted at position 3 by a methyl group and at position 7 by chlorine .
a technique in which the amount of food provided to a control group of animals is matched to that consumed by the experimental group ,  so as to determine the extent to which the effect of a treatment on body weight or body composition occurred independently of changes of energy intake .
a tetracycline in which the 5beta - hydrogen is replaced by a hydroxy group ,  while the 6alpha - hydroxy group is replaced by hydrogen .
a subclass of polyketides having an octahydrotetracene - 2 - carboxamide skeleton ,  substituted with many hydroxy and other groups .
an agent that selectively binds to and activates alpha - adrenergic receptors .
an imidazoline sympatholytic agent that stimulates alpha - 2 adrenergic receptors and central imidazoline receptors .
a condition in which gene transfer has been performed using a retrovirus as the carrier of the genetic material .
a condition in which the rat erb - b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2 gene  ( erbb2 )  gene has been  ( transiently or stably )  transferred into a cell or organism using a retrovirus carrier in order to induce synthesis of that gene's product in the recipient cell or organism .
a drink made up of water and a specified amount of enalapril consumed by an organism as part of an experiment .
a condition in which the rat mer proto - oncogene ,  tyrosine kinase  ( mertk )  gene has been  ( transiently or stably )  transferred into a cell or organism using an adenovirus carrier in order to induce synthesis of that gene's product in the recipient cell or organism .
a standard living condition with the absence of a resident pathogen ,  a biological agent that causes disease ,  especially a microorganism such as a bacterium ,  virus ,  or fungus .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is candesartan cilexetil ,  prodrug of the angiotensin ii receptor 1  ( at1 )  antagonist candesartan ,  which exhibits antihypertensive effects in animal models .
a condition in which the rat mer proto - oncogene ,  tyrosine kinase gene has been  ( transiently or stably )  transferred into a cell or organism using an adenovirus carrier in order to induce synthesis of that gene's product in the recipient cell or organism .
a chlorobenzophenone that is  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  ( phenyl ) methanone substituted by a  [ 2 - methyl - 1 - oxo - 1 -  ( propan - 2 - yloxy ) propan - 2 - yl ] oxy group at position 1 on the phenyl ring .
a substance used to treat hyperlipidemia  ( an excess of lipids in the blood )  .
an &#945 ;  , &#969 ;  - dicarboxylic acid that is hexadecanedioic acid carrying methyl groups at positions 3 and 14 .
a benzoate ester that has formula c19h20f3no2 .
a bile acid - binding anticholesteremic drug that helps decrease the risk for strokes and heart attacks .
an n - acyl - d - phenylalanine resulting from the formal condensation of the amino group of d - phenylalanine with the carboxy group of trans - 4 - isopropylcyclohexanecarboxylic acid .
a liquid composed of two immiscible substances ,  typically some form of fat and water .
a sterile ,  non&#8209 ; pyrogenic fat emulsion intended as a source of calories and essential fatty acids for use in a pharmacy admixture program .
an experimental drug candidate for the treatment of hiv infection and in combination with tropifexor for non - alcoholic steatohepatitis .
myelin basic protein is a hydrophobic insulator that can be synthesized by the oligodendrocyte and / or schwann cell as part of the myelin sheath which is wrapped around the axon .
vitamin c is a water - soluble vitamin that is naturally present in some foods ,  added to others ,  and available as a dietary supplement .
a solid diet in which the amount of any vitamin is maintained at a specified level .
a solid diet in which the amount of vitamin c is maintained at a specified level .
an ammonium salt that has formula c6h15n2o2 .
an agent that selectively binds to and activates cholinergic receptors .
any substance that combines with an enzyme to increase its catalytic activity .
an effector that binds to and activates soluble guanylate cyclase  ( ec 4 .6 .1 .2 )  .
an allosteric enzyme activator that increases guanylate cyclase activity only when the heme iron is in its reduced state  ( fe2 +  )  .
this chemical belongs to a novel group of small molecule compounds which increase the enzymatic activity of soluble guanylate cyclase .
this chemical belongs to a novel group of small molecule compounds which increase the enzymatic activity of soluble guanylate cyclase .
a regimen of solid food in which the amount of gsk2181236a consumed is controlled .
a regimen of solid food in which the amount of bay60 - 4552 consumed is controlled .
an azole in which the five - membered heterocyclic aromatic skeleton contains a n atom and one s atom .
a constituent of fox urine and feces that may be an innately aversive odor to rodents .
a surgical manipulation causing blockage of one or both of the common carotid arteries ,  or of a branch  ( internal or external )  of the common carotid arteries .
neutral organic radicals are subvalent molecules ,  i .e . ,  they have unpaired electrons ,  and ,  as such ,  they are typically highly reactive ,  transient species with short lifetimes that tend to dimerize ,  disproportionate ,  or react with oxygen .
physicochemically lithium phthalocyanine is very stable ;  its response to po2 does not change with conditions and environments  ( e .g . ,  ph ,  temperature ,  redox conditions )  likely to occur in viable biological systems .
carvedilol is a beta - blocker that works by relaxing blood vessels and slowing heart rate to improve blood flow and decrease blood pressure .
a regimen of solid food in which the amount of carvedilol consumed is controlled .
a condition in which cells from one organism are used to cause cancer in another organism by injection of ,  or other means of transferring ,  live cells from the donor organism to the host organism .
a rat colonic carcinoma cell line used to study biochemical correlates of metastasis .
an antimicrobial that is also being studied as a treatment for cancer .
any drug which binds to vasopressin receptors and triggers a response .
a synthetic analogue of vasopressin in which 3 - mercaptopropionic acid replaces the cysteine residue at position 1 and d - arginine replaces the residue at position 8 .
a member of the class of imidazoles carrying 4 - hydroxycyclohexyl ,  4 - fluorophenyl and 2 - methoxypyrimidin - 4 - yl substituents at positions 1 ,  4 and 5 respectively .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a chemical which decreases or interferes with the activity of a mitogen - activated protein kinase .
a regimen of solid food in which the amount of sb - 239063 consumed is controlled .
mri contrast agents are an indispensable part of magnetic resonance imaging .
gadolinium - based contrast agents  ( gbca )  are intravenous drugs used in diagnostic imaging procedures to enhance the quality of magnetic resonance imaging  ( mri )  or magnetic resonance angiography  ( mra )  .
a gadolinium coordination entity that has formula c28h54gdn5o20 .
a condition involving eye surgery using a laser to shrink or destroy abnormal structures in the retina ,  or to intentionally cause scarring .
a member of the class of imidazoles and thiophenes that is an angiotensin ii receptor antagonist used for the treatment of high blood pressure .
condition in which solid food is withheld for a specified period of time ,  while nourishment through liquids is provided .
a primary alcohol that is butane in which a hydrogen of one of the methyl groups is substituted by a hydroxy group .
a primary alcohol that is butanol in which one or several of the carbon  ( c12 )  atoms is replaced by radioactive carbon - 14 .
the aglycone of hesperidin  -  clathration by cd enhances hesperetin solubility .
a disaccharide derivative that consists of hesperetin substituted by a 6 - o -  ( alpha - l - rhamnopyranosyl )  - beta - d - glucopyranosyl moiety at position 7 via a glycosidic linkage .
surgical removal of part or all of the spleen ,  the highly vascular lymphoid organ which serves to store blood ,  disintegrate old blood cells ,  filter foreign substances from the blood ,  and produce lymphocytes .
surgical removal of a portion of the spleen ,  resulting in reduction but not elimination of the physiological functions of the spleen .
enrasentan is an orally active mixed endothelin a / b receptor antagonist with a 100 - fold greater affinity for the endothelin a receptor .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is an agent that blocks one or more endothelin receptors .
a regimen of solid food in which the amount of enrasentan consumed is controlled .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is a rat colonic adenocarcinoma cell line used to study metastasis .
a benzophenanthridine alkaloid derived from sanguinaria canadensis and poppy fumaria species ,  shown to exhibit anti - microbial ,  anti - tumoral ,  and anti - inflammatory activities .
a potent chemokine - like receptor 1  ( cmklr1 )  agonist that corresponds to c - terminal of full length human chemerin  ( rarres2 )  ,  amino acids 149  -  157 .
a tetracyclic diterpenoid which is a mitotic inhibitor used in cancer chemotherapy .
an adp - ribosylating polypeptide produced by corynebacterium diphtheriae that can cause a localized infection of mucous membranes or skin  ( diphtheria )  ,  myocarditis ,  polyneuritis ,  and other systemic toxic effects .
a component of bacterial cells ,  an endotoxin can be a part of the outer membrane of gram - negative bacteria  ( lipopolysacharride )  or a part or the  \ "spore \ " of gram - positive bacteria  ( delta endotoxin )  .
this most common type of endotoxin is found in the outer membrane of gram - negative bacteria .
subjects maintained in groups of three during specified time period .
a condition in which subjects are maintained in housing groups in which at least one subject had a pathogenic infection during the time period leading up to the specified housing period .
a condition in which subjects are maintained in housing groups in which at least one subject had a bacterial pathogenic infection during the time period leading up to the specified housing period .
a condition in which subjects are maintained in housing groups in which at least one subject had a haemophilus infection during the time period leading up to the specified housing period .
a condition in which the primary influencing factor is a species of haemophilus ,  a genus of gram - negative ,  coccobacilli bacteria ,  some of which are pathogenic .
a condition in which subjects are maintained in housing groups in which at least one subject had a haemophilus h21 infection during the time period leading up to the specified housing period .
a condition in which subjects are maintained in housing groups in which at least one subject had a haemophilus h35 infection during the time period leading up to the specified housing period .
a condition in which subjects are maintained in housing groups in which at least one subject had a pasteurella pneumotropica infection during the time period leading up to the specified housing period .
a condition in which subjects are maintained in housing groups in which at least one subject had a pasteurellaceae infection during the time period leading up to the specified housing period .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a substance which decreases or interferes with the activity of a protease ,  any of numerous enzymes that hydrolyze proteins .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is phosphoramidon ,  a potent inhibitor of thermolysin and other metallo - endopeptidases ,  isolated from the cultures of streptomyces tanashiensis .
a monocarboxylic acid consisting of phenylacetic acid having a  ( 2 , 6 - dichlorophenyl ) amino group at the 2 - position .
a surgical manipulation causing blockage of one of the common carotid arteries ,  or of a branch  ( internal or external )  of the common carotid arteries .
a surgical manipulation causing blockage of the right common carotid artery ,  or a branch  ( internal or external )  of the right common carotid artery .
a surgical manipulation causing blockage of the left common carotid artery ,  or a branch  ( internal or external )  of the left common carotid artery .
a surgical manipulation causing blockage of both of the common carotid arteries ,  or left and right branches  ( internal or external )  of the common carotid arteries .
a 2 - carbon sulfoxide and highly polar organic liquid ,  that is used widely as a chemical solvent .
this non - ionic surfactant and emulsifier is a potential therapeutic agent because of its effectiveness for reversing multidrug resistance in vitro and its low toxicity in vivo .
a substance which lowers the surface tension of the medium in which it is dissolved ,  and / or the interfacial tension with other phases ,  and ,  accordingly ,  is positively adsorbed at the liquid / vapor and / or at other interfaces .
condition in which the main influencing factor is retinoic acid ,  a retinoid consisting of 3 , 7 - dimethylnona - 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 - tetraenoic acid substituted at position 9 by a 2 , 6 , 6 - trimethylcyclohex - 1 - en - 1 - yl group  ( geometry of the four exocyclic double bonds is not specified )  .
a condition in which the major influencing factor is a soluble schistosoma mansoni protein expressed by the schistosomulum and target of cytotoxic ige antibodies .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a biologic  ( product of ,  or component of ,  a living organism )  introduced externally or internally to a subject to effect a change in phenotype of the subject ,  usually in treatment of a medical condition .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is an injection of t cells prepared from the lymph nodes of rats immunized with ab2 antibodies .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is an injection of t cells  ( t lymphocytes )  .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is an injection of cultured cells derived from t cells prepared from the lymph nodes of rats immunized with ab2 antibodies .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is an injection of t cells prepared from the lymph nodes of rats immunized with the 26 kda antigen secreted from schistosomula of schistosoma mansoni  .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is an injection of cultured cells derived from t cells prepared from the lymph nodes of rats immunized with the 26 kda antigen secreted from schistosomula of schistosoma mansoni .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is schistosoma mansoni ,  a trematode parasite that lives in certain types of freshwater snails .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is the infective cercariae  ( larvae )  of the trematode parasite schistosoma mansoni .
blood serum that contains antibodies against an infective agent  ( such as a bacteria or virus )  or toxic substance  ( such as snake venom )  and may be used to prevent or treat infection or poisoning .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is an injection of serum prepared from rats immunized with ab2 antibodies .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is an injection of serum prepared from rats immunized with the 26 kda antigen secreted from schistosomula of schistosoma mansoni .
a solid diet in which the amount of cocoa butter is maintained at a specified level .
a solid diet in which the amount of soybean oil is maintained at a specified level .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is any of numerous unctuous combustible substances that are liquid or can be liquefied easily on warming ,  are soluble in ether but not in water ,  and leave a greasy stain on paper or cloth .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is soybean oil .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is any aliphatic monocarboxylic acid derived from or contained in esterified form in an animal or vegetable fat ,  oil or wax .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is alpha - lipoic acid ,  a heterocyclic thia fatty acid comprising pentanoic acid with a 1 , 2 - dithiolan - 3 - yl group at the 5 - position .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is spiroplatin ,  a metal drug and analog of the second generation for cisplatin ,  developed for the treatment of cancer .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is rat igm - secreting immunocytoma cells .
an experimental condition in which the main influencing factor is liposomes ,  artificial vesicles composed of one or more concentric phospholipid bilayers and used to deliver biologically relevant substances .
an experimental condition in which the main influencing factor is positively charged liposomes ,  artificial positively charged vesicles composed of one or more concentric phospholipid bilayers and used to deliver biologically relevant substances .
an experimental condition in which the main influencing factor is negatively charged liposomes ,  artificial negatively charged vesicles composed of one or more concentric phospholipid bilayers and used to deliver biologically relevant substances .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a cytokine ,  a small secreted protein that has a specific effect on the interactions and communications between cells .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is interleukin - 2 ,  a cytokine made by a type of t lymphocyte .
a rat cell line derived from a colonic adenocarcinoma induced by 1 , 2 -  dimethylhydrazine in bdix rats .
a rat cell line  ( prob 5 - fu - resistant subline )  derived from colonic adenocarcinoma prob cells .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is sodium butyrate ,  an organic sodium salt resulting from the replacement of the proton from the carboxy group of butyric acid  ( a short - chain fatty acid )  by a sodium ion .
a condition in which the main influencing factor is a rat rhabdomyosarcoma cell line used to study metastasis .
methylcellulose is a methylester of cellulose and it is used as an emulsifying and suspending agent in cosmetics ,  pharmaceuticals and the chemical industry .
a drink made up of water and a specified amount of sodium chloride dissolved in a sufficient quantity of water .
a condition defined by a mostly uniform set of parameters accepted as normal or average and used by general consent as a basis of comparison .
a trihydroxyanthraquinone that is 9 , 10 - anthraquinone which is substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 1 ,  3 ,  and 8 and by a methyl group at position 6 .
this is an in - silico screening analog of emodin  ( xco:0000792 )  .
a condition in which the lin - 28 homolog b gene has been  ( transiently or stably )  transferred into a cell or organism using an adenovirus carrier in order to induce synthesis of that gene's product in the recipient cell or organism .
a regimen of solid food in which the amount of sodium chloride consumed is controlled .
a prostaglandin endoperoxide analogue  ( 11 , 9 epoxymethano - prostaglandin h2 )  that is a selective agonist of prostaglandin h2  ( pgh2 )  / thromboxane a2  ( txa2 )   ( tp )  receptor .
a monocarboxylic acid amide that is trans -  [  ( 1r )  - 1 - aminoethyl ] cyclohexanecarboxamide in which one of the nitrogens of the aminocarbony group is substituted by a pyridine nucleus .
generated from the gene pnoc ,  which produces a preproprotein ,  which in subsequently processed to form multiple protein products .
a mobile ,  very volatile ,  highly flammable liquid used as an inhalation anesthetic and as a solvent for waxes ,  fats ,  oils ,  perfumes ,  alkaloids ,  and gums .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a particle with a size between 1 and 100 nanometers composed of iron oxide  ( fe3o4 )  .
a regimen of solid food in which the amount of gliadin consumed is controlled .
it is a tertiary carboxamide and cell - permeable ,  potent and selective agonist of the trpv4  ( transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 )  channel .
subthreshold therapy is photocoagulation that does not produce clinical or histologic evidence of retinal damage .
any biomedical use of lasers for purposes designed to improve the state of the subject .
nondamaging retinal laser therapy  ( nrt )  is a retinal treatment with a lack of tissue damage .
selective retinal therapy  ( srt )  is a subthreshold laser therapy used to treat retinal disorders while preventing severe damage to the retina .
a beta - diketone that is methane in which two of the hydrogens are substituted by feruloyl groups .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is dl - &#945 ;  - aminoadipate .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is 2 - methyl - 6 -  ( phenylethynyl ) pyridine ,  a methylpyridine that consists of 2 - methylpyridine bearing an additional phenylethynyl group at position 6 .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is 2 - chloro - 5 - hydroxyphenylglycine ,  a metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 agonist .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is a23187 ,  an ionophorous ,  polyether antibiotic from streptomyces chartreusensis .
the drawing of blood  ( by venipuncture or artery puncture )  for transfusion ,  apheresis ,  diagnostic testing ,  or experimental procedures .
total body irradiation  ( tbi )  is a form of radiotherapy  ( typically x - rays or gamma rays )  used primarily as part of the preparative regimen for hematopoietic stem cell  ( or bone marrow )  transplantation .
partial body irradiation  ( pbi )  is a form of radiotherapy used to target certain organs or to study the effects of sublethal doses of radiation .
this is a condition / model system that features partial body irradiation  ( pbi )  delivering a high dose of radiation to most of the body ,  and a small fraction of that dose to one leg of the subject .
partial - body irradiation with 5% bone marrow sparing  ( tibiae ,  ankles ,  feet )  is used to define acute radiation - induced gi - ars ,  h - ars ,  and acute kidney injury  ( aki )  as well as the delayed effects of acute radiation exposure  ( deare )  characterized by prolonged gi ,  lung ,  and heart injury and chronic kidney injury  ( cki )  .
whole thorax lung irradiation is a type of partial body irradiation used to target the lungs .
a condition in which gene transfer has been performed using a plasmid as the carrier of the genetic material .
a condition in which gene transfer has been performed using the plasmid pvax2 as the carrier of the genetic material .
a control condition in which gene transfer has been performed using an empty plasmid pvax2 .
a condition in which the rat gdnf gene has been  ( transiently or stably )  transferred into a cell or organism using the plasmid vector pvax2 in order to induce synthesis of that gene's product in the recipient cell or organism .
jte - 607 is a pro - drug that is cleaved by carboxylesterase 1  ( ces1 )  to its active metabolite ,  which then binds to cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor 3  ( cpsf3 )  .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is peanut oil ,  a colorless to yellow fatty nondrying oil that is obtained from peanuts and is used chiefly as a salad oil ,  in margarine ,  in soap ,  and as a vehicle in pharmaceutical preparations and cosmetics .
pertussis toxin  ( pt )  is a protein - based ab5 - type exotoxin produced by the bacterium bordetella pertussis ,  which causes whooping cough .
cyclophosphamide  ( cp )  ,  also known as cytophosphane among other names ,  is an antineoplastic and immunosuppressive agent that must be activated in the liver to form the active aldophosphamide .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is an injection of cultured cells derived from t cells prepared from the lymph nodes of rats immunized with human myelin basic protein .
any condition in which the main influencing factor is an injection of cultured cells derived from t cells prepared from the lymph nodes of rats immunized with synthetic human myelin basic protein peptide 102 - 129 .
myelin basic protein is a hydrophobic insulator that can be synthesized by the oligodendrocyte and / or schwann cell as part of the myelin sheath which is wrapped around the axon .
