a plant experimental condition  ( peco:0007359 )  or set of conditions describing the application of an abiotic  ( peco:0007191 )  or biotic plant exposure  ( peco:0007357 )  or the combinatorial application thereof .
obsolete: a plant environment  ( peco:0007359 )  involving a plant exposure  ( peco:0001001 )  ,  or a combination plant treatments ,  as well as natural conditions for plant growth .
a chemical exposure  ( peco:0007189 )  involving the application of organic chemical ( s )  .
a chemical exposure  ( peco:0007189 )  involving the application of inorganic chemical ( s )  .
a mineral exposure  ( peco:0007044 )  involving exposure of plant to nickel  ( chebi:28112 )  .
an inorganic anion exposure  ( peco:0001009 )  involving the application of phosphate  ( chebi:18367 )  .
a mineral exposure  ( peco:0007044 )  involving exposure of the plant ( s )  to mineral salts  ( chebi:24866 )  .
an inorganic anion exposure  ( peco:0001009 )  involving the application of sulfate  ( chebi:35175 )  .
an inorganic chemical exposure  ( peco:0001004 )  involving the application of an anion or a mixture of anions  ( chebi:22563 )  .
an organic chemical exposure  ( peco:0001003 )  involving the application of a carbohydrate  ( chebi:16646 )  or mixture of carbohydrates .
a carbohydrate exposure  ( peco:0001010 )  involving the application of monosaccharide ( s )  ( chebi:35381 )  .
a monosaccharide exposure  ( peco:0001011 )  involving the application of hexose  ( chebi:18133 )  sugar ( s )  .
a hexose exposure  ( peco:0001012 )  involving the application of glucose  ( chebi:17234 )  .
a carbohydrate exposure  ( peco:0001010 )  involving the application of disaccharide ( s )  ( chebi:36233 )  .
a disaccharide exposure  ( peco:0001014 )  involving the application of sucrose  ( chebi:17992 )  .
an inorganic chemical exposure  ( peco:0001004 )  involving the application of a cation  ( chebi:36916 )  or mixture of cations  .
an inorganic cation exposure  ( peco:0001016 )  involving the application of ammonium  ( nh4 +  )   ( chebi:28938 )  .
a mineral exposure  ( peco:0007044 )  involving exposure of plant to cadmium  ( chebi:22977 )  .
an organic chemical exposure  ( peco:0001003 )  involving the application of a gas or mixture of gases .
an inorganic gas exposure  ( peco:0001055 )  that involves the application of carbon dioxide  ( chebi:16526 )  .
an inorganic anion exposure  ( peco:0001009 )  involving the application of ozone  ( chebi:29382 )  .
a radiation quality exposure  ( peco:0007154 )  involving the exposure to gamma radiation .
an in vitro solid growth medium  ( peco:0007262 )  composed of agar .
an agar growth medium  ( peco:0001023 )  involving use of solid growth media in a vertical orientation .
a nitrogen macronutrient exposure  ( peco:0007284 )   involving exposure of plant to urea  ( chebi:16199 )  as the primary or sole source of nitrogen .
a nitrogen macronutrient exposure  ( peco:0007284 )  involving exposure of plant to 5' - s - methyl - 5' - thioadenosine  ( mta ;  chebi:17509 )  as the primary or sole source of nitrogen .
a nitrogen macronutrient exposure  ( peco:0007284 )  involving exposure of plant to alanine  ( chebi:16449 )  as the primary or sole source of nitrogen .
a nitrogen macronutrient exposure  ( peco:0007284 )   involving exposure of plant to glutamate  ( chebi:29987 )  as the primary or sole source of nitrogen .
a nitrogen macronutrient exposure  ( peco:0007284 )   involving exposure of plant to arginine  ( chebi:29016 )  as the primary or sole source of nitrogen .
a nitrogen macronutrient exposure  ( peco:0007284 )   involving exposure of plant to ornithine  ( chebi:18257 )  as the primary or sole source of nitrogen .
a nitrogen macronutrient exposure  ( peco:0007284 )   involving exposure of plant to glutamine  ( chebi:28300 )  as the primary or sole source of nitrogen .
an insect plant exposure  ( peco:0007333 )  involving the exposure of a plant to an insect ( s )  of the hymenoptera order .
a hymenoptera insect plant exposure  ( peco:0001032 )  that involves exposure to parasitic wasps .
a pseudomonas plant exposure  ( peco:0007144 )  involving the exposure to bacteria of the pseudomonas syringae group .
a physical exposure  ( peco:0007316 )  involving both low temperature and moist conditions to overcome seed dormancy .
a chemical exposure  ( peco:0007189 )  that induces stress .
a chemical stress exposure  ( peco:0001036 )  involving use of oxidative stress - inducing chemicals .
a chemical stress exposure  ( peco:0001036 )  involving use of osmotic stress - inducing chemicals .
a radiation exposure  ( peco:0007151 )  involving exposure of plant to chemicals or radiation resulting in perturbations to the genome .
a light intensity exposure  ( peco:0007224 )  involving use of light - dependent generations of reactive oxygen species .
a zinc nutrient exposure  ( peco:0007309 )  involving exposure to limiting amounts or absence of zinc  ( chebi:27363 )  .
a boron nutrient exposure  ( peco:0007273 )  involving exposure to limiting amounts or absence of boron  ( chebi:27560 )  .
a glucose exposure  ( peco:0001013 )  involving exposure to limiting amounts or the absence of glucose  ( chebi:17234 )  .
a carbon nutrient exposure  ( peco:0007303 )  involving exposure to limiting amounts or the absence of carbon  ( chebi:27594 )  .
a sulfate exposure  ( peco:0001008 )  involving exposure to limiting amounts or the absence of sulfate  ( chebi:35175 )  .
a phosphate exposure  ( peco:0001006 )  involving exposure to limiting amounts or absence of phosphate  ( chebi:18367 )  .
an iron nutrient exposure  ( peco:0007242 )  involving exposure to limiting amounts or the absence of iron  ( chebi:18248 )  .
a molybdenum nutrient exposure  ( peco:0007253 )  involving exposure to limiting amounts or the absence of molybdenum  ( chebi:28685 )  .
a magnesium nutrient exposure  ( peco:0007288 )  involving exposure to limiting amounts or the absence of magnesium  ( chebi:25107 )  .
a nitrogen macronutrient exposure  ( peco:0007284 )  involving exposure to limiting amounts or the absence of nitrogen  ( chebi:25555 )  .
a potassium nutrient exposure  ( peco:0007293 )  involving exposure to limiting amounts or the absence of potassium  ( chebi:26216 )  .
a sulfur nutrient exposure  ( peco:0007295 )  involving exposure to limiting amounts or the absence of sulfur  ( chebi:26833 )  .
a manganese nutrient exposure  ( peco:0007387 )  involving exposure to limiting amounts or the absence of manganese  ( chebi:18291 )  .
a nitrate exposure  ( peco:0007406 )  involving exposure to limiting amounts or the absence of nitrate  ( chebi:17632 )  .
an inorganic chemical exposure  ( peco:0001004 )  involving the application of a gas or mixture of gases .
a carbon dioxide exposure  ( peco:0001020 )  involving an increased concentration of carbon dioxide  ( chebi:16526 )  .
a stratification exposure  ( peco:0001035 )  involving the absence of ,  or non - standard exposure to temperature or moisture conditions utilized in the breaking of seed dormancy .
a fungal plant exposure  ( peco:0007233 )  involving the exposure of plant to the pathogen belonging to glomeromyetes class .
a glomeromycota exposure  ( peco:0001058 )  involving the exposure of compatible plants to mutualistic arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi .
an inorganic anion exposure  ( peco:0001009 )  involving the application of sodium hydroxide  ( chebi:32145 )  .
an organic chemical exposure  ( peco:0001003 )  involving the application of polyethylene glycol  ( chebi:46793 )  .
a plant exposure  ( peco:0001001 )  used as a reference  to compare the effects of one or more treatment factors in a study .
an in vitro solid growth medium  ( peco:0007262 )  composed of paper towels .
a chemical fertilizer exposure  ( peco:0007086 )  involving the use of potassium fertilizer as a supplement to study plant responses .
a potassium fertilizer exposure  ( peco:0001064 )  involving the use of potassium chloride fertilizer as a supplement to study plant responses .
a pesticide exposure  ( peco:0007167 )  involving the application of a nematicide ;  a chemical entity or mixture of chemical entities to kill plant - parasitic nematodes .
a natural fertilizer exposure  ( peco:0007087 )  which is the application of castor meal .
a natural fertilizer exposure  ( peco:0007087 )  which is the application of rapeseed meal .
a natural fertilizer exposure  ( peco:0007087 )  which is the application of a green manure .
a salt exposure  ( peco:0007185 )  which is a treatment with calcium carbonate  ( chebi:3311 )  in order to raise the ph of the growing media .
the exposure using uv - b light either exclusively or as part of a supplemental electromagnetic radiation in the wavelength range of 315 - 280nm .
the exposure using uv - a light either exclusively or as part of a supplemental electromagnetic radiation in the wavelength range of 380 - 315nm .
exposure to the regions with a temperate climate ,  which are usually characterized by having roughly equally long winters and summers .
a biotic plant exposure  ( peco:0007357 )  involving exposure of a plant to another plant .
obsolete .
obsolete
an exposure of a reference or experimental plant to the monocot plant monochoria vaginalis ,  found in its growth environment .
an exposure of a reference or experimental plant to dicot plants found in its growth environment .
an exposure of a reference or experimental plant to the monocot plant sagittaria montevidensis ,  found in its growth environment .
an exposure of a reference or experimental plant to the monocot plant sagittaria longiloba ,  found in its growth environment .
an exposure of a reference or experimental plant to the monocot plant heteranthera limosa ,  found in its growth environment .
an exposure of a reference or experimental plant to the monocot plant echinodorus berteroi ,  found in its growth environment .
an exposure of a reference or experimental plant to the monocot plant echinodorus cordifolius ,  found in its growth environment .
an exposure of a reference or experimental plant to the dicot plant genus ammannia spp .
an exposure of a reference or experimental plant to the dicot plant genus bacopa spp .
an exposure of a reference or experimental plant to a monocot plant cyperus difformis ,  found in its growth environment .
an exposure of a reference or experimental plant to the monocot plant scirpus fluviatilis ,  found in its growth environment .
an exposure of a reference or experimental plant to the monocot plant cyperus difformis ,  found in its growth environment .
an exposure of a reference or experimental plant to the monocot plant scirpus mucronatus ,  found in its growth environment .
an exposure of a reference or experimental plant to the monocot plant alisma plantago - aquatica ,  found in its growth environment .
an exposure of a reference or experimental plant to monocot plants found in its growth environment .
a physical plant exposure  ( peco:0007316 )  involving the application of a gas or a combination of gasses .
an exposure to conditions in which gaseous or dissolved oxygen is present .
an exposure to conditions in which gaseous or dissolved oxygen is absent .
an exposure of a reference or experimental plant to the monocot plant echinochloa glabrescens found in its growth environment .
a plant exposure  ( peco:0001001 )  involving growth during conditions of regional seasons .
an exposure of a reference or experimental plant to the monocot plant echinochloa crus - galli ,  found in its growth environment .
an exposure of a reference or experimental plant to the monocot plants of genus typha spp . ,  found in its growth environment .
an exposure of a reference or experimental plant to the monocot plant leptochloa fascicularis ,  found in its growth environment .
an exposure of a plant to mammalian animals that may damage the plant due to grazing or feeding practices .
an exposure involving growth during the rabi crop season  ( october - march )  as practiced in south asia .
an exposure involving growth during the kharif crop season  ( may - october )  as practised in south asia .
an exposure involving growth during the winter season .
an exposure involving growth during the summer season .
an exposure involving growth during the spring season .
an exposure involving growth during the autumn season .
obsolete .
obsolete .
a chemical exposure  ( peco:0007189 )  involving the use of antibiotic for selection purposes .
an exposure involving growth in the presence of non - mineral nutrients to study various types of responses .
an inorganic chemical exposure  ( peco:0001004 )  involving the application of a mineral or a combination of minerals .
a plant macronutrient exposure  ( peco:0007240 )   involving the use of the primary plant macronutrients nitrogen  ( n )  ,  phosphorus  ( p )  ,  and potassium  ( k )  .
an exposure involving the use of macronutrients  ( ca ,  mg ,  s )  as supplement to study various types of responses .
an exposure involving the exposure of plant to elemental forms of nutrients as supplement .
a salt exposure  ( peco:0007185 )  involving the use of sodium chloride salt as supplement to liquid and soil growth media to study various types of responses on its application .
an exposure involving growing plants in soil growth media with varying contents .
an exposure involving growing plants in varying textures of soil growth media .
an exposure involving growing plants in a sandy soil growth media .
an exposure involving growing plants in a growth media containing organic matter .
an exposure involving growing plants in a silty soil growth media .
an exposure involving growing plants in a clay soil growth media .
an exposure involving the growth of a plant with the pathogen cochliobolus spp .
obsolete: a treatment involving growing plants and  exposing them to varying types of flora in soil growth media .
obsolete: a treatment involving growing plants and  exposing them to varying types of fauna in soil growth media .
an exposure involving growing plants in soil growth media of varying ph levels .
an exposure involving growing plants in acidic  ( low ph )  soil growth media .
a plant fungal exposure  ( peco:0007233 )  involving the exposure of plant to the pathogen sphaerulina oryzina .
an exposure involving growth of a plant in the geographical region of the earth limited in latitude by the two tropics ,  the tropic of cancer and the tropic of capricorn ,  and thus centered on the equator .
an exposure involving growing plants in basic  ( high ph )  soil growth media .
a herbicide exposure  ( peco:0007183 )  involving the use of diuron  ( dcmu )  .
a plant exposure  ( peco:0001001 )  involving exposure to the various factors that comprise a geographical / regional location .
an exposure involving the growth of a plant with the pathogen entyloma oryzae .
a growth hormone exposure  ( peco:0007165 )  involving the use of cytokinin  ( or its homolog )  growth hormone .
an exposure involving growing plants in liquid growth media .
a growth hormone exposure  ( peco:0007165 )  involving the use of ethylene  ( or its homolog )  growth hormone .
a growth hormone exposure  ( peco:0007165 )  involving the use of ga  ( or its homolog )  growth hormone .
an auxin exposure  ( peco:0007074 )  involving the use of iaa  ( or its homolog )  growth hormone .
an exposure involving liquid growth medium for cell cultured samples .
an exposure involving the growth of a plant with the pathogen microdochium oryzae .
a fungal plant exposure  ( peco:0007233 )  involving the exposure of plant to the pathogen belonging to basidiomycetes class .
a growth hormone exposure  ( peco:0007165 )  involving the use of auxin  ( or its homolog )  .
treatment involving the exposure of plant to the pathogen tilletia barclayana .
in biological experiments often it refer to the length of the exposure time .
treatment involving the use of sulfate fertilizer and its components as supplements to study various types of responses .
a growth hormone exposure  ( peco:0007165 )  involving the use of ja  ( or its homolog )  .
treatment involving the exposure of plant to the pathogen phoma sorghina .
treatment involving the exposure of plant to the pests that do not falll under the well known classes of birds ,  mammals ,  insects ,  nematode and molluscs .
a plant nutrient exposure  ( peco:0007241 )  involving the use of a fertilizer ,  a combination of plant nutrients .
treatment involving the use of inorganic fertilizer and its components as supplements to study various types of responses .
treatment involving the use of organic fertilizer and its component as supplements to study various types of responses .
treatment involving the exposure of plant to the pathogen ceratobasidium oryzae - sativae .
a natural fertilizer exposure  ( peco:0007087 )  which is the application of bone meal .
treatment involving the use of ammonium nitrate supplement to study various types of responses .
a natural fertilizer exposure  ( peco:0007087 )  which is the application of seaweed extract .
a natural fertilizer exposure  ( peco:0007087 )  which is the application of wood ash .
a natural fertilizer exposure  ( peco:0007087 )  which is the application of fish meal .
treatment involving the use of sodium nitrate supplement to study various types of responses .
treatment involving the use of calcium nitrate supplement to study various types of responses .
treatment involving the use of potassiumium nitrate supplement to study various types of responses .
treatment involving the use of ammonium sulfate supplement to study various types of responses .
treatment involving the use of ferrous sulfate supplement to study various types of responses .
treatment involving the use of potassium sulfate supplement to study various types of responses .
treatment involving the use of super phosphate supplement to study various types of responses .
treatment involving the use of urea as source of nitrogen supplement to study various types of responses .
treatment involving the use of nitrogen fertilizer and its components as supplements to study various types of responses .
treatment involving the use of phosphate fertilizer and its components as supplements to study various types of responses .
treatment involving the use of nitrogen ,  phosphorus and potassium supplements to study various types of responses .
a growth hormone exposure  ( peco:0007165 )  involving the use of abscisic acid  ( or its homolog )  .
treatment involving the exposure of plant to the stramenopiles  ( heterokonts )  present in the growth environment .
a fungal plant exposure  ( peco:0007233 )  involving the exposure of plant to the pathogen belonging to ascomycetes class .
obsolete: a bacterial plant exposure  ( peco:0007246 )  involving the exposure of bacteria of the proteobacteria .
treatment involving the exposure of plant to the pathogenic single strand rna positive stand virus .
treatment involving the exposure of plant to the pathogenic double stranded rna virus .
treatment involving the exposure of plant to the pathogenic single strand rna negative stand virus .
treatment involving the exposure of plant to the pathogenic retroid virus .
treatment involving the exposure of plant to the rice necrosis mosaic virus .
treatment involving the exposure of plant to the pest of lepidoptera class .
treatment involving the exposure of plant to the pest spodoptera spp .
an insect plant exposure  ( peco:0007333 )  involving the exposure of a plant to an insect ( s )  of the hemiptera order .
treatment involving the exposure of plant to the pest rice army worm .
treatment involving the exposure of plant to the pathogen gibberella spp .
an insect plant exposure  ( peco:0007333 )  involving the exposure of a plant to an insect ( s )  of the diptera order .
treatment involving the exposure of plant to the pest commonly called as beetles or coleoptera .
treatment involving the exposure of plant to the pest of thysanoptera class .
treatment involving the exposure of plant to the pest chilo .
treatment involving the exposure of plant to the pest rice spotting bug .
obsolete: treatment involving the exposure of plant to the pest / pathogen / animal / plants present as part of its growth environment .
obsolete .
treatment involving the exposure of plant to the pest hirschmaniella spp .
treatment involving the exposure of plant to the pest meloidogyne spp .
in biological experiments it refer to the intermittent exposure of plant to the cycles of light and dark or one light vs the another type of light .
the treatment using uv - c light either exclusively or as part of a supplemental electromagnetic radiation in the wavelength range of 280 - 10nm .
the treatment using infra - red light either exclusively or as part of a supplemental light of near ir band that contains energy in the range of wavelengths 750 - 1300nm ,  which is closest to the visible light .
the treatment using middle infra - red light either exclusively or as part of a supplemental light treatment involving middle ir band that contains energy in the range of wavelengths 1300 - 3000nm .
the treatment using far infra - red light either exclusively or as part of a supplemental light treatment involving far ir band that contains energy in the range of wavelengths 3000 - 14000nm .
the treatment involving an exposure to basic ph levels of the growth media .
the treatment involving an exposure to acidic ph levels of the growth media .
the treatment involving an exposure of plant to the pathogen magnaporthe spp .
the treatment involving an exposure of plant to the achlya spp .
the treatment involving an exposure of reference / experimental plant to monocot plant genus echinochloa found in its growth environment .
the treatment involving an exposure of reference / experimental plant to monocot plant genus echinodorus found in its growth environment .
the treatment involving an exposure of reference / experimental plant to monocot plant genus sagittaria found in its growth environment .
the treatment involving an exposure of reference / experimental plant to monocot plant genus scirpus found in its growth environment .
the treatment involving an exposure of reference / experimental plant to monocot plant genus cyperus found in its growth environment .
the treatment involving an exposure of plant to the pest scirpophaga spp .
a bacterial plant exposure  ( peco:0007246 )  involving the exposure to bacteria of the genus erwinia .
a bacterial plant exposure  ( peco:0007246 )  involving the exposure to bacteria of the genus pseudomonas .
a bacterial plant exposure  ( peco:0007246 )  involving the exposure to bacteria of the genus xanthomonas .
the treatment involving use of gravity factor to study various types of responses in presence ,  absence or modified levels of gravity .
an abiotic plant exposure  ( peco:0007191 )  involving the use of a solid or liquid substrate for growing plants or tissue - cultured plant samples .
the treatment involving an exposure of plant to the pathogen xanthomonas oryzae .
a chemical exposure  ( peco:0007189 )  involving use of mutagen for the mutagenesis process .
obsolete .
a physical plant exposure  ( peco:0007316 )  involving an exposure with a radiation type ,  intensity or quantity .
the treatment involving amount of energy of any radiation incident upon  ( or flowing through )  unit area ,  perpendicular to the radiation source ,  in unit time .
in biological experiments it refer to the treatment involving radiation in terms of length of the exposure time .
the treatment involving an exposure to a given type of radiation .
the treatment involving growing plants in different types of soil growth media .
the treatment involving an exposure to water with varying degree of temperature ,  which may depend on regional environment .
the treatment involving an exposure to wind with varying degree of temperature ,  which may depend on the study type or the regional environment .
the treatment involving continuous exposure of light to the plant .
the treatment involving an exposure of plant to the scheduled or natural exposure of day light and night cycles to the plant .
the treatment involving an exposure to standing water during whole life span of the plant .
a chemical exposure  ( peco:0007189 )  involving the application of one or more plant growth hormones .
the treatment involving an exposure of plant to the pythium spinosum .
a chemical exposure  ( peco:0007189 )  involving the application of a pesticide ;  a chemical entity or mixture of chemical entities .
an antibiotic exposure  ( peco:0007041 )  involving use of hygromycin b antibiotic for selection purposes .
the treatment involving exposure of plants to varying levels of ph of the growth media .
the treatment involving an exposure to standing water from flash floods for a small part of plant's life span .
the treatment involving an exposure to above optimal temperature ,  which may depend on the study type or the regional environment .
the treatment involving an exposure to cold or sub - optimal temperature ,  which may depend on the study type or the regional environment .
a physical plant exposure  ( peco:0007316 )  involving an exposure to varying degree of temperature ,  which may depend on regional environment .
the treatment involving an exposure to a given elevation / height above sea level .
suggests the exposure of plant to the pythium myriotylum .
the treatment involving an exposure to a given pressure of the atmosphere at a given point .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pythium irregulare .
an auxin exposure  ( peco:0007074 )  involving use of 2 , 4 - d growth hormone and herbicide .
the treatment involving an exposure to a given amount of rainfall .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pythium graminicola .
a pesticide exposure  ( peco:0007167 )  involving the application of a herbicide ;  a chemical entity or mixture of chemical entities .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pythium dissotocum .
a chemical exposure  ( peco:0007189 )  involving use of salts as supplement to liquid and soil growth media to study various types of responses on their application .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pythium catenulatum .
an organic chemical exposure  ( peco:0001003 )  involving the application of salicylic acid  ( chebi:16914 )  .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pythium arrhenomanes .
an abiotic plant exposure  ( peco:0007191 )  involving the application of chemical ( s )  .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen ustilaginoidea virens .
a plant exposure  ( peco:0001001 )  involving the application of chemical or non - biological factors .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen drechslera gigantea .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen sclerophthora macrospora .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the rice ragged stunt virus .
the treatment involving day light as the light of the sun or the artificial light in a growth chamber .
the treatment involving an exposure to varying degree of humidity ,  which may depend on regional environment .
a physical plant exposure  ( peco:0007316 )  involving an exposure of varying amounts of water and watering frequencies ,  which may depend on regional environment .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to long day light duration followed by a short night cycle .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to short day light duration followed by a long night cycle .
the treatment using infra red  ( ir )  light either exclusively or as part of a supplemental light treatment involving ir light in the wavelength range of 700nm - 1mm .
the treatment using far red light either exclusively or as part of a supplemental light treatment involving red color light in the wavelength range of 800 - 700 nm .
an auxin exposure  ( peco:0007074 )  involving use of 1 - naphthaleneacetic acid growth hormone and herbicide ."
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the rice grassy stunt 2 virus .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen gaeumannomyces graminis .
the treatment using red light either exclusively or as part of a supplemental light treatment involving red color light in the wavelength range of 780 - 622 nm .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the rice grassy stunt 1 virus .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen phomopsis oryzae - sativae .
a biotic plant exposure  ( peco:0007357 )  involving exposure of a plant to a virus or a combination of two or more viruses .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen cochliobolus miyabeanus .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the mycoplasma pest .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogenic alternaria sp .
the treatment using orange light either exclusively or as part of a supplemental light treatment involving orange color light in the wavelength range of 622 - 597 nm .
the treatment using yellow light either exclusively or as part of a supplemental light treatment involving yellow color light in the wavelength range of 597 - 577 nm .
the treatment using green light either exclusively or as part of a supplemental light treatment involving green color light in the wavelength range of 577 - 492 nm .
the treatment using blue light either exclusively or as part of a supplemental light treatment involving blue color light in the wavelength range of 492 - 455 nm .
the treatment using indigo light either exclusively or as part of a supplemental light treatment involving indigo color light in the wavelength range of 450 - 440 nm .
the treatment using violet light either exclusively or as part of a supplemental light treatment involving violet color light in the wavelength range of 455 - 390 nm .
the treatment using visible light in the wavelength range of 380 - 780 nm .
the treatment using uv - b light either exclusively or as part of a supplemental light involving electromagnetic radiation in the wavelength range of 315 - 10nm .
a cadmium exposure  ( peco:0001018 )  involving use of cdcl2  ( chebi:35456 )  .
the treatment involving exposure of plant or a plant part to the amount of light energy incident upon  ( or flowing through )  unit area ,  perpendicular to the radiation source ,  in unit time .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to fluorine as supplement to study various types of responses .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen magnaporthe grisea .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen cochliobolus lunatus .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to chromium as supplement to study various types of responses .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen gibberella fujikuroi .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to iodine as supplement to study various types of responses .
a plant experimental condition  ( peco:0007359 )  or set of conditions describing what kind of plant growth facility was used for the experiment .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to selenium as supplement to study various types of responses .
a biotic plant exposure  ( peco:0007357 )  involving exposure of a plant to a fungus or a combination of fungi .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen pseudomonas fuscovaginae .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to silicon as supplement to study various types of responses .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen pseudomonas plantarii .
obsolete .
obsolete .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to elements that are required in tiny quantities for growth ,  as supplement to study various types of responses .
a plant nutrient exposure  ( peco:0007241 )  involving the use of a plant macronutrient or combination of plant macronutrients .
a plant chemical exposure  ( peco:0007189 )  involving a plant nutrient or a combination of plant nutrients .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to micronutrient iron as supplement to study various types of responses .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen pseudomonas glumae .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to micronutrient chlorine as supplement to study various types of responses .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen erwinia chrysanthemi .
a biotic plant exposure  ( peco:0007357 )  involving exposure of a plant to bacteria .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen erwinia herbicola .
the treatment where the plants were grown under greenhouse conditions .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen xanthomonas oryzae pv .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest zigzag leafhopper .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen pseudomonas syringae pathovar panici .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest white - backed planthopper .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to micronutrient molybdenum as supplement to study various types of responses .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen pseudomonas avenae .
the treatment where the plants were grown under laboratory  /  open room conditions ,  with very few controlled parameters .
the treatment where the plants were grown under field conditions .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen xanthomonas oryzae pv .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest rice stink bug .
the treatment involving an exposure to varying amounts of water in soil growth media .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest commonly calles as rice stem borer .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to micronutrient copper as supplement to study various types of responses .
an in vitro growth medium  ( peco:0007266 )  involving use of a solid growth medium as a substrate .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest white rice borer .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest purple stem borer .
an in vitro growth medium  ( peco:0007265 )  involving use of liquid culture media as a substrate .
a growth medium environment  ( peco:0007147 )  for in vitro culture ,  involving use of a solid or liquid substrate and which may include nutrients and other amendments .
a fungicide exposure  ( peco:0007268 )  involving use of benzothiadiazole to study various types of responses on its application .
a pesticide exposure  ( peco:0007167 )  involving the application of a fungicide ;  a chemical entity or mixture of chemical entities .
the treatment involving study type in which plants were grown in growth chambers .
the treatment involving continuous exposure to darkness  ( no light )  to the plant .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest scirpophaga innotata .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to micronutrient boron as supplement to study various types of responses .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest scirpophaga incertulas .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest rice stemborer ,  rupela albinella .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to cobalt as supplement to study various types of responses .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest dark - headed stemborer .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to oxygen to study various types of responses .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest rice striped stemborer .
the treatment involving study type where nothing is known in the reported literature / study about the kind of growth facilities used .
obsolete: the treatment involving the terms that are no longer in use or were deleted are placed under this parent term .
the treatment involving an exposure to standing water during a plant's life span .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest commonly called as oriental rice thrips .
a primary plant macronutrient exposure  ( peco:0007045 )  involving the application of nitrogen .
the treatment involving an exposure to the wet or the rainy season .
the treatment involving an exposure to the dry season .
an herbicide exposure  ( peco:0007183 )  involving the use of dibromothymoquinone  ( dbmib )  .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to macronutrient magnesium as supplement to study various types of responses .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest rice whorl maggot .
a cytokinin exposure  ( peco:0007066 )  involving use of kinetin ,  a cytokinin homolog .
a cytokinin exposure  ( peco:0007066 )  involving use of benzyladenine ,  a cytokinin homolog .
an herbicide exposure  ( peco:0007183 )  involving the use of ethylphosphine  ( ccp )  .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to macronutrient potassium as supplement to study various types of responses .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest pelopidas mathias .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to macronutrient sulfur as supplement to study various types of responses .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest dicladispa armigera .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to macronutrient calcium as supplement to study various types of responses .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest rice delpahcid .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest paddy bug .
the treatment involving use of t - dna in the flanking regions of a dna insert for mutagenesis process .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to carbon source as supplement to study various types of responses .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest marasmia patnalis  .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest cnaphalocrocis medinalis .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to aluminium as supplement to study various types of responses .
the treatment involving use of transposable element as an insert for mutagenesis process .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest green leaf hopper .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to micronutrient zinc as supplement to study various types of responses .
the treatment involving use of ac / ds transposable system for mutagenesis process .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest rice gall midge .
the use of tos - 17 transposable element for mutagenesis process .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest pseudaletia separata .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest rice caseworm .
the treatment involving use of gravity factor to study various types of responses in the absence of gravity or space like conditions .
an abiotic plant exposure  ( peco:0007191 )  involving the application of a physical factor such as temperature ,  moisture ,  gravity ,  wind ,  radiation ,  etc .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest brown planthopper .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the rice yellow mottle virus .
the treatment involving an exposure to above optimal air temperature ,  which may depend on the study type or the regional environment .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest meloidogyne oryzae .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest hirschmaniella spinicaudata .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest hirschmaniella oryzae .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest hirschmaniella mucronata .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest hirschmaniella imamuri .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest hirschmaniella imamuri .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest mycoplasma like organism .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen mycovellosiella oryzae .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the heterokont pythium .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest commonly called as western yellowstriped armyworm .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest commonly calles as lawn armyworm .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest pseudaletia unipuncta .
the treatment involving an exposure to cold or sub - optimal air temperature ,  which may depend on the study type or the regional environment .
a metazoan plant treatment   ( peco:0007349 )  involving exposure of a plant to an insect or a mixture of insects .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest pomacea canaliculata .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest molluscs .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest ditylenchus angustus .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the nematode pests .
the treatment involving an exposure to cold or sub - optimal water temperature ,  which may depend on the study type or the regional environment .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the rice tungro spherical virus .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the heterokont achlya conspicua .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogenic fusarium spp .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the heterokont achlya klebsiana .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the cattle .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the rice tungro bacilliform virus .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest rats and mouse .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the rice yellow stunt virus .
the treatment involving exposure of plants to the birds .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the rice stripe necrosis virus .
a biotic plant exposure  ( peco:0007357 )  involving exposure of a plant to a metazoan organism  ( animal )  .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the rice stripe virus .
obsolete .
obsolete .
obsolete .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the rice hoja blanca virus .
a plant exposure  ( peco:0001001 )  involving the application of a biotic or biological factor such as a microbe ,  insect ,  animal ,  or plant or a combination thereof .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the rice grassy stunt virus .
a plant exposure  ( peco:0001001 )  and / or study type  ( peco:0007231 )  applied to a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  ,  a plant structure  ( po:00090119 )  ,  and / or a plant population as part of an experiment to evaluate the plant response .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the barley yellow dwarf virus .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the rice gall dwarf virus .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen balansia oryzae - sativae .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen magnaporthe salvinii .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen rhizoctonia oryzae .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen rice dwarf virus .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen rice black streak dwarf virus .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest aphelenchoides besseyi .
the treatment involving an exposure to above optimal water temperature ,  which may depend on the study type or the regional environment .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest meloidogyne salasi .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest meloidogyne oryzae .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest meloidogyne oryzae .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest meloidogyne oryzae .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen cylindrocladium scoparium .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest meloidogyne oryzae .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen pyrenochaeta oryzae .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen athelia rolfsii .
a plant fungal exposure  ( peco:0007233 )  involving exposure of plant to the pathogen sarocladium oryzae .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen thanatephorus cucumeris .
obsolete .
obsolete
the treatment involving an exposure to wind ,  which may depend on regional environment .
the treatment involving an exposure to watering frequencies .
the treatment involving an exposure to frost or freezing air temperature ,  which may depend on the study type or the regional environment .
the treatment to plants or the populations grown in the regions where the land is leveled ,  may have bunded fields with water control ,  shallow .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen gerlachia oryzae .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to micronutrient manganese as supplement to study various types of responses .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen alternaria padwickii .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen gibberella zeae .
the treatment involving the plant or the populations grown in regions where the land level is slightly steep ,  noncontinuous flooding of variable depth and duration .
the treatment involving the plant or the populations grown in regions where the land level is steep ,  rarely flodded and has aerobic soil .
obsolete .
the treatment involving an exposure to the conditions found in a type of biome characterized by low moisture levels and infrequent and unpredictable precipitation of rainfall .
a treatment in terms of plant's exposure to the regional conditions found in the vicinity of the water bodies like ,  sea ,  river ,  lake etc .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to macronutrient phosphorus as supplement to study various types of responses .
the treatment involving the plant or the populations grown in regions that are adjacent to the tropics ,  usually roughly defined as the ranges 25 - 40 n and 25 - 40 s latitude .
the treatment involving an exposure to frost or  freezing water temperature ,  which may depend on the study type or the regional environment .
the treatment involving the plant or the populations grown in regions where the land is excessively dry and receives insufficient rainfall to support agriculture .
the treatment involving the plant or the populations grown in regions where the total annual rainfall received in the range of 25 - 50cm  ( 10 - 20 inches )  .
a chemical exposure  ( peco:0007189 )  that involves the use of a fungal elicitor to study various types of plant responses .
a plant exposure  ( peco:0001001 )  where there is a lack of information describing the experimental conditions .
an organic chemical exposure  ( peco:0001003 )  involving the application of  methyl jasmonate  ( meja ;  chebi:15929 )  .
an organic chemical exposure  ( peco:0001003 )  involving the application of the tryptophan  ( trp )  analog 5 - methyltryptophan  ( 5mt ;  chebi: 52446 )  .
a growth hormone exposure  ( peco:0007165 )  involving the use of brassinosteroid  ( or its homolog )  .
a fungal elicitor exposure  ( peco:0007402 )  that involves the use of a cerebroside elicitor to study various types of plant responses .
a pseudomonas plant exposure  ( peco:0007144 )  involving the exposure to bacteria of the pseudomonas fluorescens group .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to micronutrient zinc by adding znso4 as supplement to study various types of responses .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to micronutrient manganese by adding mnso4  supplement to study various types of responses .
a chemical exposure  ( peco:0007189 )  involving exposure of plant to a peroxide to study various types of oxidative stress responses .
a peroxide exposure  ( peco:0007414 )  involving exposure of plant to h2o2 to study various types of oxidative stress responses .
the treatment involving use of 1 , 2 - dibromoethane for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of 1 , 2 - dichloroethane for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of 1 , 2:5 , 6 - dibenzanthracene for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of 1 , 4 - dimethanesulfonoxy - 1:4 - dimethylbutane for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of 1 , 4 - dimethanesulfonoxybut - 2 - yne for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of 1 , 4 - dimethanesulfonoxybutane for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of 1 , 6 - dimethylsulfonoxy d - mannitol for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of 1 , 6 - dimethylsulfonoxy l - mannitol for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of 1 - amino - 2 - naphthol - 4 - sulfonic acid for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of 1 - bromo - 2 - chloroethane for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of 1 - diethylaminoethylethylamino - 4 - methyl - thioxanthenone for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of 2 , 5 ,  - bisethylene - imine - 1 , 4 - benzoquinone for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of 2 - chloroethyl methanesulfonate for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of 2 - fluoroethyl methanesulfonate for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of 2 - methoxyethanol for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of 5 - bromouracil for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of 5 - bromouridine for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of 7 - bromomethyl 12 methyl benz or agr / anthracine for mutagenesis process ."
an antibiotic exposure  ( peco:0007041 )  involving use of actinomycin d for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of aminopterin for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of benzo  ( or agr ) pyrene for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of caffeine for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of cisplatin for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of colchicine for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of cupric sulfate for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of diepoxybutane for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of diepoxyoctane for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of diethyl sulfate for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of dimthyl sulfate for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of dna fragment insertion or deletion as part of mutagenesis ."
the treatment involving use of ethyl ether for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of ems as a mutagen by damaging dna and is used experimentally for that effect ."
the treatment involving use of ethyl nitrosourea for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of ethylene oxide for mutagenesis process .
the treatment involving use of ethylenimine for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of fagaronine for mutagenesis process .
the treatment involving use of formaldehyde for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of boric acid for mutagenesis process .
the treatment involving use of hesperidine for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of hexamethylmelamine for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of hexamethylphosphoramide for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of hycanthon methanesulfonate for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of icr 100 for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of icr 170 for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of iodine for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of janus green b for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of methoxy diethylnitrosamine for mutagenesis process .
the treatment involving use of methyl methanesulfonate for mutagenesis process ."
an antibiotic exposure  ( peco:0007551 )  involving use of mitomycin c for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of mustard gas for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of n - methyl - n' - nitro - n - nitrosoguanidine for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of n - nitrosodimethylamine for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of natural gas for mutagenesis process .
the treatment involving use of nitrogen mustard for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of nitrosomethyl urea for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of p - n , n - di ( 2 - chloroethyl ) aminophenylvaleric acid for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of p - n , n - di -  ( 2 - chloroethyl ) amino - d - phenylalanine for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of p - n , n - di -  ( 2 - chloroethyl ) amino - dl - phenylalanine for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of p - n , n - di -  ( 2 - chloroethyl ) amino - l - phenylalanine for mutagenesis process .
the treatment involving use of p - n , n - di -  ( 2 - chloroethyl ) aminophenylbutyric acid for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of p - n , n - di -  ( 2 - chloroethyl ) aminophenylethylamine for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of p - p' - n , n - di ( 2 - chloroethyl ) aminophenoxyphenylalanine for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of quinhydrone for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of s - 2 - chloroethylcysteine for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of sodium bisulfite for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of sodium fluoride for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of styryl quinoline for mutagenesis process .
the treatment involving use of sulfur mustard for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of triaziquone for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of triethylenemelamine for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of urethane for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment involving use of vinyl carbamate for mutagenesis process ."
the treatment using x - ray either exclusively or as part of a supplemental electromagnetic radiation in the wavelength range of 5pm - 10nm .
an exposure involving exposure of plant to molecular or ionic forms of hydrogen to study various types of responses .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogenic sclerospora sp .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pathogen sclerophthora graminicola .
a pesticide exposure  ( peco:0007167 )  involving the application of an insecticide ;  a chemical entity or mixture of chemical entities .
an herbicide exposure  ( peco:0007183 )  involving the use of an imidazolinone herbicide .
the treatment involving exposure of plant to the pest commonly calles as cutworm .
